'As a professional travel photographer, I’m often asked about camera gear, and in particular, folks contact me to ask me what the best camera lens for travel photography is. Often people have bought a camera with an interchangeable lens, like a mirrorless or DSLR camera, and are looking to upgrade their kit to meet their needs.''I’ve already written a guide to the''best cameras for travel photography'', but as that only covers camera and not lenses, I thought it would make sense to follow up with a guide to the best camera lenses\xa0 – specifically for travel photography purposes. After all, a camera is not much good without a lens!''Of course, this guide does assume you have a camera with interchangeable lenses, so that means a mirrorless camera or a DSLR camera. Within those two groups though there are myriad camera and lens manufacturers. And for the most part, lenses made for one camera system won’t work on another system.''So for this post, I’ve first put together a general overview of what to look for when picking a travel lens, which will give you some pointers in terms of features to consider. That way no matter what brand and kind of system, you’ll know what to look for when shopping for a camera lens.''I’ve then provided specific recommendations for the more popular camera systems out there, including Canon, Nikon, Panasonic, and Sony. Even if your particular manufacturer or camera mount isn’t mentioned, you should be able to get a good idea from this post of what to look for in a travel lens, which specifications matter, and an idea of price. Let’s get started.''Contents:''What to think about when picking a lens for travel photography''The Best Micro Four Thirds Lens for Travel Photography''Best Micro Four Thirds Lens Under $500''The Best Mirrorless Lens\xa0for Travel Photography for Sony Cameras''Best Mirrorless Lens Under $500 for Sony''The Best DSLR Lens for Travel Photography for Nikon Cameras''Best DSLR Lens Under $500 for Nikon''The Best DSLR Lens for Travel Photography for Canon Cameras''Best DSLR Lens Under $500 for Canon Cameras''Further Reading''What to think about when picking a lens for travel photography''Picking a lens to travel with is a bit different to picking a lens for other situations. Not only will you be concerned with image quality, but also size and weight.''Whilst it would be wonderful to have a wide range of expensive lenses to take with us on all our trips, the reality of travel is that there is only so much we can take with us, and when you’re out and about all day sightseeing, you probably don’t want to be carrying too much.''So for travel photography, it’s better to try and focus on getting a smaller number of lenses that work well in a wide variety of situations. That way you are likely to actually take them with you and use them.''Of course, there are always going to be compromises – it’s hard to find a lens that does everything well, doesn’t cost too much, and is lightweight! But for travel photography, I think there are some good options out there.''You have a few options for lens types. My suggestion would be to invest in two lenses – a walkaround lens and a fast prime. If you only want to invest in one lens because you don’t see yourself changing lens often, or carrying more than one lens, then you will want a good walkaround lens, and that’s what this guide will be focusing on.''What is a walkaround lens you ask? Well, it’s a lens that “does everything”. It covers a good range of focal lengths, meaning you can get wide angle shots as well as zoom in on further away objects. It’s basically a one size fits all lens for your travel photography needs.''You will often find that if you invest in a camera that it will come with a lens that will suffice as a walkaround lens. These will work fine but tend not to be the top quality lenses. If you are more serious about photography and your budget allows, I’d recommend that you buy your preferred camera “body only”, and then invest in a nicer walkaround lens, such as the ones I recommend, rather than the standard kit lenses. Don’t be surprised if the lens is more expensive than the camera either – good lenses are expensive, and a worthy investment.''Price considerations – how much to spend on a camera lens for travel photography.''Speaking of money, I’ve done my best to provide a range of lenses across various price points. More expensive lenses tend to be more capable, but can also be heavier, so aren’t always the best solution for travel photography.''For the budget-conscious reading this, I’m also providing my suggested best travel lens under $500 for each category. I appreciate that not everyone has a big budget for a new lens, so I want to provide some good value options at around the $300 – $500 mark.''For lenses much under this price point, my advice would be to either stick with the kit lens that comes with your camera, or to check out the second hand lens market on either''Amazon''on''eBay''.''Now, before we dive into individual travel lens recommendations, let’s take a look at some of the key terminology and other considerations you need to be aware of when looking for a lens for travel photography.''Aperture''Inside a lens, there’s a hole that lets the light through to the camera’s sensor. This hole is referred to as an aperture. An aperture can change in size, with a bigger aperture letting more light in, and a smaller aperture letting less light in.''An aperture can be thought of as the pupil of your eye. When it’s bright outside, it is smaller so less light gets in. When you’re in a darker environment, perhaps at night, it opens really wide to let more light in.''The important number for lens apertures is how big the hole goes, which will dictate how well the lens will perform in low light situations. A wider aperture also allows for greater control over depth of field. See my''guide to depth of field''for more on that.''When you look at the specifications for a lens, it will always have the widest aperture listed as one of the key specifications. It will be a number, something like 2.8, 4.0 or 5.6. It may also be written as f/2.8, which is the formal way of denoting aperture. The smaller the number, the wider the hole.''Some lenses, and in particular the walkaround lenses we are going to be looking at, will have what is known as a variable maximum aperture. This means that the aperture will actually change as you zoom in and out, or change focal length. This is because as the lens barrel gets longer, the maximum aperture get smaller.''So for example, you might see a lens with an aperture of f3.5-5.6. This means that at the wide angle, the aperture is f/3.5, but when you zoom in, the aperture will drop, down to f/5.6 when you are fully zoomed in.''For travel photography, as with most photography, the wider the aperture the better – more light getting in means better low-light performance, making the lens more versatile for a range of photography situations.''The trade-off is that wider aperture lenses tend to be bigger, heavier, and more expensive.\xa0This will be considered in the lens selection.''Focal Length''The focal length of a lens is directly related to how much magnification it provides. It’s a number that’s measured in millimetres (mm), with the general rule being that the higher the number in millimetres, the more magnification you get, and the smaller the number in mm, the less magnification you get.''If you’ve previously used a compact camera (aka point-and-shoot), you’ll be used to this being described in terms of optical zoom – for example, a camera might have 10x optical zoom. That means that the difference in magnification between the most zoomed out setting and the most zoomed in setting is 10x.''In focal length terms, each doubling of the focal length results in a doubling of the magnification. So a 100mm lens will essentially make everything twice as big as a 50mm lens.''Unfortunately, matters get a bit confusing after this, because focal lengths have a different effect on different cameras. This is because camera’s have different sensor sizes, which affects the focal length, in what is known as a crop factor.''To take the example of the Canon DSLR camera systems. There are two main types of cameras available, the APS-C size cameras such as the consumer Rebel line, and the full frame size sensors in more professional cameras like the Canon 6D or 5D line.''Some of Canon’s lenses will work on both of these camera systems, but they will give different focal lengths. On the full frame cameras, the focal length will be as expected. On the APS-C sensor, there is a “crop factor” of 1.6, because the sensor is smaller. So a 100mm lens on an APS-C sized sensor will give the same result in terms of the image as you would be able to achieve with a 160mm lens on a full frame camera.''Thankfully, lens manufacturers all use the same focal length standard, so when buying lenses for your particular system, all you need to know is the crop factor. You can then multiply this by the focal length to get the equivalent focal length.''Don’t worry if this isn’t quite clear, for the lenses I recommend I will list both the focal length and the equivalent focal length where relevant. Equivalent focal length is what you need to really worry about, as it will let you compare lenses more effectively.''For travel photography, you want a lens that goes from fairly wide (16mm – 30mm) on the wide end, through to fairly zoomed in (70mm – 150mm) on the narrow end. This will give you good flexibility, letting you shoot wide scenes such as buildings on city streets, through to zooming in on the details. A good benchmark lens is a 24-70 f/2.8, which is generally known as the walkaround lens of choice for professional photographers.''There are some walkaround lenses which offer much greater focal lengths, well past 200mm, including some of the recommendations in this guide. Just be aware that there are always trade-offs to consider, and whilst these can offer tremendous versatility, it’s often at the expense of weight and image quality, and in particular, image sharpness, at the longer end of zoom range (beyond 200mm usually).''I’m not saying not to invest in these lenses, just to be aware that there’s no such thing as a perfect lens for all situations!''Filter Thread''When you buy a lens, it’s always a good idea to pick up a''UV filter''to protect the front. You may also want a''polarising filter''(read about''polarising filters here''), or a''neutral density filter''(see my''guide to neutral density filters here'').''You’ll notice that these filters come in different sizes, and the filter thread size on the lens, measured in millimetres, tells you what that size is. It’s basically just a measurement of the diameter of the lens, which is the end you put the filter on. Ok, that was an easy one.''Image Stabilisation''Camera lens manufactures have all kinds of fun terms they use for image stabilisation. These include IS (Canon), OIS (Panasonic), VR (Nikon), OS (Sigma), VC (Tamron) – the''list goes on''.''Whilst the names and underlying technology vary, the aim is the same – to compensate for any movement introduced by the person holding the lens (that’s you), to help you shoot at lower shutter speeds without getting blurry photos.''As a general rule of thumb, the minimum shutter speed you can hand hold a lens for is the inverse of the focal length. So if you have a 200mm lens, you would not want to shoot at shutter speeds slower than 1/200th of a second. A 50mm lens would be 1/50th of a second.''Image stabilisation technologies exist to help you get shots at lower shutter speeds than that, and they are usually rated in terms of how many extra “stops” they give you to play with. A “stop” is photography dialog for a halving, or doubling, of the light.''So if you went from 1/100th of a second to 1/50th of a second shutter speed and didn’t change anything else, that would be 1 stop.''Modern image stabilisation technologies offer between 3 and 5 stops of stabilisation. To put that in practical terms, if you are shooting with a 200mm lens at 1/200th of a second, 3 stops would let you hand hold down to 1/25th of a second. 5 stops would let you hand hold and still get sharp images as slow as 1/6th of a second!''As you can see, image stabilisation can make a huge difference, and it is definitely worth thinking about when looking for a lens. Of course, as with everything, there are tradeoffs, and an image stabilized lens will often be more expensive and slightly heavier than an equivalent non-stabilized version.''Weight''Weight is a pretty key consideration when it comes to picking a travel lens, as the idea is that you’re going to be using the lens for travelling. I don’t know about you, but the less I have to carry the better, especially if I’m going to be on my feet all day. So definitely keep the weight of your purchase in mind.''Size''As well as weight, you’re going to want to factor in the size of the camera lens. Portability can be an important factor for a travel photography lens, particularly if you’re travelling and prefer to pack carry-on only. So consider how big the lens is in physical terms when making a decision.''Well, that sums up some thoughts on the various factors, features and terminology you need to consider when looking to buy a travel lens. Now, let’s dive into some specific recommendations across various camera systems to give you some idea of what’s available at what price point.''The Best Micro Four Thirds Lens for Travel Photography''Micro Four Thirds camera are a popular choice for photographers. These mirrorless systems are lightweight and portable, yet offer everything you would expect from a bigger SLR style camera, including full manual controls and great image quality. There are a number of manufacturers, with the most popular being Panasonic and Olympus. We use and love our Panasonic GX8 which is a staple part of our''travel photography gear''.''Both of these manufacturers have their own proprietary lens stabilisation system that takes advantages of stabilisation technology in both the camera body and the lens. This means that whilst lenses will work across different micro four thirds cameras, to take full advantage of the stabilisation technology you need to match brands – so a Panasonic lens needs to go on a Panasonic camera body for the best results.''In terms of crop factors micro four thirds cameras have a 2x crop factor, so you need to double focal lengths to get the equivalent focal length.''1.''Panasonic Lumix G Leica 8-14mm F2.8-4.0''With a 16-28mm equivalent focal length, this is the lens to get if you love shooting really wide. Personally, my wide angle lens is the lens I use the most, so this is what I’d go for on this camera system, even if it’s not quite as flexible across shooting situations as something with a greater focal range. It doesn’t have image stabilisation, but as the lens is so light that’s less of an issue, and image stabilisation on a wide-angle isn’t as critical.''Price:''~$1,100 USD''Weight:''11.11 oz / 315 g''2.''Panasonic Lumix G Leica DG 12-60mm Power O.I.S. F2.8-4.0''As a walkaround travel lens, it’s hard to argue with this 12-60mm lens from Panasonic, which offers a 24-120mm equivalent focal length and sharp results throughout that focal length, even shooting wide open. The aperture stops down a bit as you zoom in, but this is a lightweight lens that will do pretty much everything you could want, and includes image stabilization (Power O.I.S).''Price:''~$1,000 USD''Weight:''11.29 oz / 320g''3.''Olympus M.Zuiko Digital ED 7-14mm f/2.8''My choices for the Olympus micro four thirds system are essentially their versions of the Panasonic lenses above. This is the wide angle, with a focal length equivalent of 12mm – 28mm. With a fixed f/2.8 aperture this is a very fast lens at all focal lengths, although this does make it a little bit heavier. It also comes with dust and weather sealing. It doesn’t have lens based image stabilisation, but the majority of Olympus MFT cameras have in-body stabilisation which makes up for this.''Price:''~$1,150 USD''Weight:''1.17lb / 543g''4.''Olympus M.ZUIKO Digital ED 12-100 F4.0 IS PRO''With a focal length equivalent to 24-200, this is pretty much the perfect walk around length for travel photographers. It is water and dustproof, and features image stabilisation equivalent to an incredible 6.5 stops when used with a compatible Olympus camera. That added focal length does add some weight and bulk though. If you’d prefer a lighter lens and a faster aperture at the expense of focal length, check out the cheaper''Olympus M.ZUIKO Digital ED 12-40 F2.8''instead.''Price:''~$1,150 USD''Weight:''1.23lb / 561g''Best Micro Four Thirds Lens Under $500''1.''Panasonic Lumix G Vario 12-60mm f/3.5-5.6 POWER O.I.S''This is essentially a slower version of the Panasonic 12-60mm lens above, at half the price. It’s also significantly lighter than that lens. Impressively for a lens at this price point, it comes with image stabilisation as well as a splash and dust-proof body, making it ideal as a travel lens. At a similar price point there’s also the slightly heavier''14-140mm f/3.5-5.6''lens from Panasonic, but whilst you gain a lot in focal length, you lose out on that weather resistance, so it’s up to you.''Price:''~$500 USD''Weight: 7.41oz / 210g''2.''Olympus M.Zuiko ED 14-150mm f/4-5.6 II''This lens has a fantastic 28 – 300mm equivalent focal length, meaning it’s going to let you get pictures of nearly everything you could want. It also has weather sealing and a reputation for sharpness. Ok, so that variable aperture makes it a bit slower than more expensive lenses, but that saves weight and cost, and at this price point, this is a bargain.''Price:''~$500 USD''Weight:''10 oz / 284h''The Best Mirrorless Lens\xa0for Travel Photography for Sony Cameras''For the purposes of this guide, I’m going to be talking about Sony’s E-mount lenses, which work on their mirrorless camera systems including APS-C models like the a6000 as well as full frame mirrorless\xa0models like the''a7 II.''Note that there are two types of E mount lenses, “FE” lenses, which will work on both full frame and APS-C sized Sony cameras, and non FE lenses which are designed for APS-C sizes sensors only. While you can use a non-FE lens on a full frame camera, it will reduce the image resolution and field of view to be equivalent to an APS-C sized sensor, so I’d advise against that.''There are also “G” series lenses, which are Sony’s more professional lenses – similar to Canon’s “L” series. These offer greater image quality and performance, usually with a higher price tag to match.''Some Sony cameras offer in-body image stabilisation, but ideally you’ll want it in the lens. Sony’s image stablisation technology is known as OSS (optical steady shot).''1.''Sony 18-105mm f/4 OSS G''With an equivalent focal length of 27mm – 158mm, and a fixed aperture throughout that focal length, this lens is ideal for travel photography. It’s also a G series lens, which means it is higher quality lens compared to their standard, non G lenses. It’s primarily designed for Sony’s APC-C sensor cameras, so not really recommended for their full frame bodies, but it is very well priced.''Price:''~$600 USD''Weight:''15.06oz / 427g''2.''Sony FE 24-70mm f/4 OSS''Covering the classic focal length of 24-70 on a full-frame camera (36-105mm on an APS-C), this is a relatively fast lens that offers excellent image quality and portability at a relatively affordable price point. There’s also an''f/2.8 “G” version of this lens''which is approximately twice as expensive and also heavier, but may be worth it if you need that extra stop of light.''Price:''~$1200 USD''Weight:''15.03oz / 426g''3.''Sony FE 24-240mm f/3.5 – 6.3 OSS''Covering a truly staggering focal range of 24-240mm (36-360mm APS-C), this Sony FE lens is perhaps the ultimate walkaround lens for the Sony system. It may have a variable aperture, but given how well Sony’s cameras perform even at high ISO ratings, you probably won’t notice that too much. If you want a lens that can shoot everything from far away wildlife to portraits to landscapes, this is a great choice at an excellent price point. Just be aware that it is heavier than the other options due to that extended focal length.''Price:''~$1000 USD''Weight:''1.72 lb / 780g''4.''Sony FE 16-35 f/4 OSS''If you’re after something wider, then this is the lens to go for, especially for full frame cameras (APS-C owners should instead consider the''cheaper 10-18mm f/4''for wide angle work). With a relatively fast fixed aperture, super-wide capabilities and even image stabilisation, this is the lens for landscape and architecture photographers to look at.''Price:''~$1350 USD''Weight:''1.14lb / 518g''5.''Sony 18-200 f/3.5-6.3 OSS''If you’re on Sony’s APS-C sensor system, then you might want to consider this lens instead of the 24-240mm lens above, as it offers a wider 27mm equivalent at the wide end. It’s also a relatively light lens given the focal range, making it a good choice for travel photographers trying to keep the weight down.''Price:''~$850 USD''Weight:''1.16lb / 524g''Best Mirrorless Lens Under $500 for Sony''1.''Sony FE 28-70mm f3.5-5.6 OSS Lens''Whilst this might not be the fastest lens, especially at the longer focal lengths, it does cover a useful focal length and offers optical image stabilisation. It’s also very light and a great price. Being an FE lens, this will work on both full frame and APS-C sized Sony bodies – on the latter it would offer an equivalent focal length of 38 – 105mm, which is useful for many situations except particularly wide work. A good value lens.''Price:''~$400 USD''Weight:''10.41 oz / 295 g''2.''Sony 55-210mm f4.5-6.3 OSS''If you’re looking for a bit more range, perhaps to compliment the kit lens that came with your Sony camera, this is one of the better priced telephoto zoom lenses from Sony that is also incredibly light for the focal range on offer. Of course, it’s not the sharpest lens in the world, especially at the 200mm end (315mm equivalent), but it does feature image stabilisation and is a bargain to boot.''Price:''~$350 USD''Weight:''12.16 oz / 345g''The Best DSLR Lens for Travel Photography for Nikon Cameras''For the longest time, the two main choices for photographers looking for camera gear were Nikon and Canon. That has certainly changed, but these two manufacturers definitely account for the highest percentage of cameras sold today. Because they’ve both been around for so long there are literally hundreds of lenses to choose from for each system, both made by the manufacturers themselves, and lenses made by third parties.''Sifting through these choices to find the perfect travel lens is definitely a challenge, but I’ve narrowed down the various options to some of the best options to help you make an informed decision.''1.''Nikon 28-300mm f/3.5-5.6G VR''An ideal walkaround lens at a good price point for Nikon full-frame users (known as FX in Nikon speak). This lens covers a very wide focal range with a reasonable fast aperture, and offers\xa0image stabilisation (Nikon calls it VR, for vibration reduction).\xa0Owners of Nikon’s APS-C sized sensor camera bodies (DX format) should consider either the 18-300mm lens below, or the''Tamron 18-400mm f/3.5-6.3'', which will give a bit more flexibility on the wide end.''Price:''~$950 USD''Weight:''1.76 lb / 800 g''2.''Nikon 18-300mm f/3.5-6.3G VR II''Users of Nikon’s crop sensor cameras (known as DX) will definitely want to check out this lens, which offers an excellent range of focal lengths and image stabilisation (Nikon calls it VR, for vibration reduction) in a lightweight and inexpensive package. There’s also an 18-200 version which is marginally cheaper, but as it weighs the same I’d go with this one.''Price:''~$700 USD''Weight:''1.21 lb / 550g''3.''Nikon 24-70mm f/2.8E VR''Nikon’s 24-70mm f/2.8 lens is one of the most popular lenses for photographers of all types, particularly on full frame bodies. It’s fast aperture throughout the focal length makes it great for low light photography and portrait work, and the relatively wide angle makes it a great landscape lens. It even has image stabilization! It is expensive and heavy (consider the''Sigma equivalent''too), but if it’s the only lens in your bag you might not mind so much.''Price:''~$2400 USD''Weight:''2.35lb / 1070g''4.''Nikon DX 16-80mm f/2.4-4E VR''This lens is only for crop sensors, but it offers an excellent range of focal lengths, a fast aperture range and it is known for producing very sharp images. It’s also very light, making it a great option for travel photography, and features image stabilisation.''Price:''~$1000 USD''Weight'': 16.93 oz / 480g''Best DSLR Lens Under $500 for Nikon''1.''Nikon 18-140mm f/3.5-5.6 VR''For a DX camera, this is an excellent Nikon lens that covers a wide focal range, has image stabilization, and produces sharp images. It’s very well priced for what you get, is relatively light, and will serve you well as a travel photography walk around lens.''Price:''~$500 USD''Weight:''1.08lb / 490g''2.''Nikon 24-85mm f/3.5-4.5G VR''FX format users on a tighter budget should definitely consider this lens, which offers reasonably fast performance and a good range of focal lengths in an affordable and lightweight package that also includes image stabilisation.''Price:''~$500 USD''Weight:''1.02 lb / 465 g''The Best DSLR Lens for Travel Photography for Canon Cameras''Like Nikon, the Canon camera system has been around for a long time, and there’s an incredible selection of lenses to choose from, both directly from Canon, and from third party manufacturers like Sigma and Tamron. This huge amount of choice can be overwhelming, but I’m going to do my best to provide a few options to get you started.''Note that Canon has two main lens mount systems – EF, and EF-S. EF lenses will fit on all Canon’s cameras, whilst the EF-S lenses will only fit EF-S mount cameras, which is essentially all the consumer focused models such as the Rebel series. Canon has its own stabilisation system, which it calls IS (image stabilisation).''1.''Canon EF 16-35 f/4L IS''This ultrawide Canon lens is incredibly sharp, and an excellent choice for landscape and architecture lovers. Whilst the f/4 aperture isn’t too wide, this lens features image stabilisation technology that promises up to four stops of stabilisation, which makes this a great choice for low-light work. It’s also not too heavy. APS-C owners should consider the cheaper and significantly lighter''10-18mm IS instead''.''Price:''~$1100 USD''Weight: 1.35 lb / 615 g''2.''Canon EF 24-70 f/2.8L II''This is the walk around lens of choice for many full frame Canon professionals as it offers sharp performance and a fast fixed f/2.8 aperture across the frame. This lens is great for everything from portraits to landscapes, and is one of the most popular lenses amongst Canon shooters. It is quite pricey and fairly heavy though, so do also''consider the Sigma equivalent''which is significantly cheaper and includes image stabilisation, which is notably absent from this Canon lens.''Price:''~$1900 USD''Weight'': 1.77 lb / 805 g''3.''Canon EF 24-105 f/4 L IS II''If the Canon 24-70 above is a bit pricey, or you’d prefer image stabilization and a slightly longer focal length, then the excellent EF 24-105 f/4 L is a great choice. Despite the longer focal length, it’s actually a slightly lighter option. This lens will work with both full frame and crop sensor cameras, on the latter it will have an equivalent focal length of 38 –\xa0 168mm.''Price:''~$1100 USD''Weight:''1.75 lb / 795g''4.''Tamron 28-300mm f/3.5-6.3 Di VC''There are lots of third party options for Canon, with Tamron being a popular choice for value oriented buyers. This Tamron covers an excellent focal range in a much more lightweight design.\xa0This 28-300mm is a great walkaround lens choice covering a wide focal range, especially for full frame shooters who don’t want the weight or cost of Canon’s L series lenses.''Price:''~600 USD''Weight:''1.19 lb / 540 g''5.''Tamron 18-400mm f/3.5-6.3 VC''Owners of APS-C Canon cameras should definitely consider this incredible Tamron lens,\xa0which offers a mind blowing focal length (29 – 640mm equivalent) on Canon’s crop sensor cameras. It also has image stabilisation and an aperture range which is not too bad considering that incredible zoom. It’s also very well priced, and less heavy than you might expect for the focal length.''If you’d prefer a first party lens walkaround lens for your Canon APS-C camera, another option is the''Canon EF-S 18-200 f/3.5-6.3 IS'', which is a tiny bit lighter, but loses a lot of that lovely focal length, and is also slightly more expensive.''Price:''~650 USD''Weight:''1.56 lb / 710 g''Best DSLR Lens Under $500 for Canon Cameras''1.''Sigma 18-300 f/3.5-6.3 DC OS''If you’re looking for a lens that covers a very wide focal range, produces sharp images, and won’t break the bank, look no further than this excellent Sigma. This will only work on Canon’s APS-C range such as the Canon Rebel line, or Canon SL2, but it offers excellent performance, image stabilization and an incredible focal range (29mm – 480mm equivalent) in a well priced and lightweight package.''Price:''~400 USD''Weight:''1.28 lb / 584 g''2.''Tokina 11-16mm f/2.8 II''Lovers of wide-angle photography should look no further than this Tokina lens for Canon’s EF-S camera mount. With a very wide f/2.8 aperture, and a superwide focal length, this lens is perfect for landscape photography, low-light photography, and even''taking pictures of the stars''. Well priced too!''Price:''~400 USD''Weight:''1.21 lb / 550 g''Further Reading''Well, that sums up my guide to the best travel lenses for travel photography! I hope you found it informative and useful in your quest to find the perfect travel lens for you. Before you head off, I want to share with you a few more resources that will help you on your photography journey.''My guide to picking the''best travel camera''– after all, a lens isn’t much good without a great camera to pair it with!''My series of''Photography Tips'', which I am always expanding and updating with posts like this one''My always expanding series of''Photography Location Guides'', to help you get the best shot in locations around the world.''An overview of my''Travel Photography Gear'', in case you wondered what a professional photographer has in his bag''A''Beginners’ Guide to Improving your Travel Photos''for those starting out in travel photography''Our reasons''why you need a travel tripod''And, if you’re serious about improving your photography, I run an incredibly comprehensive''online travel photography course'', which will teach you everything you need to know about photography and allows you the chance to get personal feedback from me and ask me as many questions about photography as you wish. Check that out''here''.''And that’s it for my guide to picking the best camera lens for travel photography. I’ll be keeping this post updated as new lenses are released for the various systems, so you can always check back for advice if you need it. I’m also happy to answer your specific questions about picking a lens for your camera system – just pop them in the comments below and I’ll do my best to give my thoughts and advice!''SHARE ON''Rome is one of our favourite destinations, it’s a city we’ve visited multiple times and one we’re always happy to return to. We just love exploring all the ancient ruins, wandering down cobbled alleyways, eating delicious Italian food and trying all the different flavours of gelato!''In this post, we’re going to share with you our idea of how to spend the perfect 2 days in Rome, which we think is about enough time to see many of Rome’s highlights. There is a lot to see in Rome, so you’ll likely want to return (throw a coin in the Trevi Fountain to be sure of that!), but as an introduction to the city, this itinerary will definitely get you started.''Our suggested Rome itinerary is designed more around the first time visitor looking to see many of the more famous sights, but will also work for a return visitor looking for inspiration. As well as the itinerary, we’ll also be sharing with you our tips for getting around Rome, advice on where to stay, how to save money, and more!''Let’s get started.''Contents:''2 Days in Rome''2 Days in Rome: Rome Map''When to Visit Rome''Where to Stay in Rome''How to Save Money And Time in Rome''How to Get Around Rome''Should You Take a Tour in Rome?''Further Reading for Your Rome Visit''2 Days in Rome''Rome: Day 1''Our first day in Rome has you exploring some of Rome’s most famous sights, from stunning 2,000 year old arena to Renaissance artwork.''1. Coliseum''First on the list for your 2 days in Rome is a visit to the mighty Coliseum. For over two thousand years this has been a landmark location in Rome, and it was once home to the infamous gladiatorial battles that were watched by tens of thousand of Roman citizens, not to mention Roman Emperors.''To be able to visit a place where historical figures like Caesar would have sat to be entertained (by remarkably gruesome spectacles) is quite incredible, and you can almost feel the weight of history carrying through the stones here.''Of course, the years have taken their toll, and the Coliseum is not quite the same place it was in its heyday, but it’s a remarkable testament to Roman engineering that so much survives to this day. You’ll likely want to spend at least forty five minutes to an hour here to soak it all in – and maybe longer!''We’ve put the Coliseum first on the list for our first day in Rome for a reason – it gets very busy, particularly in the summer months. This is a common theme shared across many of Rome’s top attractions, and we definitely suggest you look into ways to minimise your time queuing.''The first option to avoid the queues is to buy a ticket directly from the''official Coliseum ticket office website'', which gives you the option to specify an entry date and time for your visit.''Another good option would be to take a tour (we recommend''Walks of Italy'', who have a number of''Coliseum tours''). Finally, you might consider investing in a Rome city pass that comes with fast-track entry to this and other attractions in Rome, such as the''Rome and Vatican Pass''. We’ll cover more of these options towards the end of the post.''2. Roman Forum''Right next to the Coliseum, and included on the majority of Coliseum tickets and tours, is the Roman Forum. Since its right next to the Coliseum, and your ticket likely already includes it, we think it makes sense for this to be your next stop in Rome.''For centuries, the Roman Forum was the heart of the Roman Empire. The square plaza, surrounded by the government buildings of the empire, was where everything from the political to the religious life of the city took place.''Today you can visit the Roman Forum, which is a large open area dotted with excavations, ruins and various notable sights. Again, you can take a guided tour, or you can see yourself around, although we’d definitely suggest taking some sort of tour to get the most out of your visit and help you to understand exactly what you are seeing. See more about our suggested tours at the end of the post.''3. Circo Maximus''The Circo Maximus (or Circo Massimo in Italian), was Rome’s largest public games venue, which played host to numerous events. Perhaps most famously of these were the chariot races, a high-energy sport that became the focus of the Circus.''Other sports and celebrations were of course held at the Circus, including religious celebrations and staged animal hunts, and it was also used as a sort of local market area when not otherwise in active use.''Today, the Circus is an open public park which you can visit for free, and it’s only a short distance to the south of the Roman Forum, so we think is worth your time to visit.''4. Capitoline Museums''Rome has so many incredible museums that it is hard to pick just one or two to visit over two days in Rome. However, we can very much recommend the''Capitoline museums'', which are right next to the Roman Forum, and in fact offer a unique view of the Forum.''But you’re not coming here just for the view. The Capitoline Museums (which are actually just one museum housed in a number of buildings), are home to a number of treasures, including medieval and Renaissance art. They’re also well established, being the world’s oldest national museum, and in their present guise are set out to a design by Michelangelo.''The museum on Capitoline Hill consists of three main buildings that house different collections, with a primary focus on sculpture, although there are of course other items in the collection including jewellery and other art pieces. One of the most famous pieces, and one that you must see on your visit, is the scultpture of the “She-Wolf” feeding Romulus and Remus, one of the most well known symbols of Rome.''Entry to the Capitoline Museums is ticketed, with discounts available for Roma pass holders.''5. Trevi Fountain''We’re going to finish off the first of our two days in Rome with a couple of Rome classics. The first of these is the Trevi Fountain, a massive Baroque installation that is arguably the most famous fountain in the world.''Dating from the middle of the 18th century, this huge fountain was designed by Italian architect Nicola Salvi, and is a must-see for visitors to Rome. It’s good to visit at both day or night, but do be aware that it’s likely going to be crowded here at pretty much any time of day!''It’s considered good luck to throw a coin into the fountain – and if you do so it’s said that you are guaranteed to return to Rom. As a result, over 3,000 euros worth of coins are thrown into the fountain every day! This works out well for the needy of Rome, as the funds are used to help provide them with food.''6. The Pantheon''Just a short walk from the Trevi Fountain is another highlight of any visit to Rome – the magnificent Pantheon. Nearly two thousand years old, this is an incredible example of Roman engineering, and is guaranteed to take your breath away.''Originally built as a temple, and then turned into a church, the building was completed under the rule of the Emperor Hadrian. It’s a huge circular design, with the main area of the church sitting underneath a huge concrete dome, in the centre of which is a huge opening.''Despite being nearly two thousand years old, this is still the world’s largest unreinforced concrete dome. Clearly those Romans built things to last!''The church is free to enter, and as well as its mind-boggling construction, is also noted for being the last resting place of a number of historical figures, including the Renaissance painter Raphael.''7. Dinner''Well, that wraps up our first day of our two day Rome itinerary! Now it’s time to head to dinner, and you’ll find no shortage of options all around Rome.''The choice can be a little overwhelming, so we’d advise reading up in advance and getting some ideas for where you might want to eat so as to get a good option. One place to start reading is Culture Trip, perhaps with this''guide to the best pizza and pasta in Rome''.''Rome: Day 2''8. Vatican City''For your second day in Rome, we’re going to start by visiting the city inside the city – the''Vatican City''in fact. Whilst this in wholly surrounded by Rome, it is its own state – the world’s smallest!''The Vatican City is home to a number of attractions, with the most popular being the Vatican Museums, the Sistine Chapel and St. Peter’s Basilica.''These attractions are well worth spending your morning exploring, and in fact you could spend the greater part of a day exploring here – the Vatican Museums alone are home to miles of exhibits!''If possible though, we’d advise limiting your time here to half a day, giving you time to see a few more attractions. Half a day will give you time to see the highlights of the Vatican Museums, gaze at the incredible Sistine Chapel, and explore St. Peter’s Basilica – including taking the walk to the top of the dome, for spectacular views.''We’d highly recommend getting here early, and using one of our suggestions for saving time getting in – the queues for the Vatican Museums and St. Peter’s Basilica are legendary!''We have a number of recommended options for speeding up your access to the Vatican City attractions.''The first option is to book your tickets online''directly from the Vatican'', which will give you skip the line access to the Vatican Museums. This will let you skip the main line for the Vatican Museum, which also includes the Sistine Chapel – but not St. Peter’s Basilica.''If you also want skip the line access for St. Peter’s Basilica (the line gets super long!), you might want to invest in\xa0a''Rome and Vatican Pass'', which will give you skip the line access to both the''Vatican Museums''and''St. Peter’s Basilica''. At busier times of year we think this make the pass worth the price alone.''This option will let you explore at your leisure, and is a great way to skip the queues. Unfortunately this pass is only available in a three day version, so you will have to make your own decision as to whether the convenience is worth it for your visit (it also includes free and discounted entry to a number of other attractions, including many of the options in this itinerary).''Finally, our last suggestion for skip the line access to the Vatican Museums and St. Peter’s Basilica is to take a dedicated early bird tour with one of our preferred walking tour companies.''We took a Walks of Italy tour that featured''exclusive early access to the Vatican Museums and Sistine Chapel'', which was a fantastic experience. Group tours can also use a shortcut that gets them directly from the Vatican Museums into St. Peter’s Basilica, so you get that in the tour as well.''A guide can really help you understand more what you are seeing, so this is a good option if you prefer a guided experience. Walks of Italy also offer''an after hours tour of the Vatican Museums''on some days, if you feel like really maximising your time in the city.''9. Castel Sant’Angelo''After the Vatican, you’re going to head to the Castel Sant’Angelo, which is one of my favourite buildings in Rome. This impressive construction has been sitting on the banks of the Tiber river for almost two thousand years, and is well worth a visit.''Originally constructed as a Mausoleum for the Emperor Hadrian and his family, when it was built this was the tallest building in Europe. It is still Hadrian’s tomb, but over time has played many different roles, including that of a fortress and a castle.''Today it’s a museum, and you can visit and marvel once more at the engineering brilliance of the Romans, for whom the term “planned obsolescence” would be anathema. The view from the top is worth the trek up, and you can also see the tomb of Hadrian of course.''There’s a fee to enter the Castel. Holder of the Roma Card (included as part of the''Rome and Vatican Pass'') get free or discounted entry – more on this at the end of the post.''10. Piazza del Popolo''A short walk across and along the Tiber River will bring you to the Piazza del Popolo. This was once the northern edge of the city of Rome, and was the first part of the city that many travellers would have seen when arriving here – particularly in the 17th and 18th centuries.''The square, whose name means “People’s Square”, is home to one of Rome’s ancient Egyptian Obelisks, as well as the two 17th century churches of Santa Maria dei Miracoli. It’s a nice place to get a coffee or a bite to eat, before heading on into the rest of our itinerary.''11. Spanish Steps''From the Piazza del Popolo, three roads span out into the city, and exploring these on foot is always a highlight of our trips to Rome. If you take the left-most road looking south, the Via del Babuino, it will lead you to the Spanish Steps, another iconic attraction of Rome.''These impressive steps, which lead from a fountain at the base up to a church at the top, were opened in 1725, and have long been a popular place for visitors to see. They were made particularly famous in 1953, when the film Roman Holiday (starring Audrey Hepburn and Gregory Peck) featured them.''The name, in case you were wondering, is because the Spanish embassay to the Holy See is located on the square at the base of the steps, known as Piazza Spagna, or Spanish Square.''The steps are free to visit, and a photo of you on them (ideally eating gelato), is pretty much a must when visiting Rome!''12. Museums and Crypt of the Capuchin Friars''Moving on to a slightly off-beat sight now, but one we think you might appreciate. The Museum and Crypt of the Capuchin Friars, found under the church of Santa Maria della Concezione dei Cappuccini, is home to a unique display, quite unlike anything else you’ll see in Rome.''In five rooms, the bones of the monks of the Capuchin order are on display, arranged into various forms. It’s definitely unique, and with around 3,700 monks making up the display, is certainly going to remind you of your mortality. Out of respect, photography is not allowed here.''It’s also worth noting that the Catholic church is keen to stress that the display is not meant to be macabre – rather, it is a reminder of our own mortality, and how short our time on earth is. There’s a small fee to visit, which we think is well worth paying.''13. Chiesa di Santa Maria della Vittoria''Just around the corner from the\xa0Museum and Crypt of the Capuchin Friars is the Chiesa di Santa Maria della Vittoria. This church, dating from the 17th century, is famed for it’s sculpture by Bernini – the Ecstasy of Saint Teresa, which is definitely worth popping in to see.''If you are particularly interested in art, then instead of the previous two attractions, you might want to head instead to the''National Gallery of Ancient Art'', found in the Palazzo Barberini.\xa0This is home to one of Italy’s most important collection of paintings.''14. The Best Gelato in Rome''It’s been a long couple of days in Rome, and somehow we’ve not\xa0 mentioned one of Rome’s most famous foods – gelato! The Italian version of ice cream is a must when visiting the city, but it’s hugely important that you only eat the good stuff.''Thankfully, we’ve already done the research for you, and put together a guide to the''best gelato in Rome''. Conveniently, our favourite gelato spot in Rome falls right at the end of our second day – Come il Latte.''The gelato here is deliciously creamy and absolutely fantastic – we can pretty much guarantee it was worth the wait!''2 Days in Rome: Rome Map''To help you visualise our suggested itinerary for 2 days in Rome we’ve added all the sights above to a map. This should also help you plan where you might want to stay. You can also see this on Google Maps''here''.''When to Visit Rome''We have visited Rome at a number of different times\xa0of year, and it is certainly a city that can be visited at any time of year. In summer just be aware that it can get very hot and very busy, as this is the busiest time of year in the city. We’re not saying don’t go – you might just need to plan ahead and make sure you get all the necessary skip the line tickets so you can make the most out of your two days in the city.''If you have flexibility, we think the shoulder seasons can be a really nice time to visit – between April and June, and then late September through to the end of October. The weather at this time won’t be quite so fiercely hot, but you’ll still have plenty of hours of daylight and enough warmth to make it a pleasant experience.''Winter is also a good time to visit. You’ll need to bring warmer clothes of course, but Rome tends to experience fairly mild winters with snow being very rare in the city. It’s also a much quieter time of year to visit.''Where to Stay in Rome''For a two day visit to Rome, we’re going to suggest a hotel (or hostel, depending on your budget!) is likely going to be the best option. Whilst we love the convenience of an apartment when we travel, we find that for shorter trips, the full service convenience of a hotel is going to be a better option.''One reason we love staying in an apartment is the flexibility it gives us for things like cooking for ourselves, doing laundry and having a space to work, but with only 2 days in Rome, we don’t think you’ll be doing any of those things!''In terms of location, we would definitely suggest picking somewhere central – so basically the area between the Rome train station (Termini), and Piazza Popolo in the north, and Piazza Navona in the west. This will put you right within walking distance of the main attractions in Rome, as well as close to hundreds of fantastic eateries and cafes.''For an idea of where I mean, take a look at these hotel options:''The''Navona Theatre Hotel''The''Mimosa Pantheon Hotel''Th''e Hotel Navona''Di Rienzo Pantheon Palace''Of course, this is just a small idea of what is available! For examples,\xa0here’s a''well rated hostel''and a''fantastically located apartment''.''When we travel we usually use''Booking.com''as our first port of call for accommodation. They have everything from''hostels''to''apartments''to''hotels''. The review system makes it easy to pick a good option, and they have an excellent cancellation policy.''How to Save Money And Time in Rome''As with many of the cities we’ve visited and written about, Rome has a number of options for saving money (and time!) on your visit, particularly when it comes to sight-seeing.''There are two main attraction passes for Rome that we recommend – the''Roma Pass'', and the''Omnia Rome and Vatican Pass''.''As previously mentioned in this post, Rome is a popular destination, and the lines at the major attractions, especially the Vatican Museums, St. Peter’s Basilica and the Coliseum can get quite long. You definitely don’t want to spend your time in Rome standing in line if you can help it, especially if you are only in Rome for two days!''So your options are to prebook entry for the popular attractions, to take a tour that includes entry (we recommend Walks of Italy and Context Travel, see below for specific tours we recommend), or to pick up a pass that includes entry and fast track access.''The''Roma Pass''is an excellent value pass, which is available for either''two days''or''three days''. It also includes free public transport in the city.''The way these work is that you get free access to the first attraction you visit with the 48h pass, and free access to the first two attractions you visit with the 72h pass. Once you’ve used your free entries, you get discounted admission at the remainder of the attractions you visit, which includes a wide range of attractions across the city.''Based on our itinerary, the''two day Roma pass''would get you free skip the line access to the Coliseum and the Roman Forum (these count as one attraction), after which you would get discounted entry at the majority of other attractions on the list. If you picked up the''three day pass'', you would also get free entry to the Capitoline Museums as well.''The only disadvantage of the Roma Pass is that it doesn’t include the Vatican attractions, so you’re still going to be queuing for those. So you have a few time saving options. You can book a tour, you can pre-book your ticket online in advance, or you could invest in an''Omnia Rome and Vatican Pass''instead.''This actually includes the Roma Pass, but also comes with a number of other advantages, including skip the line access to both the Vatican Museums and St. Peter’s Basilica, as well as the Rome Hop On Hop Off bus service.''Unfortunately, this pass is currently only available in a three day version. If you were''visiting Rome for three days'', we’d definitely recommend you invest in it. For two days – it’s really up to you. The benefits of time saving in our mind are definitely worth it, plus it comes with extra features such as an audio guide of St. Peters Basilica.''Whatever you choose to do, we highly recommend you come up with a plan in advance. We’d suggest either a''Roma Pass''and a''walking tour of the Vatican / St. Peters that comes with skip the line access'', or to invest in a''Omnia Rome and Vatican Pass''.''If you don’t want to do any of those, then you definitely will want to book your tickets for the most popular attractions online in advance.''How to Get Around Rome''For the two days on this Rome itinerary, the easiest way to get around is going to be by foot. The centre of Rome is very easy to get around on foot, and we think that seeing Rome this way is definitely a highlight of a visit to the city.''You’ll just keep stumbling across beautiful old cobbled streets, old churches and buildings, and hidden little restaurants and cafes.''Of course, there’s an extensive and easy to use public transport system in the city as well. If you invest in a Roma Pass or a Rome and Vatican Pass, these both include free public transport for the duration of the pass, so you can hop on and off buses or metros as you wish.''Should You Take a Tour in Rome?''Of course, this is up to you and your style of travel! We think that because Rome has so much history and there is so much you can learn on a visit, that taking a tour can be a really great way to do that. Some of the tours can also get you exclusive access to locations that you might not otherwise have been able to see, as well as skip the line access that can save you time.''The two companies that we’ve used in Rome for walking tours (and many other cities around the world) are Walks of Italy, and Context Travel. For Context Travel, you get an automatic 10% discount on any booking through any of the Context Travel links in this post.''The tours we’d recommend in Rome based on our itinerary are the following:''Walks of Italy:''Skip the line Colosseum Tour with Roman Forum & Palatine Hill''Walks of Italy:''Early Entry Sistine Chapel / Vatican Museum & St. Peters tour''Context Travel:''Vatican Tour with Sistine Chapel & St. Peters''Context Travel:''Roma Antica Tour''(Coliseum & Roman Forum)''We think that these are the best tours to match up with our itinerary, but of course both companies have many more options depending on your specific interests. You can read some of our experiences taking tours in Rome with both of these companies,''Context Travel here'', and Walks of Italy''here''.''Further Reading for Your Rome Visit''We’ve written a number of posts and guides to visiting Rome, as well as Italy and Europe in general, that we think you will find useful. We also have a number of go-to guidebooks and other resources that we think you will find helpful for planning your time in Rome.''If you have longer in the city, or are just looking for more options for what to do, take a look at our guide to spending''3 Days in Rome'', which also has some more practical information for your visit.''If you’d prefer to take more of a guided visit to Rome rather than plan your trip yourself, we have a guide to doing just that''here''.''If you are particularly interested in visiting the Borghese Gallery, one of Rome’s most popular museums, we have a''guide to visiting the Borghese Gallery here.''No visit to Rome is complete without eating gelato! To be sure you get the best stuff, take a look at our guide to finding''the best Gelato in Rome''.''If you’re planning on visiting Rome in summer, read our''tips for visiting a European city in summer''to stay sane''Looking to visit more of''Italy''? Check out our content on''Venice'',''Milan''and''Florence''for inspiration!''If you’re looking for a physical (or Kindle!) guidebook, we recommend the''Rick Steves Rome 2017 guide'', which has lots of practical information to help you make the most of your stay''And that’s it for our guide to how to spend 2 days in Rome! We hope you found it useful – as always, if you have any questions or feedback, just let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''One of the most common questions we’re asked from people who read our UK guides, and in particular our detailed''one week''and''two week UK itinerary''posts is: how much does it cost to travel in the UK?''Of course, the answer is – it depends! There are a lot of factors to consider, from your travel style (budget to luxury) through to who you are travelling with (solo, family, group), and the kind of travel you want to do (self-drive, group tour, etc).''Then of course there are the attractions you are interested in visiting, the time of year you visit – there are just so many variables to take into account. Which makes answering the question quite tricky!''But we’re going to tackle it anyway. In this post I’m going to go through all the major costs you need to consider when planning a trip to the UK, and provide budget ranges for each of them. This should give you some good ideas of what a trip like this might cost. We’ll also provide some money saving tips for each area.''Let’s get started.''Contents:''How Much Does it Cost to Travel in the UK?''1. Transport Costs for Travel in the UK''Price of Car Rental in the UK''Money Saving Tips for Car Hire in the UK''Price of Public Transport in the UK''Money Saving Tips for Public Transport in the UK''2. Accommodation Costs for a UK Trip''Price of Accommodation in the UK''Money Saving Tips for Accommodation in the UK''3. Food Costs for a UK Trip''Price of Dining in the UK''Money Saving Tips for Dining in the UK''4. Sight-seeing Costs for a UK Trip''Costs for sight-seeing in the UK''Money Saving Tips for Sight-seeing in the UK''In Summary: How Much Will a UK Trip Cost you?''Further Reading for Planning your UK Trip''How Much Does it Cost to Travel in the UK?''There are four main cost areas you need to consider when travelling in the UK. These are:''Transport''Accommodation''Food''Sight-seeing''We’re going to look at each of these individually to give you some cost ideas. At the end of the post we’ll then put these together to give ideas of a total trip cost for the UK for a few different travel styles.''1. Transport Costs for Travel in the UK''There are a number of ways to travel in the UK. To start with, there is an excellent public transport network in the UK which includes long distance bus services (also called coaches in the UK), a good passenger rail network and multiple low cost airlines.''Our preferred way of travel in the UK (and abroad), is to self-drive where possible. We find it gives us the greatest flexibility, letting us stop when we want to, and not have to be strict about following a timetable. Of course, depending on the type of trip you want to do, this might not be the best option – if you’re only visiting cities for example, we recommend using public transport to get between them.''Price of Car Rental in the UK''Budget'': £150 per week for a small car that will fit two people and luggage''Mid-range:''£200 – £300 per week for a mid-range car that will fit four people and luggage''High-end:''£400 – 600 per week for a small SUV or car capable of carrying more than five people''Money Saving Tips for Car Hire in the UK''Book by the week.''Most car hire companies offer better rates if you book for a week rather than a few days. Of course, there’s no point booking for a week if you only need the car for a day or two, but you might find that seven days is cheaper than six for example. We have also found that when we book a car for two or three weeks, many hire car companies have given us a free upgrade to say thanks for our custom.''Pick up your hire car on leaving the city.''In the UK, there is really no need to have a hire car in a city. UK cities are for the most part easy to get around either on foot, or have excellent public transport networks. Your hire car will likely spend its time costing money in an expensive parking lot. So just book your rental for when you leave the city.''Don’t pick it up at the airport.''If you can avoid picking up your hire car at the airport, you will usually save money. Most car hire companies charge higher rates for cars picked up at the airport – it’s a combination of a trapped market and a convenience factor. Compare prices between the airport and the city, and if you can get to the city easily from the airport, and the price is better, do that.''Avoid one-way trips where possible.''Most car hire companies will charge you extra if you want to drop the car off in a different place to where you picked it up. We have actually done this many times – the key is to find a car rental company that charges minimal one-way fees. In our experience,''Enterprise''is pretty good for this.''Don’t forget the fuel costs.''Fuel in the UK is relatively expensive compared to somewhere like the USA. Thankfully, the majority of cars are quite fuel efficient and distances aren’t that great. However, fuel prices vary wildly. Generally, the cheapest fuel can be found at supermarkets, such as Asda, Tesco and Sainsbury’s. The most expensive fuel is usually along the motorways, at the service stations.''Avoid additional fees:''The way that hire companies bump up their revenues is by charging you for a lot of addons when you come to pick up your car. These can include everything from a GPS unit through to extra insurance cover. Many of these are not truly necessary, and some travellers might find that their credit card already offers things like Collision Damage Waiver insurance. So definitely check in advance what addons you need, so you don’t fall prey to high pressure sales tactics at the rental desk.''Use a comparison service:''For car hire, whilst we often use''Enterprise'', we will also check with other providers. We find the fastest way to do this is with a comparison search site that lets us compare prices across multiple providers at the same time. Two good options that cover car hire in the UK are''Priceline''and''AutoEurope''. Just make sure when comparing prices that additional fees like one-way drop offs are covered.''Consider your age:''Car hire companies around the world give better rates to what they consider to be more experienced drivers. Younger drivers, particularly those 21 and under, can pay hefty surcharges for car rental. Usually, drivers over 30 get the best rates. If you are travelling in a group of different ages, consider renting the car in the name of the older driver. Just be aware that you might need to pay more to add additional drivers, so be sure that the named driver is happy to do all the driving if necessary.''Price of Public Transport in the UK''Public transport in the UK is difficult to put a price on as there are huge variables depending on where you are going, how far in advance you book, and how you travel (bus, train, plane) – as well as if you choose to travel in standard class or a more premium class.''As an example though, a one way single ticket from London to Edinburgh by train (~4hr 30 min) would cost you around £150. If you book the same trip in advance, you could go on the same journey for as little as £25 one-way.''A similar journey by coach would take between 10 and 15 hours, and cost between £16 and £80.''You could also fly, which would take around an hour of actual flight time (although you would need to factor in the time of getting to and from the airport and check-in). Flights with a budget airline from London to Edinburgh for example start from as little as £13 (with no luggage!), and go up to around £200.''Money Saving Tips for Public Transport in the UK''Book in advance.''For planes, buses and coaches, the best prices are available if you book well in advance, and if you can be a little bit flexible with your timings. Avoid travelling at peak times (usually 0630 – 0930 & 1530 – 1830).''Use the right booking site.''For train tickets, we recommend two websites:''Take the Train''and''Virgin Trains East Coast''. Neither of these charge booking fees, unlike a number of other ticketing websites.''For long distance buses, there are a number of operators to choose from.\xa0The two we would recommend are''National Express''and''Megabus'', both of which offer a wide range of routes across the country.''For flights, we suggest a good comparison engine that includes the budget airlines – we recommend''Kiwi.com''.''Go carry on only.''If you choose to fly, packing carry-on only can save you a good amount in baggage fees. Just be aware that UK airlines have different baggage size standards to other airlines around the world, so always check with the airline first.''2. Accommodation Costs for a UK Trip''Accommodation is one of the major costs for any travel, and a UK trip is no different. Of course, the question\xa0 “how much does accommodation cost in the UK?” is not straightforward, and there are multiple factors to consider – everything from time of year through to the level of comfort and service you need will affect the price.''There are lots of options for accommodation in the UK, so whatever your budget, we are confident you will be able to find something to suit your travel needs. Our costs are based on two people sharing a private room, but there are other options of course, including dormitory accommodation in hostels, if you are looking to save even more.''Price of Accommodation in the UK''Budget:''£40 – £100 for a budget room for two people, usually this would be an en-suite room. Dorm rooms are also available, think around £25 per bed.''Mid-range:''£100 – £150 would get you a nice room for two in most parts of the country''High-end:''£250+ would normally be the starting point for a room in a luxury property, although deals can be had, see below for more information''Money Saving Tips for Accommodation in the UK''Travel off-peak.''If you can travel in the quieter times of year, such as January and February, particularly in less visited parts of the UK, you can score some remarkable deals. For example, we stayed in''this luxury hotel''near Inverness for £70 per night including breakfast in February. The same room in June is over £300!''Check the hotel website for deals.''Whilst we love booking engines for their convenience, sometimes we find that a particular property has a special deal running that’s only available if you check their website. These might be things like three nights for the price of two, or free breakfast if you book direct.''Book online.''We use''booking.com''extensively for our travel accommodation. After making five bookings, we qualified for their extra “Genius” discount, which often scores us an extra 10% off. We also like that they list everything from hostels to apartments to hotels of all categories, making it an excellent one-stop shop for our accommodation needs.''Use Alternative Accommodation Providers''. There has been an explosion in options in the accommodation market over the last decade or so. If you’re on a tight budget, definitely consider websites like''AirBnB''and''Couchsurfing.''There are lot of options out there to help you find great value accommodation, so take advantage of them. Take a look at our guide to''AirBnB Alternatives''for more inspiration.''3. Food Costs for a UK Trip''The UK used to have a pretty poor reputation when it came to food, but thankfully over the last ten – twenty years this has improved a great deal, and you can now get really fantastic meals as you travel. That said, dining in the UK is not particularly cheap, although there are some ways to reduce the costs.''One thing to note, for US readers in particular, tax is always included in menu prices in the UK, so what you see is what you pay. Service is not included, but tips are appreciated.''Price of Dining in the UK''Budget:''£5 – £10\xa0per person per meal at a fast food restaurant or takeaway style meal''Mid-range:''£10 – £30 per person per meal at a mid-range restaurant or nice pub style meal''High-end:''£35+ per person per meal at a nice restaurant''Money Saving Tips for Dining in the UK''Drink less.''Drinking with a meal can really push your budget up. Even soft drinks can be quite expensive in the UK, so if you can stick with tap water with your meal, you can save a fair bit of money.''Find deals.''Whilst not as common as say France, you can still find good deals in the UK for dining out. Many restaurants will offer early-bird dining specials for example, for dining at times earlier than usual, such as 5pm – 6.30pm. Others may have special menu deals, where you can get a two or three course meal at a discount at lunchtime.''Fast food.''Don’t forget the fast food chains if you’re looking for cheap and easy food on the go. As well as reducing your time spent eating if you’re having a full day of exploring, these can be very cheap. To really save money, skip the extras, and find the really cheap menu items. For example, you can normally buy a single hamburger at McDonald’s for under £1. Two of those and a medium fries will keep you going for a while.''Small cafes.''If fast food doesn’t do it for you, consider stopping off at a small cafe. Often attractions have these, as do department stores and other high-street locations. Normally they have a small selection of well priced menu items, such as a soup and a sandwich, or a baked potato with a filling. Usually these meals will come in at under £5 per person.''Supermarket meals.''If you’re ok with a cold meal,\xa0a reliable cheap option is to get a meal from a supermarket such as Marks and Spencer. These places usually have an extensive range of sandwiches and other snacks, often very well priced. You’ll be able to get a sandwich, snack and a drink for under £5 in most cases. Plus you can then find somewhere pretty to eat it and dine al fresco! Other options for cheap eating include chains like Eat and Pret a Manger, which also offer soups and hot items.''Cook for yourself.''To really save money on your food in the UK, you should opt to cook for yourself if you can. Obviously this will need a bit of forward planning, as you’ll need to book accommodation that includes cooking facilities, such as an AirBnB, or a hostel with a kitchen. Cooking for yourself can really save you money though.''Eat the included breakfast.''If you’re staying at a hotel or bed and breakfast that includes a breakfast (or other meal), make sure you take advantage of it, as that saves you the cost of a meal.''4. Sight-seeing Costs for a UK Trip''Sight-seeing costs in the UK will really vary depending on what you are interested in seeing. There are lots of free attractions, including museums and outdoor sights, that won’t cost you anything at all.''There are also other trips and activities, such as day trips to specific sights you might want to see (for example''Stonehenge from London'') that you will want to book a tour for. If you are thinking about taking a tour, we can recommend''Rabbie’s'', who offer small group tours in the UK & Ireland. We also recommend''Viator''who offer a huge''range of tours in the UK''.''Costs for sight-seeing in the UK''Costs will vary tremendously depending on what you are interested in. Museums and other attractions like''stately homes''range from free to around £25 per person at the upper end of the scale, although £6 – £12 per person is a more common cost.''Money Saving Tips for Sight-seeing in the UK''Get a City-based Attractions Pass.''If you’re planning on visiting a lot of attractions in the same city, you will probably find that an attractions pass will save you money. For London, we recommend the''London Pass''(see our review''here''). For Edinburgh, there’s a good''pass that covers the royal attractions''(review''here'').''Get a society membership.''For certain types of attraction in the UK, such as historical homes and castles, you can save money with a membership to the organisation that manages the properties. In the UK, there are a number of these, but the key organisations are the''National Trust''and''English Heritage''.''If you’re a UK resident, annual memberships to these unlock free access to hundreds of properties around the country. If you’re not from the UK, you might find that they have reciprocal agreements with foreign similar organisations. Alternatively, you can also buy visitor passes for these organisations.''This pass is for English Heritage''for example, and''this is for the National Trust in England''.''Visit on free Days.''Sometimes museums and attractions in the UK will have free days where you can visit for free. Check the attraction’s website or social media accounts for details of when these might be.''Use qualifying concessions.''Many attractions offer discounts to different demographics – for example based on your age or eligible military service. It’s always worth checking if you qualify for a discounted price. If so, make sure you carry proof of your eligibility, for example, if it’s an age-based discount, carry official government issued ID like a driving license or passport so you can prove your age.''In Summary: How Much Will a UK Trip Cost you?''Assuming two people are travelling together in the UK, using a hire car to get around and staying in private hotel rooms with en-suite, our suggested costs per person per day would be as follows:''Budget'': £50 – £100''Mid-range:''£100 – £250''High-end: £300+''So, for a trip like our suggested''two week UK itinerary'', you would likely be looking at the following total approximate costs for two people for a two week UK trip.''Car hire:''£300 – £600 + fuel (~£100 – £200)''Accommodation:''£700 – £2000+''Food:''£300 – £1000''Sight-seeing / tours:''£200+''Total:''from around £750 per person''Of course, you can spend a little less or a lot more, depending on your travel style, but these ball park figures should give you an idea of costs. Also, don’t forget to include any visa costs, additional sight-seeing, nice meals out, souvenirs, and of course, the cost of getting to and from the UK.''Further Reading for Planning your UK Trip''Hopefully in this post we’ve answered the question\xa0of how much does it cost to travel in the UK. To further help with planning your UK trip beyond the budgeting side, we have a lot more content that we think you will find useful.''For itinerary ideas covering the whole UK, check out our''1 week''and''2 week UK itineraries''. These are self-drive itineraries, so do check out our''guide to driving in the UK''for tips.''If you’d rather not drive yourself, we have a''UK itinerary by public transport''If you’re heading to Scotland, we have a''7 Day camping itinerary for the North Coast 500'', as well as a detailed''North Coast 500 Planning Guide''We have a great deal of content on visiting specific UK towns and cities for you to check out and bookmark:''A two day Edinburgh itinerary''&''21 Highlights in Edinburgh''A Two Day Glasgow and Loch Lomond itinerary''A guide to''10 of the best Stately Homes in England''For London, we have some detailed itineraries to help you plan your visit. These include a''1 Day London Itinerary'', a''Two Day London itinerary''and a''Six Day London itinerary''The top Harry Potter sites in London''The''Best Photography Locations in London''Tips on Buying and Using the London Pass''Eight Things to Do in Kensington''The''Highlights of Oxford''Visiting''Blenheim Palace and the Cotswolds''20 Things To Do in Dublin''A''Guide to Touring the Scottish Borders''If you want a physical (or digital!) book to accompany your travels, then Amazon do a good line in''UK Travel Guides'', and there is naturally a''Lonely Planet''and a''Rough Guide''to the UK available.''And that’s it for our guide to how much it costs to travel in the UK! We hope you found it useful – as always you’re welcome to share your questions and feedback in the comments below.''SHARE ON''Thinking of taking a trip to Aberdeen? Despite living in Scotland for a while now, we’d somehow never made it up to this northeastern city, which is the third largest in the country after Edinburgh and Glasgow. Well, we’ve fixed that recently and found plenty to do, from exploring old churches to eating delicious food to wandering cute communities. From our adventures, we’ve put together what we think is a good itinerary for 2 days in Aberdeen, covering many of our favourite highlights.''As well as all covering some of our favourite sights, we’ve also included some tips on getting around, where to stay and some of our favourite restaurants. We ate at a lot of fantastic restaurants though, so we’re also going to be writing a guide to where to eat in Aberdeen shortly!''For now though, let’s get started with our Aberdeen itinerary, which might make for a nice weekend break.''2 Days in Aberdeen''Day One''Aberdeen Maritime Museum''Being located on the coastline, you would expect Aberdeen to have a rich maritime heritage. And you would be right. The best place to learn about this heritage is at the''Aberdeen Maritime Musuem'', which is located just near Aberdeen’s dock area.''Here you can learn all about pretty much everything to do with maritime life in Aberdeen, right from the town’s earliest beginnings. The town has had a harbour from at least the 13th century, and possibly even earlier than that, and fishing has long been a mainstay of life in Aberdeen.''In more recent times, the oil industry has played a big role in Aberdeen, and the maritime museum covers this in detail. So basically, if you’re interested in anything to do with the sea, a stop at Aberdeen’s maritime museum is a must. Spanning three floors, and also home to a cafe, this free museum is an excellent way to learn a bit about the history of the city. It’s open every day, see the''official website''for opening hours.''The Tolbooth Museum''Speaking of the history of Aberdeen, the next stop on our Aberdeen itinerary is a visit to the''Tolbooth Museum''. This is one of Aberdeen’s oldest buildings, and is home to Aberdeen’s 17th century gaol.''Despite the sound of the name, the Tolbooth wasn’t only used for collecting tolls, although this was why they were first established. In medieval times and up to around the 19th century, a Tolbooth was a cities primary Town House or Town Hall, and it was used for carrying out civic functions including that of a court house, a jail, a punishment centre, and a council chamber. In Scotland, to be a “Burgh”, a town needed a Tolbooth, as well as a mercat cross and a kirk (church).''Today, you can visit the Tolbooth Museum, see the old gaol cells, and learn all about the various functions of the building. It’s an atmospheric building with huge thick walls, winding stone staircases and many original features. There are a number of displays and exhibits where you’ll learn about some of the inmates who were kept here, and it even has the original guillotine blade from when capital punishment was still a thing in Scotland.''It’s also said to be one of Aberdeen’s most haunted buildings, so if you’re interested in paranormal activities and ghostly goings on, should definitely be on your list. Entry is free and it’s open every day, see the''official website''for opening hours.''Marischal College''Aberdeen is sometimes referred to as the granite city, because so many of the buildings have been built with locally quarried grey granite. Certainly many of the museums and public buildings are built out of this grey stone, which can sparkle brilliantly in the sunlight.''Marischal College, found in the heart of the city, is one of the more spectacular examples of this style of construction. Built in 1837, this is the second largest granite building in the world (the largest is Escorial Palace near Madrid).''From the name, you would likely assume that this was some sort of educational facility. And whilst it is owned by the University of Aberdeen, for whom it was originally built, today the majority of the building is used by Aberdeen City Council. There was a museum within, but it is not currently open to the public – instead, you can visit the University of Aberdeen’s museum in Kings House, on the second day of our itinerary.''Lunch''With lots of knowledge about Aberdeen now under your belt, it’s time for a spot of lunch! As I mentioned at the start of the post, there are some fantastic dining options in Aberdeen, so you have plenty of choice.''Based on your location in the city centre, you might consider lunch at Books and Beans, Ninety-Nine Bar and Kitchen, Moonfish Cafe or, if you want excellent vegan fare, Bonobo Cafe.''Mercat Cross''Once you’re done with lunch, you’re going to swing by Aberdeen’s Mercat Cross, which dates from 1686, and can be found just near the Tolbooth Museum.''In Scotland, a mercat cross is used to denote that the city is allowed to hold a market and is erected in the location where the city market would take place. Despite the name, it’s not actually in the shape of a cruciform, although the very early forms of the mercat cross would have had a cross at the top.''in Scotland, a mercat cross is usually topped with the national animal, a Royal Unicorn, and the mercat cross in Aberdeen is no different. The unicorn on the cross today is a replacement, the original can be seen as you enter the Tolbooth Museum.''Aberdeen Science Center''Time for some hands on science! If you’re travelling with family, The''Aberdeen Science Center''is a really family friendly center that focuses on interactive science themed exhibits.''It’s also a lot of fun for grownups who are kids at heart. Which is basically me. Jess and I had a lot of fun here playing, I mean learning, all about science with the various exhibits. We made storms, played music, and Jess even tried her hand at being a human electrical conductor.''This latter activity was part of a talk we attended where we learnt all about electricity. These talks run regularly in a lecture theatre at the back of the center, and are included with your admission price. We were impressed by the talk, which managed to entertain and inform the whole audience, which ranged from small kids through to adults like us.''The Aberdeen Science Center is open every day and there’s a small fee for admission. See the official website for''prices and opening hours''.''Aberdeen Beach''Ok, when we visited Aberdeen we didn’t have exactly the best weather for much of our stay. So our visit to the beach was fairly brief! However, on a nicer day, this huge stretch of golden sand is definitely worth your time to visit, and it’s very close to the city center.''There are also a number of cafes and restaurants in this area. We can definitely recommend the Sand Dollar Cafe, a popular venue on the sea front. There are also a number of other facilities along the beach area, including a family fun fair, a cinema complex, and even an ice skating rink. So no shortage of things to do, although we’d definitely suggest a stroll on the beach as being number one on your list!''Explore Footdee''Last on our list for your first day exploring Aberdeen is a visit to the community of Footdee. Whilst this is technically part of the city of Aberdeen, it feels very much like an entirely separate seaside fishing village.''This isn’t really a surprise, as Footdee, known locally as “Fittie”, actually is an old fishing village. In it’s current form, it was built as a housing development in the early 19th century, at which time it consisted of 28 single storey thatched homes.''Whilst it was expanded over time, and the thatched homes have evolved into slate roofed multi-stored terraced houses, the general layout and charm have very much remained. Adding to this charm is the fact that the majority of the streets are pedestrian only, and that every home has it’s own “tarry shed.”''These sheds were originally built out of driftwood found on the coast, and have since evolved into unique little structures, some built of brick, others still constructed of wood, and decorated in a wide variety of styles.''To explore Footdee feels like stepping back in time, and whilst it isn’t a very big place, we guarantee that it will capture your heart.''There’s also a good restaurant here, the''Silver Darling'', if you’re looking for somewhere to end your first day sightseeing in Aberdeen. This is particularly known for its seafood, as well as its fantastic views over the harbour and beach area.''Day Two''St Machar’s Cathedral''For the second day of your 2 days in Aberdeen you’re going to start in “Old Aberdeen”. For a long time this was an entirely separate burgh, and only became a part of Aberdeen in 1891. It still has a very distinct vibe of it’s own, and has a number of attractions that are very much worth exploring.''First on the list for the day is''St. Machar’s Cathedral''. This is the principal kirk, or church, of the Church of Scotland in Aberdeen. Despite the name, it’s technically not actually a cathedral, as it hasn’t been the seat of a bishop since 1690.''Name aside, this is a beautiful old religious building which in its present form dates from around the 13th century – although this location has been a site of religious worship since 580AD. The 13th century saw extensive restoration and remodelling to the 11th century Norman style cathedral, and the end result is what stands today – a fortified kirk.''A number of features draw visitors today. First, it is believed that a part of William Wallace is actually interred in the walls of St. Machar’s. The truth of this isn’t known, but certainly the Scottish freedom fighter was hung, drawn and quartered, and his body sent to different parts of Scotland as a message against insurrection. So it is certainly possible.''The other feature, that you can actually appreciate in person, is the stunning 16th century heraldic ceiling that sits above the nave of the cathedral. This\xa0wooden panelled masterpiece is home to no less than 48 coats of arms, the heraldic shields of the then kings of Europe as well as earls and bishops of Scotland. It is a hugely impressive sight.''Entry to the cathedral is free, although a donation is appreciated. There’s also a small gift shop on site, which is another way to support the property.''Zoology Museum''A short walk from St. Machar’s Cathedral is Aberdeen’s''Zoology Museum'', which is actually a part of the University of Aberdeen, and found in the Universities’ School of Biological Science building.''Spread over two floors, this is basically a mini natural history museum, filled with wonders from around the world, including a whale skeleton, and various animals that have been preserved for display. There’s a great deal to see here, and the museum is totally free, so well worth popping in if you have an interest in the natural world. Open every day except weekends.''Cruickshank Botanic Garden''Directly adjacent to the Zoology Museum, and accessible from the\xa0School of Biological Science building, is the''Cruickshank Botanic Garden''.''This 11 acre garden is free to visit, and is a peaceful place to wander around and enjoy nature. It’s open year round, and is lovely for a stroll at any time of year.''King’s Museum''Originally, the University of Aberdeen has a museum in Marischal College, however that closed to the public. Instead, you can now visit''King’s Museum'', which is just a few moments walk from the Botanic Garden and the other attractions you’ve visited today in Old Aberdeen.''Whilst it is one of the newest museums in Scotland, it has a rich collection to draw upon, with many of the artefacts on display coming from the original Aberdeen King’s College, which was established in 1727.''It’s quite a small museum, only taking up a couple of rooms, and so the exhibits are rotated every few months. This means you are likely to see different things if you return! When we visited, there were displays on the history of Scotland and the people of Scotland. Entry is free, check the website for opening times.''King’s College Chapel''The University of Aberdeen has the majority of its campus in Old Aberdeen, and many of the buildings are truly beautiful to behold, with many of them dating from the middle ages.''The most iconic of these buildings is the''Kings College Chapel'', which was consecrated in 1509 and still operates as the primary University Chapel today. The primary feature that it is most known for is the Crown Tower, which has become a symbol of the university.''The chapel is open to visitors during weekdays from 10am – 3.30pm, and services are also held here. For full details on visiting,''see the official website.''Catch a festival or show''When you’re planning your trip to Aberdeen, you should definitely consider timing your visit to coincide with one of''Aberdeen’s festivals''. There are currently 11 official festivals held throughout the year, as well as many other events and shows. So there is a good chance one may be taking place during your visit.''When we visited Aberdeen, the Aberdeen Jazz Festival was taking place, which was a 10 day event spanning multiple venues and shows across the city.''We took in three wildly different performances, ranging from a cocktail-filled afternoon tea event with a performance by the''Vintage Girls''through to a wonderful saxophone-led performance from''Andy Middleton''as well as a fun Saturday night show from\xa0Fat-Suit and Werkha.''Of course, there’s a lot more to choose from than jazz, and the city has''theatres'', nightclubs and a variety of other venues to choose from. We’re sure you’ll find something so you can round off your 2 days in Aberdeen in style!''How to Get around Aberdeen''For much of the sight-seeing on this itinerary you’ll be able to get around on foot. For heading down to Footdee or up to Old Aberdeen, you might want to save time and either take a taxi, or use one of the local buses.''There are lots of bus routes in Aberdeen and the buses run regularly. Payment can be made on the bus, and we appreciated that, as in London, you can use a contactless card or device to pay for a ticket.''Where to Stay in Aberdeen''For this itinerary I’d definitely recommend staying somewhere close to the city centre so you can easily get to all the attractions. We stayed at the''Skene House Rosemount Apartment Hotel'', which was a serviced apartment complex which handily came with parking, as we drove to Aberdeen.''Here we had a nice apartment to ourselves, with a separate bedroom and a lounge / kitchenette. They also had breakfast. This was easy walking distance to nearly everywhere we visited, and we can definitely recommend them.''Of course, there are lots more options in Aberdeen, from''hostels''to''apartments''to''hotels''. Take a look at the options on''booking.com for Aberdeen''to start planning your accommodation.''Further Reading for Aberdeen''We’ve explored Scotland and the wider UK quite extensively now, so if you’re planning a trip, or just looking for more information about''travelling in Scotland'', we’ve got a lot of resources we’ve put together help you out. Here are some of those, as well as related third party resources.''For more information and advice to help you plan your trip to Aberdeen, take a look at the''official Visit Aberdeenshire website''.''For festival information in Aberdeen, take a look at the''official Aberdeen Festivals website''Just near Aberdeen is the beautiful Cairngorm National Park.''Northern Scotland is home to the famous North Coast 500 – Scotland’s premier driving route.\xa0Check out our detailed''guide to the North Coast 500'', as well as my''photography highlights on the North Coast 500''for some inspiration for your trip.\xa0If you’d like an itinerary for the North Coast 500, check out our detailed''7 Day North Coast 500 camping itinerary''Not far north of Inverness is the beautiful peninsula known as the Black Isle. Check out our''guide to the Black Isle''to find out why this should make your list of places to visit in Scotland.''If you’re driving in the UK for the first time, check out my''tips for driving in the UK''for some advice''Looking for more inspiration for Scotland? Check out our''2 day Edinburgh itinerary'',''Glasgow and Loch Lomond itinerary''and our''itinerary for the Isle of Skye and the Highlands''to get you started.''For wider UK trip planning, we have suggested''one week''and''two week UK itineraries''as a starter, plus lots more''UK content''to help you plan your trip.''If you’d like a guidebook for your time visiting Scotland, we recommend the''Rick Steves Scotland guide''And that’s it for our suggested itinerary for spending 2 days in Aberdeen. Have you visited Aberdeen? Where would you add to the list? As always, if you have feedback or questions, let us know in the comments below.''So you know, we were invited to experience Aberdeen and the Aberdeen Jazz Festival by Visit Aberdeenshire. They covered all our expenses during our trip, including meals, transport, attraction entry and accommodation. We’d like to thank them for their support. As always, opinions are our own, and you can see how we choose to work with brands on our''code of ethics page''.''SHARE ON''Do you sometimes find yourself somewhere you want to get a nice picture of yourself but can’t quite figure out how to go about getting it?''Well, I’m here to help!''In today’s guide, I want to give you some tips and advice for how to take better pictures of yourself. This will apply whether you’re travelling solo or just want to improve your selfies in general.''I’m going to split this post up into two main sections. First, I’m going to cover a number of options that you have for taking pictures of yourself, so you know what your options are. This will include ideas like different gear you can use through to tips for enlisting strangers to help out.''Following that, I’m going to share some tips so that, whatever camera you are using, from a smartphone to a DSLR, the end results look as good as they can.''Let’s get started!''How to Take Good Pictures of Yourself''1. Use A Tripod''For the best results when taking a picture of yourself, we suggest using a tripod. This will let you position the camera properly, frame the shot so you have everything that you want in your photo, use whatever type of camera you have (''smartphone mounts are available for tripods''), and generally get the results you want.''For the best results when using a tripod, you’ll want either a way to trigger the camera remotely such as a''wireless remote release shutter'', or an intervalometer. This will let you set up the camera to take a number of photos on a timer, so you can take a few shots and then keep the best ones.''Obviously there are some disadvantages to the tripod approach. They can be heavy to carry around (although don’t discount''travel tripods''and''mini tripods like this''), take time to set up, and you can’t put them everywhere. In addition, there is always the worry that someone might try and run off with it, or bump into it, so not a great fit for all situations.''Still, the myriad''benefits that a tripod brings to your photography''make it our number one option for taking better photos of yourself.''2. Balance your camera somewhere''Ok, so I didn’t manage to convince you on the tripod idea. No worries, there are plenty more options to choose from, which when combined with my tips below for getting better photos of yourself, will hopefully result in some great selfies.''My next suggestion is similar to using a tripod, but instead of using an actual tripod, find somewhere that you can put your camera that will hold it steady. I’ve found fence posts, boulders, and shelves can work well.''Obviously, this approach isn’t perfect as you are restricted by the availability of the objects around you, and issues like getting the camera level can be a challenge. One tip is to travel with a small bean bag''like this''that you can use to balance the camera and level it.''Otherwise, the process is similar to shooting with a tripod, so in an ideal world you’ll use a remote shutter release or a timer.''3. Use a camera with a flip screen''If you want to keep a hold of your camera, then the best option for getting photos of yourself is to use a camera with a front facing screen. Obviously, most smartphones will fall into this category as they nearly all have front facing cameras, which means you can compose your shot more easily.''However, a lot of bigger camera options, including many on our''recommended travel camera list'', also include screens that flip out so you can have the screen facing you even with the camera pointing at you. This will make it easier to compose the shot, although I have to say that getting great photos when you’re holding the camera at arms length is still a challenge.''Don’t forget to look into the camera lens when you do this. It is always very tempting to look into your own eyes on the screen when shooting with a smartphone or a camera with a flip screen, but this will result in an odd image where you aren’t looking at the viewer. So make sure you are looking directly into the\xa0 lens before you actually take the picture.''4. Use a selfie stick''If you want to get better pictures of yourself and you are shooting with a smartphone, then we definitely recommend you invest in a selfie-stick to do so. This will let you hold the camera at a more reasonable distance from your body, giving you much more control over how you frame and compose your shot.''It will also help reduce the weird wide-angle caricature like effect that often occurs when holding a camera too close to your face.''There are a great many selfie-sticks on the market. We recommend you invest in a reasonable one that will securely hold your camera, and offers a remote button so you can take pictures by pressing a button on the selfie-stick rather than having to use a timer.''We have been using and recommending''this selfie-stick from Anker''for a while now, and think it’s one of the best options on the market right now. Just make sure that whichever one you choose works with your specific size and phone or camera model.''5. Ask a stranger to take a picture of you''If you want a better quality image than you are able to achieve holding your camera out, but don’t have a tripod handy, you could consider asking a stranger to take a photo of you.''This can be a hit and miss strategy. Sometimes I’ve got great results asking other people to get photos of me, and other times, not so much. Of course, whatever the final result, it pays to be courteous and thankful to whoever takes my picture, and always offer to reciprocate.''For better results, I suggest you look for someone who looks like they know what they are doing when taking pictures (I get approached a lot when I travel as I usually have a pair of large DSLR cameras on me!) and give them a little instruction as to what you are looking for – something along the lines of “if you could get the whole Eiffel Tower in, and just the top half of my body”. Preferably, I’ll have already figured out the framing so I can just hand the camera over with instructions.''That said, don’t be annoying. I have no problem taking pictures of strangers, but after they’ve asked for the fourth reshoot and a slightly different angle I will start to get a bit vexed. Don’t forget that you are asking a stranger for a favour and that they likely have other things to be doing. So just get one or two shots and thank them. If the shots don’t work out – you always try asking someone else!''6. Use a drone''This is currently a slightly more niche option, but as the prices of drones becomes more affordable, and they become ever smaller, using a drone to take a selfie is actually becoming more of a viable alternative to all the above options.''A drone can go places a tripod can’t, they have reasonable cameras on board, you can create a composition exactly to your liking, and you don’t need to rely on strangers.''Of course, there are drawbacks. The image quality won’t be as high as if you use a professional camera, and there are many\xa0 places in the world where drones aren’t allowed. They are also still a little bit expensive to make this a standard option. But if you have one, using it to get better photos of yourself is definitely a great idea!''7. Use a mirror or other reflective surface''This is more to be filed under “getting creative with photos of yourself”, but using a mirror is definitely still an option for taking selfies. I mean, if it’s good enough for celebrities on Instagram, it’s got to be good enough for you too, right?''The principle is quite simple, and you can use any camera for this one. Just find a reflection of yourself and take a picture! Easy. Of course, this might not result in the best photos, and in most cases the end result will have you obviously holding a camera, which will shatter the illusion that you’re doing anything other than taking a picture of yourself in a mirror.''Still, with a bit of practice, careful cropping in post-processing, and cunning positioning of the camera, you might be able to get results that are up there with the best celebrity Instagrammers!''Another way that reflective surfaces can be used to good effect is if the reflective object you’re shooting is interesting – something like the Bean in Chicago for example is a great example of\xa0 the perfect selfie surface. This will let you incorporate yourself into a shot of a well known object, and will give you something a bit different from all the other options on this list for getting photos of yourself.''8. Hire someone to take pictures of you''For the absolute best, least hassle photos of yourself, I’d suggest hiring someone to take pictures of you. A professional photographer will be able to get far better results than you would likely be able to manage yourself.''Of course, this approach is going to be fairly expensive, and you’re only going to have use of the photographer for a short amount of time. But if quality is the most important factor, perhaps of a special location you really want to get shots of, then this is the way to go.''There are lots of photographers out there who you can hire, just check through their portfolios before you do so to be sure that their style matches what you’re going for. If you’re travelling, there are a number of services like''Flytographer''($25 off your first shoot with''this link'') which will connect you with a local photographer wherever you happen to be located or going. You might also check with a local camera shop for photographer recommendations.''Tips for Getting Better Photos of Yourself''1. Hold the camera as far away as possible''If you are going down the road of holding the camera yourself, you want to hold it as far away from yourself as possible. This is where a selfie-stick on a smartphone comes in so handy.''The reason for this is that most camera lenses on smartphones, and the lenses you would use on a normal camera to take a hand held selfie, are going to be wide angle. This means that they can get a lot of the shot in, but they also distort the image slightly.''This distortion is usually not noticeable, but when you hold these lenses too close to your face, it can result in a weird caricature like effect, where parts of your face suddenly seem larger than other parts. This is a pretty standard effect, and we notice it a lot more on faces simply because our brains are very good at facial recognition, and any change from the normal patterns jumps out at us.''So if you are going down the route of hand holding your camera, extend your arm as far away from you as possible to minimise this fisheye effect.''When you do this though, don’t make the mistake of pushing your head unnaturally back behind your shoulders – this can be a natural reaction to pushing our arm out and trying to get further away from the camera, but this will make your head look weird. So after you’ve held the camera out, make sure your head is in a natural position.''2. Use a timer or intervalometer''If you are able to set your camera up on a tripod, or somewhere else where you don’t have to physically hold it, you are going to get better results if the camera is set to take a few photos over a period of time. This will let you experiment with different poses, be sure your eyes are open, and basically get into it a bit more.''If you’re having to run back and forward to your camera between shots, the results definitely won’t be as good. The majority of mirrorless and DSLR camera support either''wireless remotes'', which let you trigger the camera yourself, or more advanced''intervalometers,''which you can set up to take a sequence of photos over time.''Some cameras these days even come with WiFi, so you can control them remotely, and thus use your smartphone as the remote. If you do this, we still recommend using the timer function, so you have time between pressing the button and the photo being taken – time in which you can hide your smartphone and pose properly!''3. Use a special shooting mode''One of our cameras, the Panasonic Lumix GX8, has a special shooting mode called''4K Photo mode''. This lets you record a video of a scene, and then you can pull high resolution images from the video. This is like a really advanced intervalometer – instead of getting a shot every few seconds, you actually get 30 shots every second.''This means you get a huge amount of choice, and you don’t need any complicated equipment either – you just set the camera up and press the record button. This feature is available in most of''Panasonic’s newer Lumix models like this''. Other camera brands might have other special shooting modes like this, so do check your own camera to see what you can do!''4. Position the camera slightly above you''Ok, lets move beyond the hardware and start to talk about how to make sure that the pictures you are taking of yourself look as good as possible.''My first tip, regardless of which method you are using, is to have the camera slightly above you. Photos naturally look better when taken from slightly above (no-one wants a chin first image), so if you can get the camera slightly above you, this will give you better results.''The exception to this guidance is if you are shooting into a mirror – holding the camera below yourself might make it easier to edit the camera out. Just remember to tilt your chin and ensure your posture isn’t unflattering.''5. Ensure the light is right''Light is critically important when it comes to photography, and this is no less true when it comes to taking pictures of yourself. First, you need to make sure there is enough light available to illuminate your features, so you don’t end up with a blurry, noisy image that won’t impress anyone.''This is definitely going to be easier if you are outside in the daytime as there will generally be more light available (even if it’s overcast).''Next, you need to consider the angle and direction of the light. A lower light source, such as when the sun is lower on the horizon, will more evenly illuminate your features. A high light source, such as when the sun is directly overhead, will cause harsher shadows that will create dark contrast areas and less flattering results.''You also want to try to be looking towards the light source if possible, although not to the point it’s making you squint of course! Having the light so it is behind the camera as you look into the camera will more evenly illuminate your face.''Finally, the quality of the light is really important. The best light comes from a nice low sun, near sunrise or sunset, when it has that yellow glow. This warm glow will give you softer skin tones, and the lower angle of the sun will properly illuminate your face.''Be wary of point light sources like flashes, which can wash out your features, give you terrifying red-eyes, and generally ruin an otherwise good shot. Natural light will nearly always result in better results unless you invest in a serious flash kit and the knowledge to use it.''If you are shooting indoors, try to stay as still as possible to minimise any motion blur, and take advantage of any light you can find – perhaps stand near a window so the light from outside illuminates you. Otherwise, just try to use the brightest light source you can!''6. Think about the composition''Whatever you’re taking a photo of, be it a selfie or a landscape shot, you need to think about the composition. What do I mean by that? Well, a number of things. You need to think about the whole image, and what you want in it.''You need to think about placement of the main subject (that’s likely you!), as well as the other subjects in the shot – maybe the landscape in the background, the museum exhibit,\xa0 the bagel you are holding, or the attraction you are visiting. Make sure everything will be clear to the viewer.''Don’t forget that the image doesn’t even have to include every part of you – you can just include a part of you like your hand or feet. It’s still a picture of you!''You’ll also want to consider various composition techniques like the rule of thirds, framing and color, which can all be used to help you create image that stand out from the crowd. For more on composition tips, check out my''guide to composing better photos here''.''7. Smile!''So you’ve considered all the above, and the time has finally come to actually take a picture of yourself. It’s time to shine!''The reality is that many of us don’t like having our picture taken, even if we’re the ones taking our picture. So it’s key to try to relax, to enjoy yourself, and to have a bit of fun with it. If you smile, you will definitely find that your pictures will look more pleasing, both to you, and to anyone who looks at them. A happy, smiling photo is always nice, and when you smile you will likely find yourself naturally relaxing too.''Take a few photos, and the more you practice, the more natural and relaxed you will look, and the better the results. Don’t worry if it takes time – learning how to look good in pictures is definitely something that can take time.''8. Learn how to edit your photos''Like a few of the tips in this post, this one definitely doesn’t only apply to taking photos of yourself. Learning how to edit your photos is a key photography skill, and will help you get the best out of your photos, whatever they are of.''Even simple tweaks to contrast, brightness and saturation can often improve an image, whilst cropping a shot can help if the composition wasn’t quite right at the moment you pressed the shutter button.''You can also go further of course – removing skin blemishes, whitening teeth and so on. It’s really up to you.''There are a number of options when it comes to photography editing. On mobiles, I love and use''Snapseed'', which has some nice modes for portraits in particular. On a computer, I use and recommend''Adobe Lightroom''if you want to get more serious.''Further Reading''Well, that sums up my tips for getting better pictures of yourself when travelling (and when not!). Before you go, I just want to share with you a few more tips to help you get better photos, based on my years as a professional travel photographer.''This post forms a part of my''series of photography tips'', so definitely check that out if you’re interested in getting better photos in general!''Whilst this post covers situations beyond just taking photos of yourself, including couple and family photos, we’ve also put together a post for''taking better photos as a couple''which you can check out.''If you’re travelling soon, check out my series of''photography location guides'', which has handy tips for getting the best photos in locations in around the world''In the market for a new camera? Check out our''guide to the best travel camera'', which is always kept up to date with the latest recommendations. If you have a drone, we have a post on some of the''top basic drone accessories you may want to check out.''Finally, if you’re really serious about improving your photography, you’ll want to check out my''online photography course''. I’ve taught hundreds of students to improve their photography, and would love to help you out too!''And that’s it for my guide to taking better pictures of yourself when travelling! Do you struggle to get better selfies when you’re on the go? Have any tips you’d like to share, or feedback on this post? Let me know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''If you’re driving the''North Coast 500''or visiting Inverness (known as the capital of the Scottish highlands), one thing you should add to your list is a trip to the Black Isle. Found about a ten minute drive from Inverness, this large peninsula has plenty to entertain you, and we’re going to highlight our favourite things to do on the Black Isle in today’s post.''Despite the name, the Black Isle is neither an island or black. The colour in the name originates from the fact that it was once covered in dark, dense woodland, whilst the “isle” is because it is sandwiched between two large bodies of water, so access in times gone past would have been almost like visiting and island.''Today there is a lot to do on the Black Isle, including visiting an organic brewery, taking wildlife viewing tours and more. Let’s take a look at some ideas for:''What to Do on the Black Isle''We’ve arranged some of our favourite sights and activities on the Black Isle into a logical order to help you plan your day around visiting them. But since everything is fairly close together, you can rearrange them as makes the most sense for you. As you’ll see, there’s a lot to do on the Black Isle!''1. Robertsons the Larder''If you think you might have a picnic on the Black Isle, or are just looking for some tasty locally sourced food products, then you should pop by''Robertsons the Larder''on your way from Inverness.''This family run farm shop and children’s farm carries a wide range of delicious Scottish products, which are guaranteed to tempt you. They have everything from black pudding to smoked salmon to ice cream, and are the perfect stop to pack a picnic for the rest of the your day.''They also have a pair of gorgeous Highland Coos on site, which make for an excellent photo opportunity.''2. Black Isle Brewery''Started in 1998, the Black Isle Brewery has become one of Britain’s more well known organic breweries. They have the capacity to brew up to 10,000 litres of beer a day, and they ship their beer all over the world.''Today you can visit the brewery and take a free tour to learn all about the beer making process. You can also sample some of their beers, and of course, purchase some to take home with you.''We can definitely recommend doing so, it’s a fantastic beer and they have flavour options to suit pretty much all palates. We particularly enjoyed the Oatmeal Stout, which has a lovely dark colour and an almost chocolatey flavour.''3. The Clootie Well''Not too far from the Black Isle Brewery is the Clootie Well, which I have to admit, looks a bit like a scene from a movie like the Blair Witch Project.''In Celtic history, a Clootie Well was a place of pilgrimage for those seeking healing. They would normally be found at a water source like a spring, which would have a tree growing nearby. Pilgrims would come to the well, dip a rag into it, rub the rag onto the affected part of their body, and then tie the rag onto the tree whilst offering some sort of prayer.''The theory would be that as the rag disintegrated over time, so too would the ailment. This particular Clootie Well, which is found near Munlochy, was said to be particularly good for healing children, who would often be left here overnight to heal.''Today the Clootie Well on the Black Isle is still a popular place to visit, and the trees surrounding the well are covered in rags and other items, including teddy bears and other offerings, some of which have writings on. It’s a short (five-minute) walk from the car park here through the rag tied trees to the well itself, and is certainly an interesting spot for a visit.''4. Fortrose Cathedral''Moving along the south coast of the Black Isle and we now come to''Fortrose Cathedral''in the town of Fortrose. This was once the seat of the bishops of this area, although the 13th century building is now just a magnificent red sandstone ruin.''Despite being a ruin, the cathedral is still an impressive place to visit. It’s right in the centre of Fortrose, surrounded by greenery, and a number of details survive including some of the stone vaulting. It’s also free to visit.''5. Dolphin Watching at Chanonry Point''A short drive or a twenty minute walk from Fortrose Cathedral will bring you to Chanonry Point. This promontory is home to a pretty lighthouse and offers spectacular views up and down the Moray Firth, including across to''Fort George'', one of the UK’s most impressive military fortresses.''However, the real treat at Chanonry Point is the opportunity it offers for dolphin watching. As the tide starts to rise (check tide times''here''), a pod of dolphins can often be seen unaided from the beach. They’re here to take advantage of the optimal feeding conditions that the rising tide creates, and they often come very close to the shingle beach.''There is parking at the end of the point by the lighthouse, and at the right time of day it’s not hard to find the optimal point to watch the dolphins as there will usually be a fair number of people gathered. Just follow the path from the car park to the shingle beach, or at lower tide you can walk along the beach.''The best time of year to see the dolphins is in spring or summer, when they are hunting migrating salmon, although there is the chance to see them year round. In the warmer months there’s also often an''ice cream van here,\xa0so e''ven if you don’t see dolphins, you can at least get an ice cream!''6. Golf at Rosemarkie''If you love golf, then you will definitely want to make a stop at the''Fortrose and Rosemarkie Golf Club''. In operation since 1793, this is the 15th oldest recorded golf course in the world, and its location on this stunning peninsula makes for a very memorable round of golf.''It’s definitely one of the more popular courses in Scotland, and is open to visitors to play. You just need to book in advance via their website, and of course, to have golfing experience. The course is described as fast, and has tight fairways and bunkers galore.''7. Groam House Museum''In the town of Rosemarkie is the''Groam House Museum'', home to an outstanding collection of Pictish carved stones.''Spread over two floors, and with free entry, here you can learn all about the history of these stones, which are over a thousand years old. The museum is also home to an exhibit from local artist George Bain, as well as a history of the people of this part of the Black Isle. Well worth a visit.''8. Fairy Glen Waterfalls''At the north end of the town of Rosemarkie is the parking area for the Fairy Glen trail. This is around a thirty minute round trip walk along a pretty stream, which brings you to the beautiful Fairy Glen itself.''Here there are two gorgeous waterfalls which are wonderfully photogenic, and definitely worth the small effort it takes to reach them. Definitely one for a''tripod''and set of''neutral density filters''if you’re into photography!''9. Cromarty Brewing Company''Whilst the Black Isle Brewery is the most well known brewery in this part of the world, it’s not the only game in town. Not far from the town of Cromarty is the''Cromarty Brewing Compan''y, which has been making beer on the Black Isle since 2011.''Its also possible to take a tour here, however, currently tours only run once a week and they cost £5 per person. The website does however say that you are able to schedule tours in advance for other times if you wish, you just need to''get in touch''to arrange them.''There is also a shop on site which is open year round, so even if you don’t take a tour, you can pop in and see what’s on offer.''10. Cromarty Lighthouse''On to the town of Cromarty now, which sits at the tip of the Black Isle. In the summer you can actually take a ferry from''here to Nigg'', to save yourself the drive back to the main road.''We’re not done with exploring the Black Isle though. The town of Cromarty has a number of attractions, first of which is the''Cromarty Lighthouse''. This was built in 1842, and operated as a lighthouse until 2006. Today is a part of the''University of Aberdeen'', and operates as a field station, supporting research within their Institute of Biological and Environmental Sciences.''You can’t get into the Lighthouse, but it is still worth taking a look at the building and the nearby harbour area, which is pretty.''11. Hugh Miller’s Birthplace Cottage and Museum''One of Cromarty’s most famous inhabitants was Hugh Miller. Born in Cromarty in 1802, he became known as a geologist, writer and paleontologist, as well as for his religious beliefs, which conflicted strongly with his scientific discoveries.''Today, his collection of over 6,000 fossils is a big part of the National Museum of Scotland’s collection in Edinburgh, and he is considered to be one of the finest Scottish palaeontologists. The thatched cottage where he was born in Cromarty can today be visited, as can the property next door where he also lived.''Here you can learn about his life and work, as well as see the cottage, which has been restored to how it would have looked when he was there. The''Hugh Miller Birthplace Cottage and Museum''is operated by the National Trust for Scotland, and there is a small admission fee for non-members.''Fans of Hugh Miller will also want to take a short walk up behind the museum to the old Cromarty graveyard, where as well as a lovely ruined old church there is a large statue to Hugh Miller.''12. Cromarty Courthouse Museum''Right next door to the Hugh Miller Birthplace Cottage and Museum is the''Cromarty Courthouse Museum''. This volunteer run community museum is set in the old courthouse museum, which dates from 1773.''Inside, you’ll find permanent exhibitions about the town and surrounding areas. The museum also hosts special exhibitions and displays through the year, which feature interesting stories from history as well as local artists. You’ll also find that the courtroom has been set up to re-enact a courtroom scene, and features life-like figures and accompanying audio to tell the story.''The museum is free to visit, although donations are appreciated. It’s not open year round, so check the official website for opening details.''13. Wildlife Boat Tours''From Cromarty you can take a wildlife watching adventure out into the Moray Firth, where you can see all sorts of wildlife, including the resident colony of Bottlenose Dolphins.''EcoVentures''is the small, family run tour operator that operates out of Cromarty, and they run a two hour wildlife watching tour. Booking in advance is highly recommended as the boat only takes up to 12 people.''14. Kirkmichael''About a ten minute drive west of Cromarty along the north coast of the Black Isle is''Kirkmichael''. This medieval church had fallen into serious disrepair, but thanks to the efforts of the Kirkmichael Trust, it has been full restored and made safe for visitors.''Today the old church is fully open and\xa0 has been turned into a very small museum showcasing some of the most interesting old medieval gravestones found in the Kirkyard. It’s a peaceful and interesting place to visit.''15. Glen Ord Distillery''We’re going to finish off our tour of the Black Isle with a visit to the''Glen Ord distillery''. This is the last surviving single malt scotch whisky distillery on the Black Isle, and dates from 1838. It’s quite an operation, with the capacity to produce over three million litres of whiskey a year.''As well as producing a Glen Ord whiskey, the distillery produces whiskey for the Diageo brands, which includes the Johnny Walker whiskeys. Naturally you can take a tour of the facility, which includes a taste of the Glen Ord 12 year old.''Tours run year round and whilst you don’t need to book in advance, it’s always a good idea to avoid disappointment.''Map of Black Isle Attractions''Here’s a handy map of the Black Isle attractions to help you plan your day. You can see this map on Google''here''.''How to Get to the Black Isle''The Black Isle is just north of Inverness, so is very easy to get to if you have a car, being less than a twenty minute drive from the city centre to the first attractions.''If you don’t have a car, there are also bus services, which are primarily operated by Stagecoach. These will let you access many of the major attractions on the Black Isle. See timetables''here''.''There are also tour companies offering tours of the Black Isle, departing from Inverness. One of our favourite tour companies in the UK is''Rabbie’s'', and they offer a''1 Day Best of the Black Isle tour''from Inverness which covers many of the attractions in this post, including the Black Isle brewery tour, Rosemarkie, Cromarty, and the wildlife boat cruise.''Where to Stay on the Black Isle''With the Black Isle being so close to Inverness, it’s certainly possible to stay in Inverness and visit the Black Isle as a day trip. If you wish to do that, check out''Inverness hotel listings on booking.com''here.''If you would like to stay on the Black Isle, we can recommend either''Home Farm Bed and Breakfast''or''The Factor’s House'', both of which are well rated by visitors.''Alternatively, if you would like to camp, there’s a large campsite near Chanonry Point, the''Fortrose Bay Campsite'', which has lots of pitches.''We also written a detailed guide to the''best accommodation options on the North Coast 500'', several of which are within a short drive of the Black Isle, so do check that out as well.''Further Reading''Hopefully this post contains everything you need to know to help you plan out what to do on the Black Isle. We’ve also written a lot of other content about travelling in''Scotland''and the UK, plus we have some other resources we would like to recommend to help you even more. These are:''The Black Isle is one of the first stops you’ll come to if you’re driving the North Coast 500 counter-clockwise from Inverness. Check out our detailed''guide to the North Coast 500'', as well as my''photography highlights on the North Coast 500''for some inspiration for your trip.''If you’d like an itinerary for the North Coast 500, check out our detailed''7 Day North Coast 500 itinerary''If you’re driving in the UK for the first time, check out my''tips for driving in the UK''for some advice''Looking for more inspiration for Scotland? Check out our''2 day Edinburgh itinerary'',''Glasgow and Loch Lomond itinerary''and our''itinerary for Skye and the Highlands''to get you started.''For wider UK trip planning, we have suggested''one week''and''two week UK itineraries''as a starter, plus lots more''UK content''to help you plan your trip.''If you’d like a guidebook for your time visiting Scotland, we recommend the''Rick Steves Scotland guide''And that’s it for our guide to what to do on the Black Isle! If you’ve got any feedback or questions, just let us know in the comments below.''SHARE ON''Thinking about spending 3 days in Paris? Great choice! We think that’s the perfect amount of time to spend in one of our favourite European cities, giving you the chance to see many of the top sights and attractions and really get a feel for the city. Of course, if you have longer, that’s even better, but three days is certainly enough to see a lot.''To help you with your planning, we’re going to share with you everything we think you need to know to spend three days in Paris. We’re going to give you a suggested 3 day Paris itinerary, tips for getting around, advice on where to stay in Paris, our thoughts on when is best to visit and even some suggested ways to save money in Paris.''Let’s get started!''Contents:''3 Day Paris Itinerary''1. Eiffel Tower''2. Seine River Cruise''3. Hop on Hop off Bus''4. Paris Walking Tour''5. Tour Montparnasse''6. Saint Chapelle''7. Notre Dame''8. Musee d’Orsay''9. The Louvre''10. Wine tasting''11. Arc de Triomphe''12. Versailles''13. Montmartre''3 Days in Paris Itinerary Map''Where to Stay in Paris''When to Visit Paris''How to Get to and From Paris''How to Get Around Paris''Walking Tours of Paris''How to Save Money in Paris''Staying Safe in Paris''Further Reading for your 3 Days in Paris''3 Day Paris Itinerary''Paris Itinerary:''Day 1''1. Eiffel Tower''What better way to start ofd your trip to Paris than with a visit to the''Eiffel Tower''. This is without doubt the most iconic landmark in Paris (if not France!), and a visit here is a must for any visit to Paris. When we visit Paris, we always visit at least once, and every time we are amazed at the sheer scale of this beautiful building.''There are a number of ways to enjoy the Eiffel Tower. First, you can just enjoy the views of the tower, which we think are particularly good from the Trocadero Gardens across the river, or the Champ de Mars gardens behind the Tower.''You can also go up inside the Eiffel Tower to one of the different floors, for expansive views of the city. We do like the experience of going up inside, but we don’t think it offers the best view of the city – because the view from inside the Eiffel Tower is missing the most famous part of the skyline – the Eiffel Tower itself!''Still, if this is your first visit to Paris, we highly recommend the experience. We do suggest that if you want to go up the Eiffel Tower, that you''book your tickets in advance from the official website''. The queues here for tickets can be very long, and with a pre-booked ticket you can skip the wait.''Alternatively, if you are feeling fit, you can also take the stairs up to the first level. There is not usually a very long queue for the stairs, which have their own ticket line, and it is also slightly cheaper.''2. Seine River Cruise''Another must-do experience in Paris is a river cruise on the Seine. This is a very popular activity, with multiple operators offering cruises up and down the river. We’ve actually written a post about the various''Seine River cruise options''which goes through the majority of the operators and the different types of trip available.''We can definitely recommend the''Bateaux Parisiens River Cruise''. These depart from just next to the Eiffel Tower, so fit in nicely with this itinerary, and they are''included for free''if you pick up a Paris Pass.''The cruise takes in all the highlights from the Eiffel Tower to Notre Dame, and there’s commentary included. So sit back, relax, and let the scenery roll by.''3. Hop on Hop off Bus''Talking of sitting back and relaxing, we find that a great way to get oriented in a new city and get an idea of the sights we want to see is to take a Hop On Hop Off (HOHO) bus tour.''Paris is no exception to this rule, and you can pick up a HOHO bus in Paris from right next to the Eiffel Tower, which will then take you around Paris’s key attractions.''There are multiple operators running different routes around the city. If you pick up a Paris Pass, it''includes a 1 Day Big Bus Tour''. We took this tour and enjoyed it – it’s both an easy way to get around the city, plus you can learn about many of the sights as you go. However there are a few''different operators'', so pick the one that works for you!''4. Paris Walking Tour''All this sitting around on buses and boats is great for getting oriented, but at some point you’re going to need to put your feet on the pavement! Paris is a wonderful city to explore on foot, and a guided walking tour is an excellent way to do that.''We think that if you are going to do a walking tour in a city, the first day is the best, as you can ask your guide for local recommendations such as their favourite places to eat or get a coffee, as well as get suggestions for hidden gems you might not find in the guidebooks.''There are lots of operators offering tours in Paris. We’ve taken a number of walking tours with''Context Travel'', and have always loved their detailed tours. They have a number of tours available in Paris, and you get 10% off with''this link''. We particularly enjoyed their Hemingway themed walking tour of Paris.''We also love Walks of Italy’s walking tours, and they have recently launched a number of walking tours of Paris. For example, they have\xa0 a''welcome to Paris walking tour'', as well as a''full day Paris tour'', although the latter would require you to significantly alter this itinerary.''If you have a Paris Pass, it comes with a''free walking tour''that focuses on famous filming locations in Paris, which is a lot of fun.''5. Tour Montparnasse''Last on our list for your first day in Paris is a trip up the''Tour Montparnasse''. I recommend this to everyone going to Paris, as it is, in my opinion at least, the location with the best view of Paris and the Eiffel Tower.''This is particularly the case at sunset, so if you can time your visit for sunset, you will get to witness a wonderful sunset across the Eiffel Tower, and then watch the city lights come to life.''The observation level is across two levels, one is inside and one is outside. The outside area is surrounded by glass, but there are cutouts so you can get reflection-free shots of the view. You can also bring a tripod up here! No wonder therefore that it’s on my list of favourite''Paris photography locations''.''There’s a fee to go up Tour Montparnasse, but it’s''free for holders of the Paris Pass''.''Paris Itinerary:''Day 2''Our second day in Paris takes in some more iconic sites including some of Paris’s most famous museums and churches. It’s quite a full day, so do feel free to edit the itinerary to suit your particular interests, pace and needs!''6. Saint Chapelle''It took me multiple visits to Paris before I finally made it to''Saint Chapelle''. Now I urge everyone to make it a priority on their trip to Paris!''This is a relatively small chapel that is not too far from Notre Dame, but the interior, which consists of almost floor to ceiling stained glass, is absolutely outstanding. It will definitely take your breath away.''The 13th century Saint Chapelle is quite popular, and the small size and mandatory security checks mean that the line to get in can be long. This is why I have put it on my list as the first thing for your second day in Paris – you want to get here early, ideally get in line ten – fifteen minutes before the opening time. After all, no-one wants to spend their time standing in lines.''There’s a fee to enter Saint Chapelle, which is also free to holders of the Paris Pass.''7. Notre Dame''No more than ten minutes walk from Sainte Chapelle is Paris’s most famous religious building, known for her flying buttresses, twin towers and, of course, hunchback resident.''You will definitely see two out of those three when you visit''Notre Dame'', the major Catholic cathedral in Paris. Construction of this magnificent building took nearly two hundred years, and was completed in 1345.''Entry to Notre Dame is free, although you do have to go through security, and lines are sometimes long. If you wish to go up the tower or into the crypt, there is a fee for those activities (included with the Paris Pass), and you need to book a timeslot in advance.''You can book this time slot on site at the ticket terminals. However, we suggest instead you do it using the “''Jefile''” app, available on''iOS''and''Google Play''. This starts accepting time slot reservations every day from 7.30am, so just set a reminder for yourself and book your timeslot well in advance on your day of visit, so as to avoid disappointment.''8. Musee d’Orsay''If you like museums, Paris has definitely gotten you covered. Our next stop is the''Musee d’Orsay'', but before you get here, you’re going to take a walk along Paris’s iconic left bank, from Notre Dame to the Musee d’Orsay. This isn’t too far, but you’ll see the booksellers and get a feel for this part of town.''Paris’s museums are quite logically set up, with three main art museums covering three distinct time periods.''The Musee d’Orsay, first on our list, covers art dating from the middle of the 19th century up to the early 20th century, and is home to masterpieces from the likes of Duchamp, Kandisky and Picasso, to name but a few. The Louvre (see below), covers the time period before this, whilst the Centre Pompidou covers the time period afterwards, right up to the modern day. The Centre Pompidou isn’t on this itinerary, but you could fit it in if you wanted to of course!''The Musee d’Orsay is absolutely stunning. It’s set in what was once one of Paris’s main train stations,\xa0 and the grand central atrium is gorgeous – almost worth visiting in of itself.''There’s a fee to get in here, but holders of the''Paris Pass get free entry''as well as skip the line priveledges.''9. The Louvre''If you only visit one museum in Paris, I can highly recommend making it''the Louvre''. This is one of the world’s most famous museums, and is home to an incredible collection of art, including Da Vinci’s Mona Lisa, the Venus de Milo and Michelangelo’s Dying Slave, to name but a few.''Obviously, seeing the Mona Lisa is on the wishlist for many visitors, but this museum, which covers art from ancient times up to the middle of the 19th century, has obviously got a great deal more to offer. True art lovers could lose themselves for days in the vast collection here!''Of course, if that’s you, you are welcome to do the same, although for the purposes of this itinerary we’d probably recommend you try and limit your time to two to three hours so you can fit more of Paris in.''We’d also highly recommend that you pick up either a''Paris Pass''or a''Paris Museum Pass'', which will give you''fast-track access to the Louvre''.''You will still have to queue for security, but the fast track line is a lot quicker moving than the general admission line.''10. Wine tasting''When you think of France, a few things likely come to mind, and I suspect that wine is likely one of them. So why not take a break from the sight-seeing and museums, and indulge in a little wine tasting.''Conveniently located just by the Louvre Museum, the''Caves du Louvre''is a wine-tasting experience which will guide you through the French wine making process and introduce you to a number of different French wines. Which you get to drink.''The tour is set in an actual 18th century wine cellar which originally housed the wine collection of the French King. Not a bad setting to learn about French wine we think! The tour is available either self-guided with an app (in which case you get a free bottle of wine to go), or you can opt to do the tour with a guide.''The tour costs €30 including the wine tasting, and is''included for holders of the Paris Pass''.''If you aren’t into wine tasting, there are a number of nearby cafes and restaurants where you can refresh and revive. We can recommend afternoon tea at''Le Meurice'',''the Ritz''or the''Hotel de Crillon''if you like afternoon tea (see our guide to''the best afternoon tea in Paris''if so). For a shorter and less expensive experience, the hot chocolate at''Angelina Cafe''is also superb.''11. Arc de Triomphe''We’re going to finish off the second day of our three day Paris itinerary with a visit to the''Arc de Triomphe'', another of Paris’s iconic landmarks. From the Louvre you can either take public transport here, or you can walk up the Champs Elysees, Paris’s most famous shopping street.''The Arc de Triomphe, built in memory of those who died in the French Revolution and Napoloenic Wars, is wonderfully photogenic.''If you arrive in time, you can go to the top for an excellent view of the city, which includes the roads spanning out into the distance and the Eiffel Tower.''As you journey up into the monument, you will also come to a museum which details some of its history. Below the monument, you will also find the tomb of the unknown soldier.''To get to the Arc de Triomphe, don’t try and cross the traffic roundabout. Head to one of the underpasses, and cross in safety. Going up inside the Arc de Triomphe carries a fee, holders of the Paris Pass get''free access with skip the line privileges''.''Paris Itinerary:''Day 3''On the last day of our 3 day Paris itinerary we’re heading out of the city centre to take in one of Paris’s most famous Royal Palaces. We’re also including some extra sights in the city at the end if you can tear yourself away.''12. Versailles''The really nice things about having 3 days in Paris is that you have the flexibility to go a little further out of the centre. My suggestion for your third day is to visit''Versailles'', the incredible palace that was the seat of French political power and home to French Royalty, including Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette.''To truly appreciate Versailles, I would suggest allocating at least half a day of your third day in Paris, if not more. There is easily enough to see here to fill an entire day, which is why we don’t recommend coming here on our''two day Paris itinerary''.''We suggest starting off by touring the Palace. You’ll want to get here for opening time, as this is a really popular tourist attraction and it get busier as the day goes on. Once you have toured the Palace and seen such highlights as the incredible Hall of Mirrors and the Kings Grand Apartments, you can head outside, where there is a great deal more to see.''A walk in the incredible (and vast!) gardens is a must. We particularity enjoyed heading over to Marie Antoinette’s estate, which is a slightly quieter part of the gardens, and home to a small model farm, tucked away temples, and walking paths.''It’s very easy to spend a whole day exploring Versailles and the grounds, and don’t feel bad if you do, it’s totally worth it.''Visiting Versailles is quite easy, you can get a train (RER C) from central Paris to the Gare de Versailles Chateau Rive Gauche, and from the train station to the Palace it is a well sign-posted ten minute walk. Fast-track entry to the Palace, Gardens and other Versailles attractions is''included on the Paris Pass''– although you will still need to join the security line.''It’s worth pointing out that the''travel card that comes with the Paris Pass''does not''include travel to Versailles.''We saw a number of people trying to use this travel card to get through the ticket barriers with no luck. The Paris Pass travel card only covers zones 1-3 of Paris, which is sufficient for everything else on this itinerary, but''not for Versailles''which is in Zone 4. So you need to buy a ticket separately for your train journey – these are available from ticket machines at all the train stations, and these have and English language option available.''13. Montmartre''If you manage to tear yourself away from Versailles, my suggestion for finishing off your last day in Paris is to head to the Montmartre region. This is home to a large hill, atop which sits the glorious Sacre Coeur de Montmartre, another of Paris’s iconic buildings.''This area of Paris was particularly famous as being home to artists, and folks like Dali, Picasso and Hemingway all either lived or frequented this area. It’s still popular with artists, and the Place du Teatre is the place in Montmartre is the place to go to get your portrait or caricature painted. Fans of Dali will also want to visit''the Dali Exhibition'', home of the largest collection of works by Dali in France.''Montmartre is a maze of cute little streets, cafes and shops. The Basilica is free to visit, if you get here in time, although there is a small fee if you want to climb the tower. Montmartre is also a popular place to watch the sunset across the city, and what better way to finish your 3 days in Paris than by watching the sun set across this magical city from atop Montmartre?''3 Days in Paris Itinerary Map''To help you visualise our 3 day Paris itinerary we’ve put together this helpful map which shows the attractions for each day. You can access this on''Google Maps here''.''Where to Stay in Paris''As you would expect from a major European capital city, Paris has no shortage of options when it comes to accommodation. We’ve stayed in a variety of places, from hotels to homestays to apartments.''Ideally you want to be fairly central if you can, to minimise your travel time. Our suggestion is to take a look at the''listings for Paris on booking.com''. They’re our favourite booking engine when we travel, usually giving us the best choice and the best prices. They also have everything, from apartments and hostels to high end hotels.''For example, here’s an''apartment just near Montmartre'', here’s a''centrally located four star hotel''and here’s a''well reviewed hostel'', just to give you an idea of some of the choices!''Of course, there are lots of other options when it comes to finding accommodation. Check out our''travel resources page''for some of our favourites.''When to Visit Paris''We’re actually happy to visit Paris at pretty much any time of year, and this Paris itinerary would work at any time of year. Summer brings sunshine and warmth, although of course the city is a lot busier at this time of year, so if crowds aren’t your thing, you might want to skip the summer months.''We also love Fall and Spring in the city, when the temperatures are a bit cooler and the crowds less. In the run up to Christmas, the city is beautifully decorated and some of the stores in particular are worth visiting just to see the elaborate decorations they put up. After Christmas the city is a lot quieter, and of course temperatures are at their lowest.''Ultimately, we think Paris is worth visiting whenever you can, so just decide how busy you can handle, and if you’d prefer it to be warm or cold, and go from there!''How to Get to and From Paris''As the capital of France, Paris has multiple options for visitors looking to visit. There are three major airports in Paris. Charles de Gaulle is the main airport for international arrivals, with Paris Orly being the second most popular international airport. Both of these airports are easily reachable by public transport from the city centre.''Paris Beauvais-Tille airport is where you will likely arrive if you are flying with a budget airline. This is some way out of the city centre, but regular shuttles buses are available to take you into the city.''Paris is also connected to the high speed French and European rail network, and there are a number of train stations in central Paris. You can even travel from the UK by train, taking the channel tunnel to do so.''Finally, of course, you can reach Paris by car from France and the rest of Europe. Our advice would be to park your car in a secure long stay car-park on the outskirts of Paris and take public transport to the centre. We recommend against driving in the city centre, as public transport is cheap and fast, and a lot easier than stressing about driving around the crowded city streets, and trying to find a parking space.''How to Get Around Paris''Paris has an excellent public transport network, and in particular the Paris Metro system is really good, getting you around all the major parts of the city at minimum cost. There’s also a good bus network, as well as local trains.''For public transport, you can purchase t+ tickets which allow for one-off travel on the Paris bus, RER trains and metros. These are available at train and metro stations using the ticket machines. These machines accept both credit cards and cash, and can be configured for English language.''Each ticket can be used for a single journey of up to 2 hours on the metro (including transfers) and 90 minutes on buses (including transfers). For more information on these tickets, see the''official page''. We suggest that you purchase them in packs of 10, which is much more cost effective than buying them individually.''Alternatively, if you buy a Paris Pass, this come with a travel card which is valid for the duration of the Pass. So if you buy a''3 Day Paris Pass'', it will come with a''three day travel card''. This will cover you for all your travel in Paris within Zone 1-3, so will get you nearly everywhere you need to go. Notable exceptions include Versailles and the Paris Airports, for which you will need a separate ticket.''Walking Tours of Paris''If you’d like to take a guided tour of Paris, the two companies we usually use are''Take Walks''and''Context Travel''. These both offer small group walking tours in Paris, which are a great way to learn about some of the sights and history of the city. Of course, if you decide to take a walking tour you will have to adjust the itinerary accordingly to suit.''If you were interested in a tour, Take Walks has this''Paris in a Day''tour which includes a Skip the Line Louvre Tour, the Eiffel Tower, Montmartre & a Seine River Cruise – an excellent introduction to the city!''Context travel offer a number of very''focused tours of Paris'', and these offer very specialised insights into particular subjects. We’d suggest maybe taking one of these for a specific area of interest that you really want to learn about, perhaps for''Versailles''. They also offer an''introduction to Paris tour''.''How to Save Money in Paris''Being a major European city, Paris is definitely not a budget destination. There are a few ways to save money of course, even on an itineary as packed with attractions as this one is. Food is one way – rather than eating out for every meal for example, you could stay in an apartment or hostel that lets you cook your own meals.''If that’s not an option, consider having picnic lunches or breakfasts, and eating out in the evenings. Also, keep an eye out for the “menu du jour”, most restaurants offer a fixed lunch or evening menu which includes a number of dishes at a fixed price. You can usually get a meal for between €12 & €18 which includes two or three courses, bread, and sometimes even wine or coffee.''The cheapest way to get around Paris is to walk of course, followed by the excellent public transport system. We usually walk as much as we can, and then take the metro for the longer trips. Taxis can be convenient, but they will eat into your budget very quickly.''One of our favourite ways to save money when we visit a major city where we want to see a lot of sights is to invest in a city sightseeing pass. In Paris there are two main passes, the''Paris Pass'', and the''Paris Museum Pass''.''The Paris Pass actually includes the Paris Museums Pass, which gets you into many of Paris’s major attractions, including the Louvre and Versailles. It also includes invaluable skip the line access to some of the major attractions in Paris.''The Paris Pass also comes with a number of other benefits including a travel card for the duration of the pass, access to the hop on hop off bus, a Seine River cruise, a walking tour, wine tasting and''many more.''One thing to be aware of is that the three day Paris Pass, which we would recommend if you were to do this itinerary, only includes a 2 day Paris Museum Pass, as there is no three day Paris Museum Pass. So you would need to arrange your days to visit the attractions covered by the Paris Museum Pass over two days.''I have in fact already done this for you in this itinerary. The first day includes attractions that are not covered by the Paris Museum Pass, whilst the second and third day include the main attractions covered by the Paris Museum Pass.''As an idea of savings, if you were to visit all the attractions in this itinerary that are covered by the Paris Pass, plus buy a three day travel card, you’d be looking at spending over €220. A three day Paris Pass currently costs €165 – so that is a good saving!''Of course, your individual situation will vary, and you might have different attractions you want to visit. In addition, you should be aware that if you are an EU citizen under the age of 26 that many attractions are free or discounted to visit (you need ID!). Also, on the first Sunday of every month, many museums are free to visit – although very crowded as a result!''We think the Paris Pass is good value for money (''click''here to buy''), but do feel free to check out our detailed review of both''the Paris Pass''and the''Paris Museum Pass'', and come to your own decision as to what works for you!''Staying Safe in Paris''Paris is a safe city in our experience, although it does have a reputation for being home to a number of scams. Most of these are easy to avoid once you know about them (read up on some of the''common scams in Paris here'').''As with any major city, of course you need to keep your wits about you – keep your possessions in view all the time, keep your wallet or phone in a front pocket (with a zip if possible), and don’t do anything that you wouldn’t do at home.''Further Reading for your 3 Days in Paris''We have visited Paris on a number of occasions, and have written a good deal about our experiences in the city. To help you further plan your stay in Paris, here are some of our favourite posts and external resources.''A detailed guide to''2 Days in Paris'', should you be there for a shorter period or are looking for some alternative options''Our guide to the''best photography locations in Paris'', to help you get the best shots on your trip''A guide to''choosing a Seine river cruise'',''buying Paris opera tickets'',''attending a fashion show in Paris''and even tips for''saving money on Michelin starred restaurants in Paris''Our''review of the Paris Pass''and the''Paris Museum Pass''to help you decide if these might save you money during your time in Paris''A guide to''Airbnb Alternatives''to help you find the right accommodation''If you like afternoon tea, check out our definitive guide to the''best afternoon tea locations in Paris''For walking tours in Paris, we can recommend both''Context Tours''and''Take Walks''If you want a book, we always like to recommend the Rick Steves guides – here’s the''Rick Steves Paris''edition''And that’s it for our guide to spending 3 days in Paris! As always if you have any feedback or questions, just let us know in the comments below.''SHARE ON''Heading to New York City? As you might be aware, there are several boroughs in this city, which is home to millions of people! We teamed up with Expedia.com to help you navigate the large metropolis. Start off by checking out the many NYC hotel options on''Expedia.com''to decide where you want to put your feet up at night. Once you’ve figured out where you want to stay in New York, you’re going to need to know how to get around New York to all the sights you’ve come to the city to see.''Well, with our definitive guide, you’re going to learn all the different options you have for getting around New York. This will include all the major New York transport options, as well as tips for using each one. Let’s get started!''How to Get around New York City''As you’ll see from this list you have a lot of options when it comes to getting around New York City. This is to be expected, after all, New York is the most populated city in the United States.''With over twenty million residents in the New York metropolitan area, which is spread across five main boroughs, it’s easy to see why there are so many ways to help them get around!''Here are some of the best ways to get around the city when you visit.''1. Taxi''The iconic yellow taxi is certainly a popular way to get around the city with residents and visitors alike. The yellow taxi is easy to recognise, being bright yellow, and having a yellow light on the roof. These yellow taxis are the only vehicles that are allowed to pick passengers up in response to a street hail across the entire city.''A taxi shows it’s availability by illuminating the yellow light. An illuminated light means the taxi is available for hire. To hail a taxi, you just need to attract the drivers attention, usually by waving from the street corner.''Once the taxi sees you, they will stop somewhere safe to pick you up. Let the driver know your destination address. Taxis are metered, with fares starting at $3, and then increasing as time and distance pass – you can see the fares''here''. Note that tolls will also be added to your taxi fare. New York taxi Fares can be paid in cash, or with a credit or debit card.''It’s definitely worth taking a taxi in New York just for the experience. It’s not a big expense, particularly for shorter rides.''There are of course alternatives to the yellow taxi, including ride-sharing services such as''Uber''and''Lyft''. These need to be booked in advance using their apps, and do generally work out cheaper than a yellow cab.''2. Bus''The New York''Metropolitan Transport Authority''(MTA) operates a fleet of almost 6,000 buses in New York, which cover over 322 routes. Suffice to say, you should be able to find a bus route to meet your needs!''Buses in New York are generally classified as local or express. Express routes have reduced stops and focus on serving commuter routes from some of the busier areas of Manhattan to the outer boroughs.''Buses only stop at marked stops, which are normally located two to three blocks apart. Bus stops are clearly marked with blue signs and sometimes with shelters. The bus stop will indicate which bus routes service the route.''To use the public bus in New York, just stand at the stop, and as your bus approaches, just signal with your hand that you want the bus to stop. Fares are $2.75 for standard buses, and $6.50 for express buses. Fares can be paid in cash or by''MetroCard''. If paying in cash, you need to give exact change, and be aware that only coins are accepted as fare – no bills.''The MetroCard is an easier way to pay, as it covers a number of different transport options in the city, and you can recharge it. If paying by MetroCard, just swipe it when you board the bus. One main advantage of paying by MetroCard is that you can transfer for free to other bus or subway services within two hours of your first fare.''MetroCards can be purchased at MetroCard vending machines, subway station booths, and local stores. They cost $1 to purchase, but can then be refilled.''When you want to get off the bus, locate a “stop” button on the bus, which you should press to indicate to the driver that you want to stop at the next stop. You don’t need to swipe your Metrocard to disembark.''3. Subway''One of the most popular ways to get around New York is the New York Subway. This is a great way to get around the city as you avoid any traffic.''With 472 subway stations, the New York City subway is the largest subway system in the world as measured by total number of stations. It’s also one of the oldest subway systems in the world, as well as one of the busiest. It’s operates twenty four hours a day across 36 lines, and serves four out of five of New York’s boroughs.''Suffice to say, as a visitor to New York City, the subway is likely to be able to get you pretty much anywhere you want to go!''Riding the subway is easy. First, you need to find a nearby subway station, which will be well signposted with an entry sign. This sign will also indicate which routes are served at the subway stations, with routes denoted either by numbers or letters. The majority of subway stations will have a map of the network to help you plan your route.''As with the bus system, you can pay for your fare either with a MetroCard, or you can purchase a single ticket. Metrocard fares are $2.75, whilst single tickets are $3. Fares are not distance dependent and unlike many other subway systems, there is no zone system. So you can go as far as you want on your single ticket.''Tickets and MetroCards can be bought at the vending machines at the stations, or if available, at ticket desks. The machines accept coins, bills and credit/debit cards. We definitely recommend buying a MetroCard for your New York City visit.''To access the subway, you need to scan your ticket or MetroCard at the turnstile, which will activate the barrier with a green “GO” sign. You will exit through similar turnstiles or doors, but the majority of these do not require you to scan a ticket – you just walk through them. Trains stop at every station, you do not need to request the stop.''4. Rail''As well as the subway, there are a number of passenger railway lines operating around New York city. The majority of these are commuter focused lines designed to bring people into the city from the more distant boroughs, and they include the NYC suburban train, Staten Island Railway, New Jersey Transit, Port Authority Trans-Hudson, Long Island Railroad and Metro North Railroad.''Unless you are planning on visiting one of the more distant part of the city, or have booked a hotel a long way from the main sights in New York, it’s unlikely you’re going to need to use one of these rail services.''If you do, you will most likely have to buy a ticket for the individual journey at the train station. There is also an eticketing app called eTix, available for both''Android''and''iPhone''devices, which lets you buy tickets on your phone for the Metro-North Railroad or Long Island Rail Road. Fares will vary depending on the route you take.''5. Ferry''There’s a lot of water in New York, and as a result, there are a variety of options for using boats to get around the city, including the NYC Ferry service and Staten Island Ferry.''The''NYC Ferry''is a relatively recent addition to New York’s public transport system. Launched in 2017, at time of writing this offers four lines, with two additional lines planned to open. There are 21 terminals and 23 boats in operation, connecting Manhattan with Brooklyn and Queens.''We rode this service a number of times when we visited New York in the summer of 2017. We were staying in Brooklyn, and found the ferry to be one of the best options for getting to parts of Manhattan. Services are regular and good value – it costs $2.75 for a single trip, which is the same as the subway or bus system.''NYC Ferry tickets are not a part of the MetroCard system, and must be purchased separately. All the ferry stations have ticket vending machines, which accept cash or credit cards. Tickets can also be bought on board, using the''NYC Ferry app'', or on the''NYC Ferry website''. Just show your ticket when you board.''We really liked the NYC Ferry system – it’s a good value way to get around, and the views of the Manhattan skyline and various bridges on the trip to various Brooklyn ports is really nice – it’s worth paying to ride the ferry just for this alone!''There are a number of other passenger water services in New York City, including the''NY Waterway'', the well known''Staten Island Ferry''and the''New York Water Taxi''.''The Staten Island Ferry, as the name suggests, operates between Manhattan and Staten Island. It’s totally free to use, and is a great way to get a relatively close view of the Statue of Liberty without taking a paid tour.''The NY Waterway and New York Water Taxi services service additional routes, and also need their own tickets, so depending on the routes you are taking you might find them useful as well.''6. Walking''New York is a big place, but don’t discount walking as an option for getting around! Just be aware that distances might be further than you imagine when looking at a map. Still, exploring different parts of the city on foot, which is for the most part fairly flat, is certainly a possibility.''Just be aware that the locals will also be walking around, and they tend to move quickly, and can get irritated by slow moving tourists with limited situational awareness. So just be aware of your surroundings, and don’t just stop in the middle of busy sidewalks to grab a selfie or consult your map!''7. Bicycle / Pedicab''Like many cities around the world, New York has a bike hire program whereby you can get access to a large network of bikes located around the city, which you can drop off and pick off at various points.''The''Citi Bike program''is open to both locals and visitors. At time of writing, it’s $12 for a day pass, and $24 for a 3 day pass. These passes can be bought through the''Citi Bike Mobile App'', or in person at a station kiosk (see kiosks''here''). Annual memberships are also available, which are more suited to residents or those staying longer term in the city, and you can sign up for those on the''official website''.''Passes can be bought with either a debit or credit card – cash is not accepted.''Once you have your 1 or 3 day pass you use the bike for up to 30 minutes at a time. After thirty minutes, there’s an extra fee, so if you want to ride longer, it’s best to drop off the bike and pick up another one. Annual memberships let you ride for 45 minutes without incurring additional fees.''Note that the Citi Bikes program does require you to be 16 years or older to rent and use them.''If the idea of cycling yourself seems like a lot of effort, there are also pedicabs for hire in the city. These are three wheeled cycles with a driver that can either take you from one point to another, or can be booked for tours.''Pedicab operators must have a Pedicab Drivers License, and their pedicabs have to pass an inspection. Fares are time based, and must be clearly displayed on the Pedicab in a relatively large font.''Fares range from $3 – $7 per minute, and the Pedicab will be fitted with a compliant timer that all passengers can see. Drivers are not allowed to levy any other fee – you can see all the applicable laws''here''so you know your rights before taking a Pedicab.''8. Helicopter''Ok, so this is not exactly a budget option. But if you want to quickly get from downtown Manhattan to a wide range of destinations around New York, including the airport, then a quick ride on a helicopter is your best bet. There’s a heliport located in''downtown manhattan'', which is the most popular as it is so close to Wall St. There’s also a heliport at East 34th Street.''The majority of heliport activities are around servicing busy executives, but you can also book sight-seeing helicopter tours, which is a unique way to see the city, and perfect for a special occasion.''9. Aerial Tram''New York definitely has no shortage of transport options. The''Roosevelt Island Tramway''is an aerial tram which links Roosevelt Island with the Upper East Side of Manhattan. It’s been in operation since 1976, and was the first aerial tram of it’s kind in the USA.''It was primarily built as a commuter tram to link Roosevelt Island with Manhattan, but is also popular with visitors looking for a unique view of the skyline. Whilst not operated by the MTA, you do need a MetroCard to ride the tram. Prices are the same as a subway or bus ride, at $2.75 for a single.''In addition, because it is linked to the MetroCard system, you can''transfer from the tram to a bus or subway service''without paying any more.''10. Hop-on Hop-Off Bus''If you’re looking for a way around New York that focuses on the attractions and also provides information, then you’ll likely want to take a Hop-On Hop-Off bus tour of New York. These open-top buses follow routes around the city that stop at all the major attractions you’ll want to visit, and you can get on and off as often as you want for the duration of your ticket.''We find that HOHO buses are a great way to see a lot of a city in a short amount of time without trying to figure out the public transport system, plus they come with commentary which will give you lots of information about the city you are visiting, and the New York HOHO buses are no different.''What is the Best Way to Get Around New York?''We think the best way to get around New York is a combination of the subway, bus system and walking. If you’re situated over in Brooklyn, we would add the NYC Ferry to that list. As you can see from our list, there are lots of options to get you around the city. The best option for you is going to depend on where you are staying, where you need to go, and your needs.''Further Reading''Hopefully this post answered all your questions about public transport in New York City! Before you go, we wanted to share with you some more articles and resources to help you plan your trip to New York.''If you enjoy walking tours, check out our''review of some of the Walks of New York''walking tours''Wondering how much to budget for your trip? We have a guide to''how much it costs to travel in the USA''to help you plan''If you’re heading on from New York and thinking of hiring a car, take a look at our''tips for driving in the USA''For more information about public transport in New York, take a look at the''NYC MTA website'', which has a lot of helpful information covering the major transport networks in the city''If you’re looking for a guide to New York, we can recommend the''Frommer’s EasyGuide to New York City''.''And that’s it for our guide to public transport in New York! As always, if you’ve got feedback or questions, let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''So you’ve got yourself a drone, or maybe you’re thinking of buying one. Cool! It’s about to open up a whole new world of photography and video options that you just didn’t have before. It’s also about to open up a world of drone accessories that you didn’t know existed, but many of which are absolutely essential to getting the most from your new flying camera.''We currently have and travel with a''DJI Mavic Pro'', and after purchasing it, we spent a lot of time figuring out which accessories were essential for our needs. We think this list covers all the drone accessories you should consider investing in, and we’ll explain why for each one.''Whilst this was written from the perspective of owning a DJI Mavic Pro, and the links are to Mavic Pro accessories, if you have a different model like a''Mavic Air'', or a drone from another manufacturer, you should still find it relevant as the accessories for the most part are available for most drone models on the market.''Let’s get started.''Must-Have Drone Accessories''1. Spare Battery''Absolutely the first thing you need to buy when you buy your drone is a spare battery. Drone flight times are measured in minutes, and even the best consumer drones available on the market can only manage half an hour of flight.''Whilst that is enough to get some video and photos, if you want to shoot for longer, perhaps over a day, then you’re definitely going to need to pack a spare battery or two. For the Mavic Pro, that’s the''Mavic Pro Intelligent Flight Battery''.''We’d suggest you pick up at least one spare battery for your drone, and two if you think you’ll be flying a lot each day.''2. Carrying Case''The Mavic Pro and Mavic Air are relatively small, but they don’t by default come with any kind of protective carrying environment. So whilst they are pretty tough, you’re unlikely going to want to just shove them in your bag for hiking or travel.''My suggestion would be to invest in a purpose built carry case for your drone. For under $15 you can get a''nice hardshell case''that will protect both your drone and your remote controller, without adding significantly to your baggage weight.''If you want something more serious, Pelican, who are experts in rugged cases for delicate equipment, make a tough, waterproof case in both a''large''and''smaller''version, which will definitely keep your drone safe, particularly if you have to check it for any reason.''3. High Capacity Memory Card''Most drones come with some form of memory card, although usually the capacity is only around 8GB – 16GB. Given how much space 4K video files take up, it’s likely you’re going to want to invest in a larger memory card so you don’t run out of space mid shoot.''Consumer drones like the Mavic Pro primarily use MicroSD cards, which come in a dizzying array of formats and sizes. The most important thing is to get a card that is high capacity (at least 32GB but ideally 64GB), and conforms to UHS-1 (ultra high speed) standards or higher, also known as class 10.''You can identify these cards as they will have a “U” with the number 1 or higher written within the “U”, or with “Class 10” written on them.''The Mavic Pro writes to the memory card at a maximum speed of 7.5MB/s when shooting 4K video, and the UHS-1 specification has a minimum write speed of 10MB/s. For the Mavic Pro, the recommended minimum card specification from the DJI manual is UHS-1 or Class 10, and a maximum of 64GB capacity. If you have a different drone, check your manual for specifications.''Many drone pilots find the higher speed UHS-3 cards offer better performance, and for the small price difference, these are the cards we would recommend you purchase.''There are lots of brands of memory card on the market, with Sandisk often recommended. We suggest this model, the''Sandisk Extreme 64GB microSDXC UHS-3 card''. There’s also a''pro version''at a slightly higher price point.''4. Neutral Density Filters''If you are planning on doing video with your drone, then you absolutely need a set of neutral density filters. I explain''what Neutral Density filters are from a photography perspective here'', but in summary, a neutral density filter cuts the amount of light coming in to the camera.''Why is this important for video? Well, in an ideal world, for truly cinematic video, the rule of thumb is that you shoot your video at around twice the shutter speed as your framerate. So if you are shooting your 4K video at twenty five frames per second (25fps), then you would want your shutter speed to be fixed at 1/50th of a second.''Given that most drones have a fixed aperture which is usually set wide open, achieving shutter speeds this slow in the day-time is practically impossible unless you restrict the light coming into the camera. The solution? Neutral density filters.''These filters reduce the light coming into the camera, and let you set shutter slower speeds for your videos. The strength of the filters will vary depending on the time of day and lighting conditions, so you should think about buying a set. I’d suggest the set should contain at least an ND16, ND32, and ND64 filter.''DJI sell an''official Neutral density filter set''which is guaranteed to work, however there are also''lots of other options''on the market. I have had good results with''these filters''for example. The main thing is to check the reviews and be sure that they are designed to pass the gimbal test so you can put them on the camera before powering the drone up.''5. Spare Propellers''When you buy a drone, even the basic model, it will come with spare propellers. This is basically a huge clue that propellers are the parts of your drone most likely to get damaged.''My experience is that this is definitely the case. I’ve had friends crash drones into walls, I’ve crashed into a tree, and other friends have had their dog think the drone is an awesome giant flying chew toy. Drones are fairly good at surviving these incidents, but the propellers, which are basically bits of plastic flying around at high speed, tend to take most of the damage.''Since flying a drone with chipped or damaged propellers is a really bad idea (it can cause vibrations in the drone motors and body, leading to much more serious problems), having a''spare set of props''is never a bad idea.''They are also really good value, usually no more than $10 for a set of two. My advice would be to buy the official propellers for your drone – there are lots of third party options out there, but to be honest, the cost saving is pretty low for the thing that keeps your drone stable and in flight!''If you have a Mavic Pro, you can also''upgrade your propellors to the platinum version'', which will give you a little extra flight time, plus they are slightly quieter.''6. Propeller Guard''If you are learning to fly your drone, or if you plan on flying indoor regularly, then you might want to invest in a''propeller guard''. This basically a protective cage that go around the propellers, and can help protect them from damage if you happen to bump into things.''You should be aware that adding the guards to your drone will slightly impact flight performance – it’s more weight after all. This can be further exacerbated in windier conditions. So that is something to keep in mind – if you don’t need them, leave them off to squeeze a bit more battery life out of them.''7. Car Charger''Even when you’ve bought some extra batteries, you might find that you want to top up your batteries as the day goes on so you can keep shooting. DJI sells an''official car charger'', but my advice is to invest in a car power inverter instead.''These will convert your car DC power supply to AC (the same that comes out of you wall at home), and means you can just plug your normal DJI charger into it. Plus, you can use it to charge other devices, like laptops or phones, and the included USB charger ports are handy as well.''I use''this model from Bestek'', which gives me a number of USB and standard AC outlets, and just plug my drone adaptor into it directly. It’s also about half the price of the official charger.''8. Landing Gear''We’re moving a bit more into nice to have drone accessories, but personally I find it’s the little things that add up to making flying the drone more pleasurable. Landing gear is basically what it sounds like – little extensions that fit under the drone to increase it’s ground clearance.''The newer, smaller drones in particular sit very close to the ground when they land, which means that dirt, grass or snow can easily get onto the body or camera. Landing gear raises the drone off the ground a bit, and can help mitigate this problem.''Again, as with prop guards, they can affect flight performance marginally. In my case, I bought''an accessory pack''which came with a case, landing gear and a joystick guard, as well as a lens hood. I haven’t used the latter yet, but I have it, just in case!''9. Joystick Guard''Even with a case, the joysticks on your remote controller are susceptible to damage, especially when in transit. To help prevent damage, you can either remove them every time, or spend a few bucks on a''joystick guard'', which performs the dual function of protecting the screen and stopping the sticks from moving.''As I mentioned before, my joystick guard''came as a set with my landing gear and case'', which is usually a good way to get a few drone accessories at a better price.''10. Propeller Strap''Another one for keeping your drone safe when travelling, and also a low cost investment.''Propeller straps''keep your drones props secure when you travel, so they can’t move around and damage themselves.''Again, these can be''purchased individually'', or you can pick them up as part of an''accessory bundle''. Usually buying bundles of drone accessories is the cheapest way to go, so just figure out which accessories you want, and find a bundle that is as close to that as you can.''11. Drone Insurance''Last on my list of useful drone accessories is insurance for your drone. This is going to be especially useful if you are new to flying your drone, as it will give you some peace of mind as you go through the learning process, which is likely to have the odd hiccup along the way.''If you have a DJI drone, I can highly recommend the''DJI Care Refresh''program. This is valid for a year from date of purchase, and covers your drone for pretty much every eventuality. For a small fee, DJI will either repair or entirely replace your drone for up to two units a year. The only requirement is that you recover the drone to return it to them – so if you lose the drone in water for example, and can’t recover it, you’re out of luck.''There are other options for drone insurance, including adding it to your home insurance, or searching for dedicated insurance plans for drones. These will vary depending on the country you are in.''Where to Buy Drone Accessories?''There are a number of retail outlets from where you can purchase drone accessories. In the post above I’ve linked to''Amazon'', which has a wide range of drone accessories. It’s also worth''checking eBay''.''If you have a DJI drone, you can also purchase some drone accessories''directly from the DJI store''.''Further Reading''Hopefully this post covers all the essential drone accessories you will need to improve your drone flying experience. Before I leave you, here are some further resources you might find useful:''My guide to''Neutral Density filters in photography'', to help you get more of an understanding what they are''All our''photography tips''and''photography gear reviews''Guidance from the''UK CAA on drone usage'', and the''same from the US FAA''. Always check local regulations for every country you plan to fly in before you go!''If you have a DJI drone, the''official forum''is a useful place to find tips and advice''And that’s it! We hope you have fun flying your drone. Don’t forget we’re here to help if you have any questions or feedback. Got a drone accessory you love but don’t see in the list? Just shout in the comments below!''SHARE ON''One of our favourite road trips in the UK is the North Coast 500 – a driving route that loops around the far north of Scotland, taking in fantastic scenery, gorgeous castles, and loads of attractions. It’s rapidly becoming billed as one of the best road trips in the world, and for good reason!''We’ve driven the route both ways a number of times, and have already shared some of our experiences doing so to help you plan your own North Coast 500 trip. We’ve put together a''detailed North Coast 500 planning guide''as well as a''photography guide''and guide to''some of the best accommodation options along the route''.''One really popular option for driving the North Coast 500 is to camp – either by taking a tent, or driving a campervan / RV. In this post, we’re going to share a suggested seven day north coast 500 itinerary for those of you looking to camp around the North Coast 500.''We’ll be including tips on campsites to stay at, places to get supplies and fuel as well as dedicated sections covering everything you need to know to have a fun time camping around the North Coast 500.''We think seven days is a good amount of time to see a lot of the route without rushing too much, although you could adjust this by a couple of days either way depending on your time constraints. More time is always better, as you’d be able to fit in more fun activities such as hiking, clay pigeon shooting, kayaking, whale watching tours, and fly fishing.''We’d highly recommend taking at least five days to drive the route – 500 miles might not seem like a lot, but the route is meant to be enjoyed, and many of the roads are single track and therefore can be slow going – especially if you are driving a larger vehicle like a motorhome!''This North Coast 500 camping itinerary will work if you are driving the route in a motorhome or packing a tent in your car. You could also do it towing a caravan. although some of the sections of single track road will need to be skipped as they aren’t suitable for caravans. Let’s get started!''Contents:''7 Day North Coast 500 Camping Itinerary''Day 1 – Inverness to the Black Isle''Day 2 – Black Isle to Wick''Day 3\xa0 – Wick to Dunnet Bay''Day 4 – Dunnet Bay to Durness''Day 5 – Durness to Achmelvich Bay''Day 6 – Achmelvich – Gairloch''Day 7 – Gairloch to Lochcarron''North Coast 500 Camping Route Map''Where Can I Rent a Campervan, RV, or Motorhome for the NC500?''Can you Wild Camp on the North Coast 500?''Do you Recommend Tent Camping or Doing the North Coast 500 by Campervan /Motorhome / RV?''What services are offered at North Coast 500 Campsites?''Do you Recommend Booking Campsites along the NC500 in Advance?''Having Trouble Finding an Available Campsite or RV site?''Tips for Responsible Travel when Camping on the North Coast 500''The Best Time to Camp on the North Coast 500''What to Pack for a Camping Trip on the North Coast 500''Further Reading for your North Coast 500 Adventure''7 Day North Coast 500 Camping Itinerary''This 7 Day NC500 itinerary has you going in a counter-clockwise direction, starting and ending in Inverness. You can reverse it of course if you prefer though, and start anywhere you like, although Inverness is the most logical place to start and end as it has an airport and train station, as well as camping supplies and motorhome rentals.''Day 1 – Inverness to the Black Isle''The first day of our itinerary has you exploring the city of Inverness and the nearby Black Isle. Definitely take advantage of the large supermarkets here to pick up last minute supplies for the route.''In Inverness there is plenty to see. The Inverness Museum is a good place to start your trip to learn about the history of the region, plus the tourism office nearby has a lot of information about attractions along the route that you might find useful.''We can recommend a trip to the naerby top of''Inverness Castle''for a wonderful view over the city, stopping in at the Victorian Market for trinkets, and a visit to Leakey’s Bookshop if you love books.''From Inverness, you’re going to head to the Black Isle, which, despite the name, is neither black nor an island. Instead, it’s a peninsular bordered by two firths, originally named for the dark forests which covered it. Today, it’s a popular spot for visitors, with a number of attractions to visit.''We’d highly recommend visiting the''Black Isle Brewery''where you can take a brewery tour and sample some of this delicious locally made beer – plus buy some for the rest of your road trip! Next, head up to the town of Fortrose, to explore ruined Fortrose cathedral.''Just along from Fortrose is Rosemarkle, where you can learn about Pictish standing stones at the''Groam House museum'', plus take a short walk to the gorgeous Fairy Glen Falls – one of my''photography highlights along the North Coast 500''.''There’s plenty more to do on the Black Isle, depending on how you are doing for time, including visiting the town of Cromarty, taking dolphin watching tours, and more.''Finally, we suggest you overnight at the Fortrose Bay Campsite. There’s a lovely beach here, plus from the nearby Chanonry Point you might see dolphins chasing salmon!''Facilities en-route:''Inverness has a wide range of large shops and service stations so you can stock up before you set off. We can also recommend''Robertsons the Larder''for picnic supplies.''Suggested accommodation:''Black Isle –''Fortrose Bay Campsite''. Nearby alternatives are''Dingwall Camping and Caravanning site''and''Bunchrew Caravan Park''.''Day 2 – Black Isle to Wick''On Day 2 it’s time to start heading north in earnest, with the route taking you up the relatively easy to drive A9 road.''There’s plenty to see along the way to keep you busy though. If you’re into golfing, you’ll be passing the Royal Dornoch Championship Course, which is world renowned. Even if you’re not into golf, a stop off in Dornoch is well worth it, the local castle hotel in the centre of town is worth seeing and the castle bar has lots of whisky!''Slightly north of Dornoch near the town of Golspie is''Dunrobin Castle'', a must-see stop on the North Coast 500. This is castle that seems to be straight out of a fairy tale, and a visit to both the castle and grounds should be high on your to-do list for the day.''Heading on from Dunrobin, our next suggested stop is the town of Helmsdale. This has a cute fishing harbour, and the''Timespan museum''is a worthy stop to learn all about the history of this area. They also have a really good simple cafe, making this a good lunch stop option.''From Helmsdale, continue the journey up the A9 along the beautiful coastline, to your next stop – the Whaligoe steps. If you’re also interested in old structures, there are a number of three – five thousand year old structures known as brochs along this section of the roa''d.''Badbea is also home to a highland clearance village site.''At Whaligoe you’ll find the''Whaligoe Steps'', a steep staircase which was built to provide access to the natural harbour formed here between two steep cliff walls. It’s quite a walk down the 365 steps – try to imagine doing it with baskets full of fish, which is what the local women would have been doing in the 18th century!''If you’re tired out after going up and down the steps, you’ll be able to find refreshments at the top in the highly recommended''Whaligoe Steps Cafe''.''If you’re looking for something a bit more active, we can highly recommend''Caithness Clays'', who will take you clay pigeon shooting. This is a small, family run business and we can pretty much guarantee you will have a fun experience with them. Just be sure to book in advance.''Finally, you’ll end your second day in Wick. Depending on your arrival time, you might want to visit the Pulteney Distillery Co, to learn a bit about the whisky making process or the''Wick Heritage Centre''. If you have time, you might also want to head out to the ruins of''Old Wick Castle''or''Castle Sinclair Girnigoe'', which has s spectacular location perched on the sea cliffs, and makes for a nice spot to watch the sunset.''Facilities en-route:''Wick is your best bet for supplies with lots of cafes, restaurants, & shops, including major grocery store chains Tesco, Lidl, and the Co-Op. Dump point available at the Wick Caravan and Campsite site.''Suggested accommodations:''Wick –''Wick Caravan and Camping Site''. For something a little different, head inland a little to''Bower Wigwams''.''Day 3\xa0 – Wick to Dunnet Bay''For the third day of our North Coast 500 itinerary we’re going to visit the most northerly point in mainland Britain, see some stunning coastal scenery and try some Scottish gin!''From Wick, follow the A99 north. This would also be a good day to try out Caithness Clays if you weren’t able to schedule it in for the previous day.''If you’re interested in learning about more ancient history in this area, the''Caithness Broch Centre''is a great stop\xa0where you can learn all about these thousands of year old structures that are found throughout this area, and who built them. They can help direct you some of the ones that are most accessible in the area.''You’re now going to head up to John O’Groats, famed as being the most northerly town in mainland Britain. Here there are a couple of nice cafes, and on a clear day, a great view across to the Orkney Islands.''You can also take a five minute drive east from here up to Duncansby Head Lighthouse, from where you might spot whales. From the car park here it’s an easy ten minute walk across the fields to see the Duncansby Head sea stacks – impressive piles of rock jutting out of the sea which are popular with a wide variety of seabirds.''There are a number of nice cafes at John o’Groats for lunch and refreshments, we particularly recommend''the Storehouse'', where you can watch people taking pictures of themselves at the famous John O’Groats sign (and wait for a gap in the flow of people to get your own obligatory snapshot!). You can also take''wildlife cruises''from here.''Fans of TV show The Crown will definitely want to stop at our next recommendation – the''Castle of Mey''. This was the Castle that the Queen Mother bought, and she often spent time visiting the castle, which she helped to restore to it’s former glory from it’s fairly ruinous state. Today you can take a tour of the castle, the gardens, The Animal Centre (farm animals), and also have afternoon tea in the on-site tearoom.''From the Castle of Mey, head along to Dunnet, where you can visit the''Dunnet Bay Distillery'', home to some mighty fine gin and vodka. Here you can learn all about how gin is made, plus try some of their distinctive flavors.''Then, head out to''Dunnet Head'', the most northerly point in mainland Britain, where you can admire the 19th century lighthouse, gaze across to the Orkney Islands, and spot seabirds.''Facilities en-route:''R''ecommend picking up any needed supplies before leaving Wick.''There are cafes and small store with essentials at John O’Groats. There is also a small store in Castletown.''Suggested accommodation:''Dunnet Bay –''Dunnet Bay Caravan and Motorhome Site''. Nearby alternative,''Morven View campsite''Day 4 – Dunnet Bay to Durness''The road from Dunnet Bay to Durne''ss across the northern coastline of Scotland is where you’re going to start encountering a primarily single track road.''If you’re not familiar with driving on these – take a look at our guide to''driving on single track roads for tips''.''From Dunnet Bay, you’ll first pass through the town of Thurso. This is one of the last larger towns you’re going to encounter for a couple of days, so is a good place to get any needed fuel and supplies. However we recommend also patronizing smaller convenience stores and shops as you travel the North Coast 500 as it is a wonderful experience and a nice way to support the local economy.''Thurso is well worth a stop for more than supplies though, and the town center is a good place to explore on foot. A stop at the excellent''Caithness Horizons''centre will teach you all about the history and present-day of the area and its people, as well as lots of information on the nearby Nuclear Reactor and its impact on the local economy. Well worth the ticket price.''Next, continue to follow the A386 along the north coast, taking in the views. You’ll go past Scrabster, which is where the ferry to Orkney departs from.''A good spot to stop is Strathy Point, where a short ten minute walk will reward you will lovely views of a lighthouse and the coast in both directions.''A little further along you’ll find Strathnaver, home to a''museum''that will fill you in on the history of this area, with a particular focus on the clans and the Highland Clearances. Farr Beach is found here as well, which is a stunning beach, well worth taking a wander along, and popular with surfers.''The road continues to wind along the coast, and becomes single-track more often than not, so do exercise caution, especially if you are driving a motorhome or towing a caravan.''Our next stop is the town of Tongue, which has a small Spar (convenience store) with a petrol station attached. You can also have lunch here – there’s a small cafe just before you get into Tongue itself (the''Weavers Cafe''), or food is available at the Ben Loyal Pub or the Tongue Hotel.''If you are looking for a hike, there is a path starting near the Ben Loyal Pub that leads uphill to a ruined castle above town. It is about a 1 hour leisurely round-trip hike up to the ruins of Castle Varrich, which is perched high on a rocky promontory and offers spectacular views.''Finally, continue your drive for another hour or so until you reach the town of Durness, where we suggest you spend the night. This is famous for the impressive''Smoo Cave'',\xa0a cavern you can walk inside which has a waterfall to admire. If you want to further explore the inside of the cave, you can''take a guided tour''. The area also has a number of beautiful beaches.''Facilities en route:''Major fuel and supermarket brands in Thurso. Smaller grocery stores and cafe’s in Bettyhill, Tongue and Durness. Full motorhome services at Sango Sands Oasis Caravan Park, as well as cafe’s and pubs.''Suggested accommodation:''Durness –''Sango Sands Oasis Caravan Park''. There is also a''Caravan Club campsite location''near the''shores of Loch Eriboll for Caravan Club members,''or a''campervan stopover at Kinlochbervie'', although the latter is an additional bit of driving.''Day 5 – Durness to Achmelvich Bay''You’re now going to be heading south down the west coast of Scotland, which is home to some of the most dramatic scenery you’ll find anywhere in Scotland. Think sparkling Lochs, white sandy beaches, incredible mountains, and curvy roads.''Before leaving Durness, you might want to head to the Balnakeil Craft Village, a short way west of Durness, where you will find an''excellent cafe''serving mind blowing hot chocolate. There are also a number of local art and craft shops here, making this a great stop if you are looking for souvenirs from your trip.''Next, start heading south on the A838. Despite it’s “A” designation, this is largely a single-track road, and is not a section of road to rush. This is also one of the more remote parts of the North Coast 500, so services and stores are a little harder to come by, and there aren’t really doesn’t have any large towns until you reach Ullapool.''Still, this is kind of the point of coming to a remote part of Scotland! From Durness, the road winds down through some magnificent scenery, with lots of waterfalls and lochs to take pictures of as you go. After you cross the Kylesku bridge, keep an eye out for''the Rock Stop'', a visitor centre for the''North West Highlands geopark'', where you can learn all about the incredible geology of this area. They also have a cafe. You can also take''boat tours from Kylesku''.''After the Rock Stop you have a decision to make, which will largely depend on your vehicle. We can highly recommend turning off the A894 and taking the B869 towards Drumbeg just after Kylesku, although this road is not recommended if you are driving a larger vehicle or towing a caravan.''From the official NC500 website:''“''We would also recommend avoiding the B869 from Lochinver to Kylesku as this can be a tricky route to follow for large vehicles. If you take the A837 back from Lochinver on the the main road you will be fine. As always, please take due caution on the roads and use passing places where possible.”''If you do take the B869, you will want to stop at the general store in Drumbeg, which has won awards, and is a good place to pick up a bite to eat. On this road highlights include the waterfall at Clashnessie (a nice short 20 minute hike), and if you want to take a longer hike (3 miles each way), the walk out to the Old Man of Stoer is beautifully rugged.''Alternatively, if you have a larger vehicle, you can continue down the A894 and then turn onto the A837, following the shore of Loch Assynt until you reach Lochinver. From Lochinver, you can take the B869 road to Achmelvich, which is more manageable and only a short section.''If you like fishing, then you are now in the perfect location. Local fishing expert Stewart has been fishing in the Assynt area for over four decades, and he now leads fly fishing tours in the area. These are\xa0great for experienced fishers to beginners, and fun for families. Definitely book in advance – full information on his website,''Assynt Fly Fishing''.''I’m going to suggest you spend the night on the peninsula, there are two nice campsites by the beach at Achmelvich Bay and Clachtoll Beach, both of which offer stunning white sand and turquoise waters. There are also walking trails throughout the area. As mentioned above, the road around the south of the peninsula from Lochinver is easier to drive, so if you are pulling a caravan you will definitely want to come in that way.''Facilities en route:''This stretch of the route is more limited, with Lochinver (a little south of the official route) being your best option for fuel and supplies. Lochinver has a few really good restaurants, a couple of small shops, and a well-known pie shop.''Suggested accommodation:''Achmelvich Bay''Shore Caravan Site''or''Clachtoll Beach Campsite''Day 6 – Achmelvich – Gairloch''From Achmelvich, return to rejoin the A837, making a stop at Lochinver if necessary for supplies and fuel if you haven’t already stopped.''From Lochinver, head back inland along the A837. You’ll pass the glorious ruins of Ardvreck Castle, which are worth a photo stop and short walk, and then continue south.''You’ll shortly come to''Knockan Crag'', a national nature reserve which offers wonderful views, as well as a journey back through time where you can learn a bit more about the geology of the area. The signed walking route here takes about 30 minutes to an hour\xa0to complete, depending how far you go.''Depending on your interests, you might want to head back out to the coast towards Achiltibuie. There’s an awesome outdoors company based in Achilitibuie,''Hamlet Mountaineering'', who offer a wide variety of outdoor activities which include guided hiking and climbing, canoeing, and sea kayaking.''If you’re the outdoors type and want to get active, we can highly recommend them. They offer half day to multi-day tours. Be sure to book in advance.''Otherwise, head on, and you’ll arrive in Ullapool. A great town to stock up on supplies and stop for food (has several cafes and restaurants), and it also has a pretty harbor, lots of gift shops, and a good local history museum.''After Ullapool, stop off at''Corrieshalloch Gorge''to marvel at the steep canyon and test your nerves on the canyon bridge, then head back out to the coast on the A832. The scenery is definitely the star of the show today – you’ll probably be making lots of unscheduled stops for photo opportunities.''Our recommendation would be to overnight at Gairloch as this will give you plenty of time to see the highlights along the way, although you could push through as far as Applecross if you were feeling so inclined. There’s also a tent only campsite at Torridon, which is about halfway between Gairloch and Applecross.''Facilities en route:''Lochinver has a small store and petrol station, Ullapool has a larger Tesco and another fuel stop.''Suggested accommodation:''Gairloch –''Sands Caravan and Camping Park''or''Gairloch Caravan Park''. Other options include''Torridon Camp Site''(tents only) and''Applecross Campsite''.''Day 7 – Gairloch to Lochcarron''From Gairloch, the plan for the day is to head to Lochcarron, passing through Torridon and around the beatiful Applecross peninsula. Depending on your time, you could also head back to Inverness rather than overnight at Lochcarron, if you were thinking of a 6 night / 7 day itinerary.''If you’re not pulling a caravan or driving a huge motorhome, then a drive from Applecross down the incredible alpine-like Bealach na Ba road is a must. This is one of Britain’s highest roads, and offers gorgeous views across to the Isle of Skye. The drive around the Applecross peninsula is also stunning, but don’t expect to drive it quickly – it’s a windy, slow, single-track road.''Just take your time and soak in the fantastic scenery, stopping off to take as many photos as you can. If you’re after Highland Coo photos and somehow haven’t spotted any by now, a stop at the''Torridon Hotel''is a good idea as they have a herd on site (plus a great cafe / pub).''Facilities en route:''This is still quite a remote part of the world. You’ll find some services at Kinlochewe, Applecross and Lochcarron. We can also recommend stopping off at the Torridon where there’s an excellent cafe.''Suggested accommodation:''Lochcarron –''The Wee Campsite''. Near Inverness –''Riverside Chalets and Caravan Park''Finally, you return to Inverness from Locharron to finish off your fantastic North Coast 500 adventure! You could also extend your trip by a few days and take in the Isle of Skye at this point if you wanted to of course – it’s your adventure after all!''Speaking of which, don’t forget that just because you’re camping doesn’t mean you can’t have a bit of luxury on your way around. You could mix up the above route by taking a break from camping, and maybe staying a nice property on the way around.''Based on the route, we can recommend''Forss House Hotel''around night 3,''Eddrachilles Hotel''around night 5 or''the Torridon'', around night 6. For more ideas, check out our detailed guide to the''best hotels around the North Coast 500.''North Coast 500 Camping Route Map''To help you visualise the above, we’ve put together a map of our 7 day North Coast 500 itinerary, which you can see as an image below, and on''Google Maps here''.''Now we’re going to go through some questions you may have about camping around the North Coast 500 and try to provide as much information as we can to help you plan your trip.''Where Can I Rent a Campervan, RV, or Motorhome for the NC500?''There are lots of options for campervan rental, with our suggestion being to rent in Inverness. This is the easiest city on the route to get to from other parts of the UK , being well served by both flights and trains. In Inverness, you can rent a\xa0campervan from companies including''Highland Campervans'',''Loch Ness Motorhomes'', and''Rover Rentals''. South of Inverness is''Cairngorm Campers''.''There are of course lots of other options for campervan rental in major Scottish cities like Glasgow and Edinburgh. Both these cities are around a three hour drive south of Inverness.''We highly recommend picking the smallest size vehicle you can find, as many sections of the North Coast 500 are narrow and winding, and this might end up being quite nerve-wracking or even impossible to drive. If that sounds too scary, consider using a hire car and a tent – there are a number of outdoor suppliers in Inverness from whom you’ll be able to get fully kitted out for your North Coast 500 camping adventure!''Can you Wild Camp on the North Coast 500?''In this post you probably noticed that we have listed a fully serviced campsite for every night of the trip. These come with power hook ups and, more importantly, proper disposal points for chemical toilets and “grey water”, as well as things like showers, flushing toilets, and picnic areas. Many are situation in scenic locations such as within a short walk of the ocean or a loch.''In Scotland, wild camping is certainly legal, but the definition of wild camping is away from a road, and not in a motorized vehicle. Here is a link to the''Scottish Outdoor Access Code'', plus guidance from''Visit Scotland on wild camping''.''That said, there are places around Scotland and the North Coast 500 where you can park up your motorhome and spend the night far away from anyone. We would just suggest you take a look at our responsible tips for travel on the North Coast 500 below, be considerate, and not to park overnight where it is clearly stated that you are not allowed to.''Parts of Scotland, such as the''Loch Lomond & Trossachs National Park'', have already had to start clamping down on people wanting to camp because of the inconsiderate actions of a few, as well as overcrowding, so you don’t want to be contributing to a future action like that.''We’d also urge you to consider supporting the local economy on your trip. Staying at local campsites means you’ll be helping to do just that, plus you won’t have to be worrying about finding somewhere to park, which can become a real challenge in the busier months (July and August especially).''Do you Recommend Tent Camping or Doing the North Coast 500 by Campervan /Motorhome / RV?''There are pros and cons to each approach, so what you choose will really depend on you, your travel style, your budget, and your driving ability.''Packing a tent into your vehicle, be that a car, motorbike or bicycle, will mean your overall footprint on the road is smaller. This will make it easier to navigate side roads and single track roads, as well as open up more wild camping options. Tent sites also tend to be cheaper as you won’t normally need as much space, electrical hookups or chemical toilet disposal facilities.''Campervans on the other hand provide lodging on wheels, meaning you don’t have to worry about putting a tent up or taking it down, which is not much fun if the weather is against you. The larger ones come equipped with everything including the kitchen sink, meaning you can shower and use the loo. Even smaller vehicles usually have sleeping arrangements for two and a small kitchen area.''In a camper van you do have to think about where you’ll be able to empty your chemical toilets, and they are both more expensive to hire, and more expensive to drive than a normal car. They also cost more per night on campsites.''Another option is do to neither of course. Many of the campsites we list have a variety of accommodation options from static campervans to wigwams, so if you plan and book well in advance, you can “camp” around the North Coast 500 without having to take any camping equipment at all!''No matter which you choose, we recommend driving or renting the smallest sized vehicle needed for your group in order to be able to better handle the roads and parking areas along the route.''What services are offered at North Coast 500 Campsites?''The services vary from site to site, but the majority of the sites that we recommend on this list offer electrical hook-ups, pitches for tents and campervan / motorhomes, flushing toilets and shower block. Some also have laundry facilities, picnic areas, public phone, WiFi, some offer playgrounds, vending machines, and other facilities.''As well as these services, many of the sites we list and that you will find around the North Coast 500\xa0offer static campervans, travel trailers, glamping tents, cabins, and wigwams for rent – great for those just wanting to “camp” but not have to worry about bring or setting up a tent!''Do you Recommend Booking Campsites along the NC500 in Advance?''The North Coast 500 is becoming more popular every year, and we highly recommend booking well in advance for the busier months, which tend to be from May through to September. The peak season for camping is July and August (this coincides with school holidays in the UK and Europe), so you definitely need to plan and book well in advance for those months.''Areas that get particularly booked out tend to be the more remote areas where there are fewer options. For example, the northwest corner around Durness, and the southwest area around Applecross.''If you choose to travel in the winter months, you will likely not need to book in advance, but you should definitely research which options will be open, as many accommodation options and campsites close during this time.''Having Trouble Finding an Available Campsite or RV site?''Here are our tips to help you avoid having trouble finding an available campsite, and what to do if you’re struggling to find somewhere to stay on the route.''Try to book in advance if you can (especially in June to August) to prevent this issue as you don’t want to have to drive an hour out of your way''If you are in a tent, definitely consider wild camping''Don’t discount hotels & B&Bs, even if the campsites are full you might be able to get a room''Some stores, restaurants, and service stations have started offering inexpensive RV parking (and limited services) along the route as the route has gotten more busy, for example in Keiss we saw a sign advertising free overnight camping stops''Stop in at a tourist information center or local service station for local recommendations''Tips for Responsible Travel when Camping on the North Coast 500''The North Coast 500 runs through one of the most beautiful parts of Scotland, and it will hopefully remain that way for many years to come. However, this is also a environmentally fragile area with more limited infrastructure than many other parts of the country.''Of course, the popularity of the route has brought more people to the area, which puts a bit of a strain on the local infrastructure, especially during the Spring and Summer months. There have also been reports of folks traveling a little irresponsibly.''To help out, we wanted to share some tips for responsible travel on the North Coast 500, to help you minimise your impact and contribute to a positive experience for everyone.''Chemical Toilets:''Dispose of your chemical toilets (and other waste) at proper dump points only. Don’t dump them out anywhere else, they contain highly toxic chemicals and will cause serious damage to the environment if not disposed of properly.''Single Track Roads:''Driving on single-track roads might be a new experience for you, and it can be a little daunting. Read up on our''guide to driving on single track roads''to master the proper etiquette, and don’t forget to use passing place to allow faster traffic to pass you.''Overnight Camping:''W''e definitely recommend you use official campsites. If you choose to wild camp, make sure you do so in a zero impact way, leaving no trace behind, and only doing so where you are allowed to. Be careful not to block access roads or gates when you park up.''Litter:''If there are no litter bins, just take your garbage with you until you find somewhere you can legally dispose of it.''Fires:''You are welcome to have a fire or gas BBQ of course, but only if it is safe to do so and you extinguish it fully before you leave.''The Best Time to Camp on the North Coast 500''We have driven the North Coast 500 at a number of different times of year, including in winter. Based on our experiences, our suggestion for a camping trip would be to tackle the route between May and September, which will give you a shot at the best weather. It’s also the time of year when the majority of attractions, shops, cafes, and services will be open.''Many of the campsites along the route (especially in the west and north stretches) are seasonal meaning that it is going to be more difficult to find campsites and camping services during the winter months. Most are open from March/April to September/October with fewer camping options available between November to March.''The route can be driven year round of course, although conditions in winter can include snow and ice conditions, and on the more rural roads these can take a bit of time to clear. So be prepared to go more slowly and for possible detours or road closures in the winter months.''However, winter does offer far quieter roads and if you are hunting true solitude, can be a wonderful time to travel. Just make sure you have the equipment and clothing to handle freezing conditions, and the driving knowledge to handle the road conditions. Also be sure to plan ahead to know which sites and services will be open during your trip.''What to Pack for a Camping Trip on the North Coast 500''We have a''general packing list for London and the UK''that covers many of the essentials you need, so here we will add in just those items you may specifically want for a NC500 camping trip:''Sunscreen''Midge repellent''– absolutely essential if travel from late May through to the end of September.''Camping gear (tent, sleeping bag, roll mat etc)''Cooking equipment (gas fire, pots, pans, cutlery, plates etc)''Toilet paper / soap or hand sanitizer (the toilets along the route are sometimes out of paper or don’t have hot water and/or soap)''Water bottles''Road map of Scotland''and North Coast 500 map (these maps are available from most''Visit Scotland Tourism Information Centres''along the NC500)''Garbage / trash bags for your litter''Gear for outdoor activities (hiking, cycling, climbing, kayaking etc.)''GPS or offline maps on your phone''Duct tape''(so useful!)''Winter gear:\xa0extra''antifreeze'',''snow chains'',''emergency blankets'', a''collapsible snow shovel''Further Reading for your North Coast 500 Adventure''We’ve driven the North Coast 500 route a number of times, and continue to add to our content on the route to help you have the best experience. Below are a number of articles and resources we think you’ll find helpful for planning your NC500 adventure.''Our ultimate''guide to planning a North Coast 500 trip''Jess’s detailed guide to''where to stay on the North Coast 500''which has accommodation options for every part of the route.''My detailed guide to all the''highlights of the North Coast 500'', to ensure you don’t miss anything on the route, as well as my favourite''photography spots on the North Coast 500'', which also has some photography tips for your trip.''The North Coast 500 has a lot of single track roads – see our advice for''how to drive on single tracks roads''to help you prepare if you’re not familiar with these.''If you’ve never driven in the UK before, see our guide to''driving in the UK''for some tips.''For budget planning, see our guide to''how much it costs to travel in the UK''The''official North Coast 500''website, which has maps, itineraries and advice to help you plan your route.''If you’re driving the North Coast 500 as part of a longer visit to the UK, check out some of our other guides to both''Scotland'', and''England''.''And that’s it for our guide to camping on the North Coast 500! Is this the kind of trip you want to take? Have any questions or feedback for us? Just let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Want to take picture of the night sky but aren’t sure how? Maybe you don’t know what gear you need, or what camera settings are best for night sky photography. Well, I know from experience that taking pictures of stars can be a challenge, but once you learn the basics and get it right, it can be hugely rewarding and you’ll be able to shoot some stunning photos.''In this post I’m going to share with you everything you need to know about astrophotography to help you get awesome photos of the night sky, including camera settings, gear you need, tips on composition and lots more!''Let’s get started.''Contents:''How to Take Pictures of Stars''Photography Gear you Need to Take Pictures of Stars''1 – A Tripod''2 – A Remote Shutter Release''3 – A Camera with a Manual or BULB Mode''4 – Ideally a camera with a large sensor and fast, wide-angle lens''Can you take Night Sky Photos with an iPhone or Android Smartphone?''Can you take Night Sky Photos with a Camera without Manual Settings or Interchangeable Lenses?''Camera Settings for Taking Pictures of the Stars''How to Take Static Pictures of the Stars''How to Make Star Trail Photos''Apps to Help with Night Sky Photography''Further Reading on Photography''How to Take Pictures of Stars''First we’re going to cover the photography gear you need for star photography, which might be less than you suspect. Then we’ll discuss the different types of night sky photos you can take, and the camera settings you need to use.''Photography Gear you Need to Take Pictures of Stars''There are a few pieces of photography equipment that you will find will make star photography easier. These are:''1 – A Tripod''Probably the most essential photography accessory to help you take pictures of stars is a tripod. This is because you need to have the camera kept still for time periods that are measured in seconds, and there’s no way you can hold the camera totally still in your hand for that long.''Of course, if you wanted to balance your camera on a rock or something other than a tripod, that is feasible, but my advice is that a tripod is a great way to improve your photography in so many ways (read why''here''), so you should just get one.\xa0 See''this post for advice on picking the right travel tripod'', with suggestions at a wide range of price points.''2 – A Remote Shutter Release''A remote shutter release is a tool that acts as an external shutter button to your camera. The simplest remote shutters are just a cable with a single button on that you connect to your camera. More advanced models, also known as intervalometers, allow you set up sequences of shots over time. So for example, you can set your camera to take 100 images of 30 seconds each.''The reason you need a remote shutter release for taking pictures of the stars is two-fold. First, even with your camera on a tripod, the act of depressing the shutter button can cause small movements that result in image blur. The remote shutter release removes this problem.''The second reason is that, most cameras require a remote shutter release for exposures over 30 seconds., when shooting in what is usually called “BULB” mode, where the shutter effectively stays open for as long as you depress the shutter button.''See here for a''listing of remote shutters''– make sure you get a model that is compatible with your particular camera brand and model number. They are relatively inexpensive – for example, this''Amazon model for Canon cameras''is under $10. You can also get''remote buttons for smartphones''.''3 – A Camera with a Manual or BULB Mode''Obviously, you are going to need some form of camera for astrophotography. The main feature that your camera should have to make life easier for you is a manual mode, which means you can control all the important settings yourself.''For the best results, the settings you need to be able to change are the shutter speed and the ISO, and it is good if you can also adjust the aperture.''You don’t need a high end DSLR for night sky photography, and you can in fact take pictures of stars with a smartphone if you are so inclined. The main thing is that you are able to adjust the shutter speed and mount it to a tripod.''4 – Ideally a camera with a large sensor and fast, wide-angle lens''To get the best results when you take photos of the stars you will need two things – a camera with a big sensor, and a lens with an aperture that opens as wide as possible. However, you can still get reasonable results (see below) using a less advanced camera like a smartphone or even a point and shoot camera.''However, a bigger sensor will capture more of the available light, meaning you will get better results when shooting at night. Ideally you will want a full frame camera to get the best results. See''this guide to picking a travel camera''for some suggested models.''The lens you use is also an important factor. A wide angle lens means you can get more of the sky into your shot. A wide aperture means that camera will let more light in, also giving you better results. Apertures are measured in “f” stops, and you want something like f/4 or greater – f/2.8 to f/1.2 would be perfect. See more on camera terminology''here''.''If you have a interchangeable lens camera like an SLR or mirrorless,''this is the sort of lens''that is often recommended for astrophotography. Or''this'', if your budget will stretch to it. Just make sure you buy a lens that is compatible with your brand and model of camera.''Can you take Night Sky Photos with an iPhone or Android Smartphone?''It is possible to take photos of the night sky with an iPhone or Android smartphone, but don’t expect miracle results. The small sensors inside a smartphone restrict what you can do, but it is certainly possible. Photos of the Northern Lights for example, are more than possible with a smartphone.''You will still need a tripod and some form of remote release, as well as an app that lets you take longer exposures. For example, on the iPhone you can download the''NightCap Camera app'', and on Android there’s an app called''Long Exposure Camera 2''.''Whilst a smartphone is unlikely to be able to pick up individual stars in the sky, very long exposures (measured in minutes or hours), will let you capture star trail shots. If you are feeling more advanced, you can pair a smartphone''with a telephoto lens'', which will let you get shots of subjects such as the moon.''Finally, if you have access to a telescope, you can put your smartphone camera to the eyepiece, using an''adaptor like this'', which will let you get really nice results of objects like the moon and take advantage of the optics in your telescope.''Can you take Night Sky Photos with a Camera without Manual Settings or Interchangeable Lenses?''It is certainly possible to take photos of the night sky without needing a fancy camera, but you may be limited in terms of the quality of the images you get, and how long you can shoot for.''I would definitely recommend checking your camera or phone manual to see what options you have for longer exposures, to see what you might be able to achieve.''Camera Settings for Taking Pictures of the Stars''Setting your camera up to take photos of the stars is not too hard. First, you will want to put the camera into manual mode (usually “M” on the mode dial), as well as manual focus mode (usually via a switch on the lens).\xa0 If your camera doesn’t have either of these options, then try and find a long exposure mode at the very least, and some way to set the focus to infinity.''You’ll want to set the camera up on your tripod, and have it pointing at the sky. Set the aperture to as wide as it will go, and set the ISO to between 1600 and 6400 (this will depend on the capabilities of your camera).''You will want to set a shutter speed of between ten and thirty seconds to start with.''One of the harder things in star photography is getting focus. It will usually be too dark for your camera to automatically focus, so use manual focus mode. One tip is to use the camera’s display and zoom in on any bright stars it picks up, then use manual focus to make the star sharp.''Once that is all done, press the remote release button, and wait. After the time is up, you should have an image of the stars that you can use as a benchmark to adjust your settings if necessary, and also to recompose any parts of the shot.''Depending on the type of star photo you want to take, your settings will vary slightly.''There are two types of star photography that you can take. These are static photos, which depict the night sky as we see it, and star trail shots, which are taken over long periods of time, and show the stars as trails of light as they move across the sky.''These two types of star photography are similar, but they require you to go about setting your shot up a little differently. I’ll go over these now.''How to Take Static Pictures of the Stars''Static star pictures are a little bit more gear dependent, because you are limited by how long you can take the picture before the stars start to move across the sky. The time for this varies depending on your focal length, but as a general rule of thumb, exposures longer than around 20 to 30 seconds tend to start showing the movement of the stars.''As a result of this, static star pictures are the images that tend to require higher end cameras and lenses, which let you capture enough light in the window of time available before the movement of the stars changes the look of the shot.''For static shots of the stars, composition is of course important. The milky way is a popular feature to compose around, acting as a giant leading line into the cosmos.''Having something in the foreground, such as a lighthouse, tree, or interesting structure, is also a good idea – a plain shot of the stars isn’t always that impressive. If there isn’t much available light in the foreground, you can illuminate the object with a flashlight – it doesn’t take very much light usually to make foreground objects stand out.''How to Make Star Trail Photos''Star trails are a more accessible form of astrophotography, and one that you can do more easily with less expensive equipment. All you need is time, and a clear sky.''Again, you will want to set your equipment up on a tripod, and plan your composition carefully. You will want to take a few test shots before committing to your final image to make sure everything looks as you want it – you don’t want to waste hours on a shot that isn’t quite right!''You will also want to have an idea of which direction the star trails are going to go. In the northern hemisphere, an easy tip is to find the north star, which stays fixed. All the other stars will appear to rotate around the north star, so if you use the north star in your composition, you will get circular star trails.''Once you have the image properly framed and composed, you have to decide how long to expose the shot for. If you are using a high quality camera, then the best option is to do a series of shorter exposures, around thirty seconds, which you can then stack together in a software tool like''Adobe Photoshop''.''Shooting a series of shorter thirty second exposures and then stacking them in software will result in cleaner images, as super long exposures (over 30 seconds) can result in images with random pixels of different colour, known as sensor noise. To shoot a series like this, you will need an''intervalometer'', which will handle taking the sequence of shots for you.''If you are shooting with a smartphone, or a camera with a smaller sensor like a consumer SLR, compact camera, or mirrorless, then you will probably want to use longer shutter speeds in order to get all the light in. You can also reduce the ISO down to a more reasonable 100 – 400. I’d suggest trying for exposures of an hour or longer and seeing how you do.''Apps to Help with Night Sky Photography''There are a few apps that are useful for night sky photography.''First, it’s useful to have an app that can show you the location of the stars, so you can orientate your shot and find things like the Milky Way or the North Star. I like the''Sky Map app for Android'', and''Stellarium''is a good option for iPhone.''Next, knowing what time it gets dark wherever you are in the world is very useful. For that I use the''Golden Hour app'', which will tell you lots of useful information about the light at different times of the day.''Finally, if you’re into chasing the Aurora, you should get an app to notify you of aurora activity. There are a few options, I like''Aurora Alert''which has lots of useful features.''Further Reading on Photography''Hopefully this post has helped you understand some of the concepts you need to understand in order to take pictures of stars and get started with night sky photography in general. I’ve got a few more resources around photography which I think you will find useful, which are:''My series of''photography tips articles'', which contain many more posts like this one, to help you improve your photography, as well as this''introduction to taking better photos''.''If you need inspiration for locations for your next shoot, take a look at my series of''photography location guides''If you’re serious about upping your photography game, check out my''comprehensive online photography course'', which has loads of detailed information on everything photography related, from nailing the perfect shot every time through to editing and more. It also expands further on night sky photography.''If you’re in the market for a new camera after reading this post, see my''guide to picking the best camera''to help you decide what to buy.''And that’s it\xa0 for this post on astrophotography! Hopefully you’re all fired up to get out and take some awesome pictures of the sky. As always, if you have any questions or feedback, let me know in the comments below.''SHARE ON''We’re big fans of self-drive road trips when we travel, and we especially love road tripping around the UK since we are currently based there. We’ve written a number of guides to exploring the UK on your own, including a detailed''1 week UK itinerary''and a''2 week UK itinerary'', as well as a detailed''guide to driving Scotland’s epic\xa0North Coast 500''.''These itineraries do require you to drive, and if you’re visiting the UK from abroad, this might be a daunting prospect! In today’s post, we’re going to share everything we know from our years of experience driving in the UK to help you be as prepared as possible.''This will include an overview of applicable laws you need to be aware of , general tips for driving in the UK, and some general information on the roads.''Let’s get started with our guide to driving in the UK.''Contents:''Driving in the UK: Tips, Advice and Information''1. Age Limits''2. Basic Rules of the Road in the UK''3. Measurement Systems''4. Road Types in the UK''5. Road Speed Limits in the UK''6. Seat Belt Use in the UK''7. Traffic Lights''8. Stop Signs and Give Way Signs''9. Roundabouts in the UK''10. Pedestrian Crossings''11. Single Track Roads''12. Emergency Vehicles''13. Passing Other Vehicles''14. Motorway Exit Numbers''15. Hiring a Vehicle in the UK''16. Buying Petrol / Gas in the UK''17. Drink driving laws in the UK''18. Insurance''19. Mobile Phone Use''20. Driving with Children''21. What To Do If You Get Stopped By The Police in the UK''22. Speed Cameras''23. Toll Roads & Toll Bridges''24. Congestion Charging Zones''25. Parking in the UK''26. Manual / Automatic Vehicles''General Quirks to be aware of when Driving in the UK''Further Reading and Information on Driving in the UK''Driving in the UK: Tips, Advice and Information''1. Age Limits''In the UK, the minimum legal age you can hold a driving license is 17. You are allowed to drive from 16, but only on a provisional license with a qualified driver in the passenger seat. As a visitor to the UK, if you are wanting to drive then you will need a full license, and you will need to be at least 17.''Do be aware that if you are looking to rent a car (more on this later in the post), that many car rental firms will require you to be over 21, and most charge extra fees if you are under 25. If you are 21 or under you might want to considering''explore the UK using public transportation''instead.''2. Basic Rules of the Road in the UK''As with every country, there are some basic rules for driving that you need to observe. These are:''Drive on the left hand side of the road''Observe all posted speed limits and road signs''Don’t drive if you are over the legal blood alcohol limit''You must stop at all STOP signs and red traffic lights''Everyone in the vehicle must wear a seat belt (see below for exceptions to this rule)''Obey all directions given by police officers''Give way to all emergency vehicles which have their sirens and/or lights flashing''We’ll expand on many of the above rules throughout the post to help you understand them.''3. Measurement Systems''The UK primarily uses imperial units for driving related measurements. Major distances are always measured in miles, with shorter distances, such as the distance to a STOP sign, measured in yards. One yard is three feet, and there are 1760 yards in a mile. Speed limits are given in miles per hour, and vehicles display their speed in miles per hour.''Fuel uses the metric system and is bought in litres – despite fuel economy numbers for vehicles always being listed in miles per gallon! I know, it doesn’t make much sense. Still, that’s how it is.''4. Road Types in the UK''The UK has a number of road types, which are denoted by a lettering system. A road will have a letter to indicate it’s type, and then a number which is unique to that road. So for example, the M1 is a motorway. “M” denotes motorway, whereas 1 denotes the number.\xa0Generally the roads are as follows:''“M” roads. An “M” is a motorway, which is the largest road in the UK, and also usually the fastest. An M road can be anything up to four lanes of traffic each way, although three lanes is more common. Sometimes “M” roads will just be two lanes in each direction. Motorways have speed limits of 70 miles per hour. Learner drivers and certain classes of vehicle, as well as pedestrians, are not permitted on motorways. Motorways do not have traffic lights or roundabouts – to join them you use the on and off slipways. Signs on motorways are always white lettering on a blue background.''“A” roads. A roads are generally the main roads in the UK and for the most part have a speed limit of 60 miles per hour unless otherwise indicated. Some sections of “A” road will be dual carriageway, in which case the speed limits will be 70 miles per hour. For this to be the case, there must be a central dividing reservation between the two lanes. “A” roads can have traffic lights and roundabouts. Signs are generally a green background with yellow or white writing. Very rarely, in more remote parts of the UK, “A” roads can be''single track''.''“B” roads. A “B” road is smaller road, usually used to link “A” roads. They can still carry a fair amount of traffic, however they tend not to be as long.''“C”, “D” and other roads. These are smaller roads which might even be single-track roads. These tend to be minor roads, either in very rural areas, or which cover shorter distances in less rural areas.''5. Road Speed Limits in the UK''Speed limits vary depending on the road you are driving on, and are posted regularly.''Speed limit signs are circular. The speed limit is the number in the sign, with a red circle around it. Obeying these signs is a legal requirement. Sometimes you will see a sign that is a white circle with a black diagonal through it. This means that any previously posted speed limits have ended, and you can resume the national speed limit – 60MPH on normal roads, and 70MPH on dual carriageways or motorways.''For motorways or dual carriageways (two lanes in either direction, separated by a central dividing line), the speed limit is 70 miles per hour – although you will often see drivers illegally driving much faster on these roads. Don’t be tempted to follow this lead, penalties for breaking the speed limit can be high.''Nearly all other roads in the UK have a national speed limit of 60 MPH. In populated areas, if not otherwise indicated, the speed limit will usually be 30 MPH.''Note also that speed limits in the UK vary depending on the type of vehicle you are driving and whether or not you are towing something. So always check the speed limits relative to the vehicle you are driving, especially if you are hiring a motorhome or pulling a caravan, as the limits can be different. See''here''for official guidance.''6. Seat Belt Use in the UK''Everyone sitting in the vehicle must wear a seat belt, and there must be a seat belt provided for every passenger. For example, if a vehicle has three seat belts in the back seat, you would not be allowed to have four passengers on that seat.''It is the driver’s responsibility to ensure that everyone is wearing a seat belt, and the law allows for significant fines for non-compliance.''There are a number of key exceptions to seat belt use. The one that will be most applicable for visitors to the UK is for reversing. If you are reversing your vehicle, you are allowed to remove your seat belt to aid with seeing where you are going; however, you must put it back on as soon as you stop reversing if you intend to continue your journey.''It is also possible to drive without a seat belt in the UK if you have a medical reason. However, you will need a “Certificate of Exemption from Compulsory Seat Belt Wearing”, which you will need to keep in the vehicle with you. Finally, if you are driving a classic car which never originally had seat belts, then you are allowed to do so without seat belts. In these vehicles though you are not allowed to carry children under three at all, and all other children must only sit in the back seats.''In addition, drivers of licensed taxis are permitted to drive without a seat belt, so don’t be alarmed if your taxi driver is not wearing a seat belt – this is perfectly legal. All passengers in the taxi must still wear the seat belt though.''See the section later on in the post on driving with children in the car for rules around car seats.''7. Traffic Lights''Like nearly every country in the world, the UK uses traffic lights to control traffic. Lights can be red, yellow, or green. These colors mean:''Red – stop. Red means stop, and you must stop at a red traffic light. There will normally be a line on the road marking where you should stop if you are the first car to arrive at the light – otherwise you just stop in line behind other waiting traffic. Note that in some situations you are allowed to proceed after stopping, even on a red light – see “turning on a red traffic light” below.''Yellow – you must come to a stop at the stop line. If you are moving too quickly to safely stop, for example you are about to cross the stop line and the light turns from green to yellow as you approach, you may proceed. However if you can safely stop it is advisable to do so and not try to “beat the light”.''Green – proceed. The light goes from red to yellow to green, at which point you may continue. If a light is green as you approach it, you may continue to travel, although be aware that if it changes to yellow you are required to stop unless it is unsafe to do so.''If you are coming from the USA, you might be used to the US rule that allows you to turn at a traffic light, even if it is red. This is not allowed in the UK – if the traffic light is red, you must remain stationary until the light turns green.''8. Stop Signs and Give Way Signs''STOP signs in the UK are the same as STOP signs around the world. These large red octagonal signs have the word “STOP” in white lettering, and when you encounter one of these you must bring your vehicle to a complete halt.''STOP signs are not very common in the UK, as they can only be placed at junctions with severely limited visibility. When you encounter a STOP sign, you must bring your vehicle to a complete stop, and give way to all other traffic. Multi-way STOP signs, such as those you find in the USA, are not used in the UK, so you must always give way at a STOP sign and wait until it is safe to proceed.''Give way signs are far more common in the UK than STOP signs. These are triangular signs with the words “give way” written on them, and are similar to the “Yield” signs in the USA. Usually there will also be a white triangle painted on the road as well.''At a Give Way sign you must give way to other vehicles, but if the road is clear as you approach it, there is no requirement to fully stop.''For more information on road junctions, see the appropriate section of the''UK Highway code, here.''9. Roundabouts in the UK''Roundabouts are very common in the UK when roads meet. Using them is quite simple – you always give way to the traffic on a roundabout, which will be approaching from your right. You will always turn left onto a roundabout, and traverse it in a clockwise direction.''The only exception to the give way rule is if the roundabout has traffic lights, in which case you have right of way if the light onto the roundabout is green – this means that the traffic on the roundabout will be stopped at a red light.''It is important to know your intended exit before you reach the roundabout, so you can be in the correct lane and signal correctly. If you are taking the first exit for example, you would signal left and use the left hand land.''If you are going right (or all the way around), you would signal right and use the right hand lane.''It’s always best to slow right down and be aware that many people do not always signal correctly on roundabouts.''For intermediate exits and for going straight ahead, you do not normally signal, and can generally use either lane. For more information on correct roundabout use, see this''section of the UK Highway Code'', which also has some helpful diagrams for lane use and signalling.''10. Pedestrian Crossings''There are a number of different types of pedestrian crossings in the UK which you need to be aware of as a driver. These have been given odd names, including Zebra, Puffin and Pelican crossings.''Zebra crossings, so called because of the white and black stripes on the road, do not have stop lights. You can recognise them by the white stripes painted on the road, as well as flashing yellow beacons on either side of the road. Vehicles must stop at these crossings if a pedestrian is on the road.''Puffin and Pelican crossings are similar to each other. They don’t have stripes on the road, and are instead traffic light controlled. To cross, pedestrians push a button by the side of the road to trigger the traffic light to change colour and activate the walk symbol (a little green man). You only need to stop at these if the light is red, or if there is someone on the crossing and the light is either amber, or flashing amber.''These are the main crossing types, however, there are a number of other pedestrian crossings and rules to be aware of regarding pedestrians crossing the road in the UK, see the''full official guidance here''.''11. Single Track Roads''In some parts of the UK, particularly in more rural and remote areas such as those found when driving Scotland’s''North Coast 500''or the Scottish isles\xa0you may find yourself driving on single track roads. This is a road with just a single lane, on which traffic can drive in either direction, with passing places available so vehicles can get past each other.''These roads require a bit of extra knowledge, and I have written a whole post about''driving on single track roads''to help you out.''12. Emergency Vehicles''I actually failed my first driving test in the UK as a result of not giving way to an oncoming fire engine with its lights and siren going. Just what I needed in the middle of my test in a small rural village in north Wales!''Suffice to say, giving way to an emergency or incident support vehicle is definitely a requirement when driving in the UK.''Rule 219 of the highway code''covers this in detail, but in general, if an emergency vehicle is actively on its way to an incident, signalled with flashing lights and / or a siren, then you must take appropriate action to allow it to pass.''In doing so, you must still obey the traffic signs on the road, as well as not put yourself or other road users in any danger, and you do not need to mount the''kerb (curb),''which may endanger pedestrians.''13. Passing Other Vehicles''Passing another vehicle works much the same as in other countries around the world. You are allowed to pass on a normal road if there is a broken white line down the middle of the road and it is safe to do so. As vehicles drive on the left, you must overtake on the right.''On dual-carriageways and motorways, the law is that you must pass on the right. It is not legal to pass on the left (to undertake), and the outside lanes should only be used for overtaking – you should always stay in the left hand lanes if you are not performing a passing manoeuvre.''14. Motorway Exit Numbers''In the UK, exit numbers on the motorways are sequential, so Exit 2 follows Exit 1, and so on. Occasionally, exits will have been added after the road was first built, and these will then adopt a letter – Exit 1a, 1b etc. Unlike in some countries like the USA, the exit numbers do not correspond to mileage.''15. Hiring a Vehicle in the UK''The rules vary from company to company, but to rent a vehicle in the UK you will need a full license in your name. If you are travelling from abroad and the license is not in English, then you may also need an''international drivers permit''. These are normally quite easy and inexpensive to obtain, but you definitely need to do it in advance of coming to the UK.''As well as a drivers license, if you are coming from overseas you will normally need a valid form of ID such as a passport that matches the driver information on the drivers license.''In terms of age, each car hire company sets its own rules. Whilst the legal age to hold a license in the UK is 17, few rental companies will rent to drivers under the age of 21, and many require you to be 25 or over. If they do rent to younger drivers, they will usually charge a hefty surcharge, as well as have requirements over how long you have held a full license.''If you are looking to hire a vehicle in the UK, we recommend that you''take a look at Priceline to compare car hire deals''across 17 different providers, including the biggest names in the business, to get a great deal for your trip.''16. Buying Petrol / Gas in the UK''In the UK, there are numerous brands of gas station (generally known as petrol stations or service stations), including internationally recognisable brands such as BP and Shell. There are two main types of fuel in the UK – petrol and diesel.''In our experience, many rental cars tend to be diesels as they have greater reliability. They also get better mileage per gallon, which offsets the slightly higher price you pay for diesel at the pump.''It is critically important that you put the correct fuel type into your vehicle when filling up. Petrol will usually be marked as “unleaded”, and will often have an octane rating, usually 95 for standard, and 98 for higher performance vehicles. Unless you are driving an expensive sports car, you will usually find that a petrol car will be just fine on the standard 95.''Fuel is sold and priced by the litre, and if you are coming from the USA, you will likely experience sticker shock if you try to figure out the price of fuel compared to back home. The good news it that cars are fairly fuel efficient in the UK, and driving distances are not so great.''If you are driving a diesel car, it will usually say clearly on the fuel cap that it is a diesel car, and you must only put diesel in the tank when filling up (and of course, petrol if it is a petrol car). If it does not say, then it is more likely to be a petrol car, however you should definitely confirm this with your rental agency.''If you put the wrong fuel type in your car, this can cause serious engine damage. If you do – it is very important you do not drive the car – call your rental agency and ask for help.''When you fill up your car, the majority of petrol stations will require you to pay after filling up. This is because most gas stations are small shops, and they tend to make more profit off shop sales than fuel sales.''To fill up, just take the correct hose off the machine. Ensure the pump resets to zero, and put the nozzle into your car tank. Most pumps require you to hold the handle as you fill it up, they don’t usually have a switch to hold it open until it is full. Once it is full, make a note of the tank number, and go to the cashier to pay.''Some gas stations, particularly those at supermarkets, let you pay at the pump by card – to do so you will require a chip and PIN enabled card, and you will need to know your PIN number. You need to authorise your card in advance at these pumps before it will dispense fuel.''Fuel prices vary dramatically across the UK. The cheapest prices are usually at the major supermarket brands, such as Asda, Tesco and Sainsbury’s, where prices can be up to 15p cheaper per litre than other nearby stores. The most expensive fuel prices are always to be found at motorway service stations, where prices can be 20 – 30p higher per litre than the average.''17. Drink driving laws in the UK''As with the majority of countries in the world, the UK has fairly strict drink driving laws. The limit varies across the different parts of the UK, with Scotland having more strict limits for drinking than England for example. Drink driving is a serious offence in the UK, and the easiest way to avoid a fine or loss of your license is to avoid drinking at all if you are driving.''Calculating how much you can drink to stay under the blood-alcohol limit is a difficult task, as there are so many factors at play, including everything from your weight through to what you have eaten that day.''You can see the official limits for drink driving on the''UK government website here''. Again, we’d definitely suggest not drinking at all if you are driving.''18. Insurance''It is mandatory to have at least third party insurance when driving a vehicle in the UK, which will cover the other party if you are involved in an accident for which you are either fully or partly to blame. Most rental cars will come with third party insurance, however they will often charge a surplus for full cover, known in the rental industry as a collision damage waiver.''If you travel and rent cars regularly, check if you can get a credit card which includes car hire cover. This can save you a lot of money, as rental car companies tend to charge a premium for add ons like insurance. Another alternative is to book insurance cover through a specialist insurance provider rather than purchase it directly from the car hire company – again, this can save you a lot of money.''19. Mobile Phone Use''It is illegal to have a mobile phone or GPS unit in your hands whilst driving a vehicle or in the UK. You are allowed to operate them if there is a hands free kit, or if they are mounted securely in the car in a location that does not obscure the drivers view of the road ahead. You can also operate a built in GPS unit if the car has one.''However, keep in mind that if the police feel you are distracted or not fully in control of your vehicle, they can penalise you even for using a device that is not in your hands. Note also that the law applies even if your vehicle is stopped. The best option is to either have your passenger operate the device, or to pull over safely before operating your device.''The only exception to the rule is that you are allowed to use your phone in your hands to dial 999 (the UK emergency number), if there is no practical way to stop safely and it is an emergency. See more on use of devices and the law on the''official government website here''.''20. Driving with Children''If you’re driving with children in the UK, then there are a few more rules you need to be aware of, specifically around child car seats.''In general, until children are 12 years old or 135cm tall (whichever comes first), then they must use a child car seat. After that point is reached, then they must use a seat belt, as would any other passenger.''If you have your own child car seat that you want to bring to the UK, you need to make sure it is an EU approved model, as these are the only kind that are approved for UK use.''You can read more specfics about using child car seats, and how to identify if your seat is legal for use in the UK, on the official''UK government website for child car seats''. There is also a page on''when you are allowed to not use a child car seat''in the UK.''21. What To Do If You Get Stopped By The Police in the UK''Hopefully you won’t be stopped by the police when driving in the UK, but if you are, you should pull over immediately where it is safe to do so. Remain in your vehicle with your seatbelt on and your hands clearly visible, and wait for the officer to approach you. You should wind your window down as the officer approaches so you can follow their directions.''A uniformed police officer can stop any vehicle for any reason, and you must stop when asked to do so – it is illegal not to stop when directed to do so by a police officer. When you are approached by the police, they will likely ask you to produce your driving license, insurance certificate and MOT certificate – the latter being a government issued certificate of vehicle road worthiness.''If you have a rental car, you should have the proof of rental documentation. If you are unable to produce the requested documentation, you must take it to a police station within seven days of your stop.''If you are stopped, the officer may suspect you of drinking, in which case they can ask you to take a breath test. They also have the power to issue on the spot fines, and for more serious offences such as driving without a license or if you are operating a vehicle believed to be stolen, the police have the power to seize your vehicle. This is obviously unlikely to happen if you are driving in a rental car from a reputable rental agency of course.''Our advice is to follow all the posted signs and speed limits, and you shouldn’t have any problems when driving in the UK. For more information on being stopped by the police and your rights, see the official''UK government website entry here''.''22. Speed Cameras''One of the primary traffic control and accident reduction measures in the UK is the use of speed cameras. These are in wide use on the roads in the UK, and are very effective at catching speeding drivers, with fines automatically sent through the post if you are caught speeding. If you are driving a rental car, these fines will be sent to the rental agency, who will usually add this to your rental bill – often with a surcharge for the administration.''Whilst many motorists dislike speed cameras, remember that they are there to help reduce accidents and improve road safety. If you stick to the speed limits, you won’t have any problems. In addition, fixed speed cameras are clearly marked, so you have no excuse for missing them!''23. Toll Roads & Toll Bridges''There are very few toll roads or bridges in the UK, as the UK roads are funded by a system of taxes paid by UK motorists. This tax is levied on UK car owners, as well as on fuel (hence the relatively high fuel prices in the UK – the majority of the cost is tax).''There are some toll roads, such as the M6 Toll near Birmingham. Some of the bridges in the UK, such as the Severn Toll Bridge that joins England and Wales, are also toll bridges. Toll roads are clearly marked before you enter them. Follow the directions as you approach the toll booth, and in most cases you should be able to pay either by credit / debit card or in cash.''In very rural areas there are some very small privately owned bridges, where you may have to pay in the region of 20p for a crossing. Again, these will be clearly marked, but you will only be able to pay cash for such a crossing. These are very rare however.''24. Congestion Charging Zones''In London, and at time of writing, in Durham, there are what are known as “Congestion Charging Zones”. These are parts of the city which carry a daily fee if you wish to drive in them. Cameras at every entry and exit point to these zones record your vehicle details, and automatically bill you. In the case of a rental car, this bill will go to the rental agency.''Congestion charge zones are very clearly marked before you enter them. Our advice is to avoid them entirely – there’s no good reason to drive in central London as traffic is very slow, parking is expensive, and with the congestion charge it becomes very uneconomical. Public transport or taxis are a much better option, as is walking.''We’d always advise picking up your rental before or after the London portion of your trip if your UK trip includes''exploring London''.''You can read more about the''congestion charging zone in London here''.''25. Parking in the UK''There are various options when it comes to parking in the UK. Most cities have a number of parking options, including multi-storey parking structures, and on-street metered parking bays. For the former, you normally park, and pay on return to your vehicle. For the latter, you generally pay in advance, which can be less convenient if you don’t know how long you need.''It’s always important to read the parking notices when parking. Some areas offer parking for residents only, and you can be fined if you park in a residents or permit only area. Your vehicle can be clamped, or even towed, if you park where you are not allowed to park.''There are two main indicators of parking along the side of the road. If there are two solid yellow lines by the road (known as double yellow lines), then you are not permitted to park for any reason. In London, you might also see double red lines, which mean the same thing.''If you see a single yellow line, this usually means that you can park and wait for a short period of time – generally indicated by a sign that will outline the restrictions. Often, you can park without restriction on single-yellow lines on Sundays and public holidays, however always check the local parking notices before doing so.''There are a number of additional guidelines for parking in the UK, which are covered in rules 238 to 252 of the UK highway code, which you can read''here''.''26. Manual / Automatic Vehicles''If you’re visiting and driving in the UK from the USA, you might be surprised to learn that the majority of cars in the UK have a manual transmission, or “stick shift”. There are even two classes of driving license in the UK – one for automatic cars, and one for manual cars.''You cannot drive a manual car on an automatic driving license, although you can drive an automatic car on a manual license.''Since licenses from other parts of the world might not specify automatic or manual, it will be important particularly if you are hiring a car that you pick the transmission type that you are able to drive. If you don’t know how to drive a manual you should definitely not use the UK roads as your place to learn how to drive stick!''One thing to be aware of, if you can drive both types of ar, is that automatic cars are nearly always slightly more expensive to rent than manual cars. So if you want to save a bit of money on your car rental and you can drive a manual, you might want to choose that.''General Quirks to be aware of when Driving in the UK''I’ve driven in a fair few countries around the world on both sides of the road, and I have to say, the UK does have some serious quirks when it comes to driving.''Cities in particular can be a challenge for the new driver. Cities and towns in the UK were not for the most part designed around automobiles which means streets can be narrow and corners sharp. There are also often one way systems, and occasionally lanes will merge without warning, or you’ll find yourself inexplicably in a left turn only lane at a set of traffic lights with no prior warning given.''My advice is just to try to relax, to invest in a good GPS system (Google Maps is pretty good too) that will handle the inevitable re-routing, and to build in extra time to mitigate lost time when you inevitably take a wrong turn. Don’t worry, I do it all the time and I live here!''Further Reading and Information on Driving in the UK''Whew! Well, that was a lot of words to hopefully help you get started. Of course, I can’t cover everything in just one post, so here are some helpful resources to get you on your way:''The official''UK Highway Code'', which gives you all the information you need for driving in the UK. This is also''available on Amazon''in both physical and ebook formats.''This tool''from the UK Government will advise if you can drive in the UK on your non-UK license.''Naturally, you’re going to want somewhere to drive now you’ve read all the above! Check out our''1 week''and''2 week UK self-drive itinerary''posts to get you started.''For budget planning, see our guide to''how much it costs to travel in the UK''For Scotland, we suggest taking a look at our''guide to the North Coast 500'', as well as a''suggested Highlands and Skye itinerary''If you are driving in remote parts of the UK, including parts of Scotland, you might encounter single track roads. Check out our''guide to driving on single track roads''for how to deal with those.''If you decide not to drive, you can also travel to most places in the UK via public transport,''here is a suggested itinerary''. Another option is to book a bus tour, and we can recommend''Rabbies Travel tours''.''If you are visiting London, we have a series of detailed itineries for London, including a''1 day'',''2 day''and''6 day London itinerary''.''And that’s it!\xa0 We hope you found our guide to driving in the UK helpful. If you have any feedback or questions, let us know in the comments below!''Please note that this blog post is for guidance only and should not be taken as any form of legal advice. Check road regulations and laws in the UK before driving to be sure you are safe and legal as laws and guidelines change regularly.''SHARE ON''In today’s post I’m going to share with you a 10 day itinerary for a UK trip, specifically covering England and Scotland, which will let you visit and travel around the UK entirely by public transport, and in particular by bus or train.''I have written a couple of posts giving''detailed itineraries for the UK'', but those are focused on self-drive trips. I’m often asked if they can be done by public transport, and whilst the answer is usually yes, it does come with caveats as the itineraries aren’t really designed around the public transport system in the UK.''With that in mind, I’ve put together the below itinerary for ten days in the UK that is designed to be done by public transport. The UK has an excellent public transport system, especially between the major cities, making it relatively easy to see quite a lot in a short space of time. So if you are interested in travelling the UK by train or bus, this itinerary is for you!''Let’s get started with my guide to taking a trip around the UK for ten days by public transport.''A 10 Day UK Trip Itinerary''1. London – 2 Days''I firmly believe that no trip to the UK is complete without spending some time in London, and that’s why this itinerary is kicking off with two days in the capital.''There is so much to do in London, and even if you have visited before, I guarantee you will find plenty to do. From classic sights like the changing of the guard at Buckingham Palace to visiting the Tower of London, through to''afternoon teas''and shopping at iconic stores like Harrods – truly, everyone will find something they love to do in London.''We have visited London a number of times, and have put together a number of guides to the city to help you out. Our first tip for inspiration would be to check out our''guide to spending two days in London'', which should give you some ideas, and if you have more time to spend in London check out our detailed''six day London itinerary''.''We’ve also written a guide to''getting into the city centre by public transport from all the major London airports'', which you should find helpful for planning your arrival and departure if you are flying into the city.\xa0Finally, if you’re planning on doing some sight-seeing, we definitely suggest checking out the''London Pass'', which will likely save you money. You can see our full''review of the London Pass here''.''For accommodation, London has options to suit every budget. Start your search by taking a look at the''London listings on booking.com'', which is our preferred way of booking accommodation when we travel.''2. Oxford – 1 Day''From London, it’s about an hours train ride to Oxford, or around an hour and a half by bus. Oxford is a stunning small university city that has served as the inspiration for numerous novels and films, and is a definite must for any visit to the UK.''A day is enough to see the city as it’s quite small. We’d recommend taking a''walking tour of the city and universities'', dropping into one of the beautiful old pubs like''the Turf Tavern'', and perhaps trying your hand at a spot of punting. There are also several great museums to explore in Oxford.''Otherwise, we’re sure you’ll just enjoy wandering the gorgeous streets of this city. For a lovely view across said streets, take a walk up to the top of\xa0the''University Church of St. Mary the Virgin'', which is right next to the Radcliffe Camera.''For more inspiration, take a look at our guide to''spending a day in Oxford,''a city we love visiting so much that Jess also wrote her thoughts on''visiting Oxford for a day''!''For accommodation, see the options for''Oxford on booking.com here''.''3. Bristol – 2 Days''From Oxford, it’s an hours train ride to the next city on our 10 day UK itinerary – the lovely port city of Bristol. Buses are also available from Oxford to Bristol, and the journey is around three hours by bus.''In Bristol you’ll find a rich history of ship-building and trade, as well as Victorian engineering marvels like the Clifton Suspension Bridge. There’s an old city center to explore, one of the most vibrant''street art scenes in the UK'', beautifully coloured houses to photograph and of course, a number of excellent museums.''One highlight not to miss is the''SS Great Britain''. Originally built in Bristol in 1845, this was the world’s first ship to boast both an iron hull and a screw propeller. She’s been beautifully restored and is now Bristol’s top visitor attraction.''If you visit in August, you’ll also be able to attend Europe’s largest annual Balloon Fiesta – \xa0the\xa0Bristol International Balloon Fiesta. This takes place over four days in early August every year, and is free to attend.''For more ideas for your visit to Bristol, take a look at our guide to''things to do in Bristol'', as well as our guide to visiting the''Bristol Balloon Fiesta'', should you be lucky enough to be in town during this epic event.''For accommodation in Bristol, take a look at the''Bristol accommodation page of booking.com''.''4. Liverpool – 2 Days''From Bristol, it’s time to turn north and head up to the home of the Beatles – Liverpool! You’re looking at around a three hour ten minute train ride from Bristol, which includes a change of trains (usually at Birmingham or Stafford). There are also buses available, which take in the region of 5 to 7 hours.''There’s plenty to do in Liverpool to fill two days of your time. Fans of the Beatles will want to head to Liverpool’s most popular museum – the''Beatles Story''. This is the world’s largest permanent exhibition devoted to one of the UK’s most successful rock bands.''Liverpool has more than the Beatles though. Liverpool’s''historic Albert Dock''waterfront area has been revived, and turned from a 19th century dock complex to a modern thriving attraction with shops, accommodations, museums and attractions. As well as the Beatles Story, you’ll also find the''Merseyside Maritime Museum'', the''Tate Liverpool'', and the''International Slavery Museum''.''Finally, football fans might want to take a''stadium tour of Anfield''– the home of Liverpool FC.''For accommodation in Liverpool, see all the listings for''Liverpool on booking.com here''.''5. York – 1 Day''Now we’re going to head north east across England, past Manchester and Leeds, to the beautiful historic city of York – just under three hours train ride away. Buses are also available, and these generally take between four and six hours.''The walled city of York was founded by the Romans nearly two thousand years ago, and has seen it’s fair share of history – for a time it was even ruled by the Vikings, and was known as\xa0Jórvík.''Today, there are still many reminders of the cities medieval past. A walk through “the Shambles” is a must – a winding medieval street overhung by old, timber framed houses and lined with pretty shops.''You’ll also want to check out the city walls – York has more miles of intact city wall than any other city in the UK. Originally built in Roman times, the surviving walls largely date from the 12th – 14th centuries, and you can see both the walls and their gatehouses, also known as “bars”.''Finally, no visit to York is complete without a visit to York Minster, York’s Cathedral. This is one of the most impressive religious buildings in the UK, built in the Gothic style, and with the present building dating from the 13th century. A highlight of any visit has to be a walk up to the top of the towers, from where you’ll get a gorgeous view.''For your accommodation in York, check out the''listings on booking.com here''.''6. Edinburgh – 2 Days''Our last stop on our ten day UK itinerary has you crossing the Scottish border and visiting the Scottish capital – Edinburgh.''From York, it’s around a 2.5 hour train ride to Edinburgh, or 5 – 8 hours by bus.''This is a fantastically beautiful medieval city which features a castle built atop a volcano, lovely old cobbled streets, a whole Georgian era town, quaint villages to explore and of course, all the things you would expect from Scotland – haggis, tartan, bagpipers, and whisky!''There is a lot to do in Edinburgh. We very much recommend a visit to''Edinburgh Castle''(get your''tickets in advance here''to avoid the queues), a stroll down the Royal Mile and some whisky sampling at the Edinburgh Whisky Experience.''If you’re planning on visiting a number of the Royal sights in Edinburgh, including Edinburgh Castle,''Holyrood Palace''and the''Royal Yacht Britannia'', then you should consider a''Royal Edinburgh Ticket''. As well as giving you access to those three attractions, it also gives you a two day hop on hop off bus ticket for Edinburgh. See our full''review of the Royal Edinburgh ticket''to see if it might save you money.''For more ideas in Edinburgh, check out our suggestions for''two days in Edinburgh'', as well as our guide to some of''Edinburgh’s hidden gems''. For accommodation, see''Edinburgh’s listings on booking.com''.''For returning home after your UK tour is done, you have a number of options depending on where you are returning to.\xa0Edinburgh airport is just eight miles outside the city center, and offers a wide range of flights to both domestic and international destinations. To get to Edinburgh airport you can take the tram or''AirLink Bus''directly to and from the city centre.''If your return flight is from London, you have a number of options for returning to the capital city (including flying of course).''The main train station in Edinburgh (Edinburgh Waverley) is centrally located, and there are a number of train services that run directly to London, taking around 4 – 5.5 hours. There is also the option to take an overnight sleeper train from Edinburgh to London – read our''experience doing that here''. You can also take a bus from Edinburgh to London, which takes between 9 and 11 hours.''For more options, check out our detailed''guide to getting between Edinburgh and London''.''And that sums up our route for a ten day UK trip across England and Scotland! Now for some helpful hints and tips to help you plan your perfect adventure.''Map of route for 10 Day UK itinerary''Here’s a map of the route to help you out with visualizing our 10 day UK trip itinerary, which you can see on Google Maps''here''.''Tips for Using Public Transport in the UK''When it comes to taking public transit in the UK, you have two main options, the train or the bus, more commonly known as a coach.''By Train''As you can see from post, the train service in the UK is going to be the fastest way to get around for this public transport itinerary, especially between the major cities.''To get the best prices on trains, it’s essential that you book in advance. Tickets purchased on the day are nearly always going to be more expensive. Advance purchase tickets will save you money and usually come with a seat reservation.''There are a number of websites for booking UK train tickets online. The two we recommend are''Take the Train''and''Virgin Trains East Coast'', neither of which charge booking fees, unlike a number of other ticketing websites.''Opt to collect your ticket at the station to save on the ticket delivery fee – you will need the booking reference number and your credit card to pick up the ticket.''If you’d prefer not to have to worry about booking all the train tickets individually, or figuring out the pricing structure, another option is to invest in a UK rail pass. These are only available to UK visitors who don’t have a UK passport. If that’s you, you can likely save time and money by buying a''UK Britrail pass''.''For this itinerary, the best pass would likely be the 8 day consecutive pass, which would get you from London to Edinburgh through all the locations on this itinerary. These are available in first or second class, depending on your budget and travel style. Get yours''here''.''By Bus or Coach''You can also easily do this itinerary by taking long distance bus services (called coaches in the UK). Coach fares are often cheaper than train fairs, although as you can see from the itinerary, they usually take quite a bit longer. We therefore would only advise them if you are looking to save the maximum amount of money, or for the shorter legs like London to Oxford, or Oxford to Bristol.''They can also sometimes be a little easier, such as in the case of Bristol to Liverpool, as that route by train requires a change.''There are a number of long distance coach operators in the UK. The two we would recommend are''National Express''and''Megabus'', both of which offer a wide range of routes across the country.''From London to Oxford specifically, you have more choices, as well as the above options you can take the''X90''or the''Oxford Tube''. We’d suggest finding the route that departs from closest to your hotel to make it easier to get to it with your luggage.''As with the train, in most cases the best deals are available if you book as far in advance as possible for a specific bus time.''Other Options for Touring the UK''If, having read all the above, you are feeling a bit overwhelmed at the idea of planning your UK trip yourself, don’t worry. We have a couple of other options for you to consider.''First, you could take a group tour of the UK. This will take you to a wide variety of sights, with someone else handling all the logistics, and letting you just relax and chill out.''We have used and can recommend''Rabbie’s Trail Burners''for this sort of thing – they’re a small group tour operator with lots of experience and great guides. As an example, they have an''eight day tour that departs from London and goes to Edinburgh''. Whilst the route isn’t quite the same, you will still see plenty of cool stuff.''There are lots of other tour companies to choose from, we’d also suggest you check out the multi-day tour listings on Viator. For example, they have an''eight day Great Britain tour''which also covers a lot of the highlights above, as well as a''ten day tour which includes two days in London''.''Finally, you can also arrange a private tour. This will usually be a more expensive option, but will mean you can put something totally customised together. This is a service offered by a number of companies, we would again recommend Rabbie’s Trail Burners who offer a''customised tour service''.''Where to Stay in the UK''For accommodation, there are a great many options to choose from, ranging from cosy B&B’s through to upmarket hotels, and everything in between. We’re big fans of AirBnB, but for shorter city stays like those outlined in this itinerary, you will probably find hotels to be more convenient.''Our''go-to choice''to find the''best deals on accommodation''is with''Booking.com''. We find they usually have the best prices, they will price match if you happen to find a better deal, and they have a huge range of accommodation options – including apartments.''If you prefer an apartment or more of a hosted stay, then we also recommend''AirBnB''. We’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get up to''a $100 discount''on your first booking with''this link!''If you can’t find the room or apartment you want on AirBnB, or you want some new options to try out, we have some alternatives we also use. We suggest trying''VRBO'',''Flipkey''or''HomeAway''to start with. For even more ideas to help you save money and get the best choice, we wrote a whole post on the''best alternatives to AirBnB''which you should check out!''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''When to Visit the UK''The UK is good to visit at any time of year, although for the best weather and longer daylight hours, we’d definitely suggest visiting in the warmer months – from May to September. May and September are probably our favourite times of year, the weather is usually quite reasonable but the tourist crowds are not too intense.''Christmas, and the period leading up to Christmas, can also be a wonderful time to visit, when the streets and shops are all brightly lit and decorated for the festive season.''For a good example of this, check out our''guide to visiting Edinburgh at Christmas''.''Further Reading for your 10 Day UK Trip''We’ve got lots of resources to help you plan your trip to the UK, both posts we’ve written ourselves based on our experiences travelling in the UK, through to third party content we’re happy to recommend. We think you’ll find them useful for planning your perfect UK trip:''If you would prefer a self-drive trip, check out my''one week UK itinerary''and my''two week UK itinerary'', which are both self-drive trips.''For budget planning, see our guide to''how much it costs to travel in the UK''We have guides to many of the cities and sights this itinerary visits for you to bookmark, including:''A two day Edinburgh itinerary,''21 Highlights in Edinburgh''and''Getting off the beaten path in Edinburgh''For London, we have some detailed itineraries and guides to help you plan your visit. These include a''1 Day London Itinerary'', a''Two Day London itinerary''and a''Six Day London itinerary''. We also have posts on''The top Harry Potter sites in London''and''Tips on Buying and Using the London Pass''For Oxford, we have a guide to spending''A Day in Oxford''In Bristol, check out our guide to''things to do in Bristol'', as well as our guide to the''street art of Bristol''Getting online when travelling in a foreign country can be daunting – check out our''guide to getting online when travelling''to help you figure out the best options for your trip''If you’re interested in getting better photos when you travel, take a look at my''online photography course'', where I’ll teach you everything you need to know about getting better photos – whatever camera you have!''If you want a physical (or digital!) book to accompany your travels, then Amazon do a good line in''UK Travel Guides'', and there is naturally a''Lonely Planet''and a''Rough Guide''to the UK available. We also think the Rick Steves guidebooks are excellent, and for our 10 day UK itinerary you should check out the''Rick Steves Great Britain guide''.''And that sums up our 10 day UK itinerary post! We hope you found it useful. If so, please share it on your favourite social media networks to spread the word. And, as always, if you have any questions or comments, feel free to pop them in the comments below!''SHARE ON''We’ve spent a great deal of time travelling throughout the UK, plus we’ve taken many trips to London, a city we love to visit. I even lived in London for a number of years. There’s so much to see and do in London that we find ourselves returning time and again for new adventures – everything from''seeking out Harry Potter sites''to hitting the''Winston Churchill trail''.''Based on our experiences, we wanted to put together a guide to what to pack for London, to help you when planning what to bring. This London packing list will also work for visiting other cities and parts of the UK and is designed for visiting London and the UK any time of year, with some items being more required in winter or summer, and noted as such.''The climate does not vary too greatly across the country, although it is usually a little cooler as you get further north, especially up into northern Scotland. The key thing with travelling in the UK is to be prepared for anything. The weather in the UK is famous for being fickle, and weather forecasts are notoriously unreliable. So even in summer you can expect cold, grey days, whilst winter can provide unexpected sunshine and even a little warmth!''Now we’re going to go through our packing list in some detail, after which you’ll find a checklist so you don’t forget anything!''London Packing List''1. Clothing''Generally, for cities in the UK you will find that folks will tend to be fairly well dressed, so you will likely want to pack your nicer looking clothes – although you don’t need to be super dressy for most occasions. Just bear in mind that if your travel plans include fine dining, nice bars or trips to shows like the opera or the west end then you might want to bring some smarter clothes.''When we travel to London in winter''we usually wear jeans or pants and Jess will wear layers with a''warm sweater''like this on top'',''while I will usually have a shirt and a''fleece''. We will also both wear a''warm winter coat''. A''warm scarf''(''this one''for Jess) and good gloves are also essential winter items for London! If you suffer from the cold, you will also likely want a''warm hat''.''For visiting London In summer,''Jess will usually bring along''a pair of pants, capris, and have''a''light dress''with a shoulder wrap to wear depending on the weather. She often wears clothing by FIG travel – you can her thoughts''on that here''. I will usually wear jeans, although on the odd rare hot day I can find that jeans become uncomfortably hot to walk in sometimes, so I will also pack light pants or shorts. For bright days (they do happen, we promise!), you’ll also likely want a''pair of sunglasses''.''The key thing for either time of year is to bring a series of clothing you can layer so you can adjust to the climate accordingly.''As mentioned at the beginning of the post, if you are doing anything more formal such as a nice afternoon tea at a nice hotel, you should definitely check the dress code in advance so you are prepared.''You are unlikely to need outdoor gear such as hiking pants or boots for your London trip, although if you are heading out to the countryside for a little while, (perhaps following one of our''UK itineraries''), then a good pair of''hiking pants''will likely be a good addition to your UK packing list.''2. Shoes''A decent pair of shoes can make or break a holiday. You’re going to be doing a fair bit of walking as you explore the UK and her cities, and the last thing you want is sore feet or blisters.''I have this absolutely fabulous pair of''Timberland shoes''that I love. They are dressy enough for a night out or a nice meal, but also comfortable enough for walking in all day. They’re also 100% waterproof, which can be a real benefit, as rain showers can happen at any time in the UK!''Jess loves her versatile black''Skechers shoes''and they have been her go-to shoe for our many city trips for years. Whatever shoes Jess wears though, she finds she suffers from arch pain, probably because of high arches. After a lot of research, we settled on these''cool insoles'', which have solved that problem.''3. Toiletries / Make up''Naturally you’re going to want to bring your toiletries with you on your trip to London!''You don’t need much different for London and the UK than anywhere else, so just remember your essentials – toothbrush, toothpaste, deodarant moisturiser and any make-up or sanitary products that you might need.''Of course, all these things are easily available to buy in the UK as well, although as brands might differ slightly, if there is a product you love from home it is best to bring it with you to be sure. If you are on any medication you should definitely bring this as well.''We’d also advise''sunscreen''for travel in the summer months, and a''good Chapstick''for travel in winter as the cold winter air can very quickly dry out your lips which isn’t fun.''4. Electronic Gear''The UK uses a 220v three pin system, so if you’re travelling from nearly anywhere else in the world you are going to need a''travel adapter''. We actually prefer to use a''cheaper adapter like this''and then pair it with an''extension setup like this'', which gives us all the plugs and USB ports we need to charge our all devices.''Note that if you are travelling to England from the USA, which uses a 110v system, not all your equipment will work. Most laptops, phones and cameras will be fine, but in our experience, many hair dryers, curling irons, and hair straighteners don’t support dual voltages. You can check on the plug or in the manual to find out. Jess has a''dual voltage hair dryer''and a''dual voltage hair straightener''for just this reason.''You will also of course want your smartphone. If you have an unlocked phone, the cheapest way to get online will be to pick up a SIM card on arrival, or order one in advance. See our advice on''getting online when you travel''for tips on the best options. If you’re thinking of a new smartphone for your trip, check our guide to the''best cameras for travel'', which has a section on smartphones that are good for travel and taking photos.''We would also recommend you travel with an''external powerpack''to keep everything charged, and a set of''decent headphones''can be a life saver if you want to watch a movie or listen to a bit of music.''If you like to read, you may also want to travel with a table or\xa0 e-reader like a''Kindle''. For most trips you probably won’t need a laptop, but of course if you find it easier to travel with a laptop or tablet then bring one by all means!''5. Photography Gear''London is a very photogenic city (see my guide to the''best photography locations here''for some ideas), so you’re definitely going to want to bring some kind of photography gear with you on your trip. Even if that’s just a smartphone!''Our photography setup is likely overkill for most, but if you want to get the best photos, then we advise investing in a dedicated camera and ideally a tripod. See our guide to''why you need a tripod''for suggestions on the best travel tripods.''We also travel with a selfie stick to get nice photos of the two of us together if we don’t want have time or space to set up the tripod – after a bit of research we settled on''this one''as having the most useful features.''Don’t forget when travelling with your camera to bring a few accessories. We’d advise spare batteries,''spare memory cards,''a''UV filter''for the lens, and a decent bag or case to keep it all safe. If you don’t get a dedicated camera bag, a''camera insert''that goes inside your daypack or carry-on is a wise investment.''We also travel with a number of large''Ziploc bags''which can be really handy to put electronics and wet clothes in should the weather turn bad.''6. Luggage & Backpacks''Picking the right luggage for you is a big decision. The right bag should last you for many years of travel, and suit your particular style – be that carry-on only or checked luggage.''We travel with a fair amount of gear, so we invariably have one checked bag each, and then one piece of hand luggage which has our high value items in. One tip I learnt from my mum’s years of travel wisdom is to split our belongings across our two checked bags – that way if one of them doesn’t make it, we still both have clothes!''For my camera and electronic gear, I currently use a''Vanguard Alta Sky 49'', which works well as both a carry-on and a day pack. Prior to that, I used an''Osprey day pack''with a camera insert, which was also super comfortable.''Jess loves her''Eagle Creek bags'', and has both a carry-on sized backpack and a larger wheeled backpack that we check-in. My main checked bag is an''Osprey Sojourn 60''. This has been travelling with me since 2013 through multiple countries and countless baggage handler, and is yet to let me down.''If you’re in the market for a new bag, we have no hesitation recommending Eagle Creek, Osprey, and Vanguard as great choices.''7. Miscellaneous''Obviously there are a few items you need to bring with you when travelling to the UK, such as your passport. Depending on where you are coming from, you might also need proof of onward travel, a visa, and proof of funds for your time in the UK. Check the''UK government website here''to get an idea of what documentation you might need. We’d also advise having a note of your hotel address available in non-electronic format, as you will likely need this for the immigration form on arrival.''Beyond the documentation requirements, don’t forget all the cables for your electronic devices. You are unlikely to need a towel for travel in London and the UK unless you are staying in particularly budget accommodation like backpacker hostels or some of the more budget hotel options that charge for add-ons like towels.''We would recommend you bring a''travel umbrella''or a''travel poncho''–''these can be very useful in London and the UK as rain can happen at pretty much any time! You can also buy these at many shops in London.''London Packing Checklist''Here’s a full list for you to use as a reminder for your trip to London. You can also download this''London packing list in PDF form to print off here''.''Clothing''Shirts / t-shirts''Sweater / fleece for layering''Jeans / Pants''Underwear / socks''Shoes (bring a pair that is versatile so you can travel with just one or at most two pairs)''Swimwear (if needed, such as hotel has pool for instance)''More formal wear (if needed, such as planned fine dining or theatre experience)''Clothes (Cold Weather additional items)''Warm winter Coat''Gloves''Hat''Scarf''Additional Sweaters/ Fleece''Clothing (Warm Weather additional items)''Short sleeve t-shirts / tank tops''Spring/Summer skirts/dresses''Capris / Shorts''Light jacket / sweater''Sandals''Sunglasses / hat''Toiletries''Toothpaste / toothbrush''Deodorant/Fragrance''Moisturiser''Chapstick''Makeup''Sunscreen''Medications''Hygiene Products''Other __________________''Photography Gear''Camera''Tripod / selfie-stick''Memory cards''Spare batteries''Camera accessories''Electronics''Smartphone''Headphones''Portable power pack''Travel adaptor''Extension lead''Laptop / tablet / e-reader''Cables''Other __________________''Luggage''Checked bag''Carry-on bag''Miscellaneous''Passport''Visa / proof of onward travel etc (if required)''Travel towel (backpackers only)''Jewelery / watch''Travel journal / reading materials''Cards / games''Travel umbrella or poncho''Other ___________________''Further Reading for your Visit to London and the UK''We have written many guides that will help you plan and prepare for your trip to London, plus we have some other go-to resources we think you will find useful.''To help you plan your time in London effectively, check out our itineraries for''1 Day in London'',''2 Days in London''and''6 Days in London''If you’re flying into London, see our post on advice on''getting to London from the airport,''which includes detailed information for\xa0all six of London’s airports''Getting around can be a bit daunting on your first visit to London. See our''guide to public transport options in London'', as well as our overview of''how to buy and use an Oyster card''to help get prepared''If you’re a Harry Potter fan, you’re going to want to take a look at our guide to the''best Harry Potter locations in London''Fans of Winston Churchill will want to see our detailed guide to seeing all''London’s Winston Churchill sights''Military history buffs will want to check out our guide to''London’s Best Military Museums and Memorials''London has four UNESCO world heritage sites, we have a''guide to visiting all of them here''If you want to get the best photos during your time in London, see my guide to''best Photography Locations in London''Many of London’s attractions are quite expensive, so if you plan on doing a lot of sight-seeing, you can save money with a''London Pass''. See our full''review of the London Pass''here to see if it will save you money on your trip''If your visit to London is part of a wider trip to the UK, check out our detailed''1 week''and''2 week UK itinerary''posts for inspiration''For accommodation, we recommend Booking.com. See all their''London listings here''The''Eyewitness Travel Guide to London'', which has all sorts of information within, including more itineraries and ideas for your trip''Rick Steve’s London 2018''guide, the #1 bestseller on Amazon for UK travel guides, and always an excellent source of relevant information''And that’s it for our detailed packing guide for London, which hopefully covered everything you need to know for what to pack for London! As always, we’re happy to take your questions and feedback – just leave us a comment below, and we’ll get back to you as soon as we can. Safe travels!''SHARE ON''Having lived in Scotland now for a little while, it seemed appropriate that we take part in some of the annual events surrounding''the anniversary of the birthday of celebrated Scots poet''– Robert Burns. The first of the events we decided to attend was the Big Burns Supper Festival, held annually in Dumfries, a town located in south-west Scotland.''This is one of the largest festivals celebrating all things Robert Burns, as well as Scottish culture and heritage in general, so naturally seemed like a good place to start our own personal exploration into Robert Burns. It is also aimed at everyone,''Begun in 2011, the event runs over a number of days and has a wide variety of performances, from musical acts to cabaret to stand up comedy – and more!''We popped down to Dumfries for the day to see what the Big Burns Supper festival was all about, to find out more about the connection Robert Burns has with Dumfries, and to be entertained. Read on for our experience attending the Big Burns Supper, as well as some practical advice to help you plan your own trip to this special annual festival.''Visiting Dumfries for the Big Burns Supper''We visited Dumfries on a Saturday for the Big Burns Supper. The weekends tend to host some of the more popular shows and acts, so this seemed like a good time to come down for the experience.''We booked ourselves in to see two acts – an afternoon show by WeBanjo3, and the evening Le Haggis cabaret show. Well known British comedian Bill Bailey was also performing that night, but his show had already sold out due to his popularity, so we didn’t make that one.''We also gave ourselves plenty of time between acts to explore a bit of Dumfries and learn about its Robert Burns connection, which we can highly recommend doing. More about that a little later in the post.''First, our experience at the Big Burns Supper.''The first show we saw was''WeBanjo3''. This is an Irish''band comprising two''sets of Irish brothers, who play what they call “Celtgrass”, a blend of traditional Irish and bluegrass music. As you would expect from the name, banjos are involved. as is a mandolin, a guitar and a fiddle – along with vocals.''These guys were super energetic, and had the whole audience up on their feet and dancing. They also clearly loved what they did, and Jess and I both agreed that it was one of the best live shows we’d seen in a while. If you happen to have a chance to see them live, definitely go for it! Here are some photos from WeBanjo3 to give you an idea of what we saw.''We had a bit of a break after the first show, which we used to pop out and visit a couple of nearby Robert Burns attractions – you can see more on those a little later on in the post. We also had dinner in a nearby restaurant – there’s quite a good choice of dining options in Dumfries, and we had an excellent Italian meal at''La Dolce Vita''.''Our second, and last show (for us anyway!) of the festival was the Le Haggis performance.''This was one of the main events of the festival, running over multiple nights. It’s a cabaret style performance, with a number of different acts performing various routines. Think musical numbers, acrobatics, contortionists, hula hoopers and dancers – basically there’s something for everyone, with a fairly adult, risque theme.''We loved it, and so did the sold out audience as far as we could tell – although this sort of show isn’t going to be for everyone, and some of the acts especially are fairly adult themed. Here are a few photos to give you an idea of the event.''Overall, we had a wonderful experience. The event was well organised and a lot of fun, and we can highly recommend it to anyone looking for something a little different in this part of Scotland. Now, on to answering a few common questions about the Big Burns Supper in Dumfries that we think you’ll have, as well as some information about visiting the main Robert Burns attractions in the area.''When is the Big Burns Supper?''The Big Burns Supper is an annual event which coincides with the anniversary of Robert Burns birthday on the 25th January, with events taking place in the days before, during and after the anniversary.''In 2019, the Big Burns Supper will run from Friday 24th January until Sunday 4th February. You can also check\xa0the''official website''for the latest dates.''In 2018, the festival took place from the 18th to 28th January.''How long is the Big Burns Supper?''In 2018 the Big Burns Supper ran for 11 days, from the 18th January until the 28th January, with events taking place every day. The events vary – some events such as “Le Haggis” showed for multiple nights, whereas other acts like Bill Bailey only performed once.''Where is the Big Burns Supper?''The Big Burns Supper is held annually in Dumfries. In 2018, many of the larger ticketed events took place in the Spiegeltent, which was set up in the city centre just off White Sands road. This is a large, heated tent with seating that can accommodate a few hundred people, and it makes for a fun location for the performances.''There are also events held at a number of other venues around Dumfries, as well as at Ellisland Farm, slightly north of the city center.''Over the years the location of the Big Burns Supper has varied, so the best option is to check the official website for the year you are attending to find out more information. We will endeavour to keep this site up to date with locations as well.''What Events are at the Big Burns Supper?''A wide variety of events take place over the Big Burns Supper festival. These range from cabaret and musical performances, to a roller disco, a high tea and of course, a Burns Night supper replete with Haggis, Neeps and Tatties. There’s also a lantern procession / parade on Burns Night itself which parades through the town, talks on Burns and more.''In fact there are over 200 events taking place over the course of the festival – definitely something for everyone!''In terms of family events, many of the shows and events are family friendly, some are free to kids, and some events such as Bear & Butterfly and the Baby Disco Dance Hall are specifically geared towards families.''There are also events throughout the town, including sound displays and light shows, resulting in a festival that really brings all of Dumfries together to celebrate Burns. On some years there’s also a Burns Night Carnival Parade, although this didn’t take place in 2018.''Is it free to attend the Big Burns Supper?''The majority of events require a ticket and prices vary depending on the act. There are some events which are free including family events.\xa0 There are also often events happening on site which do not require a ticket, including in 2018 a “Free Fringe” event, which had free performances taking place across five days of the show in a pop up venue next to the Spiegeltent.''Where do I get tickets for the Big Burns Supper?''Tickets for the Big Burns Supper events are available online from the''official website''. There is also a number for phone bookings on the website.''If you are in Dumfries, you go to the box office on site to buy tickets. The most popular events do sell out, so if you see an act or show listed that you really want to see, we suggest booking tickets in advance as early as possible to avoid disappointment.''In addition, you can buy packs of tickets for multiple events, which will let you see a number of shows at a reduced price.''How do I find out about the acts for the Big Burns Supper?''All the acts for the Big Burns Supper are announced on their official website. We’d also suggest you take a look at their official''facebook page''and''twitter''account for the latest announcements.''Acts can be announced months in advance, so it’s worth subscribing to these social media feeds to be sure you don’t miss an act you’d want to see.''Is there anything else related to Robert Burns in Dumfries?''There are a good many Robert Burns attractions in the Dumfries area, and fans of the poet will definitely want to spend a little bit of time exploring the town and its surrounds so as not to miss anything. Here are some of the highlights.''1. Robert Burns House''In the centre of Dumfries is the''Robert Burns House'', which is the house where Burns lived out the last years of his sadly too short life. He died here in 1796 at the age of 37. Today the house is open to visitors, and you can see a number of original manuscripts as well as the poets belongings. You can also get a sense of what life in the house would have been like, as it has a number of items of period furniture and other items.''The Robert Burns house is free to visit and open year round – see the''official website''for opening hours.''2. Jean Amour Statue''Just slightly south of the Robert Burns house on your way to the graveyard, you will find a statue to''Jean Amour''. Jean was Robert Burn’s wife, and was married to him for a number of years, although the history of their relationship was a rocky one. Despite this, she stayed with him until he died, and they had nine children together, three of whom survived to adulthood.''3. Burns Mausoleum''Robert Burns is buried in St. Michael’s cemetery, which is just across the road from the statue of Jean Amour. His grave was originally a simple stone slab affair, however after a fund raising effort by his friends, which was also supported by the then Prince Regent, a large white mausoleum was erected.''Today, you can visit the Mausoleum in the graveyard, as well as a number of graves of the poets friends and peers, which are marked. Since the 19th century the Dumfries Burns Club has lain wreaths here on the anniversary of the poet’s birthday, and this has now become an integral part of the Burns Night celebrations in Dumfries.''4. Globe Inn Pub''Robert Burns enjoyed a drink with friends, and when he was in Dumfries, his local of choice was the''Globe Inn''. This pub, established in 1610, is one of the oldest in Scotland, and very much worth popping in to for a drink or a bite to eat. In 1796, Burns wrote “… the Globe Tavern here, which these many years has been my Howff …”.''Today, the pub has a number of artefacts and memorabilia relating to the poet, including lines of his verse etched into the window panes. It was also the first place in the world to host a “Burns Supper”, in 1819, a tradition which is now carried on in numerous locations across the world, and consists of Haggis, Neeps (swedes,''probably'') and Tatties (definitely potatoes).''5. Robert Burns Statue''Near the centre of Dumfries and opposite the church, there’s a statue to the man himself. This statue, carved by Italian craftsmen, was unveiled in 1882, to commemorate Burns’ life and works, as well as his connection to Dumfries.''6. Robert Burns Centre and Film Theatre''Across the river from all the attractions above, the''Robert Burns Centre and Film Theatre''tells the story of Robert Burns’ time living in Dumfries until his untimely death. It also covers the history of Dumfries and what life was like in general in the town at that time.''It is also, as the name suggests, a film theatre, (Scotland’s smallest!) which shows both contemporary and world cinema, covering a wide range of productions.''7. Robert Burns Ellisland Farm''Last on our list of Robert Burns sites in Dumfries is''Ellisland Farm''. This is about a ten minute drive north of the city center, and is the farm where Robert Burns lived with his wife from 1788-1791. Here he produced some of his most famous works, including Auld Lang Syne and Tam O’ Shanter, and it was in fact here that he was most productive, with around a quarter of his works written here.''For fans of Burns, Ellisland Farm is a must visit. There’s an informative film, rooms filled with original furniture and manuscripts, as well as plenty of information about his life at this time. There’s a small fee to enter, and a friendly on-site curator who will give you all the information you need. Not to be missed.''Where should I stay for the Big Burns Supper?''If you’re visiting Dumfries for a couple of days (recommended to make the most of your trip and see as much as you can without rushing around too much), then you will need somewhere to stay. There are a number of lodging options in Dumfries – we suggest you take a look at the''Dumfries listings on booking.com''to find the best deal for your visit. If your are visiting over a weekend, we highly recommend booking in advance, as the festival is very popular and properties can book out.''If you are struggling to find a place, check out our travel resources page, which has a number of hints and tips to help you find the best deals on a range of travel related items, including accommodation.''Further Reading''Well, that just about sums up our guide to visiting Dumfries for the annual Big Burns Supper! Before you go, we have a few more resources to help you plan your trip around Scotland that we think you’ll find useful.''For everything related to the Big Burns Supper, check out the''official festival website''.''Not too far from Dumfries is the city of Glasgow. If you’re heading there, we’ve got a''2 Day Glasgow & Loch Lomond itinerary''to help with your planning, which covers the highlights of the city and the nearby Loch Lomond area.''Just near Glasgow is the beautiful''Finnich Glen'', which is well worth a visit.''No visit to Scotland is complete without some time spent in Edinburgh! Check out our guide to''spending two days in Edinburgh'', as well as''getting off the beaten path in Edinburgh''for lots of ideas for your visit.''If you’re a Harry Potter fan, you’ve got to check out Jess’s''Guide to the Best Edinburgh Harry Potter locations''.''If you were thinking of taking a trip around the UK and want to include Glasgow as part of that itinerary, we have both a''one week itinerary of the UK''and a''two week itinerary of the UK''for you to give you some ideas for what’s possible in those timeframes..''If you want to get further afield into the highlands, check out our''five day Isle of Skye and Highlands itinerary'', as well as our guide to driving Scotland’s answer to Route 66 – the gorgeous''North Coast 500 coastal route''.''And that’s it! Had you heard of the Big Burns Supper festival? Do you celebrate Burns Night where you are? As always, your comments and feedback are welcome – just use the comments box below!''SHARE ON''Iceland has quickly become one of our favourite countries to explore. It has beautiful landscapes, stunning waterfalls (I love waterfalls!), warm thermal pools to bask in, and a fascinating history and culture. Iceland is also an easy country to get around, either on a self-drive road trip or as part of a group tour. In this post, I’m going to share with you a suggested itinerary for 5 days in Iceland.''This Iceland itinerary is for a self-drive trip; however, if you would prefer not to drive, I’ve also provided details after the itinerary for how to see many of the same things without having to drive yourself.''If you have a little longer, check out our''seven day Iceland itinerary'', which covers a few more highlights. We’d also recommend reading this post in conjunction with our''guide to planning a trip to Iceland'', which has lots of practical information on travelling in Iceland including detailed planning steps and practicalities.''For now though, let’s get started with our suggested itinerary for 5 days in Iceland.''Contents:''A 5 Day Iceland Itinerary''Iceland Road Trip Map''How To Book Your Iceland Trip''Do I Have to Drive in Iceland?''Add-ons to your Iceland Trip''When to Visit Iceland''Where to Stay in Iceland?''Further Reading to Help you Prepare for your Trip to Iceland''A 5 Day Iceland Itinerary''1. Reykjavik, Day 1''It is likely that you’re going be arriving into Iceland at Keflavik International Airport, which is where most international visitors to Iceland arrive. Here, you can either''pick up a hire car directly'', or take an airport shuttle transfer into the city centre, and pick your car up on Day 2. Waiting an extra day may save you a bit of money, and you are unlikely to need a hire car to explore Reykjavik.''If you want to visit the Blue Lagoon, Iceland’s most famous thermal baths, then doing this on the way from the airport is an excellent idea as it’s closer to the airport than the city centre. In fact, many companies offer a transfer service to and from the airport that includes a stop at the Blue Lagoon.''Otherwise, we’d suggest you spend a bit of time sightseeing in Reyjkavik. There’s a lot to see in the city, including the beautiful''Hallgrimskirkja Church'', which has a wonderful view from the top, and the''Sun Voyager statue'', which makes for some fun photo opportunities. There are also a number of museums, lots of restaurants and bars, and probably the best nightlife in Iceland if you want to start your Iceland trip off with a bang!''If you’d prefer to head straight out of town on your first day, and are desperate to fit as much as possible into your itinerary as possible, check out my optional addition of the Snaefellsnes Peninsula at the end of this section as an alternative.''Day 1 Accommodation:''Overnight in Reykjavik. We stayed at both the''Grand Hotel''and the''Reyjkavik Natura Icelandair Hotel''. See more lodging options in Reykjavik on''booking.com here''.''2.\xa0Golden Circle, Day 2''From Reyjkavik you’re going to head to one of Iceland’s most iconic road trips – the Golden Circle. There are three must-visit stops on the golden circle. These are''Thingvellir (Þingvellir) National Park'', the''Geysir Hot Springs Area'', and the mighty''Gullfoss''waterfall.''Thingvellir is interesting to visit for a number of reasons, both culturally and geologically. It was the site of the first Icelandic parliament, and as such, there is a lot of to see here that involves the history and culture of Iceland. Thingvellir is also the location of the continental divide, and you can actually see the split between the continents here, and, if you’re feeling adventurous, even snorkel between them!''From Thingvellir, the next stop on the Golden Circle is the Geysir Hot Springs area. This is home to “Geysir”, the original geyser from where the word in English comes from. There are lots of bubbling mud pools as well as regularly erupting geyser’s here.''Finally, the last major stop on the Golden Circle trip is Gulfoss waterfall. This is a wide, multi-tiered waterfall that has a tremendous volume of water flowing over it, and will not fail to impress. There are a number of viewing locations to enjoy the falls from, as well as an on site cafe and information centre. A spectacular sight at any time of year.''Day 2 Accommodation:''Stay overnight on or near the Golden Circle. We stayed at the''Fludir Icelandair Hotel''. See more lodging options on''booking.com here''.''3. South Coa''st and\xa0K''laustur, Day 3''For your third day in Iceland, you’re going to start to head along the beautiful south coast. This is a magnificent stretch of road, with a great many attractions to enjoy, and you are going to have an incredible time exploring it.''A quick note here about staying safe on the road in Iceland. You’re going to see a lot of amazing sights as you drive along here, but it’s important you stay safe, and only pull over in proper parking spaces. Stopping on the side of the road can be really dangerous, and there’s quite a bit of traffic on the ring road, so please don’t do it. It’s not worth endangering your life for a photo, however cute that horse may be!''Ok, lecture over. The first highlight on the road you drive along here is going to be''Seljalandsfoss waterfall''. This is a beautiful sixty metre high waterfall that you can actually walk behind, and is a stunning photography opportunity. Easily one of the most impressive waterfalls in Iceland, and almost unique in that you can walk behind it.''Next up is less well known waterfall hidden right next to Seljalandsfoss. Whilst Seljalandsfoss and the below Skogafoss tend to get all the waterfall glory on this stretch of road, there are a couple more waterfalls the more discerning Iceland visitor might want to check out. The first of these is Gljúfrabúi, a waterfall hidden in a canyon just a short distance from\xa0Seljalandsfoss.''To access it, you just have to walk across the river, and follow the path along the cliff. After a fairly short walk, you’ll come to the canyon that holds\xa0Gljúfrabúi. To actually access the waterfall, you’ll have to wade up the stream, but the view is worth it if you’re brave enough – although be prepared to be coated in water from the spray!''The next major stop on the south coast is Skogafoss. This is a thunderous sixty metre high waterfall that is much wider than\xa0Seljalandsfoss, and is truly dramatic. You can get very close to the base of the falls for dramatic photos (just be aware you’re going to get very wet), or you can climb the many steps up to the top of the falls for another viewpoint.''The other less well known waterfall in this area is\xa0Kvernufoss. This is also quite easy to find – just park at the Skogar Museum (same turn off Route 1 as Skogafoss), and follow the path across the field to the falls. Like\xa0Seljalandsfoss, you can also walk behind Kvernufoss – although be prepared to get wet!''The next stop on the south coast route is Dyrhólaey. This is a peninsula that juts out into the sea, and from the top you have fantastic views of a beautifl stretch of black sand beach with, on a clear day at least, the towering mountains of\xa0Eyjafjallajökull glacier volcano in the background.\xa0Dyrhólaey is also home to a massive rock arch, which is worth the drive up the quite terrifyingly steep dirt road.''Just a short drive along from\xa0Dyrhólaey you’ll find the popular stop of\xa0Reynisfjara Beach. Here, black basalt columns meet the black sand beach, and you can also see a series of rock stacks out to sea. This is a beautifully wild part of Iceland and quite a unique photography opportunity.''Finally, our third day on our five day Iceland itinerary will come to an end at the town of Vik. This is a nice little town with a beautiful church and lovely sea views. We suggest you overnight here, or depending hotel availability, at the town of Klaustur a little further east along the road.''Day 3 Accommodation:''Klaustur''or''Vik''. We stayed in the''Icelandair Hotel in Klaustur''. Our suggestion is to book two nights and return to the same hotel on day 4 to save the hassle of unpacking and repacking.''4. Klaustur to Jokularson, Day 4''The fourth day of our five day Iceland itinerary is going to cover some more beautiful waterfalls and canyons, as well as an iceberg filled lagoon and a glacier! Let’s get going.''The first stop on the day will be the\xa0Fjaðrárgljúfur Canyon, which is just outside Klaustur. This is a two kilometer long canyon which is 100 metres deep, and offers spectacular views of the river winding through it. You may want to do some hiking here.\xa0 To get here, just follow road 206 off Route 1 towards\xa0Lakagígar. Follow this for a while then at the intersection, turn left away from\xa0Lakagígar, The road is gravel but easy to drive.''Our next stop of the day is''Svartifoss'', or the black falls, about an hours drive east along Route 1. These falls tumble magnificently over black basalt columns, and are found in the''Skaftafell / Vatnajökull National Park''. It’s about a 1 hour round-trip to the falls, but we think you’ll agree that it’s worth the effort for the view.''A little way on from the turning to Svartifoss on Route 1 is the turning for the viewpoint of the\xa0Svínafellsjökull Glacier. Here, you can get very close to the tongue of this glacier, and see the incredible blue shades of ice. Just don’t be tempted to go for a walk on the glacier itself – if you want to do that sort of thing, you definitely want to take a tour with a qualified glacier guide.''Our final stop for the day is going to be two fold – the\xa0Jökulsárlón Lagoon, and the Diamond Beach.''Jökulsárlón Lagoon''is a lagoon formed from the meltwater of the\xa0Breiðamerkurjökull glacier, and is the deepest lake in Iceland. Here, icebergs from the glacier bob around the lagoon, usually for around five years, before they either disappear or float out to sea. If you visit Iceland in the summer months, you''can take a boat tour on this lagoon''and get up close to the glacier itself.''Across the highway from Jökulsárlón is the final stop on our day – the Diamond Beach. This is where those icebergs often end up – strewn along the beach just like diamonds. This is a truly incredible sight, and a wonderful''photography location''. A perfect place to end the day, perhaps with the sunset (depending on the time of year you visit of course!).''Finally, we suggest you turn back and cover some of the distance back to Reyjkavik, with a suggested overnight at Klaustur or Vik.''Day 4 Accommodation:''Same as Day 3.''5. Return to Reyjkavik, Day 5''Our final day has you retracing your steps on the way back to Reykjavik. This is a good chance to get any photos you missed at any of the highlights when travelling in the opposite direction – perhaps due to the weather, or maybe you just ran out of time.''We’d also suggest on your way back to Iceland that you stop off at some of the fishing villages along the way, which are quite picturesque. For example, the towns of Eyarbakki and Stokkseyri are only a short detour.''If you have the time, you can also drive road 427 around the Keflavik peninsula – this is a pretty drive that is less popular, and takes you past the beautiful Strandakirkja church, which is well worth the visit. If you didn’t visit the Blue Lagoon on your first day, you could also do it on your fifth day.''Finally, this five day Iceland itinerary has you back in Reykjavik for your final night.''Day 5 Accommodation:''Overnight in Reykjavik. We stayed at both the''Grand Hotel''and the''Reyjkavik Natura Icelandair Hotel''. See more lodging options in Reykjavik''here''.''6. Optional Alternative: Snaefellsnes Peninsula''If you want to skip Reykjavik on your first or last days in Iceland, and really want to pack as much sight-seeing in as possible, then you could consider heading up to the beautiful Snaefellsnes Peninsula for a day. This would be better suited to a longer itinerary – such as our''seven day Iceland itinerary''– but would be possible if you wanted to squeeze it in.''This part of Iceland is home to a number of sights and attractions, and there’s a lot to see here. We’d suggest you include the\xa0Gerðuberg basalt columns, the\xa0Vatnshellir lava cave, the fantastic\xa0Kirkjufell mountain and, for the brave amongst you, a trip to the''Shark Museum at Bjarnarhofn''.''At the Shark Museum you can sample an Icelandic delicacy – fermented shark meat. It’s an acquired taste that, I must admit, we didn’t quite acquire.''There’s easily enough to do on the peninsula to fill a whole day.''Accommodation:''If you choose to stay overnight on the Snaefellsnes Peninsula, we stayed at''Guesthouse Hof''. For additional options, you can see lodging options on''booking.com here''.''Iceland Road Trip Map''To help you visualise this trip, we’ve put together this map which highlights the route we suggest you take, as well all the attractions we’ve mentioned. You can also see this map directly on''Google Maps here''.''How To Book Your Iceland Trip''For a self-drive Iceland road trip like the one we mentioned, you have a couple of options. You can book everything yourself, including the hire car (''compare prices here'') and hotels (see hotels''here''). This will give you lots of flexibility, but is of course more work on your part.''Another option is to''book a self-drive trip''through a company like''Iceland Travel''. We did one of their self-drive trips for eight days through Iceland, and they booked all our hotels, the hire car and all our breakfasts were included as well. Their self-drive packages also include GPS hire and a tablet that is loaded up with information about Iceland.''For the itinerary suggested on this page, Iceland Travel have the perfect self-drive tour titled''Glacial Adventure'',\xa0which is a great match if you’re travelling from October through to the end of April.''For summer, Iceland Travel’s''Ring Road Highlights''self drive tour is a good match. You can also work with companies to add a day or customize tours a bit and obviously self-drive tours are pretty flexible as only your hotels, car, and any tours are booked so you can always detour a bit from the suggested itinerary.''When you’re planning your Iceland trip, we recommend you take a look at our guide to''planning a trip to Iceland'', which has lots more information to help you plan the perfect Iceland adventure!''Do I Have to Drive in Iceland?''Our itinerary for 5 days in Iceland is a self-drive road-trip itinerary, however, if you’d prefer not to drive in Iceland, there are other ways to get around and still see everything you want to see.''One option would be to base yourself in Reykjavik, and do a series of day trips with a tour operator. We have a guide to the''best day trips from Reyjkavik''that will give you ideas for all the things you can do.''In terms of matching the five day Iceland itinerary on this page, you shouldn’t have any trouble finding tours that cover all the highlights. Our suggestion would be to take a''full day Golden Circle tour''and a''full day south shore tour'', both of which run year round. You could also add in a''Snaefellsnes Peninsula day trip'', and if you’re visiting in winter, a''trip to see the Northern Lights''is a must.''There are a number of different options for many of these day tours – check out all the''day tour options with Iceland Travel here''for more ideas.''Another option is to look into a''bus passport''. These let you travel around the country on a tour bus, choosing where you want to get on and off. This can be a cost effective way to get around, and they stop at almost all of the tourist highlights in Iceland, depending on the itinerary you choose. However they are only an option from June to August.''Finally, you should definitely consider a multi-day group or private tour if you don’t want to drive yourself in Iceland. These will feature a driver and transport, accommodation and the majority of your meals, and will likely be one of the easiest options for sight-seeing in Iceland. You can let someone else handle all the logistics whilst you focus on just enjoying yourself.''Of course, you will be travelling to a fixed itinerary, and it won’t be as flexible as a self-drive trip, but it is a great option if you’d prefer to hand over the responsibility of planning and driving to someone else.''For our five day Iceland itinerary, we’d suggest you take a look at the following tours.''Volcanoes and Glaciers''– covers nearly everything in our itinerary plus the Westman Islands. 5 nights, runs May through September''Hidden Powers and Northern Lights''– again, covers nearly everything in our itinerary. 5 nights, runs October – April''South Iceland Winter Explorer Super Jeep Tour''– this is a smaller group tour in a specialised offroad vehicle that will get you off the beaten track whilst still visiting the highlights we mention. 4 nights, February – April.''Ice Cave Tour and Highlights of South Shore''– another smaller group tour that includes an ice cave tour. 5 nights, November to March''These are just a small fraction of the tours available. We suggest you take a look at the''group tour section of Iceland Travel''and input the time of year you are visiting, how long you are visiting for and the areas you are interested in, to see what’s available.''Add-ons to your Iceland Trip''Regardless of how you choose to travel in Iceland, we think there are a few addons you will likely enjoy to experience the country at it’s fullest.''Year Round Activities''When you visit Thingvellir National Park, a popular activity is to go snorkelling in the Silfra Fissure. This is a fairly unique experience, and lets you see the gap between the continents from a whole new angle as you float through the crystal clear waters. This activity is available throughout the year, with dry suits issued to keep you warm.''This can be done either as a''day trip from Reykjavik'', or you can arrange to do it on site. We’d highly recommend you book in advance – there’s a listing of companies offering''Silfra snorkelling tours here'', and you can book them directly from that site.''Another popular year-round activity in Iceland is whale watching.\xa0 Tours depart from a number of locations in Iceland, including Reykjavijkk,\xa0Grundarfjordur and\xa0Husavik, so wherever your Iceland trip takes you, you should be able to fit in some whale watching. You can see whale watching tour options and''book in advance online here''.''Summer Activities''In summer, we think you’re definitely going to want to take a trip on the Jökulsárlón Lagoon. This will let you see the beauty of the glacier up close, as well as have the experience of getting up close to the icebergs in the lake. There are a number of tour options available, including a''Zodiac Boat tour''and an''Amphibious Boat tour''. Whichever you choose, we recommend booking in advance to avoid disappointment on the day.''One of the thrills of being in Iceland in summer is to experience the midnight sun – a time when it never really gets dark. There are a number of tours that capitalise on this experience, including this fun''midnight sun ATV tour''.''If you like wildlife watching, as well as whale tours, you can also go on wildlife watching tours to see all sorts of wildlife from seals to puffins and other birdlife. There’s a full list of''wildlife tours you can take here''– most of these only run over the summer when the wildlife is more active.''Winter Activities''In Winter, we think you absolutely have to make the effort to try and see the aurora borealis, or the northern lights. If you’re driving yourself, you just need to find a spot away from city lights with a good view of the sky, and hope for clear conditions and high solar activity. The''Icelandic Met Office website''has an excellent tool to help you find the northern lights.''If you’re in Reykjavik, there are lots of tour operators who offer northern lights tours, including''these options from Iceland Travel''. This is a good way to see the northern lights, as the drivers will know the best places to go, and the tours will usually only go if there is a high chance of seeing the lights.''There are plenty more opportunities for adventure in Iceland in winter, from skiing, to snow mobiling to horse-riding. For more inspiration, check out our detailed guide to''winter activities in Iceland''.''When to Visit Iceland''In our experience, Iceland is a good country to visit at any time of year, with advantages and disadvantages to both times of year. Summer is definitely the most popular and when most people visit and the most attractions are open and the best months to drive in Iceland.''This itinerary on this page works well for both summer and winter in Iceland, as it doesn’t include any serious mountain roads which may be closed in the winter months.''Visiting Iceland in winter holds the advantage that prices are lower, there are less people visiting and finding accommodation will be easier. It’s also the best time to see the northern lights, which can’t be seen during the summer months.''Disadvantages of visiting Iceland in winter are that there will be much less daylight available, driving conditions can be more challenging (we strongly recommend a 4×4 vehicle with studded tires), and some attractions and tours might not be open or running. It will also be colder!''If you decide to visit Iceland in winter, do check out our''Iceland winter packing guide''for tips on what to bring, as well as our guide to all the''best winter activities in Iceland''for inspiration.''Summer in Iceland brings with it very long days, a bit more warmth, and lush green landscapes. The advantages are long hours of daylight, warmer weather and better driving conditions. More tours and attractions are also going to be open.''The disadvantages of visiting Iceland in summer are that prices will be much higher, there will be many more tourists and it can be harder to find accommodation. If you visit during the time of the midnight sun, you might also find it hard to sleep – we highly recommend packing an''eye mask''to block out the light, as hotels don’t often have black out blinds.''Where to Stay in Iceland?''Iceland has a wide range of accommodation options, from farm stays, vacation rentals and B&B’s through to higher end full service hotels. We’ve included links to where we stayed for each day of the above itinerary, and you can also check out''Iceland’s listings on booking.com''for a full range of options.''We also used''AirBnB''to book accommodation in Iceland, which is one of our preferred ways to find a place to stay if available. We also use a number of other sites like AirBnB, check out our full''guide to AirBnB alternatives''right here.''Further Reading to Help you Prepare for your Trip to Iceland''And that sums up our guide to spending 5 days in Iceland! Hopefully you’ve found this post useful. We’re continuing to add more content about Iceland from our experiences travelling in this beautiful country, so check back often for more. In the meantime, we think you’ll find the following resources useful for planning your Iceland trip:''We’ve put together a detailed guide to help you''plan your Iceland trip,''which has everything you could need to help you plan an awesome adventure in Iceland, from budget tips to practical information and more. A must read and a good place to start your trip planning!''If you choose to do this self-drive trip in Iceland in winter, check out our detailed''guide to driving in Iceland in winter''to help prepare yourself''We’ve created a list of some of our''favourite photography locations in Iceland''from our travels there to give you some ideas of where to aim to get the best photos''For a longer trip Jess has put together a detailed post outlining a''seven day Iceland itinerary''to give you some route ideas. Even if you are planning more or less, time this detailed guide can help you figure out where to go.''If you’re visiting Iceland in Winter, check out our guide to the''best winter activities in Iceland''and''my''tips for cold weather photography''We have a detailed packing guide to help you decide''what to pack for Iceland''We’ve also got a guide to the''best day trips from Reykjavik''should you wish to base yourself in the capital''We travelled with''Iceland Travel''– check out their website for lots of different tour options and prices.''For car rental in Iceland,''this website''has the largest list of car rental options in Iceland''The weather in Iceland can be fickle – the best website for real-time cloud cover is''this one from the Icelandic Met Office''.''Whilst Iceland is a safe country to travel in when it comes to things like crime, the country itself is home to extreme conditions and all sorts of seismic activity. So to stay safe as you go, check out the''safetravel Iceland page''Finally, if you’re not sure what camera gear to take with, take a look at both our guide to''picking a travel camera'', and our personal''travel photography gear''And that’s it! Is Iceland on your list, or have you already visited? Is there anywhere you’d add to our list, or any questions at all about travelling in Iceland? We’re happy to help out – just pop your thoughts and feedback in the comments below!''SHARE ON''We think that three days in Vienna is the perfect amount of time for a visit. Three days will let you see the majority of the main sights in this beautiful city that you’re interested in, plus add in a few of the less well known attractions, without being too rushed.''In this post, we’re going to share with your our idea of the perfect itinerary for three days in Vienna. As well as covering all the key attractions we think you’ll enjoy visiting, we’re also going to share some practical tips and advice for your visit, including tips on where to stay, where to eat, tips for getting around Vienna, and how to save money on sightseeing.''If you do have less time in Vienna, check out our itinerary for''two days in Vienna''. But now, let’s take a look at how to spend 3 days in Vienna.''Contents:''3 Days in Vienna''3 Day Vienna Itinerary Map''Where (and what) to Eat in Vienna''Where to Stay in Vienna for 3 Days''How to Save Money on your Vienna Trip''How to Get Around Vienna''Further Reading for your 3 Days in Vienna''3 Days in Vienna''Day 1''1. Mozarthaus Vienna''Vienna is very much associated with Mozart, one of the most well known composers of Classical music. Vienna was his home for many years during his prolific career, and he lived at a number of properties during his time in the city. Only one of these homes survives today – the''Mozarthaus'', which you’ll find in Vienna’s Old Town on Domgasse. Which is our suggested first stop on day one of our three day Vienna itinerary.''Mozart lived at this property for three years between 1784 and 1787, and it has been open to the public since 1941. In 2004 it was totally redesigned, and now the whole building is a centre dedicated to the life of the composer.''You don’t have to be a Mozart fan to enjoy a visit to this building – it’s a good insight into life in general in Vienna in the late 18th century. Naturally it’s also filled with information about Mozart and his life, so even if you don’t know much when you arrive – you’ll certainly know a lot when you leave!''2. St. Stephen’s Cathedral''Just a short walk from the Mozarthaus is the magnificent''St. Stephen’s Cathedral'', the seat of the Catholic church in Vienna. This is found right in the centre of the old town. and is hard to miss!''As you approach you will instantly notice the roof, which is decorated with glazed and painted tiles in an ornate design. There are also two large towers – the massive south tower, which stands at 136m tall, and the smaller north tower which is 68 metres tall. Both of these towers are open to the public, and can be climbed for a fee. As expected, the higher south tower offers the best views over the city.''Naturally, you can also go inside the cathedral, which is of a largely Romanesque / Gothic design, and predominantly dates from the Middle Ages. The three nave design with it’s huge columns is definitely an impressive sight and you can visit for free. You can also visit the Treasury. This does require a small fee, but you get to see more stuff and it offers good views of the main church interior from a first floor viewing area. The fee also means it’s a lot less busy, so you can enjoy the building without feeling too hemmed in.''3. Vienna State Opera House Tour''Vienna has a world famous state opera house which dates from 1869 and has played host to some of the world’s most famous singers and conductors. If you are particularly interested in the Opera, then a night here watching a performance is likely to be an experience you will never forget. You can check performance times and buy tickets for shows at various venues in Vienna''here''.''However, you can also visit the opera house without seeing a performance, by taking a guided tour. These last around forty minutes, and you’ll learn all about the fascinating history of the building, see all the main highlights, and even get a behind the scenes look at how an opera house is run. Tours run a number of times during the day – see the''official website for information''.''4. Wien Museum''If you’re interested in learning more about the history of Vienna, we suggest heading to the Vienna Museum, or Wien Museum. This is spread out over a number of buildings across the city, but we recommend you visit the''main building on Karlsplatz''.''Spread across three floors, this building houses an excellent spread of artistic and historical exhibits that will give you an excellent overview of the history of Vienna, as well as some of its more notable artists and other residents over the ages. On display you’ll find everything from neolithic finds through to Roman archaeological discoveries through to displays from the present day.''There are also notable artworks from Gustav Klimt and Egon Schiele on display, as well as two incredible models of the city, one of which shows what Vienna would have looked like in the mid-19th century. Even if you aren’t usually a “museum” person, we think you will enjoy the Wien Museum, and if you only visit one museum in the city, this should be it.''5. Karlskirche''Right next to the Wien Museum is the beautifully ornate Karlskirche, or St. Charles Church. This is an 18th century Baroque style church with two impressive spiral columns on the exterior. It was built by Holy Roman Emperor Charles VI, largely to celebrate the end of the plague in the city, and is dedicated to St. Charles, known as a plague healer.''It’s a striking building with the central dome and two spires, and the lake in front of it offers a lovely reflection as well. Of course, you can also go inside, where one of the highlights are the spectacular frescoes that adorn the interior of the dome. You can also take a panoramic elevator for a closer view of the frescoes. There’s an admission fee for the church, and you can see that and the opening times at the''official website.''6. Naschmarkt''We’re going to round off our first day of sight-seeing in Vienna with a visit to one of Vienna’s most famous markets – the''Naschmarkt''. This is just a short walk from Karlskirche.''The Naschmarkt runs for almost a mile along Wienzelle, and is Vienna’s largest market by far. It’s also got some pedigree, having existed here since the 16th century – although back then if you came here you’d largely only be able to buy milk.''Today there is a lot more on offer than milk. You’ll find fruit and vegetables from the around the world, exotic spices, olives, cheeses, meat, seafood – almost anything you can imagine in fact. There are also many restaurants and food stalls serving everything from sushi to Viennese specialities. A fine way to end your first day exploring Vienna, we think you’ll agree!''Day 2''7. Spanish Riding School''One of Vienna’s most famous attractions is the Spanish Riding School, home of the Lipizzan horses. These horses and their riders regularly perform shows in the winter riding school arena, a purpose built building which dates from 1729. The shoes focus on classical dressage, and are rightly world famous.''However, you don’t have to book tickets for a show to see these beautiful horses in action. On a number of mornings through the week, the riders and the horses do training exercises in the arena, and you can watch these training exercises for a moderate fee.''It’s worth noting that these are training exercises rather than a whole show, so don’t go expecting to see an elaborate co-ordinated spectacle. If that’s what you’re after, you should attend an actual performance. Also note that photography is not permitted during the training.''If you are interested in the behind the scenes operation of the Spanish Riding School, you can also take a guided tour. We were lucky enough to be taken on a private guided tour, and very much enjoyed getting to meet the horses and learn about their lives (although do note that for the horses’ health, you aren’t allowed to actually touch the horses).''For information on times and prices, see the''official website of the Spanish Riding School'', where you can also book your tickets.''8. Albertina''I’m now going to suggest a number of museums and art galleries that you might be interested in visiting. Visiting all three of these might be a challenge if you also want to do the activities at the end of the day, but I wanted to include them all so you can decide which sounds best to you. You could also add them in to the first day of the itinerary if you have time. It all depends on your own pacing.''The first museum you should consider adding to your Vienna itinerary is the''Albertina''. This is an art museum, found in the Hofburg Palace complex, which is home to one of the largest print rooms in the world. With over a million items in the collection, you are assured to see something you like, with art from world renowned artists from Monet to Cezanne to Picasso on display. It’s also home to the Hofburg Palace staterooms, which included as part of your entry fee.''9. Natural History Museum''If you prefer your museums to contain fossils, dinosaurs and other items of a natural history theme, then you should head to Vienna’s''Natural History Museum''.''This is housed in a spectacular building (Vienna has a lot of spectacular buildings), which was purpose built and opened in 1889 as a museum to house the Habsburg collection. Today, the museum collection contains over 30 milion items, collected over 250 years, and makes for an impressive visit.''The Natural History Museum will definitely be for anyone who loves to learn about the history of the earth, and there’s everything here from dinosaur skeletons to exhibits on the history of the solar system. You could easily spend a whole day just exploring this museum if you wanted to.''10. Sigmund Freud Museum''With Jess’s background as a psychologist, naturally, we had to visit the''Sigmund Freud museum''in Vienna – and this might be something you are interested in as well.''The museum is housed in the former apartment and office of Freud himself, and has been open to the public since 1971. It’s not a huge space, but it does contain a number of items related to Freud including some of his clothes and part of his antiques collection.''The museum also has information related to the history of psychoanalysis and its influence on art and society. However, it does not contain much original furniture, as most of this was taken to London by Freud when he moved there, and is now in the Freud Museum in London.''There is a small fee to visit the museum, and do be aware that there can be a wait at busy times as it is not a large space and it is a popular spot to visit. You can see opening times and prices at the''official website''.''11. City River Cruise''We always enjoy taking a river cruise if it’s an option in a city, and Vienna of course has the Danube. A river cruise is a relaxing way to see a few sights whilst taking the load off your feet (and perhaps enjoying a refreshing beverage?), and there are a number of operators who run cruises in Vienna.''We took the tour with''City Cruises Vienna''on the MS Blue Danube, which was conveniently''included on our Vienna Pass''. This was a fun and comfortable experience, and we saw parts of the city, including a lot of street art, that we hadn’t seen before. Cruises run throughout the year, but the schedule varies depending on time of year. You can check prices and the timetable''here''.''12. Danube Tower''If you’re looking for a good view in Vienna, look no further than the''Danube Tower''. This tower, originally built to host the 1964 Viennese Horticultural show, is the tallest structure in Austria. From the viewing platforms, which are 450ft above ground level, you get an excellent view of the entire city and much of the surrounding area.''As well as the viewing area (accessed by high speed elevator) there are also two revolving restaurants in the tower, which would make for a good spot for your evening meal. This would also be a great place to watch the sunset at the end of your second day exploring Vienna!''Day 3''13. Schönbrunn\xa0Palace''No visit to Vienna is complete without a visit to the spectacular Schönbrunn\xa0Palace, home of the Habsburg empire. This is a large complex with a lot to see and do, so we suggest you allocate at least half a day, if not more, to your visit. You’ll also want to arrive as early as you can, as the queues here can become long as the day progresses.''On arrival, you’ll want to join those queues and book your time slot for the palace tour, as well as get tickets for whichever of the other attractions you want to visit. We’d highly recommend access to the gardens, which are massive. Once you have your tickets and tour time set up, you can plan what to do for the rest of your visit.''There is so much to do at Schönbrunn, including a big zoo (the oldest in the Western world!), the Imperial Carriage Museum, and the Orangery. A visit to the Gloriette, a huge structure which crowns a hill here, offers great views of the palace. We’d also highly recommend taking the time to visit the Apple Strudel show, where you can learn all about traditional apple strudel making techniques – plus eat a slice yourself.''To be honest, if you have the time and inclination, you could easily spend all day at\xa0Schönbrunn\xa0Palace, and we wouldn’t blame you if you choose to do just that. On a warm sunny day it’s definitely one of the nicest places to be in the city.''If you’d rather do a bit more sightseeing though on your third day in Vienna, here are a couple more options for you to consider.''14. Belvedere Museum''If you have time, we very much recommend a visit to the UNESCO world heritage listed''Belvedere Museum''. This actually consists of two buildings, the Upper and Lower Belvedere. which were constructed\xa0 in the early 18th century as the summer residence for Prince Eugene, a military commander and statesman of the Holy Roman Empire.''The two palaces are separated by sloped landscaped gardens which contain a number of water features and sculptures, and are considered some of the finest examples of Baroque architecture in Europe.''Within the museum are a number of artworks, including the largest collection of Klimt paintings in the world, as well as works from Monet, Van Gogh, Renoir and Cezanne. The Upper Belvedere also affords an excellent view of the city.''14. Time Travel Vienna''If you are travelling in Vienna as a family, or you prefer to learn about history in a more interactive way, then you might enjoy a visit to''Time Travel Vienna''.''This is a fun tour through 2,000 years of Viennese history, told through the medium of costumed guides, animatroic shows and a “5D” cinema experience, as well as various special effects and music. The tour lasts around an hour, and is available in a number of languages. Definitely a fun way to learn about Vienna!''16. Prater Park and Ferris Wheel''Last on our list of what to do in Vienna for three days, before we move on to some practicalities for your visit, is a visit to Prater Park. This is an old traditional amusement park, a couple of metro stops from the old town centre, which is home to Vienna’s iconic''Giant Ferris Wheel''.\xa0Originally built in 1897, this was the world’s largest ferris wheel for decades, right up until 1985 in fact. It was seriously damaged in World War 2, and today’s version is the rebuilt model from after the war.''If you’re visiting with a partner and\xa0 feeling romantic, you can even hire out your own cabin on the Giant Ferris Wheel and have a''romantic meal''.''Group cabin''reservations are also possible, perhaps if you are celebrating a special event. Otherwise, you can just do what we did, and take the standard tour which lasts around twenty minutes, and offers lovely views of the city.''Prater Park itself is also a lot of fun, especially for families. There are rides, an arcade, a Madame Tussauds and a number of places where you can get food. One thing to be aware of though is that it attractions aren’t open that late all year round, so check opening times on the''official website''before you go to avoid disappointment.''3 Day Vienna Itinerary Map''To help you with your planning, we’ve put together a map of all the attractions in our three day Vienna itinerary. You can see this below, and access the original on Google Maps''here''.''Where (and what) to Eat in Vienna''Vienna has a wide range of excellent restaurants and cafes to choose from, at a variety of price points. There are also plenty of bars of course. Local food specialities in Vienna include Wiener Schnitzel (a breaded veal cutlet), Tafelspitz (boiled beef) and of course, Apfelstrudel, or Apple Strudel.''Many of the restaurants throughout Vienna will serve the classics, with prices ranging from 13 – 18 euros for a main course in our experience. We enjoyed particularly good food at''Augustinerkeller'',''Zwolf Apostkeller''and''Glacis Beisl'', all three of which serve high quality traditional Viennese food at reasonable prices.''Where to Stay in Vienna for 3 Days''When we stayed in Vienna we booked an''AirBnB''apartment. This cost us around 100 USD per night for an apartment to ourselves right in the city centre, and meant that we had room to work, cook meals and do our laundry.''Of course, there are plenty more options than AirBnB in Vienna, with everything from''hostels''through to''mid-range hotels''and of course,''luxury five star hotels''available. We recommend you checkout the''Vienna listings on Booking.com''if you prefer a hotel stay, we find they usually come back with the widest choice and best deals.''For more tips and ideas on how to get the best deals on accommodation (and more!), check out our comprehensive''travel resources page''.''How to Save Money on your Vienna Trip''As a European capital. Vienna is not exactly a budget destination, although there are ways that you can save money on your trip.''Nearly all the attractions on this list carry an entry fee, which ranges from a few euros up to thirty euros per person. So the cost of sightseeing can very quickly add up. Thankfully there’s a solution, which is the excellent''Vienna Pass''. We’re big fans of using city passes like this to save money, and think that the Vienna Pass is one of the best value city pass cards available.''To give you an idea of the savings, if you visited all the attractions on the itinerary above, you’d be looking at over 250 euros in attraction entry fees per person.''With the Vienna Pass, all of the attractions above are included, with the exception of the Karlskirche, Wien Museum and the Vienna State Opera Tour. It also includes a great many other attractions not listed above, which means you can see even more should you want to.''And a''three day Vienna Pass''only costs 109 euros. As you can see, this is a considerable saving.''Of course, you’ll want to check your own savings against the attractions you want to visit, and you can see all the attractions covered by the Vienna Pass''here''. We definitely think you’ll find it saves you money, and this included Hop on Hop off bus is a real bonus as well for helping you get around the city. Which we’ll talk about now.''How to Get Around Vienna''Vienna is a very walkable city for the most part, and the majority of this itinerary can be done on foot. There are a few locations that are a little further out of the old town centre, like Schönbrunn\xa0Palace, the Danube Tower and Prater Park, for which you might need to take public transport or a taxi.''Vienna has an excellent public transport system that includes a metro, buses, and trams. We invested in a''three day travel card''for our time in Vienna, which gave us free access to all the public transport options in the city, but to be honest, we didn’t use it enough to really justify the cost – we found ourselves walking between most of the sights, or taking Vienna’s hop on hop off bus.''As discussed above, if you pick up a Vienna Pass, this includes a''Hop on Hop off bus pass''good for the duration of the pass, which is excellent value. There are multiple routes around the city, including to all the major sights in this itinerary (including Schönbrunn\xa0Palace), and it’s a fun way to do a bit of sight-seeing whilst resting your legs as well.''Further Reading for your 3 Days in Vienna''We hope this post gives you nearly all the information you need to plan out your three days in Vienna. However, we have some additional resources that we think you might find useful for planning your trip. Do check back from time to time and bookmark this page, as we’re always updating and adding new content to our sites to help you make the most of your travels!''Our guide to spending''2 days in Vienna'', if you are visiting for a shorter trip.''We also have a number of other''detailed itineraries'', which cover cities, countries and road trips around the world.''Visiting Vienna in summer? Take a look at our tips for''visiting Europe in summer''to make the most of your time''Looking for a guidebook? We used the''DK Eyewitness Travel Guide to Vienna'', and found it very informative''Planning to stay in an apartment? Check out our''guide to over 20 websites that allow you to book apartments online''to make sure you get the best deal''And that sums up our post on how to spend three days in Vienna! As always, we hope you found it useful, and that you have a wonderful trip! If you’ve got any questions or thoughts on how to spend three days in Vienna, let us know about them in the comments below!''SHARE ON''So you’ve decided to take a trip to Iceland in Winter! This is an excellent time to visit – fewer tourists, gorgeous winter landscapes and a chance to see the Northern Lights. Don’t miss our''seven day guide to visiting Iceland in winter''for inspiration, as well as our guide to''planning a trip to Iceland''. Once you’ve done those, you’ll probably be wondering what should be on your Iceland packing list for winter.''Well, we’re here to help. Based on our experiences travelling in Iceland in winter, we’ve put together a comprehensive guide to what you should pack for your winter trip to Iceland. We’re going to cover everything from what clothes you’ll need to wear in Iceland in winter through to footwear, accessories, and suggested photography equipment.''Iceland is a country where the weather can change very quickly no matter what time of year you visit, so packing layers is always a smart option. The''layer system''is designed to let you modify your clothing to meet a range of temperatures without needing to pack too much, with warm air generated by your body trapped between the layers to keep them warm.''It’s worth remembering that you don’t have to pack like you are going to Antarctica, as despite what many people think, most winters are relatively minor in Iceland, especially the southern part, thanks to the Gulf Stream.''Essentially, all you need to do is pack for Iceland as you would for any cold weather destination,\xa0 factoring in any activities you may be doing that may require special items (e.g., hiking, snowmobiling, diving, fishing, visiting hot springs).''We also highly recommend checking the weather forecast before you go so you are prepared.''Also we’d recommend packing and buying all the main things you’ll need in advance of your Iceland trip as buying items (e.g., winter clothing, boots)\xa0 in Iceland can be very expensive.''Now, let’s get started with our:''Iceland Packing List for Winter''1. Windproof Gloves''You’ll notice a theme with the first few items in our packing list. The wind in Iceland can be bitingly cold – even if it’s not particularly cold outside, the windchill can make it feel like it is well below freezing. So you will want a nice pair of warm, windproof gloves.''Water resistance is also nice to have, but not essential unless you are planning to do''snow-based activities in Iceland''(e.g., skiing, snowboarding, sledding, snowman building) or planning longer hikes where you might have prolonged exposure to rain, sleet, or snow.''I have a pair of''Isotoner windproof gloves''which do the job just fine, plus they let me operate my smartphone without taking my gloves off. They have style options for both men and women – the pair I link to (and wear!) are listed as women’s gloves, but I would suggest they are unisex.''2. Windproof Hat''We think you are definitely going to want a hat for your winter adventure in Iceland. Ideally this will be windproof and warm, and will protect cover your head and ears from the cold weather.''We have a collection of hats depending on our moods, and there are plenty of''warm hat options''out there to keep your head toasty warm – in all kinds of styles! Here is''one I personally like''in a style that keeps my head and ears warm. Jess likes''this one''. Just make sure it fits snugly, and isn’t liable to blow off your head in a gust!''3. Scarf''You may also want a scarf to keep your neck warm, we both like to use a nice warm scarf to keep the drafts out,''something like this''for me and something''like this for Jess''. A scarf is easy to pack, and definitely helps to keep the heat in. We prefer wool scarves if possible.''4. Wind and Waterproof Jacket''Continuing the theme of staying wrapped up warm against the weather, a windproof and waterproof jacket is going to be your best friend in Iceland in winter.''You have a few options – you can invest in a lighter “shell” jacket that keeps out the wind and water, and then layer up underneath that with warm fleece layers that don’t trap moisture.''Or you can''buy a heavier jacket''that provides warmth as well as wind and waterproofing.''Finally, you can also invest in a''jacket like this''that does everything by coming in multiple layers, so you can pick and choose. It’s really up to you!''Jess and I have gone for the first route for our waterproof clothing, and for the last couple of years we’ve been wearing''jackets from Trespass''. These are reasonably priced and well made, plus we like how colourful they are. If you choose this option, make sure you buy a jacket that is a little loose, so you have plenty of room to add layers underneath.''5. Waterproof Shoes or Boots''Even if you’re not planning on doing much hiking in Iceland, I’m going to suggest you have a good pair of hiking boots or walking shoes that are waterproof – especially for winter travel in Iceland.''You will often find yourself walking across snow or slushy ice, and the spray from waterfalls tends to blow everywhere! The worst thing is getting wet feet when it’s cold, so investing in a decent pair of waterproof boots, be they hiking boots or snow boots is definitely a wise idea.''Personally, I have a''pair of Scarpa boots''which I love, and which have lasted me for over a decade thus far. Jess has a''pair of Merrell hiking boots''which she likes very much.''When it comes to buying boots, it’s definitely worth trying them out before settling on a pair. If you do decide to order online, make sure you do so through a company that lets you return or exchange them. Here’s a''full list of boots''to get you started.''6. Thermal Baselayers''Now, onto your base layers, which are the layers you wear closest to your skin under your regular clothes.''You’ll want a long-sleeved top and a set of bottoms. You are going to want thermal baselayers that are breathable and will wick the moisture away from your skin. So you definitely don’t want cotton.''We like''merino wool baselayers'', as they are really warm and super comfortable. Laurence in particular loves''this top''. However, some folks find wool can be itchy, in which case you could look at either''synthetic''or''bamboo baselayers'', both of which will perform well. Jess finds wool to be itchy, so wears something''like this''.''If you are going to be traveling for more than a few days, you’ll probably want to invest in at least two pairs of tops and leggings for your trip, so you can wash them as needed. Or get something that is quick dry (not wool) so you can wash it and then let them dry overnight in your hotel room.''7. Mid-layers''In between your base layer and your coat you’re going to want mid-layers. Our recommendations would be some''fleece sweaters''that you can layer up. Usually you would wear a thermal baselayer, a fleece midlayer and a wind and waterproof outer jacket.''If you have a thick outer jacket, then you won’t want too thick a fleece midlayer. On the other hand, if you are only investing in a thinner shell outer layer, you will probably want thicker midlayers, or even to wear two – one thinner, one thicker.''We think that for your lower half, a good pair of''hiking pants''will do. These will be comfortable and fast drying, which is the most important aspect.''Of course, jeans are an option if that’s how you roll, but we find that they dry really slowly, and can be very uncomfortable if wet. You can always pack an extra pair of pants in your day bag or car though that you can change into as well.''8. Towel''We don’t often travel with a towel any more, as most guest houses and AirBnB’s have them available. But you are probably going to want to bring a towel to Iceland. There are so many fantastic hot spring fed thermal baths and public swimming pools, and having your own towel will save you having to hire one each time.''It’s worth noting that some thermal baths do include towel rental in their fees, such as the Blue Lagoon. However, some do not, including the much cheaper Reykjavik city baths, and some locations don’t even have the option to rent either.''We forgot our towel, and bought one in Ikea in Iceland when we realised we didn’t have one. You can benefit from our mistake, and just pack one in advance. Ideally a''nice big fluffy one,''but if you’re economising on packing space, a''travel towel will do''.''9. Swimming Clothes''Along with a towel, you’re absolutely going to want to bring your swimming outfit to Iceland, even in the dead of winter. The naturally heated geothermal pools like the Blue Lagoon are open year round and wonderfully warm, and taking a dip in one of these is a must for any''Iceland trip''. There are even snorkeling and diving opportunities year round.''Your choice of''swimwear''is of course entirely up to you, there’s no shortage of choice out there!''10. Hand / toe warmers''If you think you’ll be outside for longer time periods, or you are particularly susceptible to the cold, you might consider getting yourself some''hand warmers''and some''toe warmers''.''These are inexpensive items that actually generate heat, last for a number of hours, and will keep your extremities warm. So if you want to avoid cold toes or fingers, these are definitely a good idea.''11. Electronic Gear''That’s the majority of the clothing covered. Now let’s take a look at some electronic items you might want to take with you.''Smartphone''Obviously you’re going to want your smartphone when you go to Iceland. Iceland has a pretty good cell network, and you can buy SIM cards in Iceland if you have an unlocked phone – see a list of Iceland pre-paid SIM options''here''.''UK travellers on the Three network will be able to get online using their home data allowance as Iceland is included in the Feel at Home countries, and US travellers on T-Mobile can use their data roaming here as well.''We travelled with''Iceland Travel'', and they''gave us a SIM card on arrival''as part of our self-drive package\xa0 which also came with a tablet and GPS navigator.''If you’re thinking of upgrading your phone, I have a guide to the''best smartphones for photography in this post'', plus a full''guide to getting online when you’re travellling here''.''External powerpack''Iceland can be cold in winter, and cold weather means that your smartphone battery isn’t going to last as long as it would usually last. So we recommend you invest in an''external powerpack''that you can use to recharge your smartphone on the go.''You can also prolong your smartphone battery life by keeping it in a warm place, like an inside pocket close to your body, and not leaving it in the cold for prolonged periods of time.''Travel adaptor plugs''Iceland has European style two pin plugs, so if you’re travelling from the UK, the USA, or anywhere else with a different power socket, you’ll need a''travel adaptor like this''. We have one of those, but to be honest, we actually prefer a simpler and cheaper solution''like this''.''Then if you’re like us and have a lot of electronic gear, we suggest you travel with a''power strip like this'', which you can plug into your adaptor. Many places we stay never seem to have enough sockets for all our chargers, so a power strip is usually invaluable.''Headphones''Sometimes you just want to chill out and listen to some music or watch a movie, and for that you’ll need a pair of headphones. Laurence’s absolute favourite headphones that he travels with everywhere are''these'', and they’re the only pair which have survived countless years of travel abuse without failing. Which is quite impressive.''12. Photography Gear''Camera''You’re going to want to take a lot of pictures when you’re in Iceland, so some sort of camera is going to be a must. Going into what camera you should take to Iceland would pretty much be a whole post in itself though!''If you are looking for a new camera, I’ve already written a detailed''guide to picking a travel camera'', which should help you decide, with options on everything from smartphones through to DSLR’s.''Tripod''When you’re visiting Iceland in winter, there’s a good chance that you’ll experience the beauty that is the Northern Lights.''To get photos of the Northern Lights, you’re absolutely going to want a''tripod'', as night time photography usually requires exposures that are too long for hand holding.''We also have a full post on''why you might need a travel tripod and how to pick one here'', which should give you some good options. You will likely find a tripod with spiked feet, as suggested by a reader in the comments, will be more stable in some situations.''Memory cards''You’re going to take more pictures than you think, so we suggest stocking up on''memory cards''for your camera before you go. Memory cards are pretty cheap these days, so there’s no reason not to.''Spare batteries''As previously mentioned, batteries don’t like the cold, so you might find your camera battery doesn’t last as long as normal. We’d advise picking up a spare battery for your camera before you go – there’s nothing worse than being half way through a day of gorgeous landscapes and having your camera battery die on you!''Other Camera accessories''You will likely want a''lens cleaning cloth''to keep your lens clean and to remove moisture that will likely gather when you photograph waterfalls. If you’re more serious with your photography, a set of neutral density filters will likely come in handy – read why''you might want a neutral density filter here''.''13. Luggage & Backpacks''There are so many incredible bag options out there. Jess and I use a number of bag brands. For my camera / electronic gear, I use a''Vanguard Alta Sky 49'', which works well as both a carry-on and day pack.''Jess loves her''Eagle Creek bags'', and has both a carry-on sized backpack and a larger wheeled backpack that we check-in. I have an''Osprey Sojourn 60'', which has been travelling with me since 2013 through multiple countries, and is yet to let me down.''We’re happy to recommend all of those brands if you’re in the market for a new bag.''14. Miscellaneous''Well, of course you’re going to want a few other things.''Warm socks'',''USB cables''and all the chargers your electronics need for example.''We’d also recommend some sort of face moisturiser,''chapstick''and''sunscreen'', as the cold winter air in Iceland can be quite harsh.''For serious hikers and climbers, we’d also pack waterproof pants, a''travel first aid kit'', and''waterproof covers''for your packs and gear – we find''large ziploc freezer bags''work really well for keeping electronics dry.''If you’re visiting any of the thermal springs or pools, you’ll also likely want a pair of sandals or shower shoes, and a''waterproof case or bag''for your phone and/or valuables.''If you are planning to do a specific activity (e.g., skiing, diving, hiking), then you may want to bring along some additional things like prescription goggles or a waterproof hiking pack.''Iceland Winter Packing List Checklist''To help you out, here’s all the above in list form, plus we’ve included all the regular stuff you’ll want to pack like underwear and toothpaste! We’ve also got a downloadable''Iceland Winter Packing Checklist here''for you to print out and keep.''Outer Layers of Clothing''Wind and waterproof jacket''Warm winter coat''Mid Layers''Fleeces, sweaters, hoodies''Pants''Base Layers''Tops''Bottoms''Waterproof Shoes or Boots''Other Clothing & Winter gear''Wool socks''Underwear''Windproof warm gloves''Windproof warm hat''Scarf''Swimming Gear''Swimwear''Towel''Sandals/Shower shoes''Waterproof bag''Electronic Gear''Smartphone''External powerpack''Travel adaptor plugs''Headphones''Chargers''Cables''Tablet/laptop/e-Reader''Other ______________''Photography Gear''Camera''Tripod''Memory cards''Spare batteries''Camera Accessories (lenses, case, strap, chargers, etc.)''Luggage & Backpacks''Suitcase(s)''Day bag''Toiletries''Moisturizer''Chapstick''Sun protection''Deodorant/Fragrance''Toothpaste/Toothbrush''Cosmetics / Haircare''Hygiene Products''Medications''Other ______________''Other items''Jewelery / Watch''Travel Journal''Reading materials''Cards/games''Other ______________''Hikers''Day pack''Snacks''Waterproof cover for bag''Medical first aid kit''Safety gear''Skiiers/Winter Activities''Waterproof pants''Waterproof gloves''Ski goggles''Ski boots''SCUBA divers''Goggles''Waterproof camera''If you’re driving, you should also check out our guide to''driving in Iceland in Winter''which has a few other essentials you might want to consider packing for your Iceland trip.''Further Reading for your Iceland Trip''Well, that brings us to the end of our guide to what to pack for Iceland in winter. Before you head on though, here’s a summary of some of our best Iceland content to help plan the perfect trip to Iceland!''Our guide to''planning a trip to Iceland''We’ve put together a list of some of our''favourite photography locations in Iceland''to give you some ideas of where to aim to get the best photos''If you’re planning on driving in Iceland, you’ll want to check out our guide to''driving in Iceland in Winter''Jess has put together a detailed post outlining a''seven day Iceland itinerary''to give you some route ideas, plus we have a year round''five day Iceland itinerary''If you’re visiting Iceland in Winter, check out our guide to the''best winter activities in Iceland''We’ve also got a guide to the''best day trips from Reykjavik''should you wish to base yourself in the capital''We travelled with''Iceland Travel''– check out their website for tour options and prices''The weather in Iceland can be fickle – the best website for real-time cloud cover is''this one from the Icelandic Met Office''.''Whilst Iceland is a safe country to travel in when it comes to things like crime, the country itself is home to extreme conditions and all sorts of seismic activity. So to stay safe as you go, check out the''safetravel Iceland page''As you’re visiting in winter, you’ll want to read through my''tips for cold weather photography''to help you get the best photos from your trip''And that’s it! We hope you found our guide to packing for Iceland in winter useful. As always, we’re open to comments and feedback in the comment section below!''SHARE ON''If you’re heading to Rome, one thing you absolutely have to do is try gelato – the Italian version of ice cream. Gelato literally means “frozen” in Italian. And in this post, we’re going to help you find the best gelato in Rome (in our opinion anyway).''Strictly speaking, gelato differs from ice cream in a few key ways – it has less fat than ice cream for example, and also less air – making it a denser treat than normal ice cream. It’s also served warmer than ice cream, meaning it will melt faster as you eat it.''Gelato is incredibly popular in Italy, and as you stroll around Rome you’re going to find yourself overwhelmed by choice. You don’t want to waste your time, so as a quick rule of thumb, avoid anything that is wildly colourful or piled really high – these are signs that there’s a lot of artificial colours or flavours, plus real gelato is too dense to pile up.''To be honest, the best gelato isn’t even on display in piles – it’ll be retrieved from wells in the counter that keep it fresh.''You don’t have to be a detective though, and spend hours trying to figure out which is the best gelato in Rome, because we’ve done it for you. We spent a considerable amount of time trying a wide assortment of gelato shops in Rome on a recent visit (the tough things we do!), and are pleased to provide our definitive list of:''The Best Gelato in Rome''1. Come il Latte''Spoiler alert: this is my favourite of all the gelato places in Rome. The others listed below are all excellent too, but if there was only one gelato spot I could go to in Rome, this would be it.''As the name suggests (it means “like milk”),''Come il Latte''specialises in super creamy gelato. They make their gelato with between 60% & 70% milk (non-dairy gelato is also available if you’re lactose intolerant), and then use the freshest seasonal products for flavours.''The gelato is made fresh every day, and there are a lot of flavours to choose from. Everything from the classics like chocolate, vanilla and pistachio, through to more rarefied offerings like persimmon. Flavours vary depending on the season and what is freshly available, and it should go without saying that there are no colour additives or chemical preservatives going on here.''My favourite part of the whole experience though wasn’t even the gelato, even though that was pretty epic. No, it was the fact that before you pick your flavour, you get to decide if you want the interior of your cone (you have to get a cone) coated in dark chocolate or white chocolate. Yep, they have essentially a chocolate fountain, from where the interior of the cone is coated in your choice of dark or white chocolate.''Then it’s filled with mind-bogglingly delicious gelato, and you can, if you feel truly decadent, then top it with homemade whipped cream. I mean, at this point, why not?''Even better, unlike many other gelato’s which nickel and dime you for every addition, all of the above is part of the price. Which is very reasonable, for the epic flavour adventure you are about to embark on. So yes, just go here.''Where is it?''Come il Latte can be found on Via Silvio Spaventa 24/26, which is just a short walk from Rome’s Termini station. See their website for opening times and further information.''2. Il Gelato di San Crispino''Found a stones throw from the Trevi Fountain,''Il Gelato di San Crispino''is practically an institution at this point. It is one of the most centrally located gelaterias on my list, and also one of the first “famous” gelaterias on my list. It even made it into''the book''(and''film'')''Eat, Pray, Love'', and as you can imagine given its location, is pretty popular.''Luckily, the gelato pretty much stands up to the reputation, with fresh flavours and an obsession with quality shining through. They are quite strict here though – you can only get your gelato in a cup – the flavour of a cone is deemed too overwhelming for their delicate gelato.''Still, you can buy your gelato cup, and then enjoy it whilst wandering past iconic sights like the Trevi Fountain or the Pantheon, essentially having your own Eat, Pray, Love moment.''If you are in this area hankering for gelato, this is definitely an excellent option (although also see Gelateria Giolitti below). Even if it is a little more pricey than other gelatos, it’s worth it – Il Gelato di San Crispino has some of the best gelato in Rome near the Trevi fountain and the Pantheon.''Where is it?''There are actually a number locations, but the one in this list that most will be familiar with is at Via della Panetteria, 42, near the Trevi Fountain and the Pantheon. You will also find one at\xa0Piazza della Maddalena. As a bonus tip, if you’re leaving Rome and are missing gelato already there’s even a branch at\xa0Fiumicino Airport!''3. Gelateria del Teatro''If you’re over near the Castel Sant’Angelo or Piazza Navona, then you’ll probably want to head to''Gelateria del Teatro''for your gelato fix. Established in 2004, Gelateria del Teatro is also the some of the best gelato near the Vatican, even if it’s a bit more of a walk.''This gelateria regularly tops best gelato in Rome lists, and for good reason – the ingredients are high-quality, Italian sourced, and everything is made on site under the guidance of passionate owners Stefano and Silvia. They even use filtered water and freshly delivered milk. They also take their cones seriously, so if you like your gelato in a cone, you’re in the right place.''The location is also picture postcard perfect – think a narrow cobbled street with a few tables and chairs outside, surrounded by some of the oldest streets in Rome. So yes, a good location, and definitely the one to come to if you are near the Vatican or Piazza Navona!''Where is it?''Tucked away on Via dei Coronari, 65-6''4. Giolitti''Believed to be Rome’s oldest gelato shop, having been established in 1890,''Gelateria Giolitti''is a fantastic option for gelato near the Pantheon and the Trevi Fountain. Between this and the aforementioned Il Gelato di San Crispino there’s no excuse for eating bad gelato in this part of Rome!''Giolotti has been in the same family since being opened by Giuseppe and Bernardina Giolotti in the 19th century, and the family commitment to serving high quality gelato has never wavered. In fact, for a time, they supplied cream to the Italian royal family.''Today this iconic gelato shop is near the top of many visitors lists. Even the Obamas came here on a visit to Rome. As you might imagine, such popularity means it gets rather busy in here, and the queues sometimes go out the door.''There’s a counter service option, or you can opt to be seated (which costs a little extra). We’d suggest the former, the queue moves pretty quickly and it’s worth the wait in any case. Before joining the queue, you’ll need to pick up a ticket so you get served in the correct order.''The gelato comes in a wide array of flavours, plus you can accompany it with a coffee (or something stronger) as there’s a full service bar here as well – note this is a separate queue to the gelato line.''Where is it?''Via Degli Uffici del Vicario, 40.''5. Gelateria dei Gracchi''About half way between the Vatican and the Piazza Popolo,''Gelateria dei Gracchi''is another excellent place for gelato near the Vatican. Personally I tried the chocolate here, and it was truly divine. I’m not the only one to think so – Anthony Bourdain himself rates this as one of the best gelato options in Rome.''A commitment to fresh, seasonal ingredients definitely helps, plus gelato making experience that dates back to 1981, when the owner Alberto Manassei started making gelato in Sardini. Fast forward to 1999, and Gelateria dei Gracchi was opened in Rome.''Like many of the options on this list, this isn’t a huge place, so expect to have to grab your gelato and go. You could even wander with it along the banks of the nearby Tiber, although if you’re like me, you will probably have eaten it all before you even get there.''Bonus tip – there’s another outlet of the Gelateria dei Gracchi on via di Ripetta. This is probably the best gelato near the Spanish steps.''Where is it?''Via dei Gracchi, 272.''6. Otaleg!''It’s not all about central Rome, although from a visitors perspective, the above five options are definitely going to be the easiest to get to as part of your Rome trip.''If you don’t mind a bit of effort in your quest for the ultimate gelato, then you might want to head out of the city centre to''Otaleg''. Which, you will have noticed, is gelato spelt backwards.''Yes, it’s going to take you a while to get here, but this means two things. One, you will have had gelato somewhere where few other tourists have, meaning you get to brag about your favourite gelato in Rome at a gelateria that likely few of your peers will have been.''Two, you will have had what many feel is genuinely the best gelato in Rome. So when you’re bragging to your peers, you’re backed up by the opinion of some solid gelato aficionados.''But that’s not all. When you visit, you’ll get to see the unique Otaleg laboratory, and see the whole gelato making process happening right before your eyes. You’ll also get to pick from around sixty flavours, all based on seasonally available produce. And then settle on something infused with some kind of alcohol, because you’ve earnt it.''Where is it?''Viale dei Colli Portuensi, 594''7. Grom''When people talk of gelato in Rome, it is almost inevitable that at some point''Grom''will crop up. This is a very popular chain of gelaterias which started in Turin in 2003, and is now in tens of locations worldwide, including New York, Tokyo and Dubai.''Naturally, there are a number of locations in Rome as well!''This makes Grom a very convenient option, although of course now they are “mainstream”, you may not accumulate as many gelato knowledge points compared to picking an option that isn’t found around the world.''Still. The gelato is widely regarded as being amongst the best available, and Grom is also well known for having an excellent fruit sorbet range. So definitely an option to keep in mind, and with nine locations in Rome at time of writing, including one at Rome’s main train station (Termini) you should be able to find one quite easily too.''Where is it?''A number of locations, including\xa0Via della maddalena 30,\xa0Via Agonale 3, and\xa0Stazione Termini''Map of the best Gelato Locations in Rome''It’s important that on your trip to Rome you only eat the finest gelato. To help you out with this, I’ve put together a handy map, so you’ll always be able to locate the nearest gelateria from the above list. Click''here''to see this map on Google Maps.''Further Reading for your Rome visit''That summarises our guide to where to find the best gelato in Rome. Presumably though, you’re not going to Rome *just* to eat gelato. Although, no worries if that is the case. Either way, we think you’ll find the following resources helpful for planning your trip to Rome!''If you’re heading to Rome, check out our''3 day Rome itinerary''. It helpfully goes past nearly all of these gelateria’s, so you’ll definitely be able to check many of them out!''We also have a guide to spending''2 days in Rome'', if you have a bit less time on your hands''Walks of Italy have a''tour of Rome''that includes a free gelato. And they’re passionate about good gelato at Walks of Italy, so you’re guaranteed it’ll be the good stuff.''Speaking of tours, we’ve taken a number of tours in Rome.\xa0 You can read about our experience visiting the Vatican, Coliseum and Roman Forum with Walks of Italy in Rome''here'', and our experience at the Borghese Gallery''here''. With Context Travel, you can read about the Grand Tour and the Romantic Poets tour''here'', and Popes, Power and Parties''here''(plus those posts have a discount code for Context tours!)''If you’re looking for a physical (or Kindle!) guidebook, we recommend the''Rick Steves Rome guide'', which has lots of practical information to help you make the most of your stay''And that’s it! Got a favourite gelateria in Italy that didn’t make our list? Let us know all about it in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Not satisfied with an epic fireworks display, a massive street party and a Viking-led torchlight procession to celebrate the new year (which they call''Hogmanay''), the folks of Scotland have also instituted an annual tradition known as the Loony Dook.''This involves getting yourself dressed up in the wackiest outfit you can find, marching through the streets of South Queensferry and then throwing yourself into the Firth of Forth.''Which connects to the North Sea. Which tends not to be very warm.''I have actually done this, and am delighted to have done so. Although I don’t feel the urge to do it again.''In today’s post I’m going to do two things. I’m going to share with you some photos of the madness that is the annual Loony Dook, and then I’m going to give you information should you wish to attend yourself – either as a spectator or as a participant.''Let’s start with the photos, because they’re so much fun!''Photos from the Edinburgh / South Queensferry Loony Dook''If you’re going to dress up as a bridge, make it the Forth Rail Bridge.''Because even when dooking, you’ve got to have your tub of porridge ready.''Dookers marching through South Queenferry, led by a drum band.''In they went…''and went..''The water is not as warm as this image makes out.''Farewell Captain Hook.''We woke the spirit of Scotland.''Hulk made an appearance.''As did Wonder Woman.''Up, up and away!''It was this cold.''These folks came as photographers.''Lovely day for it!''And that’s what the''Edinburgh’s Hogmanay''Loony Dook looks like! Now, to help you plan your own attendance at this fun event.''More information on attending the Loony Dook in Edinburgh, Scotland''How to Register for the Loony Dook''If you want to attend as a participant, you have to register in advance. There is a small fee for registration, and it usually opens around September. Check the official''Edinburgh’s Hogmanay''website for more information.''When is the Loony Dook?''The Loony Dook takes place every year on the first day of the year (1st January). The time depends on the tide, but it usually takes place sometime in the morning when the tide is on its way in.''Can I attend the Loony Dook without going in the water?''Absolutely! Hundreds of people attend each year as spectators. There is a very festive atmosphere and it is a lot of fun to watch and to cheer on the participants. It’s also totally free to attend as a spectator, and you don’t need to register. Just make sure you arrive well in advance, as you might have to walk a fair bit from your car if you drive.''Do I need\xa0 an outfit for the Loony Dook?''An outfit is not mandatory, but given how many people attend in fancy dress, you will probably enjoy your experience a lot more if you make a bit of effort.''How many people participate in the Loony Dook?''Normally around a thousand people take part in the actual “dook”, which starts off as a procession through the streets of South Queensferry led by a drum band, before ending in the frigid waters of the Forth of Firth.''How do I get to the Loony Dook?''South Queensferry is a few miles outside of Edinburgh, so you’ll need to plan your transport accordingly. The easiest way to get here is to drive, and there is free parking with marshals to help you get to your place.''There is also a train station here, Dalmeny, which serves South Queensferry. Finally, you can also take the bus, or taxis. Many Dookers do it as part of a tour from Edinburgh, so transport is included.''Any tips for taking part in the Loony Dook?''I took part in the Loony Dook in 2015. My advice is to have someone else handle your transport – either a tour company, or a friend. You’ll want to bring a nice big towel and a bag of dry clothes that someone can give to you shortly after getting out of the water.''You’ll also absolutely want to wear some form of footwear, like sandals or old trainers. I did it bare foot, which was a big mistake – the ground in January is very very cold!''For more advice on what to bring, check out my guide to''what to pack and wear for Edinburgh’s Hogmanay'', which has a section on the Loony Dook.''Other than that, just go planning to have fun! The water is cold, but just throw yourself in without hesitating, splash around a bit, and then find that big fluffy towel. You’ll survive.''Further Reading on Visiting Scotland''Before we leave you, we just wanted to share some more resources to help you plan your trip to Scotland, both for Hogmanay, and during the rest of the year.''We have a guide to''attending Edinburgh’s Hogmanay''to help you get the most out of this epic New Year’s Eve Party''My guide to''what to pack and wear to Edinburgh’s Hogmanay'', which include the Loony Dook''The official''Edinburgh Festival City website''which will give you information on attending all of Edinburgh’s festivals throughout the year''Our series of posts on''Edinburgh'', including a''two day Edinburgh itinerary'',''21 Highlights in Edinburgh''&''Getting off the beaten path in Edinburgh'', as well as a guide to''visiting Edinburgh for the Festivals''A detailed guide to the''highlights of the epic North Coast 500 road trip'', as well as''accommodation options along the route'',''photography highlights of the NC500'', and the ultimate''NC500 planning guide''A''two day Glasgow and Loch Lomond Itinerary'', our''guide to Glasgow'', as well as''ten things to do in Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park''A''Guide to Touring the Scottish Borders'', as well as a''5 Day Isle of Skye and Highlands itinerary''Our guide to the''best photography locations in Edinburgh''and on the''Isle of Skye''to make sure you get the best photos from your trip to Scotland''This''Rick Steves Scotland guide'', should you want a guidebook to help you plan''Well, that sums up our guide to attending the Loony Dook! Something you want to try for next year perhaps? Let us know your thoughts in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Wow, 2017 is already over! We’ve had a really fun (and busy!) year, and now that we’ve reached the end, we wanted to take a moment and look back at all the adventures we’ve had, and share some of our highlights with you guys.''Over the year we’ve visited 13 countries, spanning from Japan to the USA to France. It’s been a fun ride! Hopefully some of our adventures, photos and posts will help inspire your travels in the coming months. Without further ado, let’s take a look back at our year.''Our 2017 in Travel''January – Barcelona & Skiing in the Spanish Pyrenees''We started the year with a trip to Spain, where we first spent a''few days exploring Barcelona''– always a pleasure.''After that we hit up the''Spanish Pyrenees where I went skiing'', and Jess researched''all the things you can do at a ski resort if you don’t ski''. Which, it turns out, is quite a lot.''We also explored the medieval villages and beautiful scenery of the''Spanish Pyrenees'', which is well worth a visit. After that excitement we headed back to Scotland where we explored locally before our next big overseas adventure, to:''March – Iceland''Iceland had been on my bucket list forever, and I can’t believe that as a photographer who loves landscapes, it took me so long to actually get there.''This was definitely one of my favourite trips of the year. The''photography opportunities in Iceland''are just epic, and we spent much of our time just ogling the gorgeous landscapes. Because we visited''Iceland in winter'', we weren’t able to go everywhere we wanted, but we’re hoping to head back that way in 2018 to explore even more!''If Iceland is on your bucket list, check out our guide to''planning a trip to Iceland'', as well as our suggested''seven day Iceland itinerary'', to get you started.''April – Turkey to Italy''In April we headed to Turkey, where I was speaking at a travel conference. We also took a bit of time to explore Istanbul and Antalya.''Then, rather than heading straight back to the UK, we thought it would be fun to take an overland trip from Turkey to Italy!''We did this by train, with stops in Bulgaria, Romania, Vienna, Rome, & Pisa.''Visiting Rila Monastery in Bulgaria was a definite highlight, and we spent just enough time in Romania to make us realise it was a country we definitely need to explore more. From there it was on to Austria –\xa0 we both loved our''two days in Vienna''– a first for both of us. We finished that trip off with''three days in Rome'', a city that we could never get tired of, however many times we visit!''May – North Coast 500 & Glasgow, Scotland''May saw us exploring a bit closer to our current home in Edinburgh. Our first adventure had us visiting Glasgow, which, rather embarrassingly, neither of us had explored in depth despite it being so close.''We visited for a number of days, on a trip that covered both''Glasgow''and''Loch Lomond'', and thoroughly enjoyed our visit. If you’re looking for a city to visit in the UK that has a great deal to offer but not too many tourists, add Glasgow to your list.''After Glasgow we took to the road and hit the epic North Coast 500 driving route. This is a 500 mile route that loops around Scotland’s north coast, starting and finishing in Inverness.''We took around a week to do the full route, with a bit of time in Inverness on the way. We found the best''photography locations on the NC500'', struggled to''pick our highlights'', and did a lot of research to figure out the best''accommodation along the way''.''If you’re thinking about driving this road, and you totally should if you come to Scotland, take a look at our ultimate''guide to planning a North Coast 500 road trip''to get you started!''June – USA''In June we headed across to the USA, sailing on board the Queen Mary 2 from Southampton in the UK to New York, USA.''This was the same ship that we had''gotten married on''two years previously, so it was lovely to revisit and relive those memories. Plus, no internet for eight days was very relaxing! We also had a quick stop in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada for our only port day.''We then spent a few days catching up with friends and sight-seeing in New York City before heading to Jess’s home state of Ohio.''Here, we caught up with Jess’s family, and headed out on a three week road trip of the state. We saw a great deal, including some of''Ohio’s most beautiful waterfalls'',''Amish County'',''The Wilds''safari park and one of the''USA’s best theme parks''! A busy few weeks for sure.''July – London''Following our US trip it was back to the UK, where we spent a week in London staying with friends and researching a number of posts. Jess and I always love visiting London, and summer is a fantastic time to visit – even if it is a little more crowded than at other times!''From that trip we put together our idea of the perfect''six day London itinerary'', which we added to our''one''and''two day London itineraries''. We also put together this guide to all the''top Harry Potter locations in London''– a must read for fans of the books and films!''August – Bristol''August saw us continuing to enjoy the British summer, with a trip to the city of Bristol in the south-west of England. We visited for a week with two goals in mind – one, to see everything we possibly could, and two, to visit the''Bristol International Balloon Fiesta'', Europe’s largest annual balloon fiesta.''We’ve still to write up our experiences on the balloon fiesta (although if you''follow us on social media''you’ll have seen we had an amazing time!), but I have put together a couple of posts on Bristol – a''guide to two days in Bristol''as well as an overview of''Bristol’s street art''– world famous, thanks to Bristol being the home of Banksy.''We can highly recommend Bristol (and do, as part of our''two week UK itinerary'') – it’s a beautiful city, with something for everyone, from the aforementioned street art to excellent dining to cultural attractions. We could even see ourselves living here at some point in the future!''September – Isle of Wight, France''With summer starting to wind to an end, we headed south on a six week road trip. Our first stop was the Isle of Wight, an island off the south coast of England near Southampton. We visited friends who have recently opened a''fantastic restaurant on the island''(you’ll see my photos and Jess on their website!), and then spent''two days exploring the Isle of Wight.''Jess in particular was fascinated by the islands connection with one of Britain’s former monarchs, and we did a lot of research so she could put together the definitive guide to''Queen Victoria sites on the Isle of Wight''.''We also had fabulous afternoon tea, learnt about the history of British rocketry, walked on beaches, and wandered 12th century castle ruins. Seriously, you need to add the Isle of Wight to your''UK itinerary''!''After the Isle of Wight we took the ferry to France, where we embarked on a month long trip.''We started in the north, visiting sights such as Dunkirk, before heading to Paris for a week. Paris is absolutely one of our favourite cities, and we always love to visit for as long as we can. In this case, we spent Jess’s birthday, which we celebrated with''afternoon tea at the Ritz''. Which was jolly nice.''We also took a lot of photos, visited Versailles (my first time, Jess’s third), ate spectacular Parisian cuisine, went to museums and, well, had a fabulous time. From that I put together a guide to how to spend''two days in Paris'', which should make for good reading for anyone planning a trip. We also have a full''review of the Paris Pass'', to help you save money, and a guide to''choosing the perfect Seine river cruise'', amongst other posts.''After Paris we headed to the Loire Valley, a stunning part of France that is filled with gorgeous castles. We spent a lot of time here doing fairly comprehensive research into all these Chateaus, and will soon be publishing a guide to all those. So stay tuned for that in the New Year.''Finally, we finished off our time in France visiting my family, before we headed north and crossed the channel to Ireland!''October – Ireland & Japan''Yes, October has us visiting Ireland, which was Jess’s first visit to the country. Our main reason for visiting was that I was speaking at a travel conference in Killarney, but we did take advantage of the trip to spend a little bit of time exploring both Dublin and parts of Northern Ireland.''Most of our time was however taken up at the conference, and we had to return to the UK as we’d been invited out to Japan by Holland America, to experience a part of their Grand Asia and Pacific World Voyage – not something we wanted to miss out on!''That trip was a lot of fun, even if the weather was against us, and Jess and I loved being pampered by the staff on board the MS Amsterdam. You can read all about our''adventure cruising with Holland America here''.''October was also the month our''facebook page''hit a million followers, which was a significant milestone for us! Thanks to everyone who likes us on facebook and follows our adventures there – if you’re not following along yet, you can join the fun''here''.''November & December – Back in Scotland''After all that travel we were quite exhausted, and decided to stay at home and catch up on some work. We did pop down to London for a week to attend the World Travel market and visit with friends, but other than that, we pretty much enjoyed putting our feet up at home a bit.''Still, we did get out and explore a bit! We found time to find all the''best photography locations in Edinburgh'', and Jess put together the ultimate''guide to Christmas in Edinburgh''as well!''My last trip of the year was entirely photography focused – I popped up to the Isle of Skye to get some shots for my guide to the''best photography locations on the Isle of Skye''. The weather was very much against me (and Jess sensibly stayed at home in the warm!), but I think I got some photos that make the effort worth it. Take a look and let me know what you think.''What’s ahead in 2018?''2018 is shaping up to be a good year! We have a lot of plans, although the only scheduled trip right now is to the Seychelles. We are hoping to visit (and re-visit) a number of our favourite countries though, with possible trips to Iceland, Spain, the United States, and Ireland on the cards – so stick around and follow us on social media for all of that.''We’re also going to be launching a new look and feel on the site that should make it faster to load and easier to find everything you need, something we’re really excited about!''We also wanted to take this opportunity to thank you for following along on our adventures. Your support means so much, and means we get to keep on living the life we love – travelling the world, taking pictures of it, and sharing our stories.''Thank you so much from both of us, and have an awesome 2018, wherever in the world you are, and whatever you get up to!''SHARE ON''Paris is easily one of our favourite European cities, and one that we return to time and again. It has so much to offer, from beautiful views to world class museums to fabulous food. We’ve visited a number of times, both for short breaks like the 2 days in this Paris itinerary, as well as for more prolonged stays.''Speaking of a shorter visit, we wanted to share with you an itinerary for 2 days in Paris that will get you to all our favourite sights. It’s a fairly packed itinerary (feel free to adjust accordingly!), but if you’re short on time in the city and want to see as much as you can – this will help you do that. If you have slightly longer, you might want to check out our guide to spending''3 days in Paris''.''This Paris itinerary is perfect for a first time visitor, or even a returning visitor looking for a quick 2 day Paris itinerary that includes most of the major attractions. After the itinerary, we share some tips and advice for visiting Paris, as well as some ideas for saving money on your trip. Now onto our suggestions of how to spend the perfect 2 days in Paris.''Contents:''2 Day Paris Itinerary''1. Saint Chapelle''2. Cathédrale Notre-Dame de Paris''3. Louvre''4. Wine Tasting''5. Arc de Triomphe''6. Seine River Cruise''7. Eiffel Tower''8. Sacre Coeur''9. Dalí Museum''10. Opera Garnier Tour''11. Musee d’Orsay''12. Stroll along the Left Bank''13. Sunset at Tour Montparnasse''14. Centre Pompidou''2 Days in Paris Itinerary Map''When to Visit Paris''How to Get Around Paris''How to Save Money on Your Paris trip''Where to Stay in Paris''Practicalities for visiting Paris''Further Reading for your Paris trip''2 Day Paris Itinerary''Paris Itinerary: Day 1''1. Saint Chapelle''I have to admit, it took multiple visits to Paris before I actually visited''Saint Chapelle''. Suffice to say, my mind was blown. This is without doubt one of the prettiest churches I’ve ever visited, and I can’t believe it took me so long to actually go inside.''With almost floor to ceiling stained glass windows, this 13th century gothic chapel will literally take your breath away when you walk inside. Don’t feel bad if you stand there, mouth agape with wonder. I certainly did, until I remembered myself and got to taking some pictures. It’s a truly wonderful place, and an absolute must in Paris.''Saint Chapelle''normally opens at 9am, and we highly recommend you get here by 9am sharp, if not a little earlier, in order to get in before the queues. It’s a relatively small attraction, and the security and ticket lines can be long, so arriving here when it opens will save you a lot of time.''Entry is €10 at time of writing, and it’s included with the''Paris Pass''(see our''review of the Paris pass here'') and Paris Museum Pass.''2. Cathédrale Notre-Dame de Paris''Just near Saint Chapelle is one of Paris’s most well know religious buildings –''Notre-Dame Cathedral''. With two huge towers and mighty flying buttresses, it’s not hard to see why this has become one of Paris’s iconic attractions, not to mention one of the most famous churches in the world.''Completed in 1345 after nearly 200 years of construction, Notre Dame is a beautiful building that is well worth the visit. You can walk around and appreciate the exterior, and of course, you can head inside. Entry is free, although if you want to visit either the towers or the crypt there is an additional fee (included with the Paris Pass and Paris Museum Pass), and you need to pre-book a timeslot for climbing the tower.''You can either do this on site, or, ideally, using the “''Jefile''” app, available on''iOS''and''Google Play''.''3. Louvre''From Notre Dame it’s a 20 minute walk (or 15 minute metro ride) to one of Paris’s most famous museums –''the Louvre''. This is of course home to the Mona Lisa (which many visitors make a bee-line for!) and the Venus de Milo, but the largest and most visited art gallery in the world has a great deal more to offer than these two sights, from Islamic art to Greek antiquities.''You could spend a whole day (or more!) just exploring the Louvre, but that would restrict the rest of your Paris sightseeing, so try and limit yourself to two or three hours if you can!''Also, you should be aware that the Louvre is one of Paris’s most popular attractions, and lines can get long. There are two main entry lines, one fast track security line and one slower line for people without an advance ticket.''We’d definitely encourage you to save money and time by either getting a fast track ticket in advance, or buying a pass that gives you access to the fast track line. Both the Paris Pass and Paris Museum Pass offer free entry to the Louvre with fast-track access – see more at the end of the post on which pass is going to best for this two day itinerary.''4. Wine Tasting''France is known the world over for wine, so after you’ve sated your cultural curiosity at the Louvre, why not relax a bit over a glass of wine whilst learning all about the art of French wine making. Sound good?''Well, conveniently, right next door to the Louvre you’ll find the “''Caves du Louvre''”, a relatively new wine tasting experience set in an 18th century wine cellar, formerly home to the wine collection of the King of France himself.''Here, over the period of about an hour, you’ll try three different French wines, whilst learning all about grape varieties and the factors that go into the making of a French wine.''It’s a fun experience, and you can either do it as a self-guided tour using an app, or with a tour leader. It’s currently €30 for the tour, but it is''free for holders of the Paris Pass''. If you choose the self-guided option, you even get a free bottle of wine for your effort.''If you’re not keen on drink, or you’re travelling with children, you might instead want to pop along to the nearby''Angelina Café''for a divine cup of hot chocolate. Or if you’re into tea, check out Jess’s guide to the''best afternoon tea locations in Paris''.''5. Arc de Triomphe''There are a number of places in Paris that I think offer fantastic views of the city, and the Arc de Triomphe is one of my favourites. Found at the western end of the Champs Elysees, this fifty metre high monument to those who died for France in both the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars is a must-see when visiting Paris.''You can of course admire the arch from below, and be amazed at the efforts of the traffic to get around this monumental roundabout. But to be honest, for the best experience, you need to climb the steps to the top (or take the lift) and enjoy the magnificent views of the city. Note – to cross to the Arch, take the pedestrian underpass. Don’t try and cross the traffic roundabout!''From the top of the Arc de Triomphe you get wonderful views of the Parisian skyline, including the Eiffel Tower, and the business district La Défense.''I’d also add, if you take the stairs on your way out, there’s a nice photo opportunity as you look down the stair well from the top of the stairs spiralling down. If you’re interested in more good photo opportunity ideas in Paris, check out my guide to the''best photography locations in Paris''.''Climbing the Arc de Triomphe costs €12. It’s included with the Paris Pass and the Paris Museum Pass, which both also offer fast-track entry.''6. Seine River Cruise''One thing many people look forward to when visiting Paris is taking a Seine River Cruise. These let you see a good many Parisian sights from a unique perspective, often whilst listening to a commentary. Most tours last around an hour, and are a nice way to see a lot without too much effort. Just sit back, relax, and let the views roll on by.''Jess has written a detailed post to choosing a''Seine River Cruise''to help you decide between the various operators. There are a lot of options, and even though the view and route will largely be the same, various factors like commentary and boat size should be considered.''Some also offer a meal, although if you go down this route, you might have to adjust this itinerary to suit.''One tip – if you buy the Paris Pass, a''Seine River Cruise with Bateaux Parisiens is included''. This is a good option, and one we took advantage of on a recent trip to Paris.''7. Eiffel Tower''Our last entry for your first day in Paris is an absolute must when in Paris – the Eiffel Tower. You will have already seen this magnificent construction looming over the skyline as you wandered around Paris, but I promise you, nothing really compares to standing underneath her and looking up.''You can experience the Eiffel Tower in a number of ways. Good views can be had from the Trocadero, on the opposite bank of the Seine. You can also get a lovely view of the Eiffel Tower at sunset from the Champ de Mars – the landscaped gardens that run to the southeast of the tower. This is a popular spot for the sunset in Paris, and many people bring a picnic to sit outside and enjoy the view in the warmer months, often with a glass of wine in hand.''If you want to climb the tower, we very much recommend that you book your tickets in advance. This will save you from queuing in the often very long lines at the ticket offices. Tickets can be''purchased directly from the official website'', which usually has the best prices.''We would say that climbing the Eiffel Tower is definitely something to experience, something everyone should do at least once.''There are also''restaurants in the tower'', which would make for a romantic spot for your evening meal, and a wonderful way to end your first day exploring Paris! If you do choose to do this, we’d definitely recommend researching which restaurant you want to visit (prices vary), and booking in advance so as not to be disappointed.''Paris Itinerary: Day 2''8. Sacre Coeur''Your second day in Paris has you starting at the Sacre Coeur in Montmartre. This beautiful basilica is found at the summit of Montmartre hill, the highest summit in the city. As you would imagine therefore, there are excellent views on offer from up here.''The Basilica is relatively new, with construction being completed in 1914. Its white domes are instantly recognisable, and you can climb to the top for a fantastic view of the city. Entry to the Sacre Coeur itself is free, although there is a fee for accessing the towers.''Montmartre itself is an area which has long been popular with artists, and many famous artists of the Belle Époque era had their studios in this area. Today, you can get your portrait, caricature or silhouette painted at the famous Place du Tertre, a short walk from the Basilica.''Note that the steps of the basilica are particularly popular with “bracelet makers”, folks who will try to encourage you to accept a free bracelet from them. Except once they’ve starting tying your wrist with the free bracelet, they’ll expect some money in return. For tips on avoiding this and other common Paris scams, check out our guide to''avoiding scams in Paris''.''9. Dalí Museum''Whilst you are up in the Montmartre area, we suggest you might want to take in the Dalí Museum –''Espace Dalí''. For fans of the artist, who was a part of the Surrealism group that was headquartered in Montmartre in Paris, this museum is a joy.''With over three hundred original artworks on display, this is the only permanent museum in Paris dedicated to the artist. There are sculptures, drawings, watercolours and more on display, and the attached gallery even has some of his artwork for sale.''Entry is €11.50,''free for holders of the Paris Pass.''10. Opera Garnier Tour''From the Dali Museum it’s around a half hour stroll, or half an hour by public transport, to the next stop on our two day Paris itinerary – the''Opera Palais Garnier''.''We’re not actually going to the Opera though, although that is of course an option for an evening activity. Instead, we suggest that you take a tour of this spectacular building, which served as the inspiration for the play “Phantom of the Opera”.''The tour will give you full access to many parts of this gorgeous building, including the 2,000 seat theatre, the gorgeous grand staircase, the incredible seven tonne chandelier, and the balcony. The tour lasts for approximately ninety minutes, and is offered in English – check times on the official website''here''so as to be sure you don’t miss it.''Tours of the Opera Garnier are currently €15.50 per person, and are''free for holders of the Paris Pass''.''If you are interested in attending a performance at the Opera Garnier, read Jess’s detailed post to''booking tickets for the Paris Opera here''.''11. Musee d’Orsay''From the Opera Garnier we’re going to head to another of Paris’s famous museums – the''Musee d’Orsay''. Found in a former train station on the south bank of the River Seine, this spectacular building picks up where the Louvre finishes off, with a focus on artworks dating from 1848.''We think that the building itself make this museum worth the visit alone. What was formerly the main platform area is now a huge exhibition space which looks stunning, and the beautiful station clocks are seriously photogenic. Of course, the museum has no shortage of art either, with works from Monet, Van Gogh, Cezanne and Renoir all on display, to name but a few.''Entry to the''Musee d’Orsay is currently €12''. Free entry with skip the line privileges is provided to''Paris Pass''and''Paris Museum Pass''holders.''12. Stroll along the Left Bank''Paris is a romantic city, and we think that one of the most romantic things you can do is take a wander along the “Left Bank”.''In case you were wondering where the left bank is, it’s the south side of the river Seine. It’s called the Left Bank because it’s the left side of the river as you look downstream.''From the Musee d’Orsay, it’s a nice stroll along the left bank, if you head in an easterly direction, with views of the Louvre, the Pont des Arts and ultimately, if you keep going, spectacular views of Notre Dame.''13. Sunset at Tour Montparnasse''The last two entries on our two day itinerary can be switched around, depending on what time of year you visit. This is because sunset will vary depending on when you visit, and I’d suggest that the Tour Montparnasse is absolutely best experienced at sunset.''The Tour Montparnasse is the second tallest skyscraper in Paris, and from its rooftop observation deck you get what we think are the best views of Paris. From here you can see all the way to the Eiffel Tower, Montparnasse and La Defense.''At sunset, the view is truly magical, as the sun lights up the sky, and the city lights start to come on. Then – the pièce de résistance – the twinkling lights of the Eiffel Tower herself.''Access to the Tour Montparnasse viewing deck is currently €14.50 per person, or free for holders of the''Paris Pass''.''14. Centre Pompidou''Last on our list of attractions for our two day Paris itinerary is the''Centre Pompidou''. This is home to a number of things, but we think you’ll be most interested in the Musée National d’Art Moderne – Europe’s largest Museum of Modern Art.''This completes the trilogy of art museums in Paris – the Louvre spanning up to 1848, the Musée d’Orsay covers the 19th and early 20th century, with the Centre Pompidou holding the the masters of modern twentieth century art. I’m talking Picasso, Warhol, Kandinsky, and Duchamp.''Conveniently, the museum is open until 9pm, which means you’ll be able to visit either before or after your sunset at Tour Montparnasse. Don’t miss the “view of Paris”, a balcony which offers one of the better view of Montmartre in the city.''Tickets for the Centre Pompidou museum are''currently €14''. It’s free for holders of the''Paris Pass''or Paris Museum Pass.''2 Days in Paris Itinerary Map''To help you visualise all the above, we’ve put the attractions onto a map so you can see where you need to be for each day of your Paris visit. You can see this''map here on Google''.''When to Visit Paris''Paris is a city that is good to visit throughout the year. As with most European cities, it is particularly busy in the summer months, and lines for attractions in July and August can be long. The summer months do however promise the best weather.''If you want reasonable weather with less people, then the months of May and September will offer some solace. We also love visiting Paris in both fall and winter, when the leaves on the trees turn golden, and the city lights itself up for Christmas.''Basically, we think you’ll have a good time whenever you visit Paris, but just bear in mind that some months are much busier than others.''How to Get Around Paris''Paris is very easy to get around, with a comprehensive underground (the Metropolitan) as well as buses and local trains. Naturally there are also taxis and private hire cars available.''If you avail of the Paris Pass (see below on money saving tips for Paris), this will come with a transport pass that matches the length of the pass, allowing you to travel on any public transport inside zones 1 – 3. These zones cover all the attractions on this itinerary. Alternatively, you can buy individual tickets for transport on the metro or bus.''The most cost-effective way to do this is to buy tickets in packs of 10, which represents a fairly significant discount on buying them individually. Tickets can be bought at pretty much every metro station from the ticket machines, which accept cash and cards, as well as coming with an English language option.''How to Save Money on Your Paris trip''The Paris itinerary above packs a lot into two days, and many of the sights and activities have an associated fee. At time of writing, if you chose to do everything in the above list, you’d be looking at spending just over €200 per person (including a two day metro transport card).''The good news is that you can easily save money on your visit to Paris. The answer is to invest in a''Paris Pass''. This includes access to nearly everything we’ve included in our itinerary (except the Sacre Coeur dome and the Eiffel Tower). It also comes with a travel card valid for the duration of the pass and grants you skip the line privileges at key sights.''Calculating if a Paris Pass is worth it for you will depend on exactly which attractions you want to visit – to help you out, check out''Jess’s comprehensive Paris Pass review post.''As a guide though, for the itinerary in this post, total attraction entry and transport would cost you €211.5. At time of writing a two day Paris Pass costs €131. Add in the cost of climbing the Sacre Coeur (€6), and a ticket to the top of the Eiffel Tower (€25), and the total cost with the pass would be €162.''This represents a saving per person of €49.50 – enough for a nice dinner somewhere!''Click here''to buy your Paris Pass in advance.''As well as the above, you should be aware that on the first Sunday of every month, access to most museums in Paris is free – although be aware that popular museums like the Louvre get incredibly busy on these days. In addition, some locations will give you free entry if you are an EU citizen under 26 – you’ll need ID to prove this of course.''Where to Stay in Paris''We’ve stayed at a variety of locations in Paris, from hosted apartments through to hotels and homestays. There’s a massive choice, and prices are generally reasonable considering this is a capital city. We’d advise picking somewhere within easy walking distance of a metro so that you can easily get around all the sights in this itinerary.''Our''favourite way''to find the''best deals on accommodation''is booking.com. They’re easy to use, usually have the best prices, and have everything from hotels to apartments.''For example, here’s an''apartment just near Montmartre'', here’s a''centrally located four star hotel''and here’s a''well reviewed hostel'', just to give you an idea of some of the choices!''Try them for Paris and see!''If you prefer an apartment, then we recommend''AirBnB''. We’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get up to''a $100 discount''if you sign up with''this link.''(Discount varies by currency and if you choose to host at some point).''Practicalities for visiting Paris''Safety:''We’ve not had any problems in Paris, although there are a few scams to be aware of – check our''guide to avoiding common Paris scams''so you are prepared in advance.''Power:''Electricity is of the 220v standard, with the 2 pin European style plug. Travellers from countries like the UK and the US will need an adapter, and US travellers need to check their equipment supports the 220v standard – it will be written clearly on the power adapter.''Currency:''Paris is part of the Eurozone, so the currency is the Euro. You can get these from ATM’s, banks and currency exchanges, although credit cards are of course widely accepted.''Internet:''Internet access is widely available in the form of WiFi all around the city and in hotels and coffee shops, so you shouldn’t have any trouble getting online. You can also pick up local SIM cards if you have an unlocked phone. Travellers from the UK on the''Three network''will be able to use their Feel At Home data, which is a great deal if you’re a regular traveller from the UK.''For more options on getting online when travelling, check out our''guide to getting online when travelling''to help you figure out the best options.''Water:''The water in the taps is safe to drink unless otherwise posted. If you don’t like the taste, bottled water is widely available.''Further Reading for your Paris trip''And that’s pretty much it for our guide and itinerary to spending the perfect 2 days in Paris! Before you go though, we wanted to share some resources to help you further plan your trip to the French capital. These are:''A guide to spending''3 Days in Paris'', if you want more inspiration or have a little more time''My guide to the''best photography locations in Paris'', to help you get the best shots on your trip, plus a''photo essay of Paris'', just to get you excited''A guide to''choosing a Seine river cruise'',''buying Paris opera tickets'',''attending a free fashion show in Paris''and how to''save money on Michelin starred restaurants in Paris''Our''review of the Paris Pass'', to help you decide if it might save you money''A guide to''Airbnb Alternatives''to help you find the right accommodation''If you like afternoon tea, check out our definitive guide to the''best afternoon tea locations in Paris''For walking tours in Paris, we can recommend both''Context Tours''(link gives 10% off) and''Walks of Italy''who both offer tours in Paris.''If you want a guide book to Paris, we always like to recommend the Rick Steves guides – here’s the''Rick Steves Paris''edition''And that’s it! How would you spend two days in Paris? Do you have anything to add to the above, or any questions? Let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''If you’re visiting London from abroad, the chances are that you’re going to be arriving at one of London’s airports. London has six airports, and a question folks often have is how to get to central London from the airport.''Obviously the answer to this question will vary depending on which airport you arrive at. In this post, we’re going to share with you all the transport options that you have for getting into the centre of London from each of London’s six airports, which are: Heathrow Airport, Gatwick Airport, Stansted Airport, Luton Airport, London City Airport and Southend Airport.''We’re going to try and cover options for all budgets, and give an indication of cost for each option, although do always check the referenced websites for most up to date pricing and timetable information. I’ve also not mentioned hire cars in this post as I don’t feel London is best experienced with a car, but if you feel differently, all the airports have car rental counters if you’d prefer to drive.''One other point of clarification on terminology. In the UK we refer to “coaches” and “buses”. A “coach” is a large, more comfortable bus used for longer distance transport that normally has fewer stops. A “bus” usually refers to an inner-city service with many stops.''If you’ve not travelled in London before, you might also find the following useful as references for your visit:''A guide to''public transport in London''Tips on''how to buy and use the Oyster card in London''Advice on the''best way to pay for public transport in London''Now, all you have to do is scroll down to the airport you need information on, or click on each link to go directly to the entry for that airport. Once you’re done, head to the end of the post for some further reading to help you plan your trip to London.''Contents:''How to Get to London from Heathrow Airport''How to Get to London from Gatwick Airport''How to Get to London from Stansted Airport''How to Get to London from Luton Airport''How to Get to London from London City Airport''How to Get to London from London Southend Airport''Further Reading for your visit to London''How to Get to London from Heathrow Airport''London Heathrow is London’s busiest airport, handling half of London’s passengers. It’s situated 14 miles west of the centre of London, and has a variety of options for getting into the city. These are as follows.''1. London Underground (aka Tube) from Heathrow Airport''Our favourite way of getting from Heathrow Airport to central London is to take the Tube, London’s underground train system. It’s also one of the cheapest options. The Piccadilly Line runs from three locations in Heathrow Airport, and services all the major terminals.''The Tube runs right into central London, plus you can change onto the other lines and thus reach pretty much anywhere in London. There is a 24 hour service on Fridays and Saturdays from Terminals 1,2,3 & Terminal 5. During the week, trains begin departing from around 5.10am (5.50am on Sundays) with the last service at 11.45pm (11.30pm on Sundays).''Cost:''A ticket costs £5.10 at peak times and £3.10 off-peak if using an Oyster or Contactless card, and £6 if you buy a single ticket in cash.''Journey time:''Approximately 50 minutes to central London''Tips:''Our suggestion would be to either buy a''visitor Oyster card''in advance, buy an Oyster card in person at the station, or to use your contactless card. Read our advice on the''best way to pay for public transport in London''for more information on your options.''2. Bus\xa0from Heathrow Airport''If you arrive into London Heathrow late at night on a weekday, the Tube will not be running. You are not out of luck when it comes to public transport though – there is a night bus from London Heathrow to Trafalgar Square. The N9 departs from Terminal 5 and the Heathrow Central Bus Station (Terminals 2&3).''The N9 is a direct bus service that starts at around 23.35 (11:35PM). You can see the full timetable''here''– select your stop and day for the correct time. It’s by far the cheapest option for getting into central London for Heathrow.''Cost:''A ticket costs £1.50. Journeys cannot be paid in cash, you must have a contactless card or an Oyster card.''Journey time:''Just over an hour, depending on which stop you go to.''Tips:''Again, our suggestion would be to either buy a''visitor Oyster card''in advance, buy an Oyster card in person at the station, or to use your contactless card. Read our advice on the''best way to pay for public transport in London''for more information on your options.''3. Coach from Heathrow Airport''There are a number of coach transfer services (see note on the difference between coaches and buses at the beginning of the post) from London Heathrow to central London. These can be more convenient than the Tube or the bus if you have a lot of luggage that you don’t want to struggle with loading on and off public transport.''Two of the main coach operators from Heathrow are''National Express''and''Megabus''. The main route for coach operators terminates at Victoria Coach Station. Coaches start at around 4.15am and run until around 10pm, although check timetables for your dates.''Cost'': Tickets start at around £6 per person.''Journey Time:''Varies, typically 45 minutes to 90 minutes, depending on the route and time of day.''Tips:''Coach fares vary based on demand and when you book, so you should always book in advance to guarantee a spot and the lowest price.''4. Train from Heathrow Airport''There are two main train services to central London which operate from Heathrow Airport. The central train station can be found at terminals 1, 2 and 3, and the Heathrow Express also has stops at terminals 4 & 5.''The fastest train option, and also the fastest way to central London from Heathrow Airport, is the Heathrow Express. This takes fifteen minutes to get to London Paddington from the airport, and leaves every fifteen minutes from around 5am (6am on Sundays) until just before midnight.''A generally cheaper (and slower) option is the Heathrow Connect service. This takes 30 – 50 minutes, and stops at a number of stations on the way.''Cost:''Heathrow Express tickets are £22 off-peak and £25 peak if booked on the day of travel. However, if you book in advance, prices start as low as £5.50. There are a number of websites for booking UK train tickets online. The two we recommend are''Take the Train''and''Virgin Trains East Coast'', neither of which charge booking fees, unlike a number of other ticketing websites. You can see the full price table for Heathrow Express''here''. London Pass holders qualify for a 20% discount on standard fares if booked through the London pass site''here''. Heathrow Connect tickets are £10.30 for a single fare to London Paddington.''Journey Time:''15 minutes for Heathrow Express (+ a few minutes from Terminals 4&5), 30 – 50 minutes with Heathrow Connect.''Tips:''The Heathrow Express can be a fast and economical option if you book well in advance. You can buy your tickets in advance and then collect them at the station from ticket machines to make your life easier. Check prices and book online''here''.''5. Taxi from Heathrow Airport''A ride in a London black cab is a quintessential part of any trip to London, and this is certainly an easy way to get from the airport and straight to your hotel. This is a great option if you have a lot of luggage, or you are a group of more than two people as it can work our fairly cost effectively.''There are a number of black taxi ranks at Heathrow, you can see a map''here''.''There are also minicab services operating from London Heathrow. These can be booked on the day from the official taxi desks, or you can compare prices and book in advance''here''. These will be fixed price trips, which can offer peace of mind.''Cost:''Black cabs are metered, so fares vary depending on factors including traffic and time of day. Expect to pay in the region of £45 – £70. Minicabs will also vary, but you can book in advance for a fixed fare, which will likely start in the region of £45.''Journey time:''Will vary according to traffic, time of day, and your destination in London. Likely 45 – 90 minutes, door to door.''Tips:''Always use either a black cab from an official stand, or a reputable minicab booked through an online service or at an official airport desk. Do not use unauthorised drivers who solicit your attention at the airport. We recommend''Minicabit''for comparing prices and getting a good deal on advance bookings.''6. Airport Transfer from Heathrow Airport''If all of the above sounds like too much effort, worry not. You can book a''direct airport transfer from Heathrow Airport''to your central London destination for up to seven people. The driver will welcome you with a placard as you come out of the arrival gate, and the service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.''Cost:''Current cost of a direct airport transfer is £142.50''Journey time:''Will vary according to traffic, time of day, and your destination in London. Likely 45 – 90 minutes, door to door.''Tips:''This is definitely the most hassle free way of getting to central London from Heathrow Airport but also the most expensive option.''How to Get to London from Gatwick Airport''Gatwick is London’s second busiest airport, and can be found 33 miles south of the city centre. Unlike Heathrow, it is not connected to the Tube network; however, there are still multiple options for getting to London from Gatwick airport.''1. Coach from Gatwick Airport''There are a number of coach services that offer transfers from Gatwick airport to central London. The most popular options are the''National Express''service and the''easyBus''service, which operate from both the north and south terminals at Gatwick Airport.''Both services terminate at London Victoria and services run through the night, so you should usually be able to find a coach at any time of night.''Cost:''easyBus tickets are available from £2 one-way. National Express tickets are available from £6 one way (£5 + £1 booking fee) if you book 30 days in advance. Flexible tickets that let you get the next available National Express service are £10, available''here''.''Journey time:''It takes around 90 minutes from London Gatwick to London Victoria''Tips:''Depending on the ticket you buy, you may be committed to travelling only on the bus you specify. So do leave yourself plenty of time to get through customs and immigration and to collect your luggage. Tickets are cheaper the further in advance you book.''2. Train from Gatwick Airport''Gatwick has one major train station with a number of routes running into central London. The fastest option is the Gatwick Express, which takes 30 minutes to travel non-stop to London Victoria. Trains run every day from 5am to 00.30am, with departures every fifteen minutes.''Two other train operators also run trains from Gatwick – Thameslink and Southern. These are slightly slower and cheaper, but also service different stops.''You can buy tickets at the station or online for all of these services. In addition, all these services accept Oyster cards or contactless cards for payment. For Gatwick Express it is usually cheaper to book online than to use Oyster. For Thameslink and southern services, the Oyster card will usually be the cheapest option.''Cost:''Gatwick Express single tickets are £19.90 in person at the station, but can sometimes be bought online for a reduced fee. Check the''Gatwick Express website''for prices, as well as the''Visit Britain Shop''. Tickets for Thameslink and Southern start at around £8.10 for a single using an Oyster or contactless card. You can also compare prices and book tickets on all trains from Gatwick including Gatwick Express''here''.''Journey time:''Varies depending on destination, but will be between 30 and 60 minutes for most trips.''Tips:''Booking in advance and checking for offers will usually save you money on the Gatwick Express. On Thameslink or Southern, an Oyster card or contactless will usually offer the cheapest prices. You can either buy a''visitor Oyster card''in advance, buy an Oyster card in person at the station, or use your contactless card. Read our advice on the''best way to pay for public transport in London''for more information on your options. It’s also really important that you make sure you get on the right train, as tickets are often only valid for the operator you purchase for.''3. Taxi from Gatwick Airport''Gatwick is outside the range of London black taxis, however you can arrange a taxi in advance or at the taxi kiosks in both terminals. You can see the official page''here''for Gatwick taxis. Alternatively, you might find pre-booking a minicab is a cheaper option – check prices''here''.''Cost:''A taxi through the recommended Gatwick taxi company to central London will cost from £60. Minicabit prices start from around £55.''Journey time:''This will vary depending on traffic, time of day and destination, but will generally be 60 – 90 minutes.''Tips:''A taxi or minicab for four or five people usually makes reasonable economic sense, plus it will take you directly to your destination.''How to Get to London from Stansted Airport''If you’re flying with a low-cost carrier within Europe, chances are that you will arrive at London Stansted. This is London’s third biggest airport, and is found 40 miles north of London.''1. Train from Stansted Airport''There are two main train options for journeying from Stansted airport to central London. The first is the''Stansted Express'', a high speed train service which takes 45 minutes to London Liverpool Street and runs approximately every fifteen minutes from 4.10am until 23.25.''The other train service is operated by Greater Anglia, with services to London Liverpool Street and London Stratford. Journey times are around 45 – 90 minutes.''Note that Stansted Airport is outside of the Oyster card system, so even if you have an Oyster card you will still need to purchase a train ticket.''Cost'': A standard Stansted Express ticket costs £16.60, however, you can save by booking in advance, and there are also group discounts available. See this''website''for tickets and fares. Greater Anglia has fares starting at £17, so we’d suggest taking the Stansted Express in most cases.''2. Coach from Stansted Airport''There are three major coach operators servicing Stansted airport, with services available 24 hours a day. The operators are''National Express'',''Terravision''and''easyBus''. Services run to London Victoria, with stops along the way including Liverpool Street and Stratford.''Cost:''easyBus has tickets starting at £2 if booked in advance. National Express has tickets at £6 (£5 +£1 booking fee). Flexible tickets that let you get the next available National Express service are £10, available''here''. Terravision has buses for £9 to London Liverpool Street and £10 to London Victoria.''Journey time:''varies depending on route, time of day and destination, but generally 50 – 90 minutes.''Tips:''Definitely book in advance to get the best price.''3. Taxi from Stansted Airport''There are no taxi ranks at Stansted Airport, so the only option is to book a car, either in advance through a minicab booking service like''minicabit'', or on arrival at the taxi kiosk in the terminal. Rates will be set in advance.''Cost'': Prices will vary depending on destination, but the cost will likely be £70 – £100 plus.''Journey time'': It’s around a 1 hour drive from Stansted to central London''Tips:''Skip the queues and get the best prices by booking online, we recommend''minicabit''.''How to Get to London from Luton Airport''Another popular airport for low-cost airlines (easyJet are headquartered here),''London Luton airport''is 29 miles north west of London. There are a number of options for getting from Luton Airport to central London.''1. Train from Luton Airport''Two companies operate trains between London Luton and central London – Thameslink and East Midlands Trains.''The primary port of call for these trains is London St. Pancras International, which gives you access to the Tube network, as well as buses and taxis at St. Pancras. Trains run throughout the night, although there are no trains between 1am and 3am.''The train station is called Luton Airport Parkway. However, you will want to get a ticket to “Luton Airport”, as then the 10 minute shuttle from the train station to the airport is included in the fare. From Luton Airport Parkway there is a cash-only fee payable for the shuttle transfer, which is £2.10 at time of writing.''Luton Airport is outside the Oyster card zone so you must purchase a ticket prior to travel even if you have an Oyster card.''Cost'': Train fares start at around £13 one way for an off-peak journey.''Journey time:''10 minute shuttle ride, then around 25 minutes to St. Pancras''Tips'': As with all train journeys, the best prices usually come when booking in advance. Check prices and book online''here''. Also check the''Visit Britain shop''as they sometimes have discounts running.''2. Coach from Luton Airport''There are three coach operators with service between Luton airport and central London. They are''National Express'', easyBus, and''Green Line''.''Services operate through the night to a variety of destinations in London including to Finchley Road, Baker Street, Marble Arch, and Victoria.''Cost:''easyBus has tickets starting at £2 if booked in advance. National Express has tickets at £6 (£5 +£1 booking fee). Flexible tickets that let you get the next available National Express service are £10, available''here''. Green Line tickets start at £11.''Journey Time:''Depends on time of day and destination, but typically 60 – 90 minutes. Note the Green Line is the slowest service and is not direct.''Tips:''Book in advance to get the best price.''3. Taxi from Luton Airport''As Luton airport is outside the London black taxi area, only pre-booked vehicles are available. You can book a taxi either in advance before arrival with''Addison Lee'', or on site when you arrive at the Addison Lee desk.''You can also use minicabit to compare prices for minicabs – check prices''here''.''Cost:''Around £100 with Addison Lee, depending on destination. Minicabit prices start around £65.''Journey time:''Approximately an hour into central London by car''Tips:''Pre-booking with a private mini cab firm will usually be the cheaper option.''How to Get to London from London City Airport''London City Airport is London’s most central airport, located in London’s docklands. It is only capable of handling smaller aircraft due to its location, however a lot of UK and European flights do come here, and it is popular with business travellers. Being so central, it’s easy to get to the rest of London.''1. DLR from London City Airport''The DLR, or Docklands Light Railway, is an automated light metro system which serves the docklands area of London. It connects to both rail and Tube stops in London, and is the easiest way to get to London from London City Airport.''Services run from around 5.30am until midnight.''Cost:''It’s currently £3.30 with an Oyster card or contactless card to travel from the London City Airport DLR station to Zone 1 in London, which is where most travellers will be heading.''Journey time:''Depends on where you are going in London, most journeys will likely be between 15 minutes and an hour.''Tips:''Definitely use an Oyster card or contactless payment card for this journey. You can either buy a''Visitor Oyster card''in advance, buy an Oyster card in person at the station, or use your contactless card. Read our advice on the''best way to pay for public transport in London''for more information on your options.''2. Bus from London City Airport''Two London bus routes service London City Airport – the 473 and 474. Neither of these go directly to central London, so you will have to change buses depending on your destination. The bus is definitely the cheapest option, but might not be the most convenient from London City Airport depending on your destination.''Cost:''A ticket costs £1.50. Journeys cannot be paid in cash, you must have a contactless card or an Oyster card.''Journey time:''will depend entirely on your destination, time of day and traffic.''Tips:''Our suggestion would be to either buy a''Visitor Oyster card''in advance, buy an Oyster card in person at the station, or to use your contactless card. Read our advice on the''best way to pay for public transport in London''for more information on your options.''3. Taxi from London City Airport''There is a black cab rank outside London City Airport, where you can catch a black cab anywhere inside London which will be on a metered fare. You can also prebook a minicab with''minicabit''.''Cost:''Prices will vary depending on destination, but expect to pay £35 – £45 to get to central London with a black cab, and roughly the same with a minicab.''Journey time:''Depends on time of day and destination, but 20 – 40 minutes in most cases.''Tips:''Prebooking a service will give peace of mind at busier times of day, but there are usually plenty of black cabs available in London.''How to Get to London from London Southend Airport''Located 40 miles east of London,''Southend airport''is the least busy of London’s six major airport. However, the airport has undergone expansions, and is used by a number of airlines which service primarily European destinations. It has fewer transport options than the other airports.''1. Train from London Southend Airport''Up to eight trains an hour operated by''Greater Anglia''connect London Southend airport with London’s Liverpool Street station, and the train station is on site at the airport, so easy to find. Trains run from 4.05am until 11pm.''Cost:''Prices start at £12.10 to Stratford, and £15.10 to London Liverpool Street.''Journey time:''45 minutes to Stratford, 55 minutes to London Liverpool Street''Tips:''None really, the train is an easy way to get from Southend airport to central London, and our recommended option.''2. Taxi from London Southend Airport''Being outside London’s black taxi area means you’ll need to book a private hire car or minicab. The official taxi firm for Luton Airport is''Andrews Taxis''. You can also pre-book a''minicab with minicabit.''Cost:''Approximately £100 into central London. It is also possible to split the taxi with other people for a fixed fare of £100 to London Liverpool Street. Minicabit prices start from around £62 into central London.''Journey time'': Depends on time of day and destination, but likely 60 – 110 minutes.''Tips:''We’d suggest the train if possible. For a group booking, a taxi might be cheaper if booked in advance.''Further Reading for your visit to London''And that’s it for our advice on getting to central London from all of London’s airports. Before you go, here are some resources you might find useful for planning the rest of your trip.''Our suggested''1 Day'',''2 Day'', and''6 day London itineraries''can help you plan for your''visit''A''full review of the London Pass''which can help you figure out if the pass would help you save you money on your trip to London. London Passes with the Transport option can be used for certain options on getting to and from certain London airports, for example the tube from Heathrow.''A guide to''public transport in London'', tips on''how to buy and use the Oyster card in London'', plus advice on the''best way to pay for public transport in London''.''Tips on finding the''best Photography Locations in London''that I put together''For the Harry Potter fans amongst you, take a look at our guide to''the key Harry Potter filming locations in London''Our guide to''8 Things to Do in Kensington'', London, in case you wanted to focus more on a specific region of the city''Our experience''taking a full day walking tour of London'', in case you like the idea of a fully guided day''Interested in day trips from London, we have posts on a''Stonehenge, Bath & Cotswolds day trip'', and tips on planning a''Oxford day trip.''Travelling on from London and looking to visit Edinburgh? Check out our guide to''getting from London to Edinburgh''. You can even''take a private jet''!''If you are looking for London travel guides, we’d recommend checking The''Eyewitness Travel Guide to London''and the''Rick Steve’s London''guide, which are both excellent sources of relevant information''And that’s it! We hope you found our post useful for your visit to London. If you have any questions – let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''The Isle of Skye is a popular place these days, and for good reason, it’s a fantastically beautiful place with plenty to see and do. From a photography perspective, it’s a joy to visit. The Isle of Skye has loads of epic photography locations keep you snapping away for days.''With this in mind, I wanted to put together a guide to the Isle of Skye’s''photography locations'', which lists some of my favourite photography spots around the island. This should give you all the tips you need to help you find the best places to take pictures on Skye.''I’ve also included a map, instructions for where to go to get each shot as well as tips on when to visit and gear you are likely to need to photograph the Isle of Skye''Talking of gear, I used my''Vanguard''tripods, specifically the lightweight travel friendly''VEO tripod range''for most of the shots in this guide. I believe a tripod is essential for photography (read why''here''), I love the Vanguard range, and I’m proud to be a''Vanguard Ambassador''. At the end of the post there’s a discount code so you can save a bit of money if you’re in the market for a new tripod (or bag!).''First though, let’s talk about my favourite:''Isle of Skye Photography Locations''1. Neist Point''Neist Point is the most westerly tip of the Isle of Skye, and right at the end of this outcrop of land is the Neist Point lighthouse. From the carpark, it’s a lovely walk down to the lighthouse itself, and the views along the cliffs here are spectacular in both directions.''From a photography point of view though, I think that the best photos are from the cliffs near the car park, rather than from the trail to the lighthouse. If you head slightly north from the carpark along the cliffs, you’ll find a beautiful view of the lighthouse, with the path leading out to it offering a lovely leading line out to the point.''There are plenty of locations to set up along here, although of course, do be careful as this is an area with steep cliffs and no fence! For my shot at the top, it was a combination of five exposure blended images in order to capture the drama of the sky (a major storm system was hitting the UK when I got this shot!), hence the necessity for a tripod.''Being on the west side of the island, Neist Point would be a fantastic location for sunset (assuming the sun is out when you visit!). Personally, I think a wide angle lens, between 16 and 40mm, is going to give you the best options here, but you might want to try some longer focal lengths for tighter shots of the lighthouse as well.''2. Fairy Pools''The Fairy Pools are a beautiful series of waterfalls and pools on the Isle of Skye, where the water is a spectacular blue colour. There are countless opportunities here for photography as you walk along the river, with a stretch of at least half a mile to play with.''In terms of a specific photography location, I would say there isn’t really one. As you walk down and along the pools, you will find different spots that catch your eye, from small cascades to larger falls, like that captured above. There are also rocks to hop across, pools to shoot, and the mountain range in the background offers a nice backdrop.''Because there’s flowing water here, I’m going to suggest you bring a set of neutral density filters and a tripod so you can achieve that lovely soft water affect. If that you’re not sure what I’m talking about, fear not, I have a whole post''explaining neutral density filters''and why you need them, to answer your questions.''3. Loch Ainort''The Isle of Skye, like much of Scotland, has no shortage of Lochs to choose from when it comes to photography. All you have to do is hope for a still day so you can capture a beautiful reflection at the same time!''One Loch that I particularly enjoyed photographing was Loch Ainort, which is a sea Loch on the east coast of the island. It’s about 17 miles north of the road bridge to Skye, and the town of Luib sits on its shore.''For photography purposes, my suggestion is to drive along the south side of the Loch on the A87. Slightly west of the town of Luib there are a number of safe parking spaces which are well marked on the Loch side of the road (don’t stop on the road itself), from where you can get walk a few metres down to the Loch shore to get some photos.''For the shot above, which has a house and the mountains in frame, it was taken at these GPS co-ordinates:''57°16’7″ N 6°4’2″ W''. I used a wide angle lens to get as much in as possible, but different framing options at different focal lengths are possible.''4. Sligachan''A little further north from Luib is the small settlement of Sligachan, home to a hotel which dates from 1830. This has long been a popular base for climbers and hill walkers looking to explore the Cuillin mountains, and there is an excellent view of the mountain range from here.''There’s also a lovely arched stone bridge here, Sligachan bridge, which offers a lovely foreground option. With the water flowing in the river, you have all the elements of a great shot.''Depending on the time of year you visit, you will find different elements to work with. In summer for example, there might be wild heather you can incorporate in the foreground, as well as brightening up the hillsides. At times of rain, the river will be higher, giving you faster moving water to play with.''There are lots of options, and two bridges here to play with. My suggestion is to incorporate these and the background mountain range into your shot, but pretty much any way you point your camera here you should come up with something great!''In terms of parking, there is a car-park at the Sligachan Hotel, which many people use despite the sign saying it is for hotel guests only. Instead of doing that, there is a car park just before you get to the hotel on the left hand side of the A87 as you go north (''here''on Google maps).''5. Portree''The town of Portree, on the north eastern side of Skye, is the jumping off point for the Trotternish Peninsula, and an excellent base. We’ve stayed here a few times, and there are a lot of dining and accommodation options here. For more ideas, take a look at Jess’s detailed''Highland and Skye itinerary'', which has a whole section on Portree.''But accommodation and dining are not why you are reading this post! Portree is also a good photography spot, in particular, the colourful harbour area with it’s line of painted houses, makes for a lovely shot.''The best place to shoot this from is above, from the road known as Bosville Terrace. From here, you can see down into the harbour and across the bay of Loch Portree. Ideally you’ll want calm conditions and the tide to be in, so as to maximise the reflection opportunities. This is good at sunrise, being on the eastern side of the island, as the light will be in your favour. A wide angle lens is best to get everything in for this shot.''6. Loch Fada''Another excellent Loch to photograph on the Isle of Skye is Loch Fada, which offers lovely views of a Skye classic – the Old Man of Storr (the next entry in our list).''This is found on the Trotternish Peninsula about a fifteen minute drive north of Portree, and from the south end of the Loch, there are beautiful views of the Old Man of Storr, as well as the Loch itself. There are also sometimes boats moored in the Loch, which make for a lovely foreground.''Again, you’re going to want to be still weather for the best reflections, and I’d suggest bringing a longer lens like a 70-200mm range, in order to get the Old Man of Storr properly into the frame. The shot above was taken at 130mm on a full frame Canon 6D from the very south point of Loch Fada, to give you an idea.''7. Old Man of Storr''An absolute classic photography location on the Isle of Skye, the Old Man of Storr is a rock formation that looks like a finger sticking up into the sky.''This does require a bit of effort to reach, in the form of a thirty minute or so uphill hike from the car park, which is easy to find about fifteen minutes drive north of Portree on the A855. Note that this is a single track road in parts, so if you’re driving yourself and are unfamiliar with this kind of road, you should check out my post on''driving on single track roads''for some pointers.''The hike up (stay right as you go up the very well trodden path) will bring you to the Old Man of Storr, but for the best shot, instead of following the path to the rock formation itself, you want to keep walking to the right, under the base of the Old Man and a little further up the hill. The path is easy to spot and follow, and the views back as you get higher up the hill are truly epic (depending on the weather of course!).''Depending on the weather you get, and how far you want to walk, you will want different lenses. A wide angle will give you nice shots of the Old Man of Storr and surrounding landscapes. If you have a clear day and the Cuillin mountains are visible, you should walk further and use a longer lens to compress everything together.''Time-wise, you’ll want to come up here for sunrise, which was what I did for the shots above (although, as you can see, I wasn’t exactly lucky with the weather). If you get a good sunrise, it will happen just to the left of the Old Man of Storr, and you’ll be able to frame a lovely sunrise shot. Plus, sunrise is a lot less busy than the rest of the day (this is the most popular hike on the Isle of Skye), so you’ll be able to get some nice shots without swarms of people in your frame.''8. Mealt Falls''8 miles north along the A855 from the Old Man of Storr carpark (or a couple of miles south of Staffin), is the Kilt Rock and Mealt Falls viewpoint.''Mealt Falls are a wonderful waterfall that crash off the cliffs here, and tumble a spectacular 55 metres to the sea below. The backdrop is the Kilt Rock, a basalt columnar formation that look a bit like a Scottish kilt. Hence the name.''This is a really easy location to find and get to, as there’s a signposted car park and it’s just a few metres walk from the car park to the viewpoint. You don’t have many composition options to be honest as the viewpoint is what it is and there is no access to the coastline. I’d suggest a wide-angle lens is going to be your best option in order to get the falls in, and if you want a soft water effect, you’ll need a tripod and ND filters. There is a railing here though, which can make setting a tripod up a bit tricky.''9. The Quiraing''Formed by a massive landslip (it’s actually still moving), the Quiraing is one of the most dramatic landscapes in Skye. You’ll find it just near the town of Staffin, about a 30 minute drive north of Portree.''Parking is available at the top of the ridge in a series of pull-offs that are fairly obvious, but don’t have an actual sign indicating they are for parking. Usually there will be a number of other cars here though, this is a popular spot, and also the start of the Quiraing loop walk, which is a two hour, 7km loop walk.''The Quiraing is a fantastic spot for photography, which excellent views stretching off in both directions. You’ll need to walk a couple of hundred meters from the parking area, but then you’ll be able to point your camera north or south along the ridge for some lovely photography opportunities.''The shot above and the shot below were taken almost from the same spot, a little south of the car park above the road that winds up the mountain. The shot above was taken looking south, whilst the shot below was taken looking north.''In terms of equipment, there are multiple composition options here that suit a wide range of focal lengths. A wide angle will get you a nice landscape shot like my first image of the Quirang above, whilst a longer focal length will let you compress the landscape into your foreground. The shot of Jess walking above for example was taken at 85mm.''There’s also the opportunity to play with time, as the clouds scud across the landscape, so a set of ND filters and a tripod will open up even more possibilities. The Quiraing is a definite must-visit on your Skye photography adventure, there are a lot of options here and you’ll come away with a lot of great shots.''10. Fairy Castle / Fairy Glen''Last on my list of Skye photography locations is the otherworldly landscape known as the Fairy Glen. The reason for the name, as far as I can tell, is that the landscape is so unusual that fairies must live here!''A series of rolling hills and hillocks which are lovely to photograph, the centrepiece is “Castle Ewen”. This is the highest point in the Fairy Glen, and it’s a rock formation that looks a bit like a ruined castle. If you squint.''As well as the Castle, you’ll also find spiral rock formations and trails to shoot, and with a bit of creativity, you should be able to capture some lovely images.''The Fairy Glen can be found just inland from the town of Uig on the east side of the Trotternish Peninsula. It’s not signposted, but the GPS location is''here''. There is a small amount of parking available on site, after which it’s a five minute hike up to the castle, which is quite obvious. I’d recommend a wide-angle lens here, to get everything in.''Location Map of Skye Photography Locations''Here’s a map of all the locations listed above for reference. You can see this on Google''here''.''When to Visit the Isle of Skye''The Isle of Skye is a year round destination, although if you are interested in sight-seeing beyond just photography, you should be aware that many attractions are closed in the winter months. In addition, there is less accommodation available in winter as many B&B’s close.''That said, there are far fewer people here in the shoulder seasons and winter. Summer is a very busy time to visit, and parking becomes quite challenging. In addition, there will be a lot of people at the various sights around the island, who will invariably end up in your frame.''Summer also brings with it two of Scotland’s less talked about features – the highland midge, and ticks. Midges are small flying biting insects that usually come out at dusk and dawn. They can be ferocious! Ticks are small blood sucking insects that embed themselves into your skin, and they can spread disease, so you’ll want to check your body at the end of each day if you’ve been walking off paved trails.''If you visit in summer, then for both ticks and midges, we recommend packing''some form of insect repellant like this''.''For the best combination of weather and less people, we’d suggest around May would be a good time to visit. For the least people, winter is a good option. We’ve visited Skye in the winter a couple of times, and whilst the weather can be a challenge, the light can be truly magnificent if you are lucky. Plus, sunrise is fairly late, so you don’t have to get up too early to take advantage of it!''Just be aware that you will have far fewer daylight hours to play with, and it can be cold, windy, and snowy in winter. So be prepared!''How to Get Around Skye''We’ve visited the Isle of Skye a number of times. For a photography focused trip like this, the best option is definitely going to be to drive yourself, as this will give you the flexibility to move around the island at your own pace and visit the destinations you are most interested in.''If you would prefer not to drive a car, there are multiple tour operators who will take you to Skye. We visited Skye with Rabbie’s, on their''five day Highland Explorer tour'', an experience you can read about''here''. Rabbies offer a''number of tours that go to Skye'', so this is definitely an option to consider. We like Rabbies tours as they have a positive responsible travel ethos as well as small group sizes, comfortable vehicles, and knowledgeable guides.''Obviously, if you do a group tour you’ll be at the mercy of the itinerary. That said, tours will call at the majority of stops on this list as they are popular, you just might not make it out to some of the further flung destinations like Neist Point, or have time to do hikes like the Old Man of Storr.''Finally, there are local buses that cover the majority of the island, although you will be at the whim of the bus timetables, and depending on the time of year and week, these can be somewhat irregular. You can''see timetables here'', although we’d suggest finding the number of a local taxi service as a backup plan as well.''Gear you will need to Photograph Skye''From a photography perspective, I’d suggest you bring a pair of lenses – something that will go wide-angle, and something that will let you zoom in. A range of 17mm – 200mm should do, unless you have specific wildlife photography in mind for which you might need a longer zoom.''I would also suggest a''travel tripod''and a set of neutral density filters so you can do some long exposure work on the landscapes and waterfalls. I’d recommend either a 10 stop or a 6 stop ND filter.''You will also need a good bag to carry your gear – personally I love my Vanguard Alta Sky 49, which keeps all my gear safe and dry (it has a built in raincover), plus it has an innovative tripod carrying system.''Speaking of tripods and Vanguard, I promised you a discount code. If you’re in the US, you can save 20% off anything in the''Vanguard US store''by using code''FindingTheUniverse''.''If you’re interested in what camera gear we travel with, we have a whole post on''our photography gear''. If you’re in the market for a new camera for your Skye photography expedition, I have a post on picking''the best travel camera''to help you out.''You’re also going to need more than just photography gear for Skye. I would suggest decent hiking boots, clothing layers and, if you’re visiting in winter, thermal base layers, gloves and a hat. The wind can be bitingly cold, and rain can come at any time of year, so wind and rain proof gear is definitely a good idea!''Further Reading''And that sums up my guide to the best photography locations on Skye! Before you go though, I just wanted to let you know about some other resources that you might find useful to help you plan your trip to Skye and Scotland.''I have a''number of articles''dedicated to helping you improve your photography, including how to pick the''best camera for travel'',''tips for cold weather photography''and reasons''you need a tripod for your photography''.''This is just one in my series of''detailed photography location guides'', which you can use to help you find the perfect shot in locations around the world!''Since you’re in''Scotland''already for this location guide, check out some of our Scotland content, including:''Our guide to''avoiding the crowds on the Isle of Skye''A detailed guide to the''highlights of the epic North Coast 500 road trip'', as well as''accommodation options along the route'',''photography highlights of the NC500'', and the ultimate''NC500 planning guide''A''two day Glasgow and Loch Lomond Itinerary'', our''guide to Glasgow'', as well as''ten things to do in Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park''A''Guide to Touring the Scottish Borders'', as well as a''5 Day Isle of Skye and Highlands itinerary''A series of posts on Edinburgh, including a''two day Edinburgh itinerary'',''21 Highlights in Edinburgh''&''Getting off the beaten path in Edinburgh'', as well as a guide to''visiting Edinburgh for the Festivals''Finally, if you’re interested in improving your photography, take a look at my''online travel photography course'', which has everything you need to know to start taking awesome travel photos, from picking a camera, to mastering the settings, to editing – and more!''And that’s it! I hope you found my Isle of Skye photography guide to be useful. If you’ve got any questions, or have a favourite spots I left off the list – do let me know in the comments below!''So you know: As mentioned throughout the post, I’m an ambassador for Vanguard, and they provided me with my tripod and bag for this kit as part of the VEO 2 launch campaign. I love their gear and am thrilled to be able to work with a company I love, but as always, all opinions remain our own and we of course adhere to our''code of ethics''for any work we accept.''SHARE ON''If you’re interested in military history and war museums, London is going to be a real treat for you. There is a fantastic collection of war museums in London that tell the story of military conflicts around the world, and the museums on offer\xa0 cover a range of topics.''Some museums, such as the Royal Air Force Museum, focus on a specific branch of the British military, whilst others focus on telling the story of crucial military events and locations related to one war, like the Churchill War Rooms. Many of these London war museums are also free to visit.''As well as war museums, London is also home to a number of war memorials, dedicated to the memory of those who gave their lives in service of their country. In today’s post, I’m going to share some of our favourite war museums in London, as well as a small selection of the War Memorials in London that you might want to pay a visit to. I’ll start with:''War Museums in London''1. Imperial War Museum London''If you only have time to visit one military museum in London, then we highly recommend the''Imperial War Museum London''as the one to go to. This, like a number of the other military museums in this list, is operated by the Imperial War Museums organisation.''Opened in 1917, the Imperial War Museum London covers modern military conflicts spanning from World War 1 though to the present day. Exhibitions are divided into various themes, with a strong focus on telling the story from the perspective of those who lived through each experience. These exhibitions include the First World War, The Holocaust, and the Secret War – the latter of which explores the history of espionage and the work of the British Special Forces.''Naturally, there are plenty of objects to look at as well as all the information, including military hardware, uniforms and so on. The atrium display is particularly impressive, featuring objects including a Harrier jet, a Spitfire, and a V-2 rocket.''Useful Info'': The Imperial War Museum London is open every day from 10am – 6pm (except 24th – 26th December), and entry to this museum is free, although special exhibits may have an entry fee. Closest tube stops are Lambeth North, Waterloo and Elephant & Castle, and there are multiple local bus options as well. For full up to date information including opening times and special events, see''this part of the website''.''2. Churchill War Rooms''One of the most popular war related museums in London is the''Churchill War Rooms''. Part of the Imperial War Museums, this museum is located in the actual underground bunker where Prime Minister Winston Churchill co-ordinated the British war effort.''The museum is divided into two parts. One focuses on the story of the Cabinet War Rooms, and this part of the museum leads you through the underground complex where the British government command centre was located, taking in such highlights as Churchill’s secret trans-Atlantic phone booth, sleeping quarters, and the Map Room.''The other part of the museum tells the story of Winston Churchill himself, going through his whole life from birth to death, and has a wide number of artefacts relating to the man, including personal possessions, letters, and even the door to Number 10 Downing Street when he was Prime Minister.''If you’re interested in learning more about Winston Churchill and visiting more Churchill related sights, take a look at Jess’s comprehensive''Guide to Churchill Sites in England''.''The Churchill War Rooms are a very popular attraction and queues often form to get in. We’d advise visiting early to avoid wasting a long time in a queue.''Useful Info:''The Churchill War Rooms are normally open every day from 9.30am – 6pm with the exception of the 24th-26th December when it is closed. There is an entry fee.''Free to London Pass''holders. If you don’t have a London Pass, we recommend''buying your tickets in advance''online for fast-track entry. For more information, including how to get here and up to date opening hours and prices, read the''information section''of the Churchill War Rooms website here.''3. Royal Air Force Museum London''If you are particularly interested in specific branches of the military, then London has you covered. I love all things to do with flying, so naturally a visit to the''Royal Air Force Museum London''was a favourite of mine when researching this post.''Spanning five buildings and huge hangars, this museums tells the whole story of the Royal Air Force, as well as the history of aviation in general. With over 100 aircraft on display, ranging from early biplanes like the Sopwith Camel, through to modern bomber aircraft. Naturally, there are also many “famous” aircraft models from various wars, including the Lancaster Bomber, Spitfire, and Hurricane.''There is a lot to see at this museum, with one whole hangar given over to the history of aviation, whilst another covers bombers. There are also engines and clothing on display, and you could easily spend at least half a day here.''Useful Info:''The RAF Museum London is free to visit, although there are paid attractions inside, such as flight simulators, films, and the opportunity to sit in some of the planes. The museum is located in north London at the former Hendon aerodrome. There is parking on site, but from central London the easiest way to get here is by tube to Colindale. For more information on opening times, how to get here and other facilities, see the''official website here''.''4. National Army Museum London''Re-opened in March 2017 following extensive re-development, the''National Army Museum''in Chelsea is the main museum of the British Army. This museum extensively covers the history of the British Army across five galleries, spanning from the English Civil War in the 1640s right up to modern day conflicts.''The galleries, which span four floors and include over 2,500 objects, are divided across five themes, Soldier, Army, Battle, Society, and Insight.''These lead on from each other, starting with a walk through of the changing life of a soldier through the centuries, before expanding to the history and evolution of the Army itself. The Battle gallery covers key battles and tactics spanning nearly four centuries of conflict, before the Society gallery looks at the impact of these conflicts and the army itself on British society as a whole. Finally, the Insight gallery looks at the impact of British Army activities around the globe.''This structure is clearly well thought out and walking through the museum is a fascinating experience, with a lot of interactive information on display, as well as military hardware. This is an excellent museum that we highly recommend!''Useful info:''Open daily 10am – 5.30pm, closed 25, 26 December and 1st January. Admission to the National Arym Museum is free, with Sloane Square tube station the closest stop. Full information on activities, opening times and pricing can be found at the''official website''.''5. National Maritime Museum''Having covered the other two branches of the British Military, you would naturally expect there to be a museum dedicated to the Royal Navy, the oldest branch of the Military. And you would be right. However, the''National Museum of the Royal Navy''is in Portsmouth rather than London, which is a couple of hours from London by train or car.''All is not lost though. There are two excellent museums in London where you can learn more about Britain’s military activities at sea. The first of these is the''National Maritime Museum'', part of the Royal Museums Greenwich.''The museum is home to a vast array of maritime exhibits charting the history of life at sea, from exploration through to battles, with naval topics including the Battle of Trafalgar as well as First World War Sea battles. There is also a gallery dedicated to Nelson and the Royal Navy, titled “Nelson, Navy, Nation”, which charts the history of the Royal Navy from 1688 through to 1815.''The National Maritime Museum is in Greenwich, which has more than enough attractions to warrant a whole day out, including the Royal Observatory and the Cutty Sark, amongst others.''Useful Info:''The National Maritime Museum is free to visit, although temporary special exhibits usually have a fee. It’s open daily from 10am – 5pm every day except 24-26 December, and can be reached by tube, DLR or boat. Read more about planning your visit''here''.''6. HMS Belfast''If you like your museums to be hands-on experiences that really reflect their subject matter, you are going to love\xa0 HMS Belfast. This museum ship, moored on the Thames River just near Tower Bridge in London, was originally a Royal Navy light cruiser which saw action in both World War 2 and the Korean War. This included providing bombardment support for the Normandy beach landings in 1944.''She was retired from active duty in 1963, and following a period of debate as to her future, opened to the public as a museum ship in 1971, becoming a branch of the Imperial War Museum in 1978.''This historic warship can now be fully explored by visitors. On board, you’ll learn all about what life was like on board for the crew of up to 950 men, both at times of war and peace, between World War 2 and 1963. This is a really fascinating exhibit, and definitely not to be missed if you have an interest in naval warships.''Useful info:''Open everyday except 24-26th December. Opening times vary depending on season, and weather can also affect deck opening. Check the website for''opening information and times''. HMS Belfast is''free for holders of the London Pass''. Otherwise tickets can be purchased at the ship, or at a''discounted price online''.''7. Household Cavalry Museum''The last two London war museums on our list cover specific information about specific British Army regiments.''First on the list is the''Household Cavalry Museum'', dedicated to the Household Cavalry, comprised of the two most senior regiments in the British Army with origins dating back as far as 1661. Combined with the five regiments of the Guards (see next entry) these seven regiments comprise Her Majesty’s Household Division, who have responsibility for guarding both the Sovereign and the Royal Palaces.''The Household Cavalry Museum, which is found right in the heart of London at Horse Guards, just near Trafalgar Square, covers a full history of the Household Calvary, and includes uniforms standards and awards.''There’s also information about the modern day household cavalry, which form both ceremonial duties as well as operational roles across the globe. The museum is also a working stable, and you may be able to see the horses in this 18th century building through plexiglass.''This is an excellent museum to get a behind the scenes look at one of the most historic regiments of the British Army, and is well worth the visit. You will also be able to admire the guards in their uniforms atop their horses outside the museum, and depending on the time you visit, you can see the guard change here as well for free.''Useful Info:''Open every day with some public holiday exceptions. Opening times vary by season. In addition, times vary depending on ceremonial duties, so you’ll want to''check the website''to avoid disappointment. It’s right in central London, so there are multiple easy transport options. There is an entry fee, and the Household Cavalry although it it is''free to holders of the London Pass''.''8. Guards Museum''Finally, the other museum to focus on specific regiments of the British Army is''the Guards Museum''. This museum covers five regiments of Foot Guards in the British Army, specifically the Grenadier, Coldstream, Scots, Irish and Welsh Guards.''The Guard Museums contains a wealth of information and artefacts related to these five regiments, and serves as an education centre for new Guardsmen to learn about their regimental heritage. The various roles of the Guards are explained in detail, and overall this is an excellent museum if you want to learn more about the specific role of these regiments within the British Army.''While you are here, don’t miss the Guards Chapel, which is opposite the Museum and free to enter. This is the spiritual home of the Household Division, and the walls are lined with the colours carried by the Foot Guards since 1770. In addition, don’t miss the on-site shop of the Guards Museum, known as the''Guards Toy Soldier Centre''. This is free to visit, and has hundreds of toy soldiers for sale, many of which are set up as set pieces depicting battles.''Finally, don’t miss the Guards Memorial, which is opposite Horse Guards Parade, and which commemorates those who gave their lives in battles since the first world war.''Useful info:''The Guards Museum is open every day from 10am – 4pm, with some exceptions as detailed on the''official website''. The nearest tube stations are St James’s Park, Green Park, Waterloo, Charing Cross and Victoria. There is an entry fee, but the Guards Museum is''free to holders of the London Pass''.''London War Memorials and Monuments''Having covered some of our favourite military museums in London, we just wanted to share what we think are some of the most interesting War Memorials in the city. There are a great many war memorials of course, so you could spend quite a lot of time visiting these, but if you have less time on your hands, here are some you can consider that we have visited.''If you have more time, there are many more, both in London and the wider UK, see''here''for a comprehensive UK guide, and''here''for a full list of monuments and memorials in London. All of the listed monuments are free to visit.''1. The Cenotaph''Found on Whitehall, between Trafalgar Square and the Houses of Parliament, the''Cenotaph''is the UK’s official national war memorial. Originally erected for the 1919 London Victory Parade following World War 1 as a temporary structure, a permanent structure was erected in 1920 to serve as a lasting memorial to those who lost their lives in service of their country.''Today the Cenotaph is the focal point of the annual National Service of Remembrance in the UK, which takes place on Remembrance Sunday every November, and commemorates the contribution of British and Commonwealth servicemen and women.''2. Monument to the Women of World War 2''A little way to the north of the Cenotaph is the Monument to the Women of World War 2, unveiled by the Queen in 2005, and dedicated to the work and sacrifice of women during the war. The UK was lacking in a memorial to these important sacrifices for a very long time, and it is fitting that this monument takes pride of place on Whitehall.''Around this area there are a number of other memorials, monuments and statues to wartime events and figures, so do keep an eye out for these.''3. Battle of Britain Memorial''The''Battle of Britain Memorial'', found overlooking the River Thames on the Victoria Embankment, is a magnificent sculpture commemorating the British military personnel who took part in the Battle of Britain, one of the Second World War’s most famous battles, and arguably the first military campaign ever to be fought solely by air forces.''Raging over the skies of southern England for over three months, the Battle of Britain involved the Royal Air Force defending the United Kingdom against wave after wave of Luftwaffe attacks. The aim of the attacks was to achieve air superiority over Britain, which if successful, would have been disastrous for the Allied war effort.''The success of the Royal Air Force in overcoming the attacks and successfully defending Britain was famously summed up by Winston Churchill with the words “Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few”, and those who fought in the Battle of Britain have often been known as “The Few” ever since.''The memorial, which is 25 metres long, depicts scenes from the battle, along with plaques depicting the names of nearly 3,000 airmen and ground crew who took part in the Battle on the Allied side. It also contains the Winston Churchill’s quote referenced above.''4. Animals in War Memorial''The contributions of animals to wartime must not be forgotten, and as such, a memorial specifically to the animals who served, suffered and died in the wars and conflicts can be found in London.''The''Animals in War Memorial''is particularly moving as these animals often endured terrible conditions through no choice of their own, for conflicts not of their making. This message is brought home by the words inscribed on the memorial: “They had no choice”.''The monument can be found on Park Lane, Hyde Park.''5. Guards Crimean War Memorial''As well as the above memorials, there also are memorials across London commemorating older conflicts. One of these is the Guards Crimean Memorial, which commemorates victory in the Crimean War of 1853 – 1856.''Unveiled in 1861, this memorial in St. James is now Grade II listed, and consists of a statue of three Guardsmen and a woman denoting Honour. The statue is cast in bronze from cannons which were captured at the siege of Sevastopol.''6. Imperial Camel Corps Memorial''Last on this list of war memorials in London\xa0 –\xa0 is the Imperial Camel Corps Memorial.''This was a relatively short lived infantry brigade formed during World War 1 and disbanded in 1919 following the conclusion of the war, but during it’s height had four battalions who saw active service in the Middle East. The memorial lists the names of all 346 men who died service with the Camel Corps, and depicts a man riding a camel.''It can be found in Victoria Embankment Gardens, which is very close to the previously mentioned Battle of Britain Memorial.''6. Monuments''As well as war memorials, London has some very impressive monuments to military leaders, military victories, as well as Kings and Queens.''Some that are definitely worth checking out are Nelson’s Column in Trafalgar Square, the Statue of the Earl Mountbatten on Mountbatten Green, the Wellington Arch at the western corner of Green Park, the equestrian statue of George IV in Trafalgar Square, and the memorial to Edith Cavell, just north of Trafalgar Square. Again, there are many more, but these will give you an idea of what is on offer!''Further Reading''Well, that sums up our guide to some of the best War Museums in London, as well as some of London’s War Memorials. We hope you found it useful and enjoy visiting some of these many excellent museums in London. We also have a lot more content on both London and the wider UK, plus some external resources we think you’ll find helpful. These are:''Many of the museums and memorials mentioned above are free, but those that aren’t are included on the London Pass. Check out our''full review of the London Pass''which can help you figure out if the pass would help you save you money on your trip to London or not.''To help you pack for London, we’ve put together a detailed''London Packing list''Interested in Winston Churchill, check out Jess’s guide to''finding Winston Churchill sites in England''Tips on finding the''best Photography Locations in London''that I put together''Our suggested''1 Day'',''2 Day'', and''6 day London itineraries''can help you plan for your visit''For the Harry Potter fans amongst you, take a look at our guide to''the key Harry Potter filming locations in London''Our guide to''8 Things to Do in Kensington'', London, in case you wanted to focus more on a specific region of the city''Tips on''spending Two Weeks in the UK'', should you want to have London as the start of a bigger adventure''Our experience''taking a full day walking tour of London'', in case you like the idea of a fully guided day''Interested in day trips from London, we have posts on a''Stonehenge, Bath & Cotswolds day trip'', and tips on planning a''Oxford day trip.''Heading further north? We have loads of content on''Scotland'', including a''2 Day Edinburgh itinerary'', a guide to the''North Coast 500''and a''2 Day Glasgow itinerary''If you are looking for London travel guides, we’d recommend checking The''Eyewitness Travel Guide to London''and the''Rick Steve’s London''guide, which are both excellent sources of relevant information''And that’s it! Thanks for reading our post. As always, if you’ve got any comments or questions, let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''I’ve been using the desktop version of''Lightroom''for a few years now as the centre of my photography editing workflow. I love the way it handles pretty much everything I need in terms of managing my photos and editing them, and I use it for 95% of all my photography post-processing.''As a travel photographer, I find Lightroom to be a must-have, indispensable tool. The''monthly subscription''is a price well worth paying, and I recommend it to all my students on my''travel photography course.''One thing I don’t love about Lightroom though is how slow and painful it sometimes be to use, which seems to have gotten worse over the years. Every release seems to exacerbate the problems, especially on larger monitors, despite having a fast desktop machine with all the bells and whistle.''Because of this, I’ve become slightly obsessed with optimizing Lightroom so it runs as well as is possible.''In 2017, Adobe released a major update to it’s photography toolkit, and in particular, it re-branded the desktop version of Lightroom into Lightroom Classic CC.''One of the major, and most exciting announcements with this release was that Adobe had finally done something about Lightroom’s performance issues, and this release would harken me back to the days of yore, when Lightroom was nimble and responsive.''I’ve been using the latest version of Lightroom since it was released, and whilst it is certainly better, there are still a few ways to improve performance. Based on my background as a software developer and as a regular user of Lightroom, I’ve put a lot of work into figuring out the ways to make Lightroom as fast as is possible. Read on to find out my top tips for improving Lightroom performance!''Contents:''Improving Lightroom Classic CC Performance''1. Put your Catalog File on an SSD''2. Make your Camera RAW cache bigger''3. Toggle using your System Graphics Card''4. Disable XMP writing''5. Pause address and face lookup''6. Build Standard size previews on import''7. Smart Previews – To Use or Not to Use?''8. Edit Images Sequentially''9. Apply Develop Edits in an Optimal Order''10. Optimize your Catalog''11. Use a Desktop or upgrade your computer for Lightroom Use''12. Update Lightroom''Improving Lightroom Classic CC Performance''1. Put your Catalog File on an SSD''If you have a computer with different hard drives inside, and some of those are the older spinning mechanical style hard drives, and some are the newer, faster style SSD hard drives, then you will want to put your catalog file onto the SSD hard drives.''The fast speeds of an SSD means that Lightroom can get image information much faster. In addition, Lightroom stores all its preview files in the same place as the Lightroom Catalog, and the preview file is what Lightroom renders. So you want that to be somewhere that Lightroom can access it as quickly as possible.''Personally, I have an SSD just for my Lightroom Catalog. This isn’t a must, but as I have a large catalog and I like to generate a lot of previews, it takes up a lot of space. So a dedicated SSD makes that easier to manage. I then have an SSD for my WIndows and program install files, and the rest of my hard drives are larger and slower mechanical hard drives.''Storing photos on a mechanical hard drive is perfectly fine, because you’ll mostly be working from the previews that Lightroom is pulling off the SSD.''If you need to figure out the kind of hard drive in your computer, here are''instructions for Windows''and''Mac''. Moving your catalog file is just a question of locating it’s current location and then moving it in either Windows Explore or Finder. Full instructions on''this page''.''2. Make your Camera RAW cache bigger''Lightroom has two places where it caches image data. One is the preview cache as mentioned above, which is stored with your catalog file and used for the library view, and the other is the Camera RAW cache.''When you switch to the Develop view, Lightroom loads the image data into its “Camera RAW cache”. This defaults to a size of 1GB, which is pitiful, and means that Lightroom is often having to swap images in and out of its cache when developing, resulting in a slower Lightroom experience.''I’d suggest setting this to a number more like 20GB. I’d also recommend putting the camera RAW cache on an SSD drive so as to get maximum performance out of it. I’ve personally found that Lightroom appears to run faster when this RAW cache is on a separate drive to my system files, but I have no hard evidence to back this claim up. Still, worth a try.''You can set your Camera RAW size and location from the Edit->Preferences menu, and then choosing the “Performance” tab.''3. Toggle using your System Graphics Card''A few releases ago, Adobe announced that they had optimised Lightroom to take advantage of the graphics processing chip inside a computer. A graphics chip is a part of your computer that is responsible for handling video related functions, and the theory is that these dedicated chips are faster at specific image rendering logic.''Whilst this all sounds good in theory, the reality is that the practice is not quite so simple. First, Lightroom only uses the graphics chip for some of the features in the Develop module, so not everything is accelerated.''Second, the performance benefits are only usually apparent in specific situations. There is an overhead associated with using the graphics chip, as data has to be offloaded from the CPU to the graphics chip, processed, and then sent back again.''Larger, higher resolution monitors tend to benefit the most from using the graphics chip in the Develop module, although with the trade-off that there will be a slight delay in the image appearing on screen as the data shuffles between the CPU and the graphics chip. Lower resolution monitors see less benefit, and may even be slower with the graphics chip enabled.''To be honest, there is no right answer to whether or not you should use the graphics chip. Personally, with a large high resolution monitor and fast graphics chip, I find the performance enhancements in the Develop module are noticeable with my graphics processor enabled, and I don’t mind the trade-off that images take a fraction longer to load as I switch between them.''For users with smaller screens and less capable graphics chips, such as those often found in laptops, you might find the Develop module performs noticeably worse with graphics acceleration enabled.''Adobe has more detailed information''here''on supported graphics chips and how to identify your graphics processor. My advice is to toggle the setting on and off, and see which works faster for you. Note that there are two things to consider – how fast the global adjustment sliders impact the image and how fast you can switch between images. Just try it out, and see what works best for your setup.''4. Disable XMP writing''As you make edits to your photos in the Lightroom Develop module, Lightroom keeps track of them in the Lightroom catalog, which is essentially a database that has information on all your images.''This information is only available to Lightroom, so if you lose your catalog file, or want to edit your images in another application, you’ll essentially have to start over from scratch.''Lightroom has a feature to help you get around this. It can be configured to write all the develop settings data into a small file called an “XMP” file, which basically just contains the edit information. This file is written to your computer hard drive in the same place as your original RAW file. So for example, if your RAW file is called IMG_8032.CR2, a new file called IMG_8032.xmp will appear next to it. This is just a text file containing edit information.''Whilst this sounds great in principle, the issue is that writing changes into this file can slow Lightroom down, particularly as the files are usually being written to the hard drive that your photo is on, which will in most cases be a slower, mechanical drive.''The solution is to disable “automatically write changes into XMP” from your catalog settings, and instead, if you wish to save XMP files, to do it manually from the “Metadata” menu, where you have the option to disable “save metadata to files”.''Also, backup your Lightroom catalog regularly, and keep a copy of the backup somewhere safe! It won’t make Lightroom faster, but it will save you a lot of heartache if your catalog ever become corrupt. You can set your backup settings in the Lightroom Catalog settings in the “general” tab.''5. Pause address and face lookup''Lightroom has some fun/useful features, such as being able to search for faces in photos and match them to people, as well as looking up image addresses based on the GPS data your images may have.''Unfortunately, these tasks default to run in the background, and they can slow you down whilst you’re editing. So the best option is to pause them whilst you’re actively using Lightroom, and if you want to take advantage of them, just start them up again when you’re done editing.''To pause them, you’ll need to click on your name in the top left corner of lightroom, and a drop down menu will appear showing you currently active tasks. Just hit the pause button on those you want to pause.''6. Build Standard size previews on import''When you import your photos into Lightroom, you have a number of preview settings you can choose. Lightroom Classic CC has a new feature, where you can build “embedded & sidecar previews”.''My suggestion is to build standard previews on import. This will slow down the import process, but it will make the Library module far more responsive when you come to review your imported images as Lightroom will be rendering the previews from your SSD rather than building them from the RAW files.''I don’t use the new “embedded & sidecar previews”. These are the preview files that are embedded in the RAW file, but in my experience, these look quite different to the previews that Lightroom develops, simply because the RAW processor in Lightroom renders images differently to my camera RAW previews. I want to see the images the way Lightroom does, so I build standard previews.''It’s important to set the size of your standard previews correctly for your setup. The size of your standard preview should be as close to your screen width as possible, but not smaller. So if you have a 1920×1080 monitor for example,. that’s 1920 pixels wide. Pick a standard size preview size of 2048 pixels. You can set the Lightroom preview size in the file handling section of the Catalog settings dialog box.''7. Smart Previews – To Use or Not to Use?''Smart previews are a tool that Adobe introduced to help photographers manage large image libraries even when travelling. The theory was that rather than bring your whole image catalogue with you, you could generate “smart previews” of your images, and take those with you. Smart previews are significantly smaller than the original RAW files, and you can edit them in the Develop module without needing the original file. When you return home, the edits are then linked with the original RAW file.''Adobe realised that this could be used as a performance workaround, because editing these small files was much quicker than loading up the full RAW file in the Develop module. So in a bit of a hack, Adobe let people choose to edit the smart previews instead of the originals as a performance option.''These are definitely faster for quick edits in the Develop module, although as you are working with a lower resolution file, as soon as you zoom to 1:1, you end up back on the original file. In addition, since Lightroom Classic CC’s performance improvements,''tests have shown''that in the Library module, using smart previews can actually reduce the performance of tasks like scrolling through images.''So now you have a decision to make. Personally, I find that using smart previews in the Develop module was never hugely effective, because as soon as I zoom to a 1:1 size, Lightroom had to render the image anyway, as the smart preview wasn’t full size. Plus, those smart previews can take up a fair amount of space on my SSD.''So unless you see a significant performance increase in the Develop module from using smart previews, and you’re not often editing at a 1:1 zoom, my suggestion is to disable them for developing. You can set your smart previews develop preferences from the Edit->Preferences menu, and then choosing the “Performance” tab.''8. Edit Images Sequentially''Since Lightroom CC 2015.6 (& Lightroom 6.6), Lightroom has implemented a feature to intelligently cache images for faster performance when you are in the Develop module.''What this means is that when you are in the Develop module, Lightroom will automatically load the next and previous images in the filmstrip below your photos into memory. In the below image you can see my filmstrip below the actively edited image. The actively edited image is highlighted with a lighter grey background, and the images on either side of it will have been loaded into memory for faster access.''The tip here therefore is to adjust your workflow to be sure that you are editing images sequentially, rather than hopping around all over the place. What I do is use the library to filter the images I am going to work on using the various tools (flags, star ratings etc), and I only load them into the Develop module when I have a series of images that all require editing.''I then work through them sequentially one by one, which means the image data is loading from system memory, resulting in much more responsive Develop module performance.''9. Apply Develop Edits in an Optimal Order''When using the Develop module, the order in which you apply image corrections can have a significant impact on the performance of the Develop module. Every time you make a new edit, it has to apply it and calculate all the previous adjustments you make. This is why the deeper you get into editing an image in Lightroom and the more effects you apply, the slower the Develop module can seem to become.''Some filters can really slow down the Develop module from the off. Filters like noise reduction for example, can really impact the Develop module.''This approach by Lightroom keeps file sizes low, lets you easily keep track of edits, and results in higher quality export images. The downside is that it results in a slower system after you’ve applied a lot of edits to an image as Lightroom has to keep calculating the edits as you go.''Personally, I just work from top to bottom in the Develop module, but according to Adobe, the best order for editing your photo to maximise performance is as follows:''Spot healing.''Geometry corrections, such as Lens Correction profiles and Manual corrections, including keystone corrections using the Vertical slider.''Global non-detail corrections, such as Exposure and White Balance. These corrections can also be done first if desired.''Local corrections, such as Gradient Filter and Adjustment Brush strokes.''Detail corrections, such as Noise Reduction and Sharpening.''If you want to do a lot of really detailed edits to a particular image, you might find that''Adobe Photoshop''is a better option.''10. Optimize your Catalog''This one won’t change your world, but certainly, if you’ve not done this for a while (or ever), then you should definitely optimise your catalog file. As you use Lightroom, it is constantly updating the catalog file and over time, the structure of the data can become less optimal.''To resolve this, Lightroom has a one-click “optimise catalog” option, which you can use to improve performance. My suggestion is to set up Lightroom to back up your catalog on a regular schedule, such as weekly, and set it to optimise the catalog following the backup.''11. Use a Desktop or upgrade your computer for Lightroom Use''In an ideal world, all these performance tips would magically solve any performance issues you might have with Adobe Lightroom Classic CC. However, there is only so much you can do with the hardware you have. Lightroom is a complicated tool, and needs a relatively high specification machine to run well.''It may be that your computer isn’t up to the task, especially if you’re running an older laptop. In which case, an upgrade is likely going to be on the cards.''If possible, I’d suggest investing in a desktop, as these have much greater expansion options, including bays for additional hard drives, as well as higher powered processors and graphics cards. A laptop is of course an option, just make sure you get a relatively high specification machine like''this''.''Keys specs to look out for are a recent processor from''Intel in the i5 or i7 lineup'', at least 16GB of RAM, at least one''SSD drive'', and a dedicated''graphics card from either ATI or nVidia''.''12. Update Lightroom''Last but not least on my series of tips for optimising Lightroom Classic CC, is to make sure that you update Lightroom regularly! Adobe regularly push out updates to the software, and with their recent focus on performance, it seems likely that future updates will further improve the performance.''Checking for updates is easy, just press “Help –> Updates”, and if there are updates available, Lightroom will prompt you to download and install them.''And that’s it for my post on improving Lightroom Classic CC performance for organizing and editing your photos! Do you have any tips on improving Lightroom performance? Let me know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Jess and I have done some cruising, notably the transatlantic crossing on the Queen Mary 2, from New York to Southampton – a voyage we also''got married on''. So our experiences of time spent on board large ships have been very positive.''When an invitation popped up from''Holland America''to come and experience a part of their Grand Asia and Pacific World Voyage on the''MS Amsterdam'',''specifically the segment around Japan, naturally we were keen to accept. Jess had never visited Japan, and I was excited for the photography opportunities, as well as to find out what a Holland America cruise experience was like.''In this post I’ll share with you all our thoughts on our experience cruising with Holland America so you can decide for yourself if this sort of trip might be for you.''Cruising with Holland America''The Ship: Holland America’s''MS Amsterdam''The ship we cruised on was Holland America’s''MS Amsterdam''. This ship is primarily used for longer cruises, such as the 80 day Grand Voyage that we joined, although she also sails to Alaska on shorter cruises in the summer.''At 780ft long with twelve decks and a guest capacity of 1,380, the''MS Amsterdam''is a mid-size cruise ship with a wide range of facilities and on-board entertainment options suited to meeting the needs of guests on longer voyages. Lets take a look at some of those facilities.''Facilities on board the''MS Amsterdam''Spa''The''MS Amsterdam''has a fully equipped spa and salon, which we were pleased to be able to take advantage of on our trip.''Jess had a hair treatment, had her hair done for kimono gala night, and we also had a couples massage, which was an hour long treatment that we both enjoyed. The staff certainly knew what they were doing, and we were very happy with the services offered.''There are a number of treatments available, everything from nails to hair to different massage therapies.''Gym''There are definitely people who hit the gym when on a cruise like this. Which makes sense – eighty days of all you can eat food can certainly expand a waistline. Jess and I aren’t those people up for the gym each morning. We did however pop in and have a look at the gym, which was fully equipped with the latest technologies, and had a magnificent view over the front of the ship..''I was almost tempted to take a ride on the exercise bike because it was hooked up to a monitor, so almost had me thinking it was a game. Almost.''WiFi''WiFi is available throughout the ship, and was certainly fast enough for all our needs. When you connect to it, you are presented with the ship’s information portal, a really helpful page which is full of information about the voyage, what’s going on, and also lets you book things like spa treatments, meals and even shore excursions.''It also shows you information tailored to you, so if you book shore excursions these will show up in your calendar. Plus you can see your onboard financial account so you can track your spending. We thought this was a really nifty tool that made life on board easier and more seamless.''Connecting to the actual internet is also possible, with packages available in blocks of time. It is fairly expensive, which is inevitable given the nature of the technologies involved, but the option is there if you need it. Most of the ports we docked at also offered free WiFi, which is also an option to consider for occasionally checking your e-mail.''Library''As part of the on-board Explorations Café there’s a fairly extensive collection of books available to read. This café is presented by the New York Times, and there are computer stations available where you can read the online edition of the New York Times for free. We spent a bit of time catching up on work at the tables here, and ordering coffee and pastries at the café.''Shops''If you like shopping, you’ll find a number of on board options. We’re not huge shopping people, but Jess certainly enjoyed looking at all the jewellery in some of the stores, and admiring the ornate perfume bottles. They also have basic essentials so if you run out of something or need something (e.g., a pair of black socks or hand lotion), these sorts of items are easy to buy on board.''Swimming Pools''There are two swimming pools on the Holland America, an indoor pool near the top of the ship which has a sliding roof for sunny days, and an outdoor pool on one of the decks at the stern of the ship, which has lovely views. The indoor pool also has two hot tubs, which I enjoyed sitting in very much.''Both pools are close to a bar, and have deck chair seating available, although in poor weather the outdoor pool generally didn’t have the seating out (for obvious reasons!).''Art & Art Gallery''One thing Holland America is rightfully proud of is their commitment to art. The''MS Amsterdam''has millions of dollars worth of art scattered throughout the ship, including the truly fabulous and fully working nine metre high astrolabe which spans three decks in the main atrium of the ship.''Also worth keeping an eye out for is the spectacular stained glass ceiling of the main dining room, which was both an artistic and engineering feat to fit. There are of course hundreds more pieces of art as you wander through the ship, some especially commissioned for the ship, and you can take a self guided tour of the art on board.''Photography''For the cruise we were on, there was a full time photographer working on the ship who was on hand to take photos at various events on the cruise. This included when guests got on and off the ship, at gala evenings, when the ship was departing ports, and so on.''This was always a relaxed affair and offered very much as an option rather than a necessity. Photos are printed out and displayed for guests to peruse in the dedicated photography gallery and store on the ship. We had our photo taken one evening, and liked the photo so much that we bought it as a memento. Naturally, different packages are available, so you can save money by buying more! The small photo shop also has a small selection of cameras and photography accessories for sale as well.''On Board Entertainment''Queen’s Lounge''The primary entertainment venue on-board the Holland America''MS Amsterdam''is the Queen’s Lounge, a two storey theatre which hosts a variety of shows. These vary from the house band and house dancers, through to guest performers who join the ship for short legs of the journey.''The''MS Amsterdam''also hosts local entertainers who come on board from the various ports the ship stops at. We saw a variety of interesting performers who came on board in Japan, including Geisha’s, Japanese drummers, and a performance artist who performed a variety of optical illusion based tricks.''All of the performances we saw were very high quality, and we definitely recommend checking out the shows on board.''Casino''Whilst Jess and I aren’t exactly what you might call high rollers, we do occasionally like to put a few pennies in the slot machines. And the''MS Amsterdam''had us covered, with a full casino on board offering both table games and slot machines.''We didn’t win anything admittedly, but it was nice to know we could have.''Movies''The Wojang Theatre is a relatively small theatre space that has daily movie showings. We didn’t actually have time to watch a movie in here, but it looked like a comfortable place to do so, and the movies on offer changed regularly.''DVD library''Probably Jess’s favourite of all the entertainment options on board was the DVD library! She loves to pick out a movie for us to watch together, and was delighted when we got on board to discover our room had a DVD player, and that Holland America carry an extensive DVD library on board which covers a wide range of tastes.''American’s Test Kitchen''One of the more intersecting infotainment options on board is''America’s Test Kitchen''. This is a partnership with the US TV show, and you can actually watch live chefs on board perform demonstrations of how to create various dishes.''We watched sushi chef Andy Matsuda create sushi and various fruit displays, and it was quite fun to watch someone so talented working in real time and sharing his secrets. So if you’re looking for some fun cooking ideas, this is definitely a show to attend.''Dining & Drinking''Without doubt, the dining on board the''MS Amsterdam''was a real highlight of our experience. The food was really excellent, and the service staff were top notch.''Standard Dining Options''There are a number of dining options on board, depending on your mood. The two main dining areas are the Lido Market, which is a large casual buffet-style dining area on deck 7, and the La Fontaine Dining room, which is a table-service restaurant at the aft of the ship on decks 3 & 4. This latter has two seating times, although there are also free-seating times available if you just want to turn up.''We ate at both of these, and found the food to be very good and very varied, even for the relatively short time we were on board. Jess was particularly enamoured by the sushi selection at the Lido Market, and I liked the ice cream counter.''As well as the Lido Market, deck seven is also home to the Dive-In, a fast-food casual eatery that focuses on hot dogs and burgers, as well as having a small buffet which focused on Mexican food while we were on board. We ate here a couple of times, and thought the burgers were top notch.''Speciality Dining''All the above food options were included as part of the cruise. However, the''MS Amsterdam''had two more options for us to choose from, Canaletto, and the Pinnacle Grill, both of which carry a small supplement, and are perfect for either celebrating a special occasion, or if you just fancy a change of scenery.''The first of these, Canaletto, is an upscale Italian restaurant, which celebrates the Italian concept of “spartire”, which means sharing. As such, when you order, you are given the choice as to whether you want to share the dish, or have it all to yourself.''We actually ate at Canaletto twice, once on our first night on board, and once on our last night on board. For some of the dishes we opted to share, and for others we didn’t. You still order the same number of dishes, all that varies is the presentation, and whether or not you split it. We really enjoyed the food here, which should be clear as we went twice.''The highlight of our dining experience on board though has to have been the night we spent at the Pinnacle Grill. This is a fine dining restaurant which, as the name suggests, focuses on grilled dishes. Taking its main inspiration from the American Northwest, dishes include a range of steak options, as well as fish dishes. They also have an excellent wine sommelier and wine selection, who will help you pick the perfect wine to go with your meal.''For the two speciality restaurants, reservations are essential to secure a spot. From time to time, the Pinnacle Grill will run themed evenings, and these invariably fill up well in advance, so if a themed evening tickles your fancy, do book it well in advance.''Our Room''We had an outside ocean-view stateroom, one of five main types of room on board the''MS Amsterdam''in 2017. Below our room type was the interior room, and then classes above were all suites.''The ship is due for an update in early 2018, at which point some of the room configurations will change, so do check the Holland America website for the latest configuration, depending on when you are reading this.''Back to our room.''Our room was on the third deck, so we had a view out of the window onto the lower promenade deck, and then beyond that out to sea – although it was a slightly obstructed view as we were right near the aft section of the ship. We had privacy netting style curtains, but of course if all the curtains were open then folks would be able to see in.''Inside the room we had a queen size bed, a small sofa, a working area with a table, a TV and DVD player, power outlets in both US and EU styles, a whole host of lighting configuration options and a bathroom. Jess loved that the room came with an actual bathtub, I appreciated that this had a shower head. So everyone was happy.''We also had plenty of cupboard and drawer space, and overall, really liked the style of our room – it gave us plenty of space and light, with everything we needed. What would have made it even better? We would have ideally liked a balcony of our own were we being picky, but those are available at higher price points.''Lastly – our room was made up every day, and turned down at night, as in any good hotel. Every night we were left some chocolates on the bed, and, my personal favourite, a different towel animal was made up on the bed every night. It’s the little things like that which really make a stay, and I loved getting back to my new towel animal every evening! Jess’s favourite towel animal of the cruise was this octopus:''The Crew''Of course, the success of a cruise relies greatly on the quality of the crew, and the Holland America were excellent. Everyone from the hotel director through to the wait staff through to our room attendants were friendly and accommodating.''When Jess and I couldn’t figure out how to get into her kimono, friendly help arrived at our cabin. When we wanted a specific hair style for Jess for an evening event, the spa folks just got straight to it. Basically, nothing ever seemed like too much trouble.''Dress Code on Board Holland America (and what to pack!)''The dress code on the Grand Voyage was fairly relaxed, which was something many guests seemed to appreciate when we spoke to them. There’s no requirement for black-tie for example, unlike some other cruises we’ve taken.''For evening wear, smart casual attire is the way to go for the majority of the cruise. This means that shorts, pool/beachwear, distressed jeans and men’s tank tops are generally not permitted in the fine dining restaurants on board. Jeans that do not have holes, tears or embroidery are permitted in all restaurants with the exception of on Gala evenings.''Gala nights are special events on board where guests are expected to dress up. The dress code for the fine dining restaurants on these evenings requires gentlemen to wear a collared shirt and slacks, and ladies to wear a dress, skirt or slacks. Whilst a jacket and tie is preferred for men in the fine dining restaurants, it’s not mandatory.''Some Gala evenings are themed, so of course you are encouraged to dress up if you have the appropriate attire – for example the Gala night on our voyage was Kimono night, and we had a lot of fun getting into suitable attire for that!''There is no specific dress code for the casual dining areas, which on the''MS Amsterdam''includes the buffet-service Lido Market and the Dive-In on the seventh deck.''For more information on the dress code, you can see the Holland America dress code guidance''here''.''In terms of baggage allowance, Holland America doesn’t have specific baggage allowances. However, as you will likely have to take some form of transport to get to the cruise ship, likely an aircraft, then you will have to confirm to those luggage restrictions. If you have a lot of luggage you would like to bring on board, Holland America offers various luggage services which will handle your luggage for you. Read more on those''here''.''In terms of what to bring, especially on a longer cruise, this really depends! There are of course on-board laundry services, both self-service and for a fee. The main consideration you will have to think about are the destinations you will be visiting and the weather you are likely to encounter. We’d suggest packing a variety of layers that will suit the majority of climates you will meet, comfortable walking shoes, and then some smart clothes for evening wear.''Shore Excursions''Obviously, you don’t come on a cruise just to spend time on the ship. Going ashore to explore the destinations that your cruise ship visits is a highlight of the experience.''Naturally, we took advantage of the various stops that our ship made around Japan. For the voyage we were on, these stops included Yokohama (Tokyo), Osaka, Beppu, Hyuga and Kagoshima.''We took a total of four shore excursions during our week long cruise. These were to the old town of Tokyo, a tour of Kyoto, a visit to Yabakei Gorge near Beppu, and a shorter tour to the Nippo-Kaigan Quasi-National Park near Hyuga.''Whilst there is the option to arrange your own excursion, or just to be totally self-sufficient (definitely a good way to save money on a cruise), we booked all our tours through either the on board shore excursion office or our online account.''Tours are given different activity ratings so you know what you are getting into. Tours range from sightseeing bus tours through to snorkelling tours and even scenic flights, depending on location. There was a cool-sounding tea ceremony offered during our portion of the cruise, but that booked out before we could get on it.''All the tours we took followed a fairly similar format. Before the tour started everyone going on a tour gathered in the Queen’s Lounge, where there was a pre-tour briefing, as well as the opportunity to buy drinks and snacks. Then the various tours would be called, and groups would be allocated to their buses.''The tours were usually popular, and every tour we went on had at least two large coaches full of people. Each coach had a local guide who led the tour, plus some Holland America crew to help out.''If you’ve been on a larger coach or bus tour with 35 – 45 people on, you will likely be familiar with the format of these tours. Generally, due to the time it took to get everyone on and off the bus, plus the various bathroom stops, tours could only focus on the real highlights of a region. If you want a more customised, personal tour experience, then you would likely want to book your own private tour – either by yourself, or by enquiring with the Holland America tour desk, who will be able to help you out.''Overall, we enjoyed the tours we went on, despite it raining for nearly the entirety of our time in Japan. Jess had been really keen to visit Kyoto, and was happy that we were able to see the main sights in the city, although of course, we’ll have to go back for a more in-depth visit. I think that is probably the best way to think about tours like this, and generally tours from cruise ships. You have to accept you’re not going to have an in-depth visit of a destination, that time will be short, and there won’t be too much flexibility. Just sit back, relax, and go with the flow.''On the tours we took the tour guides were all excellent. The tone varied between humour and seriousness, depending on the personality of the guide (one guide brought headwear to dress up in to illustrate different points!), but they certainly all knew their stuff, and spoke excellent English. We really enjoyed the view of Japan that we got on the tours, and are definitely keen to return to explore further.''Who Takes A Holland America Cruise?''The cruise we joined was the 2017 80 day Grand Asia and Pacific Voyage cruise. Obviously, not many people under a certain age bracket can take 80 days off work, so the demographic on this particular voyage was of retired travellers, the majority of whom were from the US. Many of the folks we talked to had been on multiple Holland America cruises previously, and had racked up impressive numbers of total nights on board.''The folks we talked to about why they kept coming back said it was the friendly staff, the relaxed style on board, and the excellent service. A long cruise like this means that guests and staff really get to spend a long time together, and really get to know one another well, resulting in a really friendly atmosphere on board.''Is A Holland America Cruise For You?''If you’ve never cruised before, then jumping in at the deep end of an eighty day cruise might be a bit daunting. Luckily, you can do smaller segments of these cruises to get a flavour for it, although the majority of folks that we chatted to on board were there for either the full trip or about two-thirds of the trip.''A long cruise like this is also a fairly significant investment for many people. As well as the cost of the cruise itself, you have to factor in the costs of gratuities and any shore excursions you want to book, as well as any extras on board like special meals, shopping, internet access, drinks, or spa treatments.''Overall though, a cruise can be a really fun way to see the world, meet like-minded people, eat fantastic food, and do it all without having to pack and re-pack between hotels. I love that about any cruise voyage, including''river cruises''– that the scenery outside your room changes every day, and I don’t have to pack my suitcase.''Combine the above with the stellar service we had on board from the truly fantastic staff, and we’d definitely recommend a voyage with Holland America. If you’re not sure about committing to one of their longer voyages, check out their website, where we’re sure you’ll find something to suit!''Find out more''Well, hopefully that’s given you everything you need to know about cruising with Holland America on one of their longer cruises! Here’s a bit of further reading and useful links to help you plan and book your cruise:''The official''Holland America''website''A full listing of all''upcoming Grand Voyages''A guide to the''onboard dress code''And that’s it! Have you ever taken a longer cruise? Would you like a trip like this? Got any questions at all? Just let us know in the comments below!''So you know: We were invited by Holland America to join a part of their 80 day Grand Asia and Pacific Voyage cruise. Holland America covered our flights to and from the ship, as well as our costs for our time on board, in return for us sharing our opinion. As always, you can always read our''code of ethics''to find out more about who we choose to work work.''SHARE ON''I almost went to university in Bristol, which would have been a great choice, as it’s a fantastically beautiful city. As life turned out though, I ended up at Nottingham, home to the oldest pubs in Britain. Which wasn’t a deciding factor, honestly.''Still, Jess and I have explored Bristol thoroughly as part of our mission to explore as many corners of the UK as possible. As a result of these explorations, we’ve put together our suggestions of some of our favourite things to do in Bristol.''This covers some of our favourite sights in Bristol as well as places to eat and a few photography locations you’ll want to visit. We’ve laid this out in the form of am itinerary for 2 days in Bristol to help you plan, but this list can be used for any length trip to Bristol of course.''Following this, you’ll find some advice on when to visit Bristol and other planning advice for putting together the perfect trip. Let’s get started!''Things to Do in Bristol''Things to do in Bristol: Day 1''1. Bristol Museum and Art Gallery''We’re starting off our two days in Bristol with a visit to the''Bristol Museum and Art Gallery'', which covers a wide range of subjects, from natural history through to Egyptology.''There are also exhibitions with a more regional focus, including work by local artists, information on the history of interesting fossil finds in the Bristol area, and a gallery which showcases how Bristol has changed over the centuries. For a more Bristol focused museum though, you’ll want to head to M-Shed, which is on the itinerary for the second day.''We particularly enjoyed seeing the Banksy statue “Paint pot Angel” and the dinosaur fossils, although there is a lot to see here with something for everyone. A good way to start off your Bristol adventure! Entry to the museum is free with a suggested donation. Special exhibits are separately priced.''2. Climb Cabot Tower''One thing I always like to do when visiting an unfamiliar city is to get to a place where I can get a good view of it, to help me get my bearings. In Bristol, the place to do that is at Cabot Tower.''This is a 19th century tower which commemorates the journey of John Cabot from Bristol to what later became Canada, in the year 1497. It’s found near the top of Brandon Hill, just a short walk from the Bristol Museum, and the 32 metre tower offers an excellent view of much of Bristol and surrounds, including the river area.''Climbing the tower is free, and you can see opening times''here''.''3. Georgian House Museum''We’re going to head towards the old city centre of Bristol now, but on the way you have the opportunity to stop in at the''Georgian House Museum'', which is on the way down the hill from Cabot Tower on Great George Street.''This house was built in 1790 for a man named''John Pinney'', who owned a number of sugar plantations in the Caribbean, as well as the slave labour that allowed these plantations to be so profitable. When Jess and I visited the deep south of the USA, we visited a number of''plantations along the river road'', where we learned a lot about the lives of plantation owners and slaves.''The Georgian House offers a small insight into slavery in England. Bristol profited heavily from the slave trade and slave-run plantations. Slave ships were operated out of Bristol, running the infamous “slave triangle”, taking goods to Africa from the UK, slaves from Africa to the USA, and then the plantation products from the USA back to the UK. Ships were also built in Bristol, which further added to the citiy’s wealth.''The Georgian house shows what that wealth would have looked like to a man like John Pinney who profited from the slave trade. Eleven rooms spread across four floors reveal the luxuries available in the late 18th century, as well as the stark difference between life “above stairs” and “below stairs”. Entry is free, and is definitely worth some of your time.''4. Christmas Steps''Next on our list is going to be a photo stop, before we swoop into lunch. Christmas Steps is a small and narrow stepped lane in Bristol’s city centre, dating from the mid 17th century, and lined with beautiful old buildings.''It’s the centrepiece of the''Christmas Steps Arts Quarter'', eight streets filled with independent shops, bars, cafes and art galleries, many of which don’t seem to have changed too much over the centuries. It’s worth exploring and an excellent photo opportunity.''5. Lunch at St. Nicholas Market''There’s no shortage of places to eat in Bristol, but one of our favourites was definitely the Glass Arcade at the''St. Nicholas Indoor Market'', which you’ll find on Corn Street. Winner of the award for Britain’s best large indoor market in 2016, and in operation since 1743, this is Bristol’s oldest market, with over 60 stall holders.''But we’re here for lunch, so head to the Glass Arcade – a large open glass-covered area with seating that offers plenty of food stalls to pick from, cuisines that vary from local to worldly. Take a look at some of the stalls available''here'', to get yourself excited. I went with Moroccan from the''Moorish Cafe'', whilst Jess had a healthy salad option from''the Olive Works''. But whatever food you’re into, we’re sure you won’t be disappointed!''6. Explore the Old City''Since our itinerary has brought you down into the old city, our suggestion for your post-lunch activity would be to wander''Bristol’s old city''for a little while.''The crossroads of Corn Street and High Street was the centre of the medieval city, and as you explore this small area you’ll be able to see traces of the old city boundaries, including the walls and gateways that used to mark the edges of the city. Of course, today Bristol has expanded far beyond these old walls, but it’s fun to walk around and imagine what the city might have been like in the past.''7. Take a Street Art Tour''Bristol is famous for its street art, not least because it was where legendary street artist Banksy first came into the public eye. It is also believed to be the childhood home of Banksy although there is still speculation about his identity. So we think it’s appropriate to spend some time exploring the street art of Bristol!''You can either do this by yourself, or you can take a specific tour. If you choose to do it by yourself, we highly recommend dropping into a tourist office and picking up a copy of the Bristol Street Art Map by Where the Wall, which has detailed information about where to find all the most famous pieces of street art in Bristol, as well as popular areas to find new street art. That was what I did, and I documented my adventures in my post on''Bristol’s Street Art''.''If you’d rather take a tour, then we suggest the''Where the Wall''street art walking tour company, who operate the longest running street art tour in the UK. Timings for their tours are up on their website, but based on our itinerary, we’d suggest going for their''Banksy tour'', which start at 2pm. They also do''another tour'', which starts at midday, so you’d have to re-arrange this schedule a little to accommodate that.''Whichever tour you choose, we suggest booking in advance and always''checking tour times''and information on the official website.''8. Watch Sunset at the Clifton Suspension Bridge''Depending on the time of your visit, sunset will be at varying times. But whenever it is, either before you eat or after, we highly recommend that you take the time to go up to the''Clifton Suspension Bridge''and enjoy the sunset from there.''This iconic bridge is the symbol of Bristol, with a design based on drawings by one of Britain’s greatest Victorian engineers:''Isambard Kingdom Brunel''. Whilst it is today accepted that the final version of the bridge differs from Brunel’s original vision, it is certainly the bridge that most associate with Brunel, and when built, had the longest span of any bridge in the world.''Today the bridge is still very much in use, and you can both drive and walk across it. We’d suggest that you head up to the park on the east side of the bridge though, where you’ll find the Clifton observatory, and lovely views of both the bridge, and the sunset. On warm summer days this is a very popular location with locals and visitors alike, who come up here to enjoy the evening warmth and views. A lovely way to end your first day exploring in Bristol!''Things to do in Bristol: Day 2''9. Bristol Cathedral''Our second day in Bristol has you starting off at''Bristol Cathedral'', seat of the Church of England in the city. This was founded as an Augustine abbey in 1140, although the version you see today largely dates from work undertaken in the 14th –16th centuries.Some parts of the original do survive though, including the Chapter House (dating from 1160!) and the Abbey Gatehouse.''In its present form the Cathedral is a stunning building both inside and out, with beautiful vaulting, medieval stonework and 14th century stained glass, to name but some of the features. It’s also one of the few churches in Britain to be designed as a “hall church”, where the nave, choir and aisles are all the same height. There’s an on-site cafe too, where you can grab a coffee to fortify you for the rest of your days explorations!''10. Bristol Aquarium''Down in the harbourside area just a short walk from the cathedral there are a number of excellent museums and attractions. Which of these you decide to visit will of course depend on your interests and who you’re travelling with, but we’re including a few highlights to give you ideas, ordered in a logical fashion.''First on that list is the''Bristol Aquarium''. This is home to over forty marine life displays, with everything from local specimens through to tropical environments on show. Unusually for an aquarium, there’s also a giant botanical house on site, that you walk through as part of the tour. The aquarium is open year round, and is an excellent attraction for families especially. Check out their''official website''for opening times, prices, and special events.''11. We the Curious (Bristol Science Centre)''Right next door to the Aquarium is''We the Curious''(formerly known as the At-Bristol Science Centre), which focuses on highly interactive science themed exhibits. There’s a lot of really hands on stuff here, and we had a lot of fun playing with the various displays.''There’s also a whole part of the attraction dedicated to animation. Bristol is home to''Aardman Animations'', the animation studio responsible for Wallace & Gromit as well as UK TV character''Morph''. This attraction was put together by Aardman, and lets you become an animator for the day – even creating your own TV show.''This is definitely a museum for people who like a more hands-on, interactive attraction, and you could easily spend a whole day here. Again, check the official website for opening times and''ticket prices''.''12. M Shed''If you want to get deeper under the skin of what make Bristol tick, then a visit to''M-Shed''is an absolute must. This free museum, housed in a former transit shed, has exhibits that focus exclusively on telling the story of the city, from prehistoric times right up to the present day.''We don’t like to play favourites, but M Shed was definitely a highlight of the various museums and attractions that we visited. We loved how it explored the history of the city, with everything from the people to the geography to Bristol’s experiences in the war on show. There are even working exhibits on show, including the giant cranes outside the museum, and the museum even has its own Banksy on show. Not to be missed.''13. Visit the SS Great Britain''No visit to Bristol would be complete without a visit to the''SS Great Britain''– Bristol’s top visitor attraction. Designed by Brunel, the SS Great Britain was built in Bristol and launched in 1845. She was the first ship with both an iron hull and a screw propeller, and was also the longest passenger ship in the world.''Initially built as a transatlantic passenger ship, the cost of building and tweaking such a radical design combined with the cost of rescuing her after she ran aground ended up bankrupting her owners.''As a result she has a varied service history, including 30 years spent taking immigrants to Australia from Liverpool in the UK and coal-hauling. Finally, in 1937, she was scuttled and abandoned in the Falkland Islands.''Of course, the story doesn’t end there, as otherwise there wouldn’t be much to visit! In 1970, a great rescue operation took place, and what remained of her hull was floated onto a pontoon and returned to her place of construction in Bristol.''Following an extensive restoration process, she re-opened to the public, and today you can visit and tour her in a form that resembles her glory days as a transatlantic ship.''14. Take a picture of the colourful houses''One thing that will catch your eye when you visit Bristol is the variety and colour of many of the homes and buildings in the city. This is one of Bristol’s signature features, and you definitely need to get a photo of these homes.''We actually visited Bristol during the''Bristol Balloon Fiesta'', and were lucky enough to go up in a balloon, and see all these houses from above.''But don’t worry if a balloon ride isn’t on the cards. If you walk a little further west along the south side of the river from the SS Great Britain, you’ll come to a lovely harbour area where many boats are moored. On the opposite side of the river, you’ll see a lovely selection of colourful houses for you to get a picture of.''15. Underfall yard''The last stop on our two day Bristol itinerary continues the marine theme. Underfall Yard is a historic Victorian-era boatyard in Bristol. The name “underfall” comes from the design solution that Brunel developed to resolve the issue of silt filling up Bristol’s floating harbour, which used a series of sluices to suck away the mud – a system that is still in use today.''Much of the original yard has been preserved, and is home today to a boat building cooperative, as well as various exhibits on the history of the floating harbour and the sluicing technology. I certainly learnt a few things that I didn’t know before, and I’m sure you will too!''With that, we’ve finished our ideas for how to spend two days in Bristol! Let’s take a look now at some practicalities for your visit.''Getting to Bristol''Bristol is a well connected city. There’s a fast train connection to London, which takes less than two hours, and of course it’s connected to a number of other cities in the UK as well.''Bristol also has an airport, with connections to a number of UK and European cities.''Finally, Bristol is easy to drive to, although in the city centre, we’d advise leaving the car safely parked somewhere else, as parking can be tricky to come by and fees can add up.''How to Get Around Bristol''Bristol is an easy city to get around, although it does have a few hills. The itinerary we’ve put together can be easily done on foot though, and it’s largely set up to have you travelling downhill for the most part.''Of course, there’s an excellent public transport network, as well as a''ferry boat service''that will take you to various points along the harbour. Bristol also has a hop-on hop-off bus service, which will get you to some of the attractions that are a little further out of the city, like Bristol Zoo.''Where to Stay in Bristol''Bristol has lots of accommodation options, pretty much something to suit every budget, from hostels through to boutique hotels and five star luxury.''There’s also a wide range of apartment rentals, and we opted for an apartment rental on our most recent visit as it gave us the flexibility to dine in as well as some working space and laundry facilities.''Check out all the''Booking.com listings for Bristol,''we find they usually come up with the best deal on a wide range of properties. We also recommend AirBnB if you’re looking for an apartment rental, and you can score up to $100 off your trip if you sign up with''this link''.''When to Visit Bristol''Bristol is a pleasant city to visit year round, and there are plenty of indoor attractions to keep you entertained should the weather turn against you.''Probably the busiest time of year to visit is during the''Bristol International Balloon Fiesta'', which takes place in early August. Whilst this is a fantastic time to visit the city and see the skies filled with beautifully coloured balloons, it’s also definitely going to be a very busy time to visit as well.''We visited during the Fiesta, and had a wonderful time, but do be aware that accommodation, traffic and visitor levels are certainly higher at this time of year.''Otherwise, for the best weather we’d recommend visiting from May through to September. Also, do check out the official''Visit Bristol''website for all the events taking place throughout the year, to get an idea of what’s on.''Further Reading for your Bristol Visit''That sums up our suggested things to do in Bristol for two days! As you can see, there’s plenty to see and do in Bristol, and you’ll easily be able to fill two days – or extend your trip for a few more days! We’re got more content coming up on Bristol, so''do subscribe''to stay updated. In the meantime, here’s a series of resources to help you plan your trip to both Bristol and the wider UK!''The official''Visit Bristol tourism page'', which has loads of ideas on what to do, where to stay, transport information as well as event information.''Our detailed guide to''attending the Bristol Balloon Fiesta''The official''Bristol International Balloon Fiesta''website''The''Rough Guide to Bath, Bristol and Somerset'', which is available in both digital and physical book formats''My guide to the best locations to''find Street Art in Bristol''We have written a number of guides to the UK, to help you further plan your trip. Some of the most popular guides are:''Our detailed''one week itinerary of the UK'', as well as''a two week version''A guide to driving Scotland’s epic''North Coast 500'', as well as''accommodation options on the North Coast 500''A guide to''10 of the best Stately Homes in England'', to give you some ideas as you plan your itinerary''For London, we have some detailed itineraries to help you plan your visit. These include a''1 Day London Itinerary'', a''Two Day London itinerary''and a''six day London itinerary''The top Harry Potter sites in London''Tips on Buying and Using the London Pass''A guide to''Visiting Oxford on a Day Trip''Visiting''Blenheim Palace and the Cotswolds''Getting online when travelling in a foreign country can be daunting – check out our''guide to getting online when travelling''to help you figure out the best options for your trip''If you’re interested in getting better photos when you travel, take a look at my''online photography course'', where I’ll teach you everything you need to know about getting better photos – whatever camera you have!''And that’s it for our suggestions for the best things to do in Bristol over 2 days! Have you ever visited Bristol? Do you have anything you’d add to the above? Just let us know in the comments below!''So you know: For some of the attractions we visited in Bristol,''Visit Bristol''provided us with complimentary entry. We covered our own accommodation, transport, meals, and other expenses.''SHARE ON''We’ve been based in the Edinburgh region for a couple of years now, and it is definitely one of our favourite cities in the UK. We’ve written a lot about the city – everything from the awesome festivals through to getting off the beaten path in Edinburgh, plus loads more (see the further reading section at the end of the post for more).''One thing I’ve somehow not written so far though is a detailed guide to the best photography locations in Edinburgh. This is a huge oversight, as Edinburgh is fantastically photogenic. With medieval city streets, handy overlook points and a superb skyline, it is a real treat to photograph.''So, better late than never, I’ve finally put together my photography location guide to Edinburgh, which joins an ever growing series of''photography location guides''.''For many of the shots in this post I used my''Vanguard''tripods, specifically the lightweight travel focused''VEO tripod range''. Edinburgh is a wonderfully walkable city, but no one wants to walk around weighed down by heavy photography gear. I firmly believe that a tripod is essential for photography (see why''here''), so something lightweight like the VEO 2 is perfect for my needs!''I currently use the VEO 2 265CB (see my review''here''), which I’ve been testing since it launched in mid-2017. I’m proud to be a''Vanguard Ambassador'', and love their gear, which includes bags, tripod and other photography accessories. If you’re interested, you can read all about''the camera gear we use here''. Now, on with my guide to:''Best Photography Locations in Edinburgh''1. Calton Hill''One of the most iconic views from Edinburgh is from atop Calton Hill, looking across Princes Street towards the castle, and placing the Dugald Stewart Monument in the foreground of your frame. This is a really lovely composition, and this image is often used to represent Edinburgh in photos around the world.''You can shoot this particular shot either with a wide angle, or you can back up a bit and use a longer lens to compress the different elements together. It also works well with a person in the foreground, either looking at or away from the camera.''As well as that particular shot, Calton Hill is home to a number of other fantastic views (and photo opportunities!). There’s the National Monument, which looks exactly like an unfinished version of the Greek Parthenon. There’s also Nelson’s Monument, a homage to the British sea admiral who won the Battle of Trafalgar. You can climb up the Nelson’s Monument to a terraced area for a small fee and get a nice view across the city – see the''official website''for opening times and prices..''Next to Nelson’s monument there’s a lookout area which offers excellent views of Arthur’s Seat, the Crags and the Royal Mile. That’s one of my favourite spots for sunset, and for watching Princes Street fall into dusk, at which point long exposure shots of the traffic moving make for a great shot.''2. Princes Street Gardens''Down underneath Edinburgh Castle is the Princes Street Gardens, a large public park which runs parallel to Princes Street, divided into the East and West gardens by The Mound.''The gardens are the former site of the “Nor Loch”, a defensive lake that sat here until the mid 18th century, and was usually very badly polluted by everything that dribbled out of the medieval city.''Today, the landscaped gardens are a rather nicer environment, particularly popular in the summer as a place to relax and take in the views. And what views they are – with the wonderful Edinburgh Castle providing the centre point for your photography efforts!''There are a number of great photography opportunities in the Gardens. One of my favourites is the Ross Fountain, which provides a lovely piece of foreground, with the castle in the backdrop (note that the Ross Fountain is undergoing refurbishment until mid 2018).''The Princes Street Gardens are also one of the best places to watch the New Years fireworks over the castle from as part of Edinburgh’s New Years celebrations. You can read all about our''experience attending Hogmanay here''.''3. Scott Monument''Sitting directly above Princes Street Gardens on Princes Street itself is the Scott Monument, the largest monument to a writer in the world.''My favourite time of year to shoot the Scott Monument is around Christmas, when there’s usually a fairground ride called the Starflyer. This is a set of spinning chairs that are raised high into the air, and they are particularly nice around sunset, when they are lit up – offering an excellent long exposure opportunity for which you will obviously need a tripod.''Otherwise, the Scott Monument is great to photograph up close, using the curves of the arches to frame the statue of Scott, or you can use the trees around the monument to frame it. Lots of potential here, definitely one to include on your list of Edinburgh photography locations!''4. The Royal Mile''One of Edinburgh’s most famous streets is the Royal Mile, which runs for just under a mile from Edinburgh Castle at one end down to the Palace of Holyroodhouse at the other. It’s also not technically one street, and is in fact made up of five streets that run into each other.''It’s a definite must for photography.''There are a number of spots along the Royal Mile that you shouldn’t miss. Obviously, Edinburgh Castle (''book your tickets in advance here''if you want to go inside)\xa0at one end, shot from Castle Esplanade, is an excellent starting point, plus there are nice views of the city from the esplanade too.''Working down the Royal Mile, and there are a number of photo opportunities, both shooting down the length of the mile itself, and of some of the side streets that run off it. Some not to miss opportunities include White Horse Close, an enclosed courtyard of pretty old houses.''Finally, at the far end of the Royal Mile is the Palace of Holyroodhouse, the official residence of the Queen in Scotland, and one of the most impressive buildings in the city. This is always worth taking a photo of, and you might be a get a shot from the gate but probably not the best one so best to pay and go inside. We recommend taking a tour around inside if you have a chance – it’s well worth it.''Side note and money saving tip – if you’re visiting a few sights in Edinburgh, you can save money with a''Royal Edinburgh ticket'', which is worth checking out. You can read a full review of using that''here''.''5. The Salisbury Crags''One of the nice things about Edinburgh from a photography point of view is that there’s no shortage of excellent vantage points from which to get great shots of the city. One of these is Holyrood Park, a huge royal park just to the south of the Palace of Holyroodhouse.''This is made up of a number of interesting features, including three lochs and the extinct volcanic peak known today as Arthur’s Seat. One of my favourite photography locations though are the Salisbury Crags – a series of 150ft high basalt column cliffs, from where you can get an excellent view of the Edinburgh Skyline. This is an excellent spot for photography, especially at sunset and sunrise.''6. Victoria Street''Edinburgh is home to a number of beautiful streets, with one of the most colourful being Victoria Street, which curves round from the Grassmarket on the lower level of the city up to the George IV Bridge and the Royal Mile.''This street was said to have inspired Diagon Alley in Harry Potter (read all about finding''Harry Potter in Edinburgh here''), and it is certainly a magical place for photography. The colourful shop fronts curve away down the street with cobbled stones underfoot and Edinburgh’s high old stone-built buildings towering above.''This is an easy stop just off the Royal Mile and certainly one to include. It does get busy though, so it can be challenging to shoot it without people, and almost impossible to photograph it without cars. You can reduce the number of people by doing a long exposure with a tripod and neutral density filter. You could also try coming in very early in the morning if you’re an early-bird!''7. The Vennel Steps''There are a lot of places to get a great view of Edinburgh Castle, but my absolute favourite is from the Vennel steps. A vennel, for those of you not familiar with the term, is a passageway between the gables of two buildings – basically an alley.''In this case, the steps lead away from the Grassmarket and up\xa0 to Heriot Place. But if you turn around as you go up the steps, you’ll be treated to a wonderful view of Edinburgh castle, with the steps and alley providing a lovely leading line. This is a lovely shot at any time of day, and also works well at night with that aforementioned tripod.''8. Circus Lane''Edinburgh has no shortage of gorgeous streets to photograph, but one of the most popular ones has to be Circus Lane, over in the “New Town” of Edinburgh.''New is a relative term of course, given that this part of town was actually built in the 18th century. It was to here that the rich of Edinburgh moved, leaving the poor to the cramped and unsanitary conditions of the original medieval town centre.''Anyway, Circus Lane is a beautiful old cobbled street with old lampposts, creeping greenery and lovely houses, making for a perfect village scene, just ten minutes from the centre of Edinburgh. We also encourage you to find your own favourite alley or street in Edinburgh – there are lots to choose from!''9. Dean Village''Speaking of villages, if you make it to Circus Lane, you should definitely head a little further out of the city centre to Dean Village. This is a wonderfully picturesque oasis that sits in a valley formed by the “Water of Leith”, Edinburgh’s main river.''There’s plenty to photograph down here, but certainly the highlights include the colourful houses and the river, as well as the huge 19th century bridge that spans the valley above, transporting traffic across and away, and leaving Dean Village as a place that time seems to have almost forgotten.''10. Blackford Hill''Last in my list of Edinburgh photography locations is Blackford Hill. This is a relatively large hill to the south of the city centre which is home to an ancient hill fort, Edinburgh’s Royal Observatory, and of course, spectacular views across the city.''This is the place to come if you want to get a shot of the whole city including the Castle and Arthur’s Seat, and is an excellent location for either sunrise or sunset photography. At dusk in particular, you can catch the city lighting up as night falls, making for some lovely photography opportunities.''Tips for Photographing Edinburgh''And that sums up some of my favourite photography locations in Edinburgh. Next, I wanted to share some tips for photographing this lovely city.''1. Be prepared for any weather''.''Whatever time of year you visit, the weather in Edinburgh can be fickle, and rain is a possibility every day! Layers are key in terms of clothing, and you’ll want to have a waterproof camera bag with you to protect your gear.''I use the''Vanguard Alta Sky 49''which carries all''my photography gear''in comfort, and keeps it all dry too, with a built-in raincover as well as a really nifty tripod carrying system. I’ve used a lot of different bags, and the Alta Sky 49 is definitely my favourite to day.''2. Rise early, stay out late''.''As every photographer knows, the best light for photography is usually around sunset and sunrise. Sunrise is especially a great time as far fewer people will be around. Edinburgh is a really popular city, especially during the''August festivals'', and those quiet moments in the early mornings can be the best times to capture the city before she wakes up.''3. Find the local stories''.''Do try and catch some uniquely “Edinburgh” moments when you’re visiting the city, beyond just shooting the scenes I’ve picked out for you. These can include festival moments or Scottish highlights like bagpipe players.''4. Bring the right camera gear''.''Edinburgh has a lot of photography opportunities, and you’ll find yourself needing a full range, from a wide angle lens to a telephoto zoom.''For night photography, long exposures and any HDR work you want to do, you’ll also want to use a tripod – as previously mentioned, we use and recommend the Vanguard VEO 2 series for all our travel photography needs!''As a bonus, readers of the site can take advantage of my 20% discount code in the''Vanguard US store''to get yourself set up – just use code''FindingTheUniverse''at checkout!''Further Reading for Visiting Edinburgh''And that sums up my tips on finding the best photography locations in Edinburgh! But that’s not all. We’ve got a lot of content we’ve put together, both about photography and visiting the UK, that we think you’ll find useful – plus some external links as well. Here it is:''I have a''number of articles''dedicated to helping you improve your photography, including how to pick the''best camera for travel'',''tips for cold weather photography''and reasons''you need a tripod for your photography''.''This is just one in my series of''detailed photography location guides'', which you can use to help you find the perfect shot in locations around the world!''For Edinburgh, we have a number of detailed posts to help you get the most out of your stay in this beautiful city. These include a''two day Edinburgh itinerary'',''21 Highlights in Edinburgh''&''Getting off the beaten path in Edinburgh'', as well as a guide to''visiting Edinburgh for the Festivals''and spending''Christmas in Edinburgh''.''Since you’re in''Scotland''already for this location guide, check out some of our Scotland content, including:''A detailed guide to the''highlights of the epic North Coast 500 road trip'', as well as''accommodation options along the route'',''photography highlights of the NC500'', and the ultimate''NC500 planning guide''A''two day Glasgow and Loch Lomond Itinerary'', our''guide to Glasgow'', as well as''ten things to do in Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park''A''Guide to Touring the Scottish Borders'', as well as a''5 Day Isle of Skye and Highlands itinerary''We also have content on the wider UK, including:''Itineraries for''one week in the UK''and''two weeks in the UK''Our series of London itineraries including''One Day'',''Two Day'', and''Six Day London Itineraries''The''Best Photography Locations in London''How to Save Money in London with the London Pass''The''Highlights of Oxford''Visiting''Blenheim Palace and the Cotswolds''Finally, if you’re interested in improving your photography, take a look at my''online travel photography course'', which has everything you need to know to start taking awesome travel photos, from picking a camera, to mastering the settings, to editing – and more!''And that’s it! Got a favourite photography location in Edinburgh, or any questions about the above? Let me know in the comments below!''So you know: As mentioned throughout the post, I’m an ambassador for Vanguard, and they provided me with my tripod and bag for this kit as part of the VEO 2 launch campaign. I love their gear and am thrilled to be able to work with a company I love, but as always, all opinions remain our own and we of course adhere to our''code of ethics''for any work we accept.''SHARE ON''We’ve written a great deal about exploring''Scotland’s North Coast 500''– the epic 500 mile road trip around Scotland’s north coast that has been likened to Scotland’s “Route 66”.''One thing we noticed on our trip around the North Coast 500 is that there are a lot of people driving it who are unfamiliar with single track roads. This is the same story across much of the Scottish Highlands, including the beautiful Isle of Skye and other islands.''Single track roads aren’t a phenomenon that are unique to Scotland of course. They occur around the world, and we’ve encountered them on numerous road trips including in the USA, Australia, the UK, France, Iceland, Ireland and New Zealand, to name but a few.''Often side tracks roads are a back route rather than the main route. For remote parts of Scotland though, even the main roads are single track. So knowing how to drive on a single track road is key to a safe trip.''In this post, I’m going to give you some tips for safe driving on single track roads in the UK. This advice will apply to most countries where vehicles drive on the left side of the road, but it is written specifically with those Scottish single track roads in mind.''Contents:''Driving on Single Track Roads''What is a Single Track Road?''How to use a Passing Place''Who has right of way on a single track road?''Can I overtake on a single track road?''Any other tips for driving on single track roads?''Are there any specific rules about driving on single track roads?''Further Reading''Driving on Single Track Roads''In this section I’m going to answer all your questions about how to drive on a single track road, what to do when you encounter an oncoming vehicle, and other safety tips to keep in mind. First though, you might be wondering:''What is a Single Track Road?''A single track road is a two-way road that is only wide enough for one vehicle. This means that traffic can go both ways on the road, but at most points, the road will only be wide enough for one vehicle. To allow vehicles to safely pass each other, these roads have clearly marked passing places.''A single track road may also be known as a country road, country route, or a single lane road.''How to use a Passing Place''The biggest puzzle for new users of single track roads appears to be how to use the passing places. It’s quite easy, but we’ve seen people making simple mistakes.''Note that the below this rule only apply when driving in countries like Scotland where you drive on the left of the road normally. For countries where you drive on the right, the instructions regarding which side of your vehicle would be reversed.''The first rule is that you only pull into a passing place that is on the left of your vehicle. If the passing place is on the right side of your vehicle, then you would stop in the road beside the passing place, and the vehicle coming towards you will pull into it. Passing places in Scotland are clearly marked as such with a sign.''If you see a car stopped by a passing place waiting for you, with the passing place on your left, then you should pull into it. Sometimes the place will be large enough that you can do this without stopping, and just carefully drive in and out of the place. Sometimes this won’t be possible, and you will have to stop in the passing place and let the other vehicle drive on before you leave it.''One of the biggest mistakes we’ve seen is drivers pulling into the passing place on the right side of their vehicle. This results in on-coming traffic having to pass the vehicle on the passenger side, which essentially means traffic is moving on the wrong side of the road.''In a worst case scenario, this could result in both vehicles attempting to enter the same passing place simultaneously, with obviously negative results! So it is very important that you only pull into the passing place on the left side. Here’s a diagram to help you visualise this.''In this case, the diagram on the left is correct, with the black car pulling into the passing place. The diagram on the right is incorrect, as the blue car is pulling into a passing place on its right.''There are a few other things to be aware of with passing places.''First, if you are driving relatively slowly and other vehicles are stuck behind you, then you should use the passing places to let the traffic behind you pass periodically. You should only do this when there is no oncoming traffic. First, use your signal to indicate your intention, and then pull over into a passing place on the left. Allow the other traffic to pass, and then pull out when it is safe to do so.''Sometimes there will be multiple cars travelling in each direction. Many passing places can accommodate 2 cars so pull forward to let vehicles behind you enter.''Next, only use passing places for passing. Do not pull over on the verges of the road as this causes erosion and damage. The exception to this is when there is no passing place available, in which case you should identify a safe place to pull over and pass. It is very rare though that there won’t be a passing place on Scottish road, as they are very frequent.''Finally, never use a passing place as a parking space. Yes, the scenery may be stunning and you may want to get a photo or stop to get out of the car, but resist and wait until you get to a safe and legal place to park. There are plenty of designated parking spaces, and these are usually put in handily scenic locations.''Who has right of way on a single track road?''The next question you might have is – who stops for whom on a single track road? Often there will be multiple passing places, and if you have good visibility of the road ahead, you might see an oncoming car as well as a number of passing places that either of you can stop in.''This comes down to a mix of common sense and politeness – there’s no law that dictates this, although the UK Highway code does specify that you should give way to vehicles coming uphill where possible. So if you are driving down a hill, you are expected to pull into the first passing place you see, or reverse if possible.''In our experience, on a flat road with good visibility, you can usually judge the speed of the oncoming vehicle and your own speed, figure out where you are likely to meet, and then pick the optimal passing space. Personally, I am not usually in a rush when driving these roads, so will likely stop at the first available passing space and then signal by flashing my lights to the other vehicle that they can proceed.''Generally it also makes sense if multiple vehicles are approaching you that you stop.''Of course, if both vehicles stop simultaneously this can result in a stand-off of British politeness. Usually in this case the first car to flash their lights will remain in place, but just play it by ear – there are no hard and fast rules!''Can I overtake on a single track road?''The only way that you can safely overtake on a single track road is if the vehicle you are following pulls over into a passing place to allow you to pass.''As previously mentioned, we definitely encourage slower drivers to pull over to let faster traffic through when it is safe to do so. This makes for a more positive experience for everyone, especially locals who will be more familiar and experienced with the road conditions, who can become frustrated being stuck behind slower moving vehicles.''Any other tips for driving on single track roads?''One big tip is the importance of knowing how to safely reverse your vehicle. Often the view of the road ahead will not be clear enough to anticipate needing to use a passing place, and two vehicles will meet at a point where one will have to back up into a passing place.''Usually the vehicle closest to a passing place will reverse, although this does depend a little on the situation – if there are multiple cars coming towards you for example, then it is polite for the single vehicle to reverse (if it is not too far).''In addition, normally it is polite for the vehicle with the easiest reversing option to do so – someone pulling a caravan that has just descended a steep section of U-turns for example would usually not be expected to back up if there is an easier option for the other vehicle.''You should also pay attention to road signs. Some single track roads have weight limits or are unsuitable for certain types of vehicle, which may apply to you if you are driving a motorhome or towing a caravan.''All this said, if you are driving a larger vehicle like a motorhome, or towing a caravan, you should definitely be sure you are confident reversing it on these sorts of roads before tackling them, as you might otherwise end up causing a serious traffic jam!''Are there any specific rules about driving on single track roads?''Guidelines for driving in the UK are covered in the''UK Highway Code'', which contains a number of rules that cover pretty much every driving eventuality.''Single track roads are specifically covered under Rule 155 & Rule 156. Rule 155 states that:''“Single track roads. These are only wide enough for one vehicle. They may have special passing places. If you see a vehicle coming towards you, or the driver behind wants to overtake, pull into a passing place on your left, or wait opposite a passing place on your right.''Give way to vehicles coming uphill whenever you can. If necessary, reverse until you reach a passing place to let the other vehicle pass. Slow down when passing pedestrians, cyclists and horse riders.”''Whilst Rule 156 simply states:''“Do not park in passing places.”''These are fairly self explanatory and after reading this post up to this point, I would hope are easy to understand!''Further Reading''Hopefully this post has answered any questions you had about driving on single track roads! Before we leave you, we wanted to share some additional resources to help you plan your next road trip adventure!''For all the rules and guidelines pertaining to driving in the UK, check out the official government site on the''Highway Code''If you want something to bring along with you for reference, here’s the''official Highway Code''in Kindle and Paperback formats''For more information on driving in the UK beyond single track roads, take a look at our detailed''guide to driving in the UK''Looking to plan your next road trip? We’ve got some epic planning guides and''itineraries''to help you do just that, in the UK and beyond!''Our guide to a''2 week UK road trip''and a''1 week UK road trip''A detailed''planning guide to the North Coast 500''road trip in Scotland''A''7 Day itinerary for Iceland in Winter''by car''A''5 Day itinerary for the Isle of Skye and the Scottish Highlands''A guide to the''best of the Scottish borders''We have lots more posts of course, covering''Scotland'', the wider''UK'', the''USA''and more. You can use the search box or navigation bar on the site to find more!''Finally, for Scottish trip planning, as well as all our own posts, we always recommend the''Rick Steves Scotland guide''which has lots of excellent information.''And that sums up our detailed guide to driving on single track roads in the UK. We’d love to hear your comments, feedback or question if you have any in the comments below. Safe driving!''SHARE ON''With airlines like''Icelandair''offering the opportunity to stopover in''Iceland''as part of a trip from the USA to Europe, we think there’s no better time for a short visit to this stunning country. With that in mind we’ve put together what we think are some of the best day trips from Reykjavik, for visitors who want to just based themselves in Iceland’s capital city and explore from there.''This means you can find the perfect place to stay in the city, not have to re-pack every day, and then explore the highlights of Iceland every day for as long (or as short!) as you are stopping over.''All of the day trips we recommend can be done either on your own with a hire car (''check prices and book here''), or via a tour company.''For the latter, we have used and are happy to recommend''Iceland Travel''who offer''day trips'',''group tours''and multi-day''self drive road trip itineraries''. They’ve been running trips in Iceland for decades, and have a lot of local experience to help ensure you get the best experience.''For further planning, we’ve also written a number of posts about''Iceland'', including sharing some of our favourite''photography locations in Iceland'', our''tips for planning a trip to Iceland'', and detailed''5 day''and''7 day self drive Iceland Itineraries''.''Let’s take a look now at our favourite day trips from Reykjavik in Iceland.''Contents:''Day Trips from Reykjavik''1. Snaefellsnes Peninsula.''2. The Golden Circle''3. The South Coast''4. The Blue Lagoon''5. Reykjavik Itself''6. Game of Thrones locations''7. Into the Glacier''8. Northern Lights (autumn to Spring)''Where to Stay in Reykjavik''When to Visit Iceland''Further Reading to Help you Plan your Trip to Iceland''Day Trips from Reykjavik''1. Snaefellsnes Peninsula.''Whilst these aren’t in any particular order, I would definitely put a visit to the Snaefellsnes Peninsula near the top of your Iceland wishlist. Situated about a two hour drive to the north-west of the capital, this is a very achievable destination to visit as a day trip from Reykjavik.''Here you will find the incredible and fantastically photogenic Kirkjufell mountain, which sits as the backdrop to the Kirkjufellsfoss waterfall. This is a unmissable photographic opportunity in Iceland, and made the top of my list of''photography locations in Iceland''.''There’s more to the Snaefellsnes Peninsula than Kirkjufell though. Other highlights include the incredible Snæfellsjökull Glacier, which can actually be hiked on in the right conditions. There’s the 19th century wooden Búðir Church. There are the Gerðuberg basalt columns – 14 metre high columns that just jut up out of the landscape.''There’s the opportunity to spot seals at Ytri-Tunga beach.''And there’s lots more – including a landscape that inspired Jules Verne’s Journey to the Centre of the Earth, more incredible waterfalls, fantastic golden beaches, the Bjarnarhöfn Shark Museum where you can try fermented shark meat – the list goes on!''You can easily drive here yourself with a hire car and tour around, and there’s certainly enough to do here to allocate two days if you have the time. Otherwise, Iceland Travel offers an excellent 1-day''Snaefellsnes Peninsula tour''which leaves from Reykjavik and covers the majority of the highlights in a small group tour.''2. The Golden Circle''One of the most popular day trips from Reykjavik is the Golden Circle trip, which follows a route to the north east of the city and visits three of Iceland’s most popular attractions, Thingvellir, Gullfoss waterfall, and the Geysers.''Thingvellir (Icelandic: Þingvellir), is a National Park (the first in Iceland in fact) and a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It’s interesting for a number of reasons. First, it was the site of Iceland’s first parliament, and meetings were held here as far back ago as 938. There’s a museum you can explore, and a number of sites you can visit on a self-guided walking tour.''Thingvellir is also interesting for its tectonic and volcanic activity, and you can clearly see the action of the continental drift between the North American and Eurasian tectonic plates here, which has resulted in huge rifts and cracks in the ground. There’s also a stunning waterfall,''Öxarárfoss'', which you can visit.''After Thingvellir, the next stop on the Golden Circle tour is Geysir. This geothermal area is home to geysers, bubbling mud posts and steaming landscapes, and is in fact the home of the original “Geysir”, where the English word for geyser comes from.''Finally, your Golden Circle adventure will take you to''Gullfoss'', one of Iceland’s most spectacular waterfalls. With an average of almost 5,000 cubic feet of water tumbling over the two stage falls every second, it’s an incredible sight that you are not likely to forget.''As you can see, there’s good reason that the Golden Circle is a popular day trip from Reykjavik. Again, you can drive yourself, or you can take a''Golden Circle tour with Iceland travel'', which departs from the city. They offer a number of variants of this popular tour, including a''private Golden Circle tour''and a''Golden Circle Food Tour'', which combines sight-seeing with traditional Icelandic delicacies!''3. The South Coast''Iceland’s South Coast is home to some of Iceland’s most iconic sights. It’s here you’ll find the sixty metre high waterfall you can walk behind (Seljalandsfoss), the absolutely spectacular Skogafoss waterfall, and the beautiful black sand beach and basalt columns at Reynisfjara, near the picturesque town of Vik.''Continuing beyond Vik you’ll find the unusual Svartifoss Waterfall which tumbles over black columnar rock formations, the Svínafellsjökull Glacier that you can get so close as to almost touch, and the otherworldly Jökulsárlón Lagoon.''It is certainly possible to do all of the above as a day trip from Reykjavik, just be prepared for a very long day (it’s about five hours driving each way from one end to the other in a car, not counting any stops!). If you are keen on seeing the highlights of the south coast, then we would suggest trying to stretch it over two days if possible.''Of course, there are group day tours that offer the south coast in one day. We have three suggestions for you to consider, depending on your stamina and group size preferences.''First, the full''Glacier Lagoon and South Shore tour''. This takes around 14 hours, and covers all the highlights all the way out to the glacial lagoon. During summer, you can do a tour which''includes a boat ride on the lagoon''itself, something that isn’t possible in winter.''If you just want to hit up the main waterfalls and black sand beach, then there’s a shorter version of the above tour available year round, the “''South Shore Adventure''”. This goes as far as Vik, and takes ten hours.''Finally, if you would prefer a smaller tour and the opportunity to actually get on a glacier, check out the''super-jeep tour''that covers the south coast and Eyjafjallajokull glacier. This has a number of extra stops and the super jeep means you’ll be able to get off road and up close to some of those wild Icelandic landscapes.''4. The Blue Lagoon''If all of the exploring has taken it out of you (or just sounds like too much work), then a day trip to the''Blue Lagoon''might be exactly the cure for you.''Situated relatively close to Iceland’s main airport, this is a popular stopping point for visitors who are arriving or departing Iceland, but it also easily accessible from Reykjavik.''The Lagoon is a large complex, with the main draw of course being the huge, geothermally heated outdoor lagoon itself, which is a beautiful blue colour. Here you can relax all your cares away, enjoy a drink at the swim up bars (the smoothies are excellent!), and enjoy smearing mud on your face.''As well as the lagoon itself, there are spa facilities and on-site restaurants, so you could make a day of it, although we think about half a day would probably work for most people, with the average visit lasting a couple of hours.''Pre-booking your visit is required, with''various packages available''. We’d recommend the Comfort level as this includes a towel and a drink, which is definitely convenient. You can also arrange transport to the Blue Lagoon as part of the ticket booking, or you can drive yourself.''There are also a number of tour companies, including Iceland Travel, that offer''transport to the Blue Lagoon'', although you still need to book tickets to the Lagoon itself. There are also options for stopping at the Blue Lagoon either on''arrival''or''departure''from the airport, which makes sense as you go right past the Blue Lagoon when travelling between Keflavik Airport and Reykjavik.''Finally, if you really want to have a full day, you can combine a''Golden Circle tour with a trip to the Blue Lagoon'', thus killing two birds with one stone. If you’re on a shorter timescale, this might be a good option.''One last tip if you’re on a tight budget but still want to experience the wonders of the Icelandic thermal waters .Why not visit one of the''city pools in Reykjavik''instead of the Blue Lagoon? These have the same geothermally heated water as the Blue Lagoon, but are available at a fraction of the price. Plus, if you pick up a''Reykjavík City Card''while you’re in the city, these can be visited entirely for free!''5. Reykjavik Itself''We think it’s a shame that so many visitors come to Iceland and spend their time exploring Iceland but not really experiencing Reykjavik – a city which has plenty to offer. We would definitely recommend that you spend at least half a day, if not a full day, seeing some of the many sights that the city has on offer.''Jess will be writing a full post about sight-seeing in Reykjavik over on''her blog'', but in the meantime, we would definitely recommend taking in''Hallgrimskirkja'', Iceland’s tallest church and the beautiful Sun Voyager statue.''Then, depending on your interests, you may also want to visit the''National Museum of Iceland'',''The Settlement Exhibition'',''The Saga Museum'',''The Árbaer Open Air Museum'', to name but a few of the many worthwhile attractions in the city. There are also numerous shops, bars and restaurants, plus the city itself is picturesque for wandering in.''This is definitely something that is easy to do on your own, but if you would prefer a guided experience, check out this''Reykjavik Sightseeing Tour''.''6. Game of Thrones locations''Unless you’ve been living under a rock for the last few years, the chances are that you will have heard of the''Game of Thrones TV show''. What you might not know is that the fantasy land of Westeros, and in particular the snowy scenes shot “north of The Wall”, are actually filmed for the most part in Iceland.''This is excellent news for fans of the show, as it means you can visit many of the key locations from the show as part of your Iceland visit, including one of the wildling camps and the pass to the Eyrie, both of which were filmed at Thingvellir national park.''As locations were found all over Iceland, there are only so many you can visit from Reykjavik itself. You’ll want to take the''Game of Thrones revisited tour''to visit the key sites within a day of the city. Other tours are also available, including an epic''four day Game of Thrones guided tour'', which is for serious fans with a bit more time on their hands!''7. Into the Glacier''One of our favourite experiences in Iceland was a tour called “Into the Glacier”. This involves driving across Europe’s second highest glacier (Langjokull) on a monster 8 wheeler former NATO missile launch truck, followed by a walk inside the Langjokull ice tunnel.''Even though the weather wasn’t fantastic when we did this, it was still a lot of fun.''This tour''is an excellent way to experience a glacier from the outside and inside and see those eerie icy blue colours. In addition, if you do this as a day trip from Reykjavik, the tour also affords you the opportunity to visit other highlights of this less visited area, including the incredible Hraunfossar waterfalls, Europe’s largest hot spring area (Deildartunguhver), and, in the summer months, the''Iceland Travel version of the tour''includes a trip to Thingvellir national park.''Of course, you can also make your own way out here and book the tour directly with''Into the Glacier'', should you prefer to travel under your own steam.''8. Northern Lights (autumn to Spring)''Last, but not least on our round-up of some of the best day trips from Rekjavik, would be a trip to see the Northern Lights. Ok, so calling this a day trip might be a stretch, as obviously you’re going to want to do this one at night!''Taking a guided tour to see the northern lights is going to give you the best chance to see them, as local guides will have the best idea of the local weather conditions as well as the best spots to see them without light pollution. Iceland Travel offers''three Northern Lights tours departing from Reykjavik''. These are a''coach based tour'', one that offers the opportunity to see the lights''from a boat'', and finally, the more private''super jeep tour''.''Obviously, all of these tours are offered subject to the weather, and can be cancelled if conditions are not good. They also all come with a guarantee that if the tour goes ahead but no northern lights are seen, then you will be issued a free ticket for another attempt. So with that in mind, we highly recommend you book your tour as early in your trip as possible.''And that summarises some of our top suggestions for day trips from Reykjavik! If you’re interested in more day tours from Reykjavik, beyond the list above, then do check out all the day tours that Iceland Travel operate''here''. Also, note that''discounts are available''if you book more than one tour with Iceland Travel, so make sure to fully''explore their website''before booking.''Where to Stay in Reykjavik''Since you’re going to be basing yourself in Reykjavik, you’re going to want somewhere to stay. We’ve stayed at a couple of hotels near the city centre which we are happy to recommend, the''Grand Hotel''and the''Reyjkavik Natura Icelandair Hotel''.''There are however lots more options for accommodation\xa0 See more lodging options in Reykjavik on''booking.com here''. We recommend Booking.com as they have pretty much everything from hostels to hotels to apartments, and they offer very competitive pricing and usually a great cancellation policy.''We also spent a few days at an''AirBnB''in the city centre which was a good option.''When to Visit Iceland''Iceland is a country that you can visit year round, but there are various considerations to think about when visiting.''If you choose to visit in winter, you need to be aware that there is much less daylight, and wintry weather has the potential to adversely affect your plans, as it can cause road closures. It will also, obviously, be a lot colder in winter, and you’ll need to plan your''Iceland packing list''accordingly. Some tours are also not offered in winter.''However, winter does bring advantages. It is a much quieter time of year to visit the country, prices are generally lower, and it’s the only time of year for viewing the northern lights. So if a northern lights experience is on your list, you’ll definitely want to visit in winter.''Summer is a much busier time of year to visit, and offers warmer weather, long hours of daylight, and many more tour options. Prices also tend to be higher, and you’ll definitely want to book your tours and accommodation well in advance\xa0 (ideally at least three – six months for accommodation, but the further in advance the better) to get something that suits what you want.''Further Reading to Help you Plan your Trip to Iceland''We will continuously be updating our Iceland content in the coming months, so this list will be updated as we go. In the meantime, here are some great resources to get you started with planning your trip to Iceland, however long you are visiting for.''First, we’ve written a''detailed planning guide for Iceland'', which covers everything you need to know for visiting this beautiful country.''We’ve also put together a list of some of our''favourite photography locations in Iceland''from trip to give you some ideas of where to aim to get the best photos – always important!''If you have longer and want to explore more, Jess has put together a detailed post outlining a''seven day Iceland itinerary''to give you some route ideas for an epic adventure. We also have a guide to spending''five days in Iceland''.''We have a detailed guide to help you decide''what to pack for Iceland in Winter''We travelled with and recommend''Iceland Travel''if you’re looking for a tour company in Iceland– check out their website for tour options and prices''If you’re looking to drive yourself,''this is probably the best place to check car rental prices in Iceland''The weather in Iceland can be fickle – the best website for real-time cloud cover is''this one from the Icelandic Met Office''.''Iceland is not a budget destination, but here are some''excellent tips on saving money on your Iceland trip''from a budget travel expert''Whilst Iceland is a safe country to travel in when it comes to things like crime, the country itself is home to extreme conditions and all sorts of seismic activity. So to stay safe as you go, check out the''safetravel Iceland page''If you’re not sure what camera gear to take with, take a look at both our guide to''picking a travel camera'', and our personal''travel photography gear''Finally, if you’re visiting in winter, you’ll want to read through my''tips for cold weather photography''.''And that finishes up my guide to the best day trips you can take from Reykjavik! I hope you enjoyed it. Is Iceland on your list? Do you have a favourite day trip from Reykjavik you want to share? Let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''One of the nice things about being based in the UK is that we have had more time to do a lot more exploring of my home country. And one of the places that we’d both been wanting to visit for a while was the Isle of Wight, a relatively small island which sits just off the south coast of England, near the town of Southampton.''Well, we finally made that happen. In today’s post, I’m going to share with you our favourite Isle of Wight attractions. We’ve set these out in the form of a 2 day Isle of Wight itinerary, but you can of course pick and choose these to form the basis of an Isle of Wight day trip, or a longer stay on the island.''As well as including our favourite places to visit on the Isle of Wight, this post also lists some of our favourite restaurants on the Isle of Wight, and all the practicalities you need to plan your perfect visit to the Isle of Wight .''Let’s get started.''Isle of Wight Attractions''This suggested list of places to visit on the Isle of Wight would fit into a two day itinerary as outlined below. However, you could pick and choose some of these to create an Isle of Wight day trip itinerary, or expand your stay for more days depending on your schedule.''Isle of Wight – Day 1''Our first day on the Isle of Wight has you starting on the north side of the Island in the town of Cowes, which is one option for taking a ferry to the island. If you’re coming from Portsmouth, then you can take the ferry to Fishbourne.''1. Explore Cowes''Our first stop on the Isle of Wight is the town of Cowes, where we would suggest you stroll. Cowes has lots of shops and eateries, and is where the annual Cowes Week sailing regatta takes place – one of the largest sailing events of its kind in the world.''Cowes is a good place to have bite to eat to set you up for your day of exploring. One of our favourite places to grab do that is the''HK Cafe Bar and Bistro'', found right on the high street, which has a great selection of tasty, locally sourced options.''When you’re done eating, head out of Cowes (taking the chain link ferry will be the fastest option), and go straight to the next stop:''2. Osborne House''Osborne House''is one of the most popular attractions on the Isle of Wight, and for good reason. This beautiful Italian Renaissance style home was the summer home and rural retreat of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert, and was where Victoria spent extensive time in mourning after the death of Albert in 1861. It was also where Queen Victoria died in 1901.''As you can imagine, there is plenty of Royal history to learn about at this incredible property, which covers a large area and includes a private beach, a full size “Swiss Cottage” that was imported from Switzerland and a number of garden and woodland areas.''You could spend a lot of time at Osborne, especially on a nice day, but we’re going to suggest that you just allocate the morning to your visit and focus on the house itself, as well as the Swiss Cottage and the beach area.''Osborne House is operated by English Heritage and there is an entry fee to get in. It’s free for English Heritage members or visitors with an''English Heritage Overseas Visitor Pass''.''3. Lunch at the Garlic Farm''If you’re not a fan of garlic, this might not be the place for you. For the rest of us who love garlic though, the''Garlic Farm''is heaven on earth. This family run operation is home to, as the name suggests, a Garlic Farm, but there is much more to do here than just watch garlic grow.''Our suggestion would be to schedule your lunch stop at the Garlic Farm, where they have a restaurant that serves all things garlic. In particular, we suggest the Garlic Mezze Platter, which has enough garlic-based items to satisfy even the most die-hard garlic fan. Then, finish off with some delicious black garlic ice cream!''There’s more than a restaurant here though. There’s a store where you can buy all manner of garlic based products, a tasting room, where you can try many of those products before you buy, and you can even take a tour of the farm and learn all the secrets of garlic growing. We really enjoyed our lunch and visit to the Garlic Farm, and are sure you will too!''4. Monkey Haven''Monkeys! Who doesn’t love these little fellas? We certainly do, so a trip to''Monkey Haven''was a no-brainer during our visit to the Isle of Wight. This sanctuary is a home for rescued animals, adopted by Monkey Haven for various reasons, including being saved from the illegal pet trade, private owners, or who were injured in the wild and would not have survived.''Today these animals live in a relaxed environment away from the stresses of their previous lives, and you can visit them! Despite the name, there are also many more animal species here than monkeys, including birds (particularly owls), meerkats and reptiles. We enjoyed meeting and learning about the lives of these animals, and the talk on owls was particularly good. This is an excellent stop especially if you’ve got kids!''5. Steam Railway''Love old trains? You’re going to go nuts for the''Isle of Wight Steam Railway''! This largely volunteer run heritage railway has 5.5 miles of track on which lovingly restored steam locomotives and diesel engines offer rides, harking back to the glory days of rail transport on the Isle of Wight – a history which started in 1862, and in its heyday, boasted 55 miles of railway connecting the islands towns and villages.''For over forty years the Isle of Wight Steam Railway have been preserving this history. As well as taking a ride in a classic vintage carriage pulled by a steam locomotive, you can visit the Carriage Shed and learn all about the history of the railway on the island, as well as see equipment being repaired and restored.''The focal point of the Steam Railway is Havenstreet, which is where you can buy tickets, visit the main attractions and pick up rail themed gifts in the well stocked souvenir shop. This is definitely an attraction that will appeal to all ages, and is an excellent way to round off your first day exploring the Isle of Wight!''Isle of Wight – Day 2''Our second day on the Island has you exploring all along the south coast of the island, starting in the far west at:''6. The Needles''The Needles are a series of chalk rock stalks which jut out into the sea on the far western tip of the Isle of Wight. This chalk ridge actually extends all the way under the water across to the county of Dorset on the southern English coast.''Designated as an area of outstanding natural beauty, the Needles are a really beautiful sight and are perfect for photography. Plus, there’s more to do here than admire the view, wonderful though it is. The two main attractions next to the needles are the gun batteries at the point by the needles, and the experimental rocket testing station at the top of the hill.''The''Battery is operated by the National Trust''and there is an entry fee (free for National Trust Members or if you have a''National Trust touring pass''). Here you can learn about this Victorian Coastal defence which was the site of an artillery battery, operational from the 1860s through to decommissioning in 1954. This is also a great spot for a view of the Needles, plus there’s an on-site tea room decorated in a 1950s style.''A little up the hill from the Battery is the rocket testing station, which played a vital role in the development of Britain’s ICBM capability, being the site for numerous rocket test firings between 1956 and 1971. At it’s peak of operation, 240 people worked at this top secret complex, and you can visit this part of the site for free. From the top of this hill there’s also an excellent view of the Needles themselves.''7. Carisbrooke Castle''We’re going to head to the centre of the Island now, and visit the impressive 12th century''Carisbrooke Castle''. This was the primary defensive fortification on the islands for hundreds of years, fending off the French in the 14th century and being the prison of King Charles I for fourteen months prior to his execution in 1649.''Today, the castle is operated by English Heritage, and along with Osborne House, is definitely a must-see sight on the Isle of Wight. You can climb the walls, meet the donkeys, explore inside the chapel, see where King Charles I was imprisoned, and much more. It’s an impressive and imposing building, and again, you could spend a good few hours here exploring. We’d suggest bringing a picnic or taking advantage of the on-site tearoom for lunch today.''As this is operated by English Heritage, there is an entry fee to get in. It’s free for English Heritage members or visitors with an''English Heritage Overseas Visitor Pass''.''8. St. Catherine’s Down & Blackgang Chine''Back down to the south coast now, and a visit to''Blackgang Chine''– the oldest amusement park in the UK. If you like old-time amusement parks and / or are travelling with kids, then you should definitely include a stop here on your Isle of Wight itinerary. There are rides for every age, a waterpark, a hedge maze and even a huge whale skeleton! Something for everyone, and definitely a lot of fun to be had here for the whole family.''Just up the hill a little from Blackgang Chine is a parking spot for St. Catherine’s Down. From here you walk out to a viewpoint for lovely coastal view, or take a short ten minute hike up to''St. Catherine’s Oratory''. This strange building, which looks a bit like a rocket-ship, is actually a medieval lighthouse dating from 1328, and is Britain’s only surviving medieval lighthouse!''The building itself is impressive enough, but it’s the views that you really come for, as the building is situated at one of the highest points on the island. It’s operated by English Heritage, but access is free. You have to walk across a field to get here, so good walking shoes are recommended.''9. Visit Ventnor''As you continue along the southern coast of the Isle of Wight heading east you will pass a number of cute towns including Ventnor, where there is a''lovely botanic garden''.''There are also two hotels offering an excellent afternoon tea in Ventnor, the Hamborough and the Royal Hotel, so depending on your timing and interests, these would all make for a good stop.''There’s also a lovely beach at Steephill Cove with a variety of cafes, which is just below the Botanic Garden, accessible on foot only.''Again, depending on your interests and schedule, these are all excellent stops. One stop that we definitely recommend you do include on your trip is''Old St. Boniface’s Church in Bonchurch''. This is a really cute little church which dates from the 11th century, and is one of very few medieval churches in England dedicated to this Saxon monk. It’s only a short stop, but a worthwhile one.''10. Shanklin''Our last attraction on the final day of our two day Isle of Wight itinerary is the picturesque town of Shanklin, which has beautiful beaches, cute thatched cottages and one of the island’s most enduring visitor attractions:''Shanklin Chine''. In 2017 Shanklin Chine celebrated its 200th year of operation, making it the oldest visitor attraction on the island!''You might at this point be wondering what a “Chine” is. Well, it’s a narrow gully or gorge. And that is exactly what Shanklin Chine is – a beautiful, tree lined gorge which you can wander through and enjoy views that inspired artists from Austen to Turner.''Shanklin Chine is open relatively late during the peak season, and is also lit up at night. There’s an entry fee, see full details on opening times and pricing''here''.''And that summarises our suggestions for a two day stay on the Isle of Wight! Now, let’s look at some practicalities for your visit.''How to Get to the Isle of Wight''Just off the south coast of England, the only way to get to the Isle of Wight is by hovercraft or ferry. The closest airport with public flights is at''Southampton'', although there are airports for private aircraft on the Isle of Wight if that’s how you roll.''Most people will be taking the ferry or hovercraft to the Isle of Wight. Fun fact, this is one of the more historic ferry routes in the UK, with a passenger ferry to the Isle of Wight operating as far back as 1420!''The main decision you have to make is whether or not you will be taking a car with you. For our suggested itinerary we highly recommend having a car, so either you will have your own car, or you will rent one. Car rental is available on the Island, so you can save a bit of money by picking up your car on the island rather than paying to bring one on the ferry.''From England, ferries operate from Portsmouth, Southampton and Lymington, arriving on the island at Fishbourne, East Cowes, Yarmouth, Cowes and Ryde. The hovercraft runs from Southsea (Portsmouth) to Ryde, and is the only operational passenger hovercraft in the UK. There are three companies operating services –''Hovertravel''operates the hovercraft, whilst''Red Funnel''and''Wightlink''are the two ferry companies.''We took the Red Funnel car ferry from Southampton to East Cowes which took around an hour each way. The boat is large and comfortable, with a café on board and there are lovely views as you journey to the island. As a rule the car ferries are slower than the foot-passenger only services, which take between 10 minutes and 25 minutes.''See more about all the various transport and connection options on the official''Isle of Wight website''.''Where to Stay on the Isle of Wight''There are a lot of accommodation options on the Isle of Wight, so will have plenty of choice. The island is also not too big, taking around half an hour to drive from the north coast to the south coast, so you will be able to get to all the locations on our two day itinerary from wherever you choose to stay if you have a vehicle.''For our two days on the Isle of Wight, we stayed in the town of Ventnor on the south coast at''The Hambrough''Hotel''. This gorgeous luxury boutique hotel offers large, comfortable rooms, the majority of which have spectacular sea views.''This came with a fabulous breakfast featuring locally sourced ingredients, and we also took advantage of their afternoon tea and dinner service here where the food was truly excellent. The evening meal in particular was very notable, with Head Chef Luke Taylor offering a truly exceptional fine dining experience that rivalled some of the best meals we’ve eaten on our travels. Reservations are definitely needed for that.''So we can certainly recommend The Hambrough – see''here for reviews and the latest prices''. Otherwise, there are numerous properties to choose from, check out the''Booking.com listings for hotels on the Isle of Wight''to give you plenty of choices and the best deals.''Of course, there are other options for accommodation on the Isle of Wight, including AirBnB. If you’re new to AirBnB, you can get a discount off your first stay with''this link''.''Where to Eat on the Isle of Wight''There’s no shortage of places to eat on the Isle of Wight, with everything from fine dining to quick bites available.''Some definite highlights of our visit were our evening meal at''The Hambrough'', our afternoon tea at''the Royal Hotel''in Ventnor and our lunch at the Garlic Farm. We also really enjoyed the burgers at the''HK Cafe Bar and Bistro''in Cowes if you’re looking for more casual dining.''Getting Around the Isle of Wight''Our suggested way to get around the Isle of Wight is by car. This will give you the greatest flexibility and let you see the sights at your own pace, plus stop where you want for sight-seeing or photo opportunities. If you need a hire car, you can''compare prices here''.''If you’d prefer not to drive yourself, there is a well-connected public bus service on the Isle of Wight as well as a tourist focused hop on hop off bus which runs around the islands coast. There’s also the “Needles Breezer” service which will take you all the way out to the Needles from the town of Yarmouth.''For more on the various transport options on the Isle of Wight, check out the''transport section''on the official Visit Isle of Wight website. Just be aware that public transport runs to a timetable, and you may have to adjust our suggested itinerary depending on available services and schedules.''When to Visit the Isle of Wight''We would suggest that the months of May to September are going to be best for visiting the Isle of Wight. The weather will be more favourable, and most attractions will be open daily (although always check each individual attraction for opening information before visiting).''One event to be aware of when planning your visit to the Isle of Wight is''Cowes Week''. This is one of the most famous events in the world sailing calendar, and takes place over a week in early August every year on the island. As well as all the sailing there are a number of other activities including live music, fireworks, a family day and more. It’s a really busy and exciting time, and without doubt one of the most popular times to visit the island.''We certainly think Cowes week is a fun experience, but if you’re just visiting the island for sight-seeing and don’t have an interest in Cowes Week, do be aware that accommodation at this time will be more expensive than at any other time of year, and traffic levels will be increased.''If you do want to visit outside the main tourism months, check out this handy''guide to what’s on year round on the Isle of Wight'', including attractions that are open throughout the year.''Further Reading for your 2 Day Isle of Wight Trip''And that sums up our suggested itinerary for two days on the Isle of Wight! We have a number of other posts in the works about visiting the Isle of Wight, which we’ll be adding to this post as they’re done. In the meantime, here are a number of resources you might find useful to help you plan your trip to the Isle of Wight and the wider UK.''A guide to''Queen Victoria sights on the Isle of Wight''The official''Isle of Wight tourism portal'', which has loads of ideas on what to do, where to stay, transport information as we as all the latest event information for the island.''The''Rough Guide to Dorset, Hampshire and the Isle of Wight'', which is available in both digital and physical book formats''We have written a number of guides to the UK, to help you further plan your trip. Some of the most popular guides are:''A detailed''one week itinerary of the UK'', as well as''a two week version''A guide to driving Scotland’s epic''North Coast 500'', as well as''accommodation options on the North Coast 500''A guide to''10 of the best Stately Homes in England'', to give you some ideas as you plan your itinerary''For London, we have some detailed itineraries to help you plan your visit. These include a''1 Day London Itinerary'', a''Two Day London itinerary''and a''six day London itinerary''The top Harry Potter sites in London''Tips on Buying and Using the London Pass''A guide to''Visiting Oxford on a Day Trip''Visiting''Blenheim Palace and the Cotswolds''Getting online when travelling in a foreign country can be daunting – check out our''guide to getting online when travelling''to help you figure out the best options for your trip''If you’re interested in getting better photos when you travel, take a look at my''online photography course'', where I’ll teach you everything you need to know about getting better photos – whatever camera you have!''And that sums up our post on what to do for 2 days on the Isle of Wight! As always, we’re open to your feedback – if you’ve got must-see suggestions for the Isle of Wight, or have any questions about a visit, just let us know in the comments below!''So you know: we were hosted for two days by Visit Isle of Wight, who covered our accommodation, meals, ferry to the Isle of Wight and attraction entry. We covered our own transport on the island and additional expenses. As always, our opinions remain our own, see our''code of ethics''for how we choose who to work with.''SHARE ON''For the last few years I’ve been proud to be able to call myself a Vanguard Professional, which means I’m an ambassador for''Vanguard'', an awesome company which manufacture a variety of useful photography accessories (amongst other things), including a range of tripods (essential for photography, read''why here'') and photography bags.''Vanguard also make optics, including hunting scopes and binoculars, and my parents were so impressed by a pair of binoculars they tried out recently that they’ve invested in a pair for birdwatching. I digress.''In 2015, I was delighted to help launch Vanguard’s VEO range of tripods and bags, which at the time was something new for them – a range aimed specifically at the travelling photographer or backpacker who wants to keep their gear light and portable, whilst still offering great stability and value for money.''I''reviewed the original VEO range'', including the Vanguard VEO 235AB aluminium tripod and the VEO 265CB carbon fibre tripod in 2015, and found they were well-suited to my travel needs – lightweight, stable, and great value for money. A triple win, and you should definitely take a look at that post.''Since then, I’ve travelled the world with my Vanguard VEO 265CB, racking up tens of countries and thousands of photos, and they’ve not failed me yet.''In 2017, Vanguard updated their product range, and amongst other things, launched the''VEO 2 range''. This is a refinement of the original tripods and bags, taking on board customer feedback, and looking to set the standard for travel photography accessories, and especially tripods, going forward.''Vanguard sent me the top of the range carbon fibre model, the VEO 2 265CB, which I’ve been testing out for a few months on trips across''Ohio'', France, Ireland, and Scotland. In today’s post, I’m going to talk a bit about what’s new, what isn’t, and how to decide if this is the tripod for you.''First though, let’s talk a bit about my photography gear to give you some context for what I’m using my tripods for.''What Photography Gear I Use''As full time bloggers and travel photographers, we have a fair amount of camera gear, which ranges in size from the relatively lightweight mirrorless Panasonix Lumix GX8 through to the much larger full frame Canon EOS 6D, which we pair with a wide angle 17-40mm lens as well as a 70-200mm f/2.8.''That last lens is a beast when it comes to weight. The VEO tripod can definitely handle it, although as with most tripods, it is more stable when the centre column is not extended.''For the most part though, we use the tripod for our Canon EOS 6D with a 17-40mm lens, and our Panasonic GX8 mirrorless system, both of which fit perfectly on this tripod. We primarily shoot in cities and rural landscapes, and also use the tripod to get shots of the two of us together, which yields far more reliable results than asking random strangers for help!''We have a post on rest of our''travel photography gear and accessories''if you’re interested, and if you’re in the market for a new camera, check out my''guide to picking the best travel camera here'', which covers compact cameras to professional-level DSLRs.''What’s New With the Vanguard VEO 2 Range''There are eight tripods in the''Vanguard VEO 2''range, and the major change between the original VEO and the new VEO 2 is that they’ve switched from a flip lock system to a twist lock system, based on customer feedback.''This means that instead of releasing a flip out catch to extend the legs, you twist to release the legs and then twist to tighten them.''Which system you prefer is entirely down to you – some prefer one way, others prefer another way. Personally, I find both systems work well, but I do like the lack of catches on the new VEO 2 range as it means that they don’t catch on my bag, and can slip in and out of the side tripod holder on my Alta Sky 49 backpack more easily. So that’s a plus in my book.''Another change, which is definitely more cosmetic, is that you can now pick different colour accents for your tripods. These are blue, red, and the original black. Not all the models have this colour option, but it does make for a nice touch.''A slightly more important change, Vanguard have switched to a more advanced type of carbon fibre. So whilst the tripods have the same load weight as their predecessor (17.6lbs in the case of he VEO 2 265CB), the tripod is actually lighter. The new carbon fibre VEO 2 265CB now weighs under 3lbs, coming in at 2.98lbs, compared to the previous 3.3lbs of the VEO 265CB.''A third of a pound might not sound like much, but when you’re carting something around on your back all day, every little bit adds up!''There are also a couple of other changes from the original model. There’s a new friction control on the ball head, which lets you control how much resistance the head has when you move it. As a photographer, I haven’t found I use this too much, but I have a feeling that video users will love this addition.''Last (but not least!), the feet on the tripod have changed away from metal spikes with rubber ends, to angled rubber feet (you can still buy spiked feet if you prefer). Again, I find this helps with packing as spiked feet can catch on bags or clothing, so this is a good upgrade for me.''What’s Stayed the Same with the VEO 2 tripods?''Other than the above, much has stayed the same. The build quality is excellent, and I am sure the new VEO 2 tripod that Vanguard sent me will last for years to come.''Size wise, the tripods extend to the same height above the ground, which is 150cm / 59 inches for the 265CB model. If you are looking for a higher travel tripod, take a look at the new VEO 2 264CB. This has four leg sections instead of five on the 265CB, and extends to 155cm / 61 inches (although is slightly larger when folded up as a result).''When folded down the 265CB is 41.4cm / 16.3 inches, which is ever so slightly longer than the original 265CB (39cm / 15.4 inches).''The tripods still come with a choice of pan or ball heads, which makes them excellent value for money as you get everything in the same package, and don’t need to worry about investing in a tripod head as well. And that head is Arca compatible, which means you can quickly put your camera on the tripod and take it off with the supplied plate attachment, or any number of third party designs including the excellent''Peak Design''carry system that we use.''Speaking of price, the VEO 2 265CB has a launch price of $249.99. At launch, the original VEO 265 CB was $349, which makes this a good value price for an excellent product. Compare this to other travel focused Carbon Fibre tripods from competing brands such as MeFOTO and Manfrotto, which range in the $270 – $350 range, and Vanguard really is offering excellent value for money.''Of course, not everyone wants to spend that much on a tripod. The entry level VEO 2 204AB sits at $109, meaning Vanguard really does offer something for every price point. Plus you can use the exclusive Finding the Universe discount code for 20% off everything in the''Vanguard US store''– just use code''FindingTheUniverse''at checkout.''And the bags?''Along with the new tripods, Vanguard has updated their range of VEO bags, which are small bags designed to complement the tripods. They have clips and compartments where you can put the tripods, as well as room for a small DSLR or mirrorless system.''Personally, I usually carry too much gear to really use these bags, and I’m deeply enamoured with my''Vanguard Alta Sky 49 backpack'', which I use for the majority of our travel photography needs.''That said, for day use where I’m out shooting with just one camera body and lens, the VEO bags are definitely handy. They’re well made, have a waterproof cover and are excellently priced.''So if you’re looking for a new bag and don’t need to carry huge amounts of gear, these are a great option. Plus, they don’t look ostentatiously like a camera bag, which is always a plus when travelling.''Do You Need to Upgrade from a VEO 2?''If you already own a Vanguard VEO tripod, you might be wondering if you need to upgrade. To be perfectly honest, in my opinion the answer is no. This is an evolutionary upgrade rather than a revolutionary product, and I think the original VEO will do you very well for many years to come.''If you are thinking of switching from an aluminium version to a carbon fibre, then I’d definitely recommend the VEO 2 line over the original. They are slightly lighter, have some new features and are an investment that will pay off for many years of happy travel photography.''If you don’t own a tripod at all, or are looking for a travel specific model, then I definitely recommend taking a look at the VEO 2 line. With prices starting as low as $119.99 for the entry level''VEO 2 204AB'', there’s something to suit pretty much every price point.''Plus, as a bonus, you get one of my photos, and (even a photo of me!) on the box. And if that’s not enough to persuade you to buy a VEO 2 tripod over anything else, I’m not sure what is!''Final Thoughts on the Vanguard VEO 2 265CB Tripod''Once again, Vanguard has launched a really excellent tripod system for the travelling photographer who values stability but wants to save weight. They’ve taken on board customer feedback, specifically around the leg locking mechanism, and released a product that will keep you happy for many years to come.''The only downside to these tripods is that they are not as high as something like the''Alta Pro 2''range, such as the Alta Pro 2 264CT which extends to 64.5inches / 164cm. Those models are also a little bit more sturdy, but they weigh more, cost more, and require the purchase of a seperate head, which further adds to the cost.''For the majority of travelers looking for a travel tripod, I’d say the VEO 2 line is an excellent choice.''One last thing before I leave you. The Vanguard folks made a really cool video of Jess and I out and about in Ann Arbor, Michigan. We thought it came out really well, and figured you might like to take a look. It’s embedded below, or you can see it''here''if the embed doesn’t work on your device.''So you know: As mentioned throughout the post, I’m an ambassador for Vanguard, and they provided me with my tripod and bag for this kit as part of the VEO 2 launch campaign. I love their gear and am thrilled to be able to work with a company I love, but as always, all opinions remain our own and we of course adhere to our''code of ethics''for any work we accept.''SHARE ON''Jess and I have explored a great many parts of her home state of Ohio in the United States. We’ve now visited nearly every corner of the state and have seen a lot (including all the''best waterfalls in Ohio''!), and we’re looking forward to sharing it with you.''In today’s post, I want to share with you a suggested itinerary for visiting one of the more popular parts of the state – the Lake Erie Shores and Islands, which we were invited to visit by the''Shores and Islands tourism board''on one of our trips to Ohio.''Centred around the town of Sandusky on the northern edge of the state by Lake Erie, the Shores and Islands offers everything from a world famous amusement park through fine dining and island exploration.''This three day itinerary we’ve put together would be perfect for a long weekend or just a three-day midweek break. You can do it in any order you like of course – although we’d suggest setting it up so you visit Cedar Point on a less busy day, so try to avoid weekends or holidays if you can. Also be aware that school holiday periods will be busier in general.''Now, let’s take a look at our suggestions for:''3 Days in Sandusky, Ohio''Day One – Explore Sandusky''Our first day has you exploring the town of Sandusky, where there is plenty to occupy you. Here were some of our favourite things to do in Sandusky and surrounds to give you some ideas for your first day.''What to Do in Sandusky''1. Walk around Sandusky Historical Downtown''Established in 1818, the town of Sandusky has plenty of old buildings and pretty streets to occupy your time with a wander, as well as a number of cafes and restaurants where you can stop in to refresh and revive.''If you’re interested in a detailed walking tour, the Erie County Historical Society website has an excellent suggested''walking tour of Sandusky''with a number of stopping points that you should definitely check out.''2. Visit the Merry Go Round Museum''If you’re a lover of old-time amusement park rides, then a visit to the''Merry-Go-Round Museum''in Sandusky is a must.''Here you’ll find everything you ever wanted to know about carousels, including a number of hand carved wooden figurines and a full, working, original 1939 Herschel carousel that you can take a ride on.''The museum is also home to a number of master carvers who both create and restore carousel animals, and you’ll learn all about their historically accurate processes when you take the tour.''3. Visit the Maritime Museum''If you’re interested in learning all about Sandusky’s Maritime history, then you should definitely include a visit to the''Sandusky Maritime Museum''on your itinerary.''The museum houses all sorts of exhibits about the fishing, boating and shipping activities on Lake Erie, as well as having information on boat-building and wetlands. There’s even an exhibit about Sandusky’s role in the Underground Railroad.''4. Head to the Thomas Edison Birthplace Museum''A short drive south of Sandusky will take you to the small town of Milan, which is famous as being the birthplace of the inventor Thomas Edison.''Today, you can visit the home where Edison was born, the''Thomas Edison Birthplace Museum''and learn all about the early life of the man who invented hundreds of things we take for granted today – everything from lightbulbs to phonographs!''The museum has to be visited as part of a tour, and as well as touring the house where Edison was born and raised, you’ll see examples of Edison’s early inventions, some of his documents, and family mementos.''5. Visit the Follett House Museum''To learn all about the history of Sandusky and surrounds, look no further than''Follett House Museum''. Here you’ll find everything you ever wanted to know about this area, from before the War of 1812, through to the Civil War and right up to the present day.''Located in Follett House (a National Historic Landmark) and spanning four floors, you’ll find everything here from information on Presidential visits through to the industries that have driven Sandusky through the years, told through documents, photographs, maps, and more.''Day Two – Visit the Islands''One of the wonderful things about this part of Ohio is the huge expanse of Lake Erie that forms the northern border of the state. And sitting in Lake Erie are a number of islands, which are an easy boat ride from Sandusky using the''Jet Express''ferry service – which was exactly what we did.''We spent a day exploring two of the islands, Kelleys Island and South Bass Island, which is usually referred to as Put-in-Bay, the name of the main town on the island.''You can definitely do both of these islands in one day, although there’s also more than enough to do on each island to fill a day, so it’s really up to you. In our opinion, Kelleys Island is the more laid back of the two islands, and Put-in-Bay is where you’ll want to head if you’re looking for a party.''Here’s what we got up to on each island to give you some itinerary suggestions. Let’s start with:''What to Do on Kelleys Island''1. Rent a Golf Cart''On both Kelleys Island and South Bass Island we rented a golf cart. There are very few cars on either island, and if you want to do some sight-seeing then we highly recommend either a golf cart or a bicycle – both of which can be hired near the ferry ports. On Kelleys Island we used''Portside Marina'', and at Put in Bay we were actually lent a golf cart by the local tourism office. However, there are a number of operators so you’ll be able to easily find one!''Golf Carts are super easy to drive and they’re road legal. There’s not much traffic, and you’ll be able to get from location to location much more quickly when using a gold cart. Do be aware though that the rules of the road do apply when driving a golf cart, and in particular the drinking and driving limit is still enforced for golf cart drivers, so you’ll still need a designated driver!''2. Visit the Glacial Grooves''A remarkable natural feature, these rock grooves were formed by the movement of ice across the limestone around 20,000 years ago. They’re found around a mile and a half north of the main town on the island (you’ll appreciate that golf cart), and you can walk all around the grooves on the well marked trail, which also has information signposts.''These grooves are in fact the largest and most accessible of their kind anywhere in the world, and as they’re so easy to get to we definitely encourage you to check them out. It’s hard not to be impressed by the power of ice against rock when you see them first hand!''3. Take a Hike''Nearly a quarter of Kelleys Island is given over to Kelley’s Island State Park, which covers 677 acres. In those acres, which include both lakefront and forested interior, you’ll find six miles of hiking trails which are perfect if you’re looking to stretch your legs.''The island is pretty flat, so you shouldn’t tire yourself out, but this is a lovely and peaceful way to get back to nature and relax.''4. Marvel at the architecture''There are numerous historical properties on Kelleys Island, and in fact the entire island is on the national register of historic places. Just wander along Division Street, and you‘ll come to the Old Stone Church and Estees School, with many more historic homes and businesses found throughout the island.''If you’re interested in learning more about the history of the island, you can visit the Old Stone Church, which is now home to the Kelley’s Island Historical Association. You can also pick up the Kelley’s Island Tour guide, prepared by this association, which is available at various gift shops on the island.''5. Go Kayaking or Paddleboarding''If you’re feeling a bit more active, one good option is to hire kayaks and take to the waters. Kayak’s can be hired on State Park Beach, which is just a short walk from the Glacial Grooves. They also offer stand up paddle board rentals.''If you’re after something a bit more exciting than Kayaking, you will probably want to head to South Bass island, where you’ll find numerous water activities including jet-skiing.''6. Enjoy the beach''If you’re not feeling active, no worries. You can just relax on the beach instead. Kelley’s Island State Park beach is the main public beach on the island – there are other beaches but they are privately owned so off-limits to visitors without specific permission.''Once you’ll all done with sight-seeing (there’s lots more to do on Kelleys Island – see their''official website''for more ideas), you will either hop on the boat home, or, if you’re going to fit both islands into the same day, take the boat across to South Bass Island and continue the adventure!''What to Do on Put-in-Bay / South Bass Island''1. Sample the local fish''If you’re doing this itinerary to include both islands in one day, then you might find yourself getting hungry at this point. We recommend you satisfy your hunger with some of the local fish. As you wander around the various eateries, you’ll probably notice Lake Erie Perch and other local catches being advertised.''This is a freshwater fish, officially known as Yellow Perch, and is most commonly served breaded and fried in a sandwich with various accompaniments. Not to be missed.''2. Visit Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial''Lake Erie, and its islands, were the site of a major naval battle during the War of 1812, between the United States and the British. Despite the name of the War, the battle itself took place on September 10th, 1813, and involved six British ships and nine American ships. Despite lesser numbers, the British had the advantage due to having much longer range guns on their ships.''The battle itself was fierce and brutal, with losses on both sides. However, the American side prevailed, and managed to capture six of the nine British vessels, with the remaining boats either sunk or damaged beyond repair. If you’re interested, you can read a full depiction of the battle itself''here''.''In Put-in-Bay, you can visit Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial. This consists of a 352ft high monument, as well as a visitor centre, where you can learn all about the battle of Lake Erie, as well as Master Commandant Oliver Hazard Perry, commander of the US ships during the battle, and for whom the memorial is named.''There are also often talks and demonstrations here and we watched a fun talk about the war on the lawn outside the visitor center which included a musket firing demonstration.''The memorial itself celebrates the long peace that has existed between the US, Canada, and Britain, and is symbolically located five miles from the longest undefended border in the world. It was definitely a highlight of our visit to Put-in-Bay, and we highly recommend you stop by.''3. Go Wine Tasting''Ohio has been producing wine since the 19th century, and for a time was the leading wine producer in the United States. After the American Civil War though, and following a number of crop-disease outbreaks, wine production had virtually died out. It has however had a resurgence, and the German immigrants who moved to the islands of Lake Erie at the turn of the 20th century certainly helped Ohio’s wine production renaissance.''With this in mind, we feel that no visit to the Lake Erie islands would be complete without taking in a tour of the vineyards and a spot of wine tasting. There aren’t quite as many vineyards as you would have found a hundred years ago, however excellent wine is still produced on the islands, and you can sample the produce at both''Heineman’s Winery'', which is a very popular spot, or in town at the''Put-In-Bay Winery''.''Both locations offer wine tastings for reasonable prices, and Put-in-Bay winery also includes a tour of the property and estate during the tasting.''4. Visit the Crystal cave''It’s not just enormous bars that are record breakers on South Bass Island. If you visit the''Crystal Cave'', part of''Heineman’s Winery'', you’ll be able to step inside the world’s largest geode!''This geode was discovered in 1897, when workers at the winery were digging a well in order to water the vineyard. Found 35ft below ground and around 12,000 years old, the Crystal Cave is in fact one giant geode that you can step inside.''Since it’s discoverery it has been a popular attraction for visitors to the area, and you can combine a bit of wine tasting with a tour. The income from visitors visiting the cave has even helped the winery survive when times were harder, such as during Prohibition!''5. Ride Kimberly’s Carousel''Jess’s favourite ride at every fairground we visit is always the Carousel, and Put-In-Bay is home to a gorgeous original 1917 Herschel carousel with wooden animals – everything from the classic horse through to chickens, pigs, roosters, and, of course – a Perch!''Rides are excellent value and are a lovely way to experience a bit of nostalgia for when fairground rides were somewhat more laid back.''6. Visit the Aquatic Visitors Centre''Last on our list of fun things to do in Put-in-Bay and South Bass Island would be a visit to the''Aquatic Visitors Centre''.''Operated by the Ohio Division and Wildlife, this building was once home to the state hatchery, and countless millions of Lake Erie fish were hatched and raised to a viable size here.''Today, the centre serves as a knowledge centre where you can learn all about the marine life living in Lake Erie and around the islands. It also has fishing gear you can borrow, free to children under the age of 16, which makes it a lot of fun to visit for the whole family. Definitely worth checking out when visiting Put-in-Bay!''7. Drink at the longest bar in the world''One thing that Put-in-Bay is definitely known for is having a good party scene. And what better way to start of your party then with a drink at the bar which hold the Guinness World Record for having the longest continuous permanent bar in the world?''With 405 feet of bar surface to choose from, you shouldn’t have too much difficulty finding a spot to get served at the Beer Barrel Saloon. And with plenty of food and drink to choose from, we’re sure you’ll keep yourself entertained for a while. There are several other popular bars within walking distance and you won’t have any trouble finding a place to drink.''And that summarises some of our favourite activities on Kelley’s Island and South Bass Island! There is plenty more to do than the list above, and you could easily spend a weekend or more on either island by itself. But we’re heading back to the shore to relax now, before a fun filled day on our third and final day!''Day Three – Thrills at Cedar Point!''Our last day in the Sandusky area has you going to''Cedar Point''– one of the world’s most famous amusement parks! Cedar Point has more rides than any other amusement park in the world, which includes no less than 16 roller coasters. It won best amusement park in the world for 16 consecutive years running, and holds all sorts of records for its rides.''In business since 1870, Cedar Point really has something for everyone. Jess isn’t a huge fan of the really big rides, but we found plenty to do for both of us when we visited. Naturally I did go and experience some of the biggest rides in the park, with my favourite being Millennium Force, which when it opened was the world’s highest and fastest. Of course, records like this tend to get broken very quickly as parks try to outdo each other, but the ride is still a real thrill.''Beyond the roller-coasters, as I mentioned before, there’s really something here for everyone. From water rides to a beach, a petting farm, glass blowing demonstrations, an award-winning dedicated kids area with plenty of smaller rides, live entertainment, as well as restaurants, bars and even face-painting, you won’t find it hard to stay entertained all day. Jess really loved visiting the older part of the park, the classic rides, and learning about its history.''The beach is accessible from the park although is not on the park grounds, so if you visit the park and want to also go to the beach you need to get a re-entry stamp on your hand. It’s also worth remembering that the park has a fun evening schedule on the beach, including beach games, music and a fireworks finale, which lasts from 6pm to park closing. See more on that''here''.''Our main advice for visiting Cedar Point is to try and visit on a quieter, weekday outside of holidays, and to arrive as early as the park opens. That way you will be able to experience some of the bigger rides before the queues start to build up. Alternatively, you could invest in a fast pass, although these are relatively expensive, so really only worth it if you want to ride the biggest rides multiple times, or if it’s a particularly busy day.''In addition, the larger rides, especially the roller coasters, can close for safety reasons due to rain and bad weather. Occasionally they also close for maintenance. So do check the weather forecast before you go. You can also download the''Cedar Point Mobile App''for live information on ride status and queue times.''When to Visit the Sandusky Shores and Islands''We’d suggest that Sandusky and surrounds are best visited when the weather is warm and sunny – so many of the attractions are outdoors, and you’ll find that more is open over the summer months. Northern Ohio typically has very cold winters, and many of the attractions in this post, especially on the islands, won’t be open in the Winter months.''Overall, either summer, late spring or early fall are good times to visit. Early fall and late spring will be a little less busy than the summer months, although as this is a popular part of the state, it can be busy throughout, and accommodation can book up a long time in advance, especially on weekends and holidays. Late June through to late August are going to be busiest due to school holidays and better weather.''Where to Stay When Visiting the Sandusky Shores and Islands''There are a lot of accommodation options in the area, including in''downtown Sandusky'', on the''islands themselves''and even at''Cedar Point''.''Depending on what your priorities are for your stay, you will want to locate yourself appropriately. If you’re super keen on visiting Cedar Point for example, you might want to consider being as close to the park as possible to maximise your time there, and also to save on the car parking fees. It’s also worth remembering that some hotels have special packages that include Cedar Point.''If you’d prefer to spend more time exploring the islands, then finding a hotel on one of the islands themselves is going to be your best option.''Do be aware that despite the availability of lodging, the popularity of this area means that prices are a little higher than other parts of the state, and budget accommodation in particular is hard to come by. This is particularly true during the peak summer months and over holidays.''If budget is a main concern, do take a look at some of the nearby towns, including''Huron'', and the further out''Vermilion''. We actually stayed at an''AirBnB''in Vermilion and it was only around a thirty minute drive to all the attractions we visited, including Cedar Point.''If you are struggling to find accommodation, or just want some alternatives to the usual options, check out my guide to the''best AirBnB Alternatives'', which should give you all the resources you need to find the best location at the perfect price.''Further Reading''Hopefully all the above gives you plenty of ideas for spending some time visiting Sandusky and the Shores and Islands region of Ohio! Before you head on, I wanted to share with you some additional resources to help you plan both this trip, and to give you more inspiration for future travels''For all the information you need to plan your Shores and Islands trip, take a look at the official''Shores and Islands''website''You can also visit the official websites of''Put-in-Bay''and''Kelley’s Island''.''If you’re planning a trip to the US, take a look at my guide to''How Much it Costs to Travel in the USA''If you’re hiring a car, check out my''Tips for Driving in the USA''Want to see more of Ohio? Check out our''guide to the best waterfalls in Ohio'', as well as our''guide to Amish Country, Ohio''and our experience''visiting The Wilds African Safari Park in Ohio''.''Looking for some USA inspiration? Check out our''two week California itinerary'', our''guide to driving the Pacific Coast Highway'', our''Deep South Road Trip itinerary''and our''guide to Planning a Route 66 adventure''to get you started!''And that sums up our guide to visiting the Shores and Islands region of Ohio! Have you ever visited this region? Have tips to share, or questions you’d like to ask? Just pop them in the comments below, and remember, if you enjoyed this post, feel free to share it with your friends!''Disclaimer: Lake Erie Shores and Islands supported our trip by providing us with our Jet Express boat tickets, golf cart rental on both islands and Cedar Point entry. We covered all other expenses ourselves, including meals, hire car, parking fees and accommodation. As always, you can see our''code of ethics''for who we choose to work with and what that means!''SHARE ON''Did you know that not too far from Glasgow and Edinburgh in Scotland is a beautiful moss covered, 100ft deep gorge, through which flows an almost ruby coloured river?''This magic location, known both as Finnich Glen and the Devil’s Pulpit (more on that soon), is not too well known, despite appearing in TV’s''Outlander''(as the location for Liar’s Spring), but if you make the effort, is a hugely rewarding spot for both photography and nature lovers.''So how do you find Finnich Glen, and the Devil’s Pulpit which lies within? In this post I’m going to tell you everything you need to know to help you find the Devil’s Pulpit in Finnich Glen, including where to park, how to get down into the gorge itself, photography gear to bring, and tips on taking pictures at Finnich Glen. Let’s get started with this new entry in my series of''photography location guides.''How to Find the Devil’s Pulpit, Finnich Glen''Contents:''Why is it called the Devil’s Pulpit?''Where is Finnich Glen / The Devil’s Pulpit?''How to Get to the Devil’s Pulpit / Finnich Glen?''Where do I Park for Finnich Glen?''How do I actually get down to the Devil’s Pulpit?''Do I need any special gear to get to the Devil’s Pulpit?''Is it Dangerous to Visit the Devil’s Pulpit in Finnich Glen?''What Photography Gear do I need?''Any tips for taking pictures at the Devil’s Pulpit?''Tips for What to Do Near the Devil’s Pulpit / Finnich Glen''Where to Stay when visiting the Devil’s Pulpit / Finnich Glen''Further Reading''Why is it called the Devil’s Pulpit?''The real name of the gorge is Finnich Glen. The Devil’s Pulpit name comes from a rock formation that looks similar to that of a church pulpit – although presumably the red coloured water / sandstone seemed more satanic than saintly to early visitors. The names Finnich Glen and Devil’s Pulpit are often used interchangeably to describe the location though. The water isn’t really red – it’s the red sandstone of the gorge that gives it that look.''The way down to the glen is often called the Devil’s Steps or Jacob’s ladder depending on who you ask. So plenty of interesting names going on here!''Where is Finnich Glen / The Devil’s Pulpit?''Finnich Glen / the Devil’s Pulpit is about fifteen minutes drive south from Loch Lomond, ninety minutes drive west from Edinburgh and thirty minutes drive north of Glasgow. Here’s a map to help you find it in relation to those locations, which you can see on Google Maps,''here''.''How to Get to the Devil’s Pulpit / Finnich Glen?''The easiest way to get to Finnich Glen is to drive. See the next section for information on where to park.''It is possible to take public transport to Finnich Glen, or at least, very close to it.''First Scotland East''operates the B9 service which has a stop about a 20 – 25 minute walk from Finnich Glen. However, bus services are not super regular, so you will want to check schedules in advance and have a reasonable itinerary in place before committing to this option.''Another option is to bus and cycle. There are a number of bus routes that pass within easy cycling distance of the Devil’s Pulpit, so you could easily make a cycling trip of it.''Where do I Park for Finnich Glen?''If you’re driving to Finnich Glen / the Devil’s Pulpit, you’ll be pleased to hear that there is parking nearby. However, as neither the glen nor the parking are signposted, you will want to read my instructions so you park in the best spot.''There are two main locations where it is safe to park – either on the A809 next to the footpath just south of where the A809 crosses the glen itself, or a little further north at the junction with the B834. Here’s a map that shows the parking options highlighted in red and the approximate route of the footpath in blue. The parking by the footpath tends to fill up first, but fear not, it’s only a short walk from the second option and there’s a path by the road for most of it.''How do I actually get down to the Devil’s Pulpit?''Once you’ve found parking, there’s a little gate you can get through to the footpath (in blue on the map above), and then a path to follow which winds along the gorge. When we visited the gate was open, but there was a small fence across the path I had to step over.''Note that various reports from different articles on the web show that the gate from the road to the footpath can sometimes be locked, in which case you might have to climb the wall to get to the start of the footpath. It’s a pretty low wall, so not too much of a challenge.''Once you have found the footpath, it follows the south side of the gorge through the forest. It’s pretty easy to follow, but do be careful as there’s no fence and the drop down to the gorge is quite far. You need to walk around five to ten minutes, and you will come to the stone steps of\xa0 “Jacob’s Ladder”.''Jacob’s Ladder is an ancient stone staircase which runs down to the gorge below. It’s very steep and in very poor condition, but is pretty much the only way to get down to the gorge without climbing gear. There are ropes you can use to help yourself as you go down and up – just take your time and be careful, and you should be fine.''Once you hit the bottom, my suggestion would be to turn left and head westwards along the gorge to the waterfalls, which are the most photogenic part of the route.''Do I need any special gear to get to the Devil’s Pulpit?''You don’t need climbing equipment, however, good, waterproof walking boots would definitely be advised. The gorge itself doesn’t have any paths once you are inside it. Personally, I took off my boots and waded through the water, but you might prefer to take wellington boots or hip waders if you don’t want to get wet.''Is it Dangerous to Visit the Devil’s Pulpit in Finnich Glen?''There are a few things to be aware of when visiting the Devil’s Pulpit. Firstly, the gorge walls are very steep, and there are no fences. So don’t go too close to the edge when you’re walking above the gorge itself.''The path down to the gorge floor, the aforementioned “Jacob’s Ladder”, is in a fairly perilous condition. It’s not too hard to climb down, but if you have mobility difficulties or a serious fear of heights this might be too hard.''When you’re in the gorge, be aware that rocks or tree branches may become loose and fall into the gorge, particularly around times of rainfall.''Finally, do be aware that the waters can rise rapidly at times of rainfall, so do be very careful when visiting as it can become dangerous very quickly. So only venture as far as you are confident with, and heed the signs of danger such as the water level changing, or rainfall.''Overall, a trip to the Devil’s Pulpit can certainly be done safely and you shouldn’t worry too much, just practice basic common sense and you should be fine.''What Photography Gear do I need?''From a photography gear perspective you will need as wide a lens as possible in order to capture the whole gorge. I used a 17-40mm lens on a full frame camera. On a crop sensor camera, you’d want something like a 10-16mm lens. Basically, the wider the better. Take a look at what''camera gear we use''for an idea of what you might want to bring, as well as our guide to choosing the''best travel camera''for you.''As there’s water down here which moves over waterfalls, you might also want a Neutral Density Filter. Something between a 6 and 10 stop should do. Read my''article on Neutral density filters''to help understand what they do and why you might want them for your photography.''Finally, you’re definitely going to want a tripod for your visit down to the glen. Those steep and narrow gorge walls don’t let a lot of light in, so even without a neutral density filter you’re not going to get a lot of light to shoot with.''It’s also a very high contrast scene, with dark scenery around the water and walls, and bright areas in the sky, meaning you might want to bracket your photos and exposure blend them. Two definite reasons you need a tripod (if you’re interested, I have a whole pile more''reasons you need a tripod for your photography''!).''I use and love the Vanguard range of tripods, and I’ve been an ambassador for them for a few years now. For this shoot I used their''VEO range'', which is a series of lightweight travel tripods. Definitely check them out if you’re in the market for a new tripod.''Any tips for taking pictures at the Devil’s Pulpit?''My suggestion would be to wade / walk upstream from the ladder along the gorge until you come to a couple of small waterfalls, which are very photogenic. Shoot as wide as possible, and try to get the feeling of those steep walls into your shot, and the contrast of the red water and green moss.''I’d also suggest checking out what the river has brought that can aid in your composition. A well placed dead log can make for a great bit of foreground. If that doesn’t work, try adding in a human subject, ideally in a brightly coloured clothing, to balance the shot and give some depth and scale.''Tips for What to Do Near the Devil’s Pulpit / Finnich Glen''The Devil’s Pulpit is very close to Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park, and can also be easily reached from both Glasgow and Edinburgh. Whilst the gorge itself it’s a stunning location, there’s not much to do here beyond the short walk, so we’d recommend planning in some sight-seeing in the area.''At the top of your list should be a visit to Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park. This has all kinds of attractions, including vintage steamboat rides, hiking routes, cycling and even more excellent photography stops. Read our advice on the''top things to do in Loch Lomond here''.''Loch Lomond and region makes for the perfect day trip or overnight stop from Glasgow. Take a look at our''guide to spending two days exploring Glasgow and Loch Lomond''for ideas on how to fill those two days.''Where to Stay when visiting the Devil’s Pulpit / Finnich Glen''If you would like to spend a bit of time in this beautiful area, perhaps to further explore the beautiful''Loch Lomond & the Trossachs region'', then you might want to stay a night or two in the area.''The Devil’s Pulpit itself doesn’t have any accommodation on site as it is a rural attraction, however there are a''number of lodging options nearby.''The closest accommodation is''Finnich Cottages'', a highly rated self-catering property. However this does have a minimum length of stay that varies between 3 and 7 nights, depending on the time of year.''A little further away is the small town of Drymen which has a''number of accommodation options''. In particular, the''Shandon Farmhouse Bed and Breakfast''is very highly rated.''Of course, there are many more''lodging opportunities in the Loch Lomond''region, as well as''in Glasgow''. Finnich Glen is also perfectly do-able as an easy day trip from Edinburgh, which has a''wide range of accommodation options''too.''Further Reading''And that summarises this guide to this epic photography location in Scotland! Before I leave you though, here are a few more resources related to photography, Scotland and the wider UK that you might find useful.''Since you’re in''Scotland''already for this location guide, check out some of our Scotland content, including:''A detailed guide to the''highlights of the epic North Coast 500 road trip'', as well as''accommodation options along the route''A''two day Glasgow and Loch Lomond Itinerary'', our''guide to Glasgow'', as well as''ten things to do in Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park''A two day Edinburgh itinerary'',''21 Highlights in Edinburgh''&''Getting off the beaten path in Edinburgh''We also have content on the wider UK, including:''Itineraries for''one week in the UK''and''two weeks in the UK''Our series of London itineraries including''One Day'',''Two Day'', and''Six Day London Itineraries''The''Best Photography Locations in London''Tips on Buying and Using the London Pass''The''Highlights of Oxford''Visiting''Blenheim Palace and the Cotswolds''20 Things To Do in Dublin''I have a series of''detailed photography location guides'', to help you find the perfect shot in locations around the world''I also have a''number of articles''dedicated to helping you improve your photography, including how to pick the''best camera for travel'',''tips for cold weather photography''and reasons''you need a tripod for your photography''Finally, if you’re interested in improving your photography, take a look at my''online travel photography course'', which has everything you need to know to start taking awesome travel photos, from picking a camera, to mastering the settings, to editing – and more!''Hopefully you found this guide to finding the Devil’s Pulpit in Finnich Glen useful! As always, if you have any feedback, comments or suggestions, do pop them in the comments below.''SHARE ON''Spanning a fabulous 500 miles around Scotland’s northern coast, the relatively recently launched''North Coast 500''road trip is already being lauded as one of the world’s finest drives. As we’re huge fans of road trips, and this one is practically in our back yard, naturally Jess and I took the opportunity to hit the road ourselves when the official NC500 folks invited us to do so.''We’ve already written about our''favourite photography locations on the North Coast 500'', and we’ve put together a detailed''guide to accommodation on the North Coast 500''as part of our''Scotland content''. For those of you planning your own North Coast 500 trip, Jess has also put together the definitive''guide to planning a North Coast 500 trip''.''In today’s post, I want to share some of our absolute highlights of the theNorth Coast 500 is an experience you definitely need to add to your travel wish list!''Highlights of the North Coast 500''Below are some of our favourite sights and experiences on the North Coast 500! They’re not in any particular order, but we definitely recommend you try as many of them as possible when driving the route yourself!''1. Beauly Priory''Scotland is home to a great many ruined religious buildings. and''Beauly Priory''is no exception. Founded in the early 13th century, the priory was abandoned in the 16th century during the Reformation, and today only the ruins of the church building remain.''The property is cared for today by Historic Environment Scotland, and can be visited free of charge as part of a visit to the small town of Beauly. It’s a short walk through the abbey grounds to the ruins, and it’s a very peaceful and tranquil spot to visit.''2. Castle of Mey''If you’re a fan of the Netflix series “The Crown”, or 20th century British Royal History in general, you’ll know that the current Queen’s mother purchased what was known as Barrogill Castle in 1952.''This castle, on the far north western corner of Scotland, was in quite a state of disrepair, but Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother (to give her her proper title), renovated and restored the property, She also changed it back to its original name of the''Castle of Mey''.''During her lifetime the HM the Queen Mother would visit every year for around four weeks, and following her death the castle has been open to the public during the months of May through September. We very much enjoyed visiting and learning about this piece of Royal history, and definitely recommend anyone passing by does the same.''3. Staying in a Castle''Speaking of castles, we don’t think that any trip around the North Coast 500 is complete without a little time spent sleeping in a castle. There are many fantastic options to choose from, including''Tulloch Castle'',''Kincraig Castle'',''Dornoch Castle''and''Ackergill Tower''. In addition to castle hotels, you’ll also find some fantastic historic homes, manor houses, lodges, cottages, and boutique hotels along this route which can make your stay a bit more special.''You just can’t beat waking up in a four poster bed surrounded by old furniture and fabulous views of Scotland out of your window, followed by a full Scottish breakfast to set you up for the day. For more information on castles, and accommodation in general along the North Coast 500, take a look at Jess’s incredibly''comprehensive guide to where to stay on the North Coast 500''. If you are looking for a special spot along the NC500, you’ll likely find a few you’ll enjoy among our lodging recommendations.''4. Smoo Cave''One of the more unique caves in the UK, this is the only cave you’ll find in the whole country that was formed by both sea water and rain water. The sea created the first large chamber through consistent erosion, while the interior caves were formed by rainwater.''Inside the cave interior, there’s an incredible 20 metre high waterfall that drops into the cavern through a sinkhole, and then drains out through a river into the sea. You can visit Smoo Cave free of charge, and it’s a short walk down from the car park. You can also venture further into the cave by means of a guided tour – see''this website''for more information on tour operating hours and pricing.''Whilst you’re visiting Smoo Cave, do take a bit of time to visit the''Craft Village at Balnakeil''. As well as being home to the incredible''Cocoa Mountain'', where you can reward yourself with a truly decadent hot chocolate, this little craft village is home to a number of shops and cafes where you will be able to peruse arts, crafts, and food from local artisans.''5. Ardvreck Castle''If you like castles (who doesn’t like castles?), Scotland is definitely the country for you. Ardvreck Castle is one of our favourite castle ruins, and sits on a rock promontory jutting out into Loch Assynt.''The castle has been ruined since 1672, when Clan Mackenzie attacked and destroyed the castle, which had been built by Clan MacLoed. Today, all that remains of a once much larger structure is the ruined tower and the castle foundations, although these are definitely interesting enough to warrant a visit, and are particularly picturesque at sunset and sunrise (especially if the Loch is still!).''If you prefer your castles of the non-ruined type, then fear not, the North Coast 500 has you covered. Other highlights we enjoyed include Dunrobin Castle, and the aforementioned Castle of Mey.''6. Isle of Ewe Smokehouse''One of the real thrills of the North Coast 500 is being able to discover the local businesses that are carving a name for themselves with high quality products and produce. You’ll quickly learn there’s more to Scotland than whiskey and haggis when you’re driving the NC500, with one of our favourite stops being the''Isle of Ewe Smokehouse''.''Located on the remote west coast of Scotland, this family owned and run award winning smokehouse has been producing high quality smoked products since 2007, and shows no signs of slowing down. We highly recommend dropping in and stocking up on some goods for a delicious outdoors picnic, and take a bit of time to chat with the friendly owners about their journey to where they are today.''7. The Drive Itself''As the saying goes, “Life’s a journey, not a destination.” This, for us, perfectly sums up the North Coast 500 experience. Yes, there are sights and experiences not to miss, but don’t forget just to sit back and just enjoy the drive itself.''Every corner on the North Coast 500 seems to reveal a new treasure, from a hidden beach to a sweeping vista to a stunning loch. Plan time in for a lot of sight-seeing as you go, and don’t tie yourself to a strict itinerary that doesn’t account for all the photos you’ll be stopping to take!''8. Meeting the Highland Deer''One of the absolute highlights of our trip on the North Coast 500 was our experience with''Colin Murdoch in Reraig Forest''. Colin is an expert deerstalker who manages a herd of deer in this forest, and on our trip with him we got to within touching distance of his beautiful deer.''Colin was a truly wonderful character who entertained us for our entire tour with him with stories of his life working in the highlands, making us laugh out loud. This is one experience you really have to have first hand – visit his''official facebook page''for contact information, and be sure to book your tour in advance so as not to be disappointed.''9. Corrieshalloch Gorge''One of the fabulous things about the North Coast 500 is the variety of sights that you’ll come across. Take''Corrieshalloch Gorge''for example. This mile-long box canyon, spanned by a Victorian Suspension bridge and surrounded by woodland, is a wonder to behold, and quite unlike anything else you’ll see on the route.''There’s a series of waterfalls, as the River Droma hurtles through the narrow chasm, and it’s well worth the short walk down from the car park to experience.''10. John O’Groats''If you grew up in the UK as I did, then the name John O’Groats will instantly be familiar as the most northerly point in mainland UK. Unfortunately, as I only recently learnt, my childhood geography knowledge was a castle of lies, as John O’Groats isn’t in fact the most northerly point in the UK.''Instead, John O’Groats is the town which is the furthest away from another inhabited part of the UK, that being Lands End in Cornwall. Presumably “the town which is the furthest away from another inhabited part of the UK” wasn’t quite as pithy as “most northerly”, so that’s the bit that stuck.''Whatever its title though, there is a cool sign with distances to notable locations, a good view across to the Orkney Islands, and some pretty little houses. So John O’Groats is well worth visiting, if only so you can say you’ve visited the town which is the furthest away from the another inhabited part of the UK”, and impress all your friends.''11. The Spectacular Waterfalls''I love waterfalls, and I’ll always do my best to seek them out wherever we go – even in places''not necessarily known for their falls''! There are plenty of truly spectacular waterfalls to visit along the North Coast 500, in a variety of shapes and sizes.''If you only choose to visit one or two, then we recommend the Fairy Glen at Rosemarkie or the impressive Clashnessie Falls near Clashnessie, both of which are really lovely.''12. The Highland Coos''No visit to the Scottish Highlands would be complete without meeting some of Scotland’s wonderfully hairy Highland Cows, or “Coos” as they’re known locally. These somewhat scary looking horned beasts are actually fairly docile, and they make for wonderful photography opportunities.''You can spot the coos in a number of locations along the route, where they might just be grazing, with one particularly good spot being on the road around the Applecross headland. However, if you don’t happen to be lucky enough to spot them “in the wild” as it were, don’t worry, there are a number of locations where you’re guaranteed to see them.''We suggest you first try the''Robertsons Larder and Farm Shop'', just north of Inverness, who have two lovely highland coos on their property, as well as a fantastic farm shop where you can stock up on picnic ingredients. The other two locations we would suggest are the''Braemore Square Country House''just south of Ullapool, and the''Torridon Hotel''near Torridon, although as these are both hotels and therefore private property we’d suggest that you should look to spend the night here if you want to meet the coos, as we did.''13. The Friendly People''Scottish people are, in our experience, wonderfully friendly and welcoming. So certainly I couldn’t write a post about our experience travelling the North Coast 500 without mention of the warm hospitality that we encountered all the way around.''From hotel staff and owners, to locals in the cafes and bar, we had only positive experiences on our adventure, and this was definitely one of the high points of the trip. When you’re journeying the NC500, or in Scotland in general, do take some time to chat with the locals – you won’t be sorry you did.''14. The Gorgeous Beaches''When visiting Scotland, people often talk about the beautiful scenery, which usually encompasses the mountains, highlands and lochs. However, what folks sometimes forget to mention are the beaches. Scotland has some truly stunning beaches, with white sands and turquoise waters – if you squint a little, you might even think you’re on a far flung Carribean Island rather than in the northern reaches of the UK.''Of course, this illusion will be shattered as soon as you enter the water, which might look warm and inviting, but remains frosty throughout most of the year. Still, on a hot summers day it can be very refreshing to take a cold dip.''Some of our favourite beaches included Achmelvich, Sandwood Bay, and the series of coves just to the east of Smoo Cave – although there are hundreds of gorgeous beaches to discover around the route, and we’re sure you’ll find your own favorite!''15. The Whaligoe Steps''A rather unexpected find on our trip around the North Coast 500 were the''Whaligoe Steps''. These are a series of over 300 steps which zigzag 250ft down a fairly sheer cliff face to the natural harbour at Whaligoe.''These steps have been here since the early 18th century, when the harbour was in use as a fishing station. Whilst easier to access harbours have since been built in the area, the steps have been maintained, and they are a fun (if slightly terrifying) local attraction that are worth a visit.''They are a little hard to find, so follow the instructions on''this site''to locate them and the small car park. Then, when you are done climbing, reward yourself with a hot drink at the Whaligoe Cafe at the top of the steps.''16. Glen Ord Distillery''You didn’t think I was going to write a post about the highlights of the North Coast 500 without mentioning whisky did you? Whisky is definitely my favourite beverage, and a tour of a Scotch distillery is a must on any visit to Scotland. Conveniently,''Glen Ord Distillery''can be found right along the route, so it’s an easy stop to make.''Operating since 1838, Glen Ord produces a number of single malt whiskys under the Glen Ord label, and also produces whisky for the Johnnie Walker blends. The tour takes you through the whole whisky creation process,\xa0 and culminates in a tasting – always the best part of the tour in my opinion.''For those of you driving, Scotland’s drink driving limit is (sensibly) very low. Thankfully, the distillery tour folks are aware of this, and you can have your taster to go – meaning you can enjoy it when you get to your accommodation at the end of the day, which is what I did.''17. Dunnet Bay Distillery''Scotland is not just about whisky! There’s been a huge boom in small batch Gin distilling in Scotland over the past few years, and one of the best of these is definitely the gin being produced by''Dunnet Bay distillery''.''Again, this is right off the North Coast 500 route, so is an easy stop. The tour is obviously a fairly short experience as this isn’t a huge operation, but it’s fun to learn about how gin is made, and then try some of the many fascinating flavours they have on offer. We especially loved the bottles they use here, and the designwork on the bottles is pretty amazing. Definitely worth a visit even if you aren’t usually a gin drinker – you might be converted!''18. Full Scottish Breakfasts''When you’re driving the North Coast 500, one of the things you absolutely have to experience is a full Scottish Breakfast. Whilst the exact items you’ll be served may vary slightly, I would suggest that you should definitely have a “tattie scone” as one of the key ingredients, thus differentiating this from a traditional Full English breakfast.''The other item that you would not usually find on a Full English would be a slice of haggis, one of Scotland’s most famous food stuff that is worth trying at least once. Other items on your plate should include bacon, sausage, and a fried egg, as well as toast, baked beans, black pudding, fried tomatoes, fried mushrooms and possibly a lorne sausage.''If you get a plate with all of that on, you’re definitely going to be set up for the day. If it sounds a bit too unhealthy, then why not some other classic Scottish breakfast dishes such as porridge, or smoked salmon and scrambled eggs. Whichever you go for, we guarantee you won’t need to eat for a while!''19. Bealach Na Ba''Not for the faint at heart (or those driving large vehicles!), the Bealach Na Ba is the UK’s steepest road, and follows a winding gradient from sea level up to just over 2000ft, making it the third highest road in Scotland.''The road itself is stunning, featuring beautiful hairpin bends that wind down into the valley below. From the top, there are incredible views of the surrounding landscape, including (if you are lucky to have a clear day!), fantastic views across to the Isle of Skye.''It’s not usually possible to drive over it in winter conditions, and isn’t suitable if you’re a nervous driver or have a large vehicle like a motorhome. If you do brave it though, you’ll be rewarded with absolutely fantastic views and an experience that you won’t forget in a hurry!''20. The Fabulous Food''There’s a lot more to Scottish cuisine than haggis and breakfast, and we were hugely impressed by the quality of cuisine on offer at the restaurants, cafes and hotels that we stopped at on our journey around the North Coast 500.''From local favourites like salmon, venison and of course, haggis, through to more international cuisines, we were rarely disappointed by a meal on our trip, be it a beautifully prepared steak through to a pub burger. Definitely be prepared for some delicious meals along your journey!''Tips for Driving the North Coast 500''Those were all our highlights of the North Coast 500! Now, I want to share with you a few tips for driving this route that will help ensure you have a fantastic trip. These may seem either obvious or like I’m nagging you, but hopefully if everyone follows some simple common sense then the route will be enjoyable for everyone for many years to come!''1. Drive Safely''Ok, so this might seem obvious, but you’d be surprised. The roads in remote Scotland are not exactly designed for large volumes of traffic, so you’re going to want to take your time to avoid hitting distracted pedestrians, bikers, and livestock (lambs are particularly vulnerable in the Spring and Summer months). Only overtake where it’s safe to do so, and if you’re driving slowly, pull over often to let other traffic pass and avoid frustration turning into a dangerous situation.''2. Take your Litter With You''The increasing volume of traffic on the North Coast 500 has led, unfortunately, to some of the local services being slightly overwhelmed. In particular, you might notice that waste bins are full to overflowing. If this is the case, and even if not, we’d suggest not adding to the problem and causing an unsightly mess, and instead holding on to your litter until you get to your hotel or guesthouse, where you’ll be able to dispose of it without adding to the problem. This has become a particular problem with campers and caravan owners with leaving behind waste, please don’t pollute this beautiful area.''3. Learn about Passing Places''Many parts of the NC500 route feature single track roads, with designated spots for vehicles to pass each other safely. If you’re not familiar with these, it can be a bit confusing, so do take a look at my post on''how to drive on single track roads''.''The main mistake we observed by drivers on the North Coast 500 was traffic pulling into a passing place on the wrong side of the road. You should only pull into a passing place that is to the left of your vehicle. If a vehicle is coming towards you and the passing place is on the right, wait in the road by the passing place, and let the oncoming vehicle enter it to pass.''4. Only Pull Off Where it’s Safe to do so''Another popular mistake by visitors to the region is to just pull over wherever a beautiful vista is spotted in order to get a photo. This can be very dangerous as other traffic might not be able to stop in time. One mistake we often saw was folks parking in passing places. This is definitely not advised – passing places are for passing – not for parking!''We highly recommend not pulling over onto the verges of the roads as this causes damage and erosion, not using passing spaces as parking, and instead, to wait until there’s a proper parking space for you to safely stop. This will be much safer for you, and other vehicles. We do get that there are incredible sights that are going to tempt you to stop, but please do so safely and legally!''5. Plan Your Accommodation Now''Our last tip regarding the North Coast 500 is to plan your accommodation well in advance. The popularity of the route means that many accommodations book out, sometimes months in advance, and you don’t want to spend your time hunting for somewhere to sleep.''Our advice is to take a look at the very''detailed NC500 accommodation guide''that Jess has put together, and start booking your lodging as soon as you can.''6. Get a Vehicle you are Comfortable Driving''The North Coast 500, being an epic road trip, is definitely best experienced by driving it yourself. That way, you’ll be able to set up your own itinerary, as stop as often as you like for sight-seeing and photography opportunities.''The route itself is well maintained and primarily on two lane roads, although some sections of it are on''single track roads''with passing places. It’s all paved however – you won’t need any off-road capabilities in your vehicle.''The most important thing, if you’re hiring a vehicle for the trip, is to hire something that you are going to be comfortable to drive. On those single track roads you may need to reverse from time to time to let other vehicles through, so you might not want something too large if that is likely to be a problem.''If you go the rental route, we suggest''this site to help you pick'', which scans all the top vehicle rental companies to get you the best price, and also provides 24 hour support during your trip should you have any problems at all.''7. Be Prepared for All Weathers''As you’ll see from the photos in this, and our other North Coast 500 posts, Scottish weather is somewhat changeable! So do pack accordingly. Even in the summer months you can get grey, wet and relatively cool days. We suggest a series of layers that you can take on and off, and something waterproof – an umbrella is an idea, but it might be windy, so a waterproof outer layer or poncho would be better!''Further Reading for your North Coast 500 trip''And that just about sums up some of our favourite experiences and sights along Scotland’s spectacular North Coast 500 route. Before we leave you, we’ve put together a number of other posts as well as third party content that you might find useful for planning your trip, both specific to the North Coast 500, and for travelling to the UK in general. These are:''Jess’s incredibly detailed guide to''where to stay on the North Coast 500''which has accommodation options for every part of the route and is a must read resource if you’re planning a trip!''My''photography location guide for the North Coast 500'', which has details of all the most photogenic locations along the route''Our definitive''guide to planning a North Coast 500 trip''If you’d like an itinerary, check out our detailed''7 Day North Coast 500 itinerary''The North Coast 500 has a lot of single track roads – see our advice for''how to drive on single tracks roads''to help you prepare if you’re not familiar with these. We also have a''guide to driving in the UK''The''official North Coast 500''website, which has maps, itineraries and advice to help you plan your route.''The official''Rough Guide to the North Coast 500'', available from the''official NC500 shop'', an ebook which is packed full of information about the route.''If you’re driving the North Coast 500 as part of a longer visit to the UK, check out some of our other guides to both Scotland, and the wider UK:''We have detailed itineraries for''one week in the UK''and''two weeks in the UK''A two day Edinburgh itinerary'',''21 Highlights in Edinburgh''&''Getting off the beaten path in Edinburgh''A Two Day Glasgow and Loch Lomond itinerary''A''Guide to Touring the Scottish Borders''Our series of London itineraries including''One Day'',''Two Day'', and''Six Day London Itineraries''The''Best Photography Locations in London''Tips on Buying and Using the London Pass''Eight Things to Do in Kensington, London''The''Highlights of Oxford''Visiting''Blenheim Palace and the Cotswolds''20 Things To Do in Dublin''Internet access along the route can be a bit spotty. For some advice on getting online, check out my detailed guide to''getting online when travelling'', which offers some options for getting connected.''If you’re interested in improving your photography, take a look at my''online travel photography course'', which has everything you need to know to start taking awesome travel photos, from picking a camera, to mastering the settings, to editing – and more!''And that just about sums up our highlights of the North Coast 500! Is this route on your wish list, or have you already done it? Any questions about the route? Let us know in the comments below, and if you enjoyed the post, do take a moment to share it with your friends on social media!''So you know: our North Coast 500 trip was in partnership with the North Coast 500, who covered our accommodation and the majority of our meals and attraction entry. We covered our own transport costs and additional expenses. All opinions are our own, and you can always check our''code of ethics''to see how we choose who to work with!''SHARE ON''In August 2017 Jess and I visited Bristol for a week, partly to see the Bristol International Balloon Fiesta, and partly because we’d not explored this beautiful city together.''Naturally we’ve written more about our visit to the city, and have put together a post detailing our favourite''things to do in Bristol'', as well as a detailed''guide to attending the Bristol Balloon Fiesta''. In this post, we’re focusing on one particular aspect of Bristol: the street art.''Regular readers will of course know that we are big fans of street art, and have already put posts together covering the street art in cities from''Glasgow''to''Barcelona''. So of course, we couldn’t visit Bristol, believed home of arguably the world’s most famous street artist,''Banksy'', without doing a post!''I’m going to cover a number of pieces of street art in this post. First, I’ll go over the majority of accessible and surviving Banksy street art that you can find in Bristol. Then I’ll share some other notable pieces I found.''It’s definitely worth remembering that street art is very much a moveable feast, so many of the pieces below will likely change by the time you get to Bristol. However, the areas where they are found will likely have new pieces, so I’ll share some of the best locations in Bristol for street art, as well as tips and advice on how to find Bristol’s best street art. Let’s get started!''Contents:''Banksy Street Art in Bristol''1. The Well Hung Lover''2. The Mild Mild West''3. The Girl with the Pierced Eardrum''4. The Grim Reaper / The Ferryman''5. Rose Trap''6. Take the Money and Run''7. Paint Pot Angel''Some of my favourite pieces of Street Art in Bristol''Where and How to Find Street Art in Bristol''Further Reading''Banksy Street Art in Bristol''As I previously mentioned, infamous street artist Banksy is believed to have started his street art career in Bristol, and a number of his pieces survive today. Of all the pieces of street art in Bristol, these are the most likely to still be there when you visit.''1. The Well Hung Lover''Found on Frogmore Street, the best view of this artwork is from higher up on Park Street, which is very close to Bristol Cathedral and the Town Hall. As you’ll see from the image, it has been slightly damaged by someone with a paintball gun, but the overall image of man hiding from his lover’s partner is still very much intact!''2. The Mild Mild West''This piece of artwork, depicting a teddy bear taking on Riot Police, can be found on Stokes Croft, north east of the city centre.''3. The Girl with the Pierced Eardrum''Found in Hanover Place, near Albion Docks, the Girl with the Pierced Eardrum is a take on the famous “''Girl with a Pearl Earring''” image by Dutch artists Johannes Vermeer. Instead of an earring though, the piece has a alarm – hence the name.''4. The Grim Reaper / The Ferryman''I’m not sure when a street artist transitions from vandalism to proper art, but in the case of Banksy, this transition has definitely taken place. Take for example this piece, an image which depicts death as the ferryman, which originally appeared on the side of a permanently moored boat in Bristol, which was being used as a nightclub.''Concerned that exposure to the elements was damaging the artwork, it was actually removed from the ship, carefully conserved, and is''now on display''in Bristol’s M Shed galleries.''Also on display at the M Shed is Banksy’s''Tesco Value Petrol Bomb''. Entry to M Shed is free, and well worth it during your visit to Bristol.''5. Rose Trap''Just up a rather steep street from the Mild Mild West is the Rose Trap, an early Banksy piece which has been given some protection by local residents who clubbed together to install protective plexiglass and even a frame. It’s quite a small piece, but still worth visiting – find it on Thomas St. N just before it reaches Fremantle Square.''6. Take the Money and Run''One of the earliest pieces of Banksy artwork surviving in the city, this is actually a collaboration between a number of street artists, including Inky and Mobz, and was done prior to Banksy adopting the more famous stencil style. Found opposite the Old England Pub just off Bath Buildings Road.''7. Paint Pot Angel''Whilst this isn’t technically street art, it seemed appropriate to include here. The Paint Pot Angel was a part of the 2009 Banksy versus Bristol Museum installation, which showcased over 100 of Banksy’s works. This is the only piece still on display in the museum, but takes pride of place in the entrance hall.''Some of my favourite pieces of Street Art in Bristol''Moving on from Banksy now, and here’s a quick run down of some of the pieces of street art I found whilst wandering the city. I walked over ten miles when scouting out street art in Bristol, and still felt there were countless more installations to discover!''This guy reminded me of the gulls in Finding Nemo. Mine?''This character, who will be familiar to any British child of the eighties, is Morph. He hails from the same development studios as Wallace and Gromit, which is based in Bristol, and I found a variety of Morph arts around the city.''I went street art hunting on a Sunday, which turned out to be an excellent idea because many of the shops have their shutters decorated – something you would only see when the shops are shut!''Some of the street art is really quite giant.''And some of it is very poignant, like this tribute to a lost parent.''Where and How to Find Street Art in Bristol''Other than the Banksy pieces mentioned in this post, which are more likely to survive the passage of time, the majority of the pieces in this post will likely be replaced, painted over, or removed. In fact, even many of Bansky’s pieces have been removed. The areas that they are to be found however will likely remain the same.''There are three main areas in Bristol where you’ll find street art: Central Bristol, Stokes Croft, and South Bristol, along North Street.''My advice is to do one of two things. Either pick up a copy of the incredible Bristol Street Art map by''Where the Wall'', or take a''Where the Wall Street Art Tour''.''Personally, I did the former, and spent a happy day with a map and my camera finding as many pieces of street art as possible. However, if you want to learn a bit about the street art rather than just take pictures of it, I’d highly recommend taking a tour, which is very well reviewed and has won a number of local tourism awards.''Further Reading''Well, that was a quick tour of some of our favourite pieces of street art in Bristol. Here are some more resources you might find useful for your trip.''Our detailed guide for spending''things to do in Bristol''Our overview of the''Bristol Balloon Fiesta''If you were thinking of taking a trip around the UK and want to include Glasgow as part of that itinerary, we have both a''one week itinerary of the UK''and a''two week itinerary of the UK''for you to give you some ideas for what’s possible in those timeframes.''Visiting London as part of your adventure? Check out some of our London posts, including a detailed''Two Day London itinerary'',''1 day London itinerary,''and our''guide to public transport in London''to get you started''Bristol is near Bath, Stonehenge and the Cotswolds – read about our''experiences visiting these as a day trip from London'', also easily achievable from Bristol''As I mentioned earlier in the post, we have a number of''posts on Street Art''for cities around the world. We also have detailed''photography location guides''to help you find the best spots for photography in general when you travel.''If you’re interested in learning more about Banksy, there are a''series of books on Amazon here''.''Finally, if you’re looking to explore Bristol and surrounds, there’s a''Rough Guide to Bath, Bristol and Somerset''to get you started''And that’s it for our guide to the street art of Bristol! Which was your favourite piece? Do you seek out street art when you travel? Let us know about it in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Jess has wanted to see puffins for a very long time, so when the Scottish Seabird Centre in North Berwick, Scotland, offered us a trip on one of their bird watching tours at the start of puffin season, naturally we leapt at the opportunity.''Of course, it’s about more than just puffins. There are loads of species of seabirds that you can see from the Scottish Seabird centre, including the worlds largest colony of northern gannets. And seabirds aren’t all – you might even be lucky enough to spot seals or even dolphins!''Our visit included entry to the seabird centre itself, and then a trip on a fast rigid inflatable boat (RIB) around three islands, which lasted around 75 minutes. Here’s how it looked.''Our Visit to the Scottish Seabird Centre''We visited the Scottish Seabird Centre at the end of May, which was during puffin breeding season. We had booked an afternoon''Three Islands Seabird Safari'', but turned up early because we wanted to explore the''Seabird Discovery Centre''a little bit before hand.''This was an excellent decision, and one we highly recommend to anyone planning a trip on one of the boats. You’ll learn all about the various bird and marine life that lives on the various islands around North Berwick, plus get the opportunity to see it all up close with the interactive live camera feeds. It was both fun and entertaining, and we think is worth including as part of your visit. There are plenty of kid-friendly exhibits for families.''Of course, the highlight of our day was the seabird safari. So once we had seen everything we wanted to see in the discovery centre, we walked through to the harbour where our boat ride would leave from.''The Scottish Seabird centre offers a''range of boat rides'', the most popular of which are the Seabird Catamaran Cruise (perfect for all ages) and the Three Islands Seabird Safari RIB trip (the one we did). They also offer two trips that actually land on some of the islands – the''Isle of May''and the''Bass Rock''landing trips. These are very popular and book out well in advance, so if those interest you we highly recommend booking as far in advance as you can.''We would have loved to do one of the landing trips, but there were unfortunately no spaces available, so we opted for what we felt would give us the best variety of wildlife viewing, which was the fast boat safari. This would take us around three islands: the Lamb, Craigleith, and the Bass Rock.''This being a fast boat in Scottish weather with no cover, obviously there was the potential that we might get wet – either from rain, or from sea spray. Thankfully, the folks at the Scottish Seabird Centre have thought of this issue, and after check-in you are given a full set of top to bottom waterproofs and of course a lifejacket. Then, the only concern was my camera equipment – thankfully my''Vanguard Alta Sky 49''has a built in waterproof cover which solved that problem.''Then it was on to the boat itself. There’s room for 12 passengers on the RIB boat, and you sit on a raised and incredibly padded seat. This doesn’t look like it’s going to be comfortable, particularly in a bouncing boat, but we were hugely impressed by how soft the ride was when sitting on these seats. There was also space under my seat area for my camera backpack, which was convenient as I put my camera away while the boat was moving between the islands.''Finally, with everyone on board and the safety briefing complete, we were on our way. Our boat had two staff members – one person to operate the boat and one guide. Our first stop was the Lamb, a fairly small rock island which, fun fact, is owned by''Uri Geller'', who believes it is a hiding place for ancient Egyptian treasure.''We didn’t spot any treasure, but we certainly saw plenty of seabirds, including, yes, our first puffins! We also saw a seal basking on a rock, so the trip was certainly off to a positive start.''After circumnavigating the Lamb, we zipped across to our next stop, Craigleith Island. Again, this is a fairly small island, and like all the other islands we visited, is of volcanic origin. This is home to cormorants, shags and guillemots, as well as puffins, and we saw all of these species, including closer views of puffins!''Finally, having slowly circumnavigated Craigleith and taken many photos, we headed to the Bass Rock. This is by far the largest of the islands located off this part of the Scottish coast, and can be seen from miles around. It’s a very dramatic rock, with walls of basalt rising vertically out of the sea to a height of 107 metres, and is home to the world’s largest population of northern gannets – over 150,000 of them in fact.''As you can imagine, this makes for spectacular viewing, with thousands of birds wheeling overhead and stacked up on the rocks before you. Bass Rock is also home to a lighthouse, which makes for some interesting photographic opportunities. You get close enough to smell the guano! The circuit around Bass Rock is definitely a highlight of the ride!''Once we were done with the Bass Rock, and had taken a great many photos, our boat turned it’s nose for home. Before we returned to North Berwick harbour though, there was one final treat in store. We cruised in along the coast, and were given a fantastic view of Tantallon Castle, whilst being regaled with tales of shipwrecks along the coast. All in all, a fantastic day out, and one we can highly recommend!''Practicalities for Visiting the Scottish Seabird Centre''Opening hours and prices''The Discovery Centre at the Scottish Seabird Centre is open year round, with opening hours varying depending on the time of year. There is an admission charge, with concessions available – check their''website''for the most up to date information on pricing and opening times. There’s a café on site which serves hot and cold food and drinks as well.''Boat trips only operate in the better months between Easter and Autumn, and carry a separate price, although if you book a visit to the Discovery Centre at the same time as booking your boat trip, you’ll get a discount. We’d suggest doing both if you can, as you’ll learn a lot more. For full information on all the boat rides they do, see the website''here''.''Camera tips''If you’re keen on getting some great photos of seabirds, here are some tips to help you out, covering gear to take and general advice on getting the best shots.''I took two full frame camera bodies with me on this trip, one equipped with a wide angle lens (17-40mm) and one equipped with a telephoto (70-200mm). I certainly used the latter more, and just used the wide angle for the shots of the islands and us on the boat, although it did come in useful for capturing the drama that is the Bass Rock up close.''I would definitely suggest that you take a camera with as long a zoom as you have, because seabirds are quite small and unless you are very lucky, you won’t be closer than 10 – 20 metres to them. Most of the puffin shots in this post are cropped from the original to focus more on the puffin, and having more zoom can save you from losing resolution in crops.''You should also be aware that unless you do one of the island landing trips, you’re going to be shooting from a rolling boat. Whilst the boat does slow down and occasionally stop, the sea is always going to be moving, so you’ll want to shoot at a relatively high shutter speed and do your best to hold your camera as still as you can.''The sea environment is also, obviously, a rather wet place. I’d highly recommend having a waterproof bag of some description to stow your camera equipment in, and to put it away during the periods of travel between the islands. Even if it’s a calm, dry day, spray can be picked up and get your gear wet. We had a fairly grey day with moderate seas, and we didn’t get particularly wet, but I was glad to have my camera bag nonetheless.''Don’t forget, if you’re looking for camera gear recommendations, we have a''full list of what we travel with'', as well as a''guide to choosing a travel camera''to help you out!''Getting to the Scottish Seabird Centre''The Scottish Seabird Centre is in North Berwick, which is around 25 miles east of Edinburgh, or 100 miles north of Newcastle Upon Tyne. Obviously you can reach it by car, and there is car parking available in North Berwick for visitors.''It’s also easy to reach by public transport from Edinburgh. The fastest option is the direct train service from Edinburgh to North Berwick with Scotrail, which takes around 35 minutes. There are also a number of buses you can take. In both cases, hold on to your bus or train ticket, as these can be redeemed for discounted admission to the centre if you don’t book in advance.''Further Reading''That pretty much sums up our experience and guide to visiting the Scottish Seabird Centre in North Berwick, Scotland. Before we leave you though, we wanted to point you in the direction of some of our other Scotland and UK resources that you might find useful if you’re planning a trip here.''For Edinburgh, check out our Edinburgh content, including''A two day Edinburgh itinerary'',''21 Highlights in Edinburgh'',''Getting off the beaten path in Edinburgh''and a''Guide to Harry Potter locations in Edinburgh''If you head south of Edinburgh, don’t miss our''Guide to Touring the Scottish Borders''For Glasgow, we have''A Two Day Glasgow and Loch Lomond itinerary'', as well as this detailed''Guide to Glasgow Attractions''Heading further north in Scotland? Check out our definitive guide to the''Best Photography Locations on the North Coast 500'', as well as''Where to Stay on the North Coast 500''If you’re visiting London, take a look at our''Two Day London Itinerary'', our guide to the''Best Photography Locations in London''and our''Tips on Buying and Using the London Pass''Finally, for UK wide planning, we have both a''Two Week UK Itinerary''and a''One Week UK itinerary''to help with your trip!''And that’s it! We hope you enjoyed our post. As always, if you have any questions or comments on any of the above, don’t hesitate to let us know, either from our''contact page''or in the comments below. Safe travels!''So you know: The Scottish Seabird Centre provided us with complimentary tickets for both the boat ride and our visit to the discovery centre, in exchange for us sharing our thoughts. As always, opinions remain our own – check our out''Code of Ethics''for more information on how we partner with folks and what that means.''SHARE ON''Heading to the Galapagos? Lucky you! These are some of our favourite islands on earth, and you’re going to have an amazing time. Before you go though, you might be wondering what to pack for the Galapagos. Don’t worry, we’ve got you covered.''We spent nearly a month in the Galapagos, both''on a tour''and''travelling independently'', and our experiences gave us lots of ideas to help you plan your own trip – including tips for what to pack for the Galapagos! Here therefore is our guide to:''What to Pack for the Galapagos Islands''Clothes and other gear for the Galapagos''The Galapagos is bang on the Equator, meaning it gets hot and humid around the coastline, although if you go higher up on the islands, it can be cooler. Depending on the time of year, night-time can also be cool enough to warrant a fleece.''In addition, the climate can change rapidly, from glorious sunshine to rain showers in a matter of minutes. On the plus side, it’s not a location where you’re likely to be attending any balls, so you can pack functional rather than fashionable.''You’ll want to bring:''Hiking pants'', or trousers as we Brits call them. Something that dries quickly, maybe with those handy zip off legs that let them turn into shorts''Swimsuit''T-shirts''– the hiking variety that wicks moisture away is ideal, but any t-shirt will do''A thin fleece''for when it gets cooler in the evenings or at higher elevations''A raincoat''for when the weather turns inclement''Lots''of waterproof sunscreen, ideally factor 30+ as well as sun protection lip balm. If you’re snorkelling, don’t forget to apply this to exposed regions like the backs of your arms and legs''Insect repellent'', although depending on the time of year you visit this might not be necessary. If you are planning any trips to the higher parts of the islands this might come in handy.''A''dry bag''for putting your gear in if your trip includes boat rides between or onto the islands (it will!)''Flip flops''for everyday use, trainers for general trail walking, hiking boots if you’re planning any serious hikes, although these are unlikely to be necessary if you’re just doing a couple of day hikes''Water bottles / hydration pack systems''. You’ll need to drink a lot of water, and every hotel has large canisters of drinking water available from where you can fill up your containers and save generating plastic bottle waste''Travel insurance''– there’s no real hospital on the island, so if something happens to you, you’ll want to be covered for medical evacuation expenses''Photographic Gear for the Galapagos''You’re going to want to take a lot of pictures in the Galapagos. Everything is so photogenic, from the''landscapes''to the''wildlife''. Here’s an idea of the sort of gear you might want to consider taking:''An underwater camera like a''GoPro'':''The marine life in the Galapagos is amazing, with the snorkelling experience we had at Kicker Rock easily the best I’ve ever done anywhere in the world. If you want to document this, then a camera like the GoPro with underwater housing is the way to do it.''A “normal” camera with a good zoom range:''If you’re a serious photographer, then you’ll probably already have an idea of the sort of gear you’ll want to take with you.''The good news is that you can get very close to nearly all of the wildlife, with just the odd bird proving a tad elusive.''We took a range of lenses, covering a variety of focal lengths (17mm to 300mm) on our full frame camera (a''Canon 6D'') and our crop sensor mirrorless''Sony''– between them they let us get all the shots we wanted, from close ups of boobies to wide angle landscape shots.''For most of the shots on the site I was actually using either a wide angle (''17-40''mm) or an''85mm prime''on the full frame Canon – everything was that close!''Only for some shots of further away birds did we need to switch to the''55-210mm''on the Sony (full frame equivalent up to 300mm).''We also took a tripod and wireless remote release, which let us capture some great star shots and play around with timelapse a bit.''If you’re not into photography quite as obsessively as us, and just want to capture some great moments from your trip, then take a camera with a good “zoom range” that will let you get all the wildlife and landscape shots you want whilst not breaking either your back or bank account.''Nikon’s Coolpix range''are both affordable and offer decent image quality in a portable package.''If your back or bank account aren’t an issue, then something like''this''with''this''would probably go down nicely!''Plenty of storage media:''We took well over 100GB of photos and video during our time in the Galapagos, although we might be a special case! We back this all up onto two''ruggedized external terabyte hard drives''and a laptop, to keep it all safe should anything fail.''If you’re shooting JPG format stills on a recent camera, you’ll want to take at least one''32GB memory card'', and more likely two, to be on the safe side. If you’re planning on doing a lot of video, then you’ll want to take a lot more.''That’s enough on the photography side. If you want to read more about the photography gear we travel with, check out our full''photography gear guide''.''Further Reading for the Galapagos''Now you’ve got your packing list sorted, you’re going to want to know more about your trip. We have a number of posts to help you plan your trip, including:''Our detailed''guide to planning a Galapagos trip''A review of our''10 day adventure with Galakiwi in the Galapagos''A guide to visiting the''Galapagos as an independent traveller''Photo essays of the''Galapagos wildlife''and the''Galapagos landscapes''to get you excited for your trip''And that sums up our guide to how to pack for the Galapagos Islands! We hope you found it useful – as always, share your comments and feedback with us in the comments section below!''SHARE ON''Jess and I have spent a few weeks road tripping around the US state of Ohio, and have visited many of the highlights of this state. It’s also Jess’s home state, so we often visit to see her family.''One of the tasks I set for myself on these trips was to find the most photogenic waterfalls around the state, and after a fair bit of driving and picture taking, I’m pleased to present my guide to the best waterfalls in Ohio, at least, from a photography point of view!''For all the waterfall shots in this post I used my''Vanguard''tripods, specifically the lightweight travel focused''VEO tripod range''. A tripod is essential for photography in my opinion, as it lets you get those lovely long exposure shots that you can’t achieve handheld.''On our most recent visit to Ohio, I used the''VEO 2 265CB'', which I’ve been testing since it launched in mid-2017. I’m proud to be a''Vanguard Ambassador'', and love their gear, which includes bags, tripod and other photography accessories.''If you’re interested, you can read all about''the camera gear we use here'', and I have some more tips and reading for you at the end of the post to help you take great waterfall pictures. At the end of the post I’ll also give you some tips on how to get great waterfall photos. First though, let’s take a look at my favourite waterfalls in Ohio!''Contents:''Waterfalls in Ohio''1. Lower Falls, Hocking Hills State Park''2. Upper Falls, Hocking Hills State Park''3. Cedar Falls, Hocking Hills State Park''4. Ash Cave Falls, Hocking Hills State Park''5. Brandywine Falls, Cuyahoga Valley National Park''6. Blue Hen Falls, Cuyahoga Valley National Park''7. Great Falls of Tinkers Creek, Viaduct Park, Cuyahoga Valley National Park''8. Clifton Mill, Clifton''9. Charleston Falls, West Charleston''10. West Falls, Cascade Park, Elyria''11. Lanternman’s Falls, Youngstown''12. Indian Run Falls, Columbus''13. Hayden Falls, Columbus''Ohio Waterfalls Map''Tips and Gear for Photographing Waterfalls in Ohio''1. Neutral Density Filters''2. A Tripod''3. Composition''4. Time of Day''Further Reading''Waterfalls in Ohio''1. Lower Falls, Hocking Hills State Park''We’re going to start our tour of the waterfalls of Ohio in the beautiful''Hocking Hills State Park'', which is a gorgeous area filled with nature in the south east of Ohio. If you’re chasing waterfalls, this park has to be on your list, as there are quite a few here, starting with our first waterfall: Lower Falls.''This can be found as part of the Old Man’s Cave section of the park, which features a half-mile long well marked walking trail that follows Old Man’s Creek between two waterfalls, the happily named Upper Falls and Lower Falls.''The falls in this shot are Lower Falls, which feature a 25 foot drop into a large pool. We visited in summer, but imagine that the fall foliage here would be spectacular.''Here’s a behind the scenes of this location with my camera set up. In this instance, as for pretty much all the shots in this post, I was shooting with my''Canon EOS 6D''and''17-40mm f/4 lens'', to which I have attached a''10-stop Haida''neutral density filter.''This system is sitting on my''Vanguard VEO 2 265CB tripod'', which is lightweight and portable for travel & hiking needs, but perfectly sturdy with my setup.''For the shot of Lower Falls, I used a 15 second exposure at f/11 and ISO 100, with the long exposure letting me achieve that soft water look that I love.''2. Upper Falls, Hocking Hills State Park''At the other end of the Old Man’s Cave trail are Upper Falls, and whilst at 15ft they don’t drop quite as far as lower falls, they do have a beautiful bridge that allows you to frame your shot. So definitely worth checking out both of these falls and enjoying the hike between them.''This was shot with an 8 second exposure at f/13 and ISO 100, using a six stop neutral density filter.''3. Cedar Falls, Hocking Hills State Park''Depending on how you are feeling after visiting the above falls, you might want to continue your hike down to Cedar Falls. There’s a two mile trail which leads from Lower Falls on to Cedar Falls, which is a lot quieter than the popular section between Upper and Lower Falls. Alternatively, you can just drive to the Cedar Falls carpark from where it’s a relatively short (if steep!) hike to Cedar Falls.''With a 50ft length, Cedar Falls is one of the most impressive waterfalls in Hocking Hills, and I have to admit that it is bigger in person than my photography suggests – there’s not a lot in the shot to give a good sense of scale. You do need to have been lucky with rainfall though as it can dry up.''For this shot, I did a 10 second exposure at f/16 and ISO 100, with a six stop neutral density filter.''4. Ash Cave Falls, Hocking Hills State Park''The last of the falls in Hocking Hills State Park that I’m going to be talking about are the Ash Cave Falls. You could definitely make a real day of it in terms of hiking, because these can be reached by continuing your hike from Cedar Falls above for an additional three miles you will come to these falls.''If you do so, you’re definitely going to want to be packing a lightweight tripod like the Vanguard VEO 2, because who wants to lug heavy equipment that far? You’ll also want a decent bag for your gear – I personally love my''Vanguard Alta Sky 49''which is, in my opinion, one of the best day bags for the hiking photographer.''Back to the falls. As you can see from my photo, these tumble over a rock cliff and into a pool, and you can actually stand behind them to get the shot, which is pretty cool. Be aware that it can be relatively busy here, so you might want to take a few photos and then use something like Photoshop to layer the shots together and remove them.''Due to shooting from under a dark cave overhang and into the light, for my shot of Ash Cave I took three shots at different exposures, and blended them together to get a more correctly exposed image. Another reason you need a tripod for travel photography – even if not shooting super long exposures, if you want to blend shots together you won’t be able to hold your camera still enough to get all the shots you need.''Settings for my three shots were:''Shot 1: 6 second exposure, f/16, ISO 100, 6 stop ND filter''Shot 2: 4 second exposure, f/16, ISO 100, 6 stop ND filter''Shot 3: 1 second exposure, f/16, ISO 100, 6 stop ND filter.''If you’re interested in learning more about long exposure photography and merging images, check out my''online photography course'', which covers all this, and much more!''5. Brandywine Falls, Cuyahoga Valley National Park''Moving on now to Ohio’s only National Park, Cuyahoga Valley. This is just a short drive south from Cleveland, and has hiking trails, some fascinating history on the Ohio & Erie Canal, as well as a scenic train ride you can do.''But we’re here to discuss the waterfalls, of which the park has three main ones that I am going to talk about in this post. The most impressive in terms of flow in my opinion is the first one featured here – Brandywine Falls. These 60ft falls are easy to get to, with just a short walk from the car park, and the viewing area offers excellent views.''This shot was taken with a 5 second exposure at f/9, ISO 100, with a six stop ND filter.''6. Blue Hen Falls, Cuyahoga Valley National Park''My next favourite waterfall in Cuyahoga Valley was Blue Hen Falls, which is quite a small waterfalls over a pretty rock ledge into a small pool. As you can see from the shot, there was not so much water on the day we visited, but it was in Autumn, so the colors were fantastic.''Due to the difference between the darkest and lightest parts of this shot, it was a blend of four images which I merged together afterwards to get a more balanced image. The shot settings were:''First image: 1/5th second, f/14, ISO 100''Second image: 1/30th second, f/14, ISO 100''Third image: 1/13th second, f/14, ISO 100''Fourth image: 0.5 seconds, f/14, ISO 100.''If you wish to explore a little further downstream, the path from Blue Hen falls continues downstream to the Buttermilk Falls. We did make the hike here, and whilst it’s a beautiful walk, there was very little water in the falls when we visited, so we didn’t get a shot that would do it justice for the post. Definitely one to keep in mind though if there’s more water in the river!''7. Great Falls of Tinkers Creek, Viaduct Park, Cuyahoga Valley National Park''Last on my list of waterfalls in Cuyahoga Valley National Park are the Great Falls of Tinkers Creek, which can be found in Viaduct Park. These are a very wide and impressive set of falls and definitely worth checking out.''This shot was taken with a 30 second exposure at f/8, ISO 100, with a 10 stop neutral density filter.''There is another waterfall near Cuyahoga Valley, Bridal Veil falls, which can be found in Bedford Reservations Cleveland Metropark. This is worth checking out if there has been recent rainfall. When we visited there was hardly any water in the falls at all, but I could imagine that after good rainfall it would make for a nice shot.''8. Clifton Mill, Clifton''Moving on from Cuyahoga Valley, and we’re going to journey now around some of the other wonderful waterfalls in Ohio. This one for example is at Clifton Mill, found in the small and picturesque town of Clifton in western Ohio.''The waterfall is man made, having been created for the mill which dates to the 19th century. The mill, which you can visit when open, is the only surviving mill of five which once stood along this stretch of the Little Miami river, and the area is well worth a bit of time exploring.''In my opinion, the best view of Clifton Mill is to be had from the nearby covered bridge. We’re big fans of covered bridges (stay tuned for a blog post on that subject soon!), and the 90ft covered bridge at Clifton Mill is a lovely example. Conveniently, this bridge has windows, so you can get good views of the mill, and wide window ledges so you can set up a tripod, as in the shot below.''You can see that you have to shoot between the slats, so you’ll have to play around with your camera and tripod setup to get it just right – no problem with the VEO 2 of course!''Finally, those camera settings. This was a 1.6 second exposure at f/16 at ISO 100 and a six stop ND filter.''9. Charleston Falls, West Charleston''Charleston Falls, in the Charleston Falls Preserve near West Charleston, are an easy drive from Dayton, Ohio, and worth adding to your itinerary if you’re in this part of Ohio.''The falls cascade over a 37 foot drop, and the volume is very dependent on rainfall. I was quite lucky to have two distinct falls, as other shots I’ve seen of these falls show very thin streams of water. Still, with all the foliage around these are definitely very pretty, and with a lot of water flow I suspect would be even more impressive.''There are a lot of different photography angles that you can take on these falls, which are a fairly short walk over even terrain from the nearby car park.''As you can see from my setup above, I liked shooting the falls from the lower viewing platform looking straight on. My tripod got me over the wooden fence to get a nice shot incorporating a good amount of the tree foliage, and I’d love to come back here in the Fall for those vibrant colours.''As it was, I was still happy with my results, which I shot with a 4 second exposure at f/8 and ISO 100, with a six stop neutral density filter.''10. West Falls, Cascade Park, Elyria''Found in northern Ohio in the town of Elyria (not far from Cleveland), the West Falls on the Black River are a highlight of Cascade Park. It’s a fairly easy walk to the falls, either from the residential streets near the falls, or from the parks main parking lot.''As you can see from the photo, the falls are definitely impressive, with multiple streams of water flowing over the 35ft drop, and these are definitely one of the larger falls on this list. For scale, you can see two people in the lower left corner of the shot under the underhang. I wasn’t brave enough to figure out how they got down there!''I definitely visited here at a poor time of day, shooting into the sun in the middle of the day, but I was still happy with the overall result, which was again a blend of three images due to the difficult light. These were shot at:''Image one: 15 seconds, f/8, ISO 100, 10 stop ND filter''Image two: 4 seconds, f/8, ISO 100, 10 stop ND filter''Image three: 30 seconds, f/8, ISO 100, 10 stop ND filter.''11. Lanternman’s Falls, Youngstown''The falls at Lanterman’s Mill near Youngstown are definitely one of the more photogenic falls in Ohio, largely because of the beautiful old mill that sits by the falls. The mill can be visited when open for a small fee. The falls themselves, at 15ft, are not huge, but there is usually a good flow of water over the falls.''The falls can be viewed from multiple angles, but I think the best view is from the US 62 highway bridge over the river, which has a wide pedestrian area that is safe for photography and setting up a tripod. There’s a free parking area just off the highway, and it’s a very short walk from here up to the bridge.''This shot was a six second exposure at f/10, with an ISO of 100 and a ten stop Neutral Density filter.''12. Indian Run Falls, Columbus''The last two falls on my list are right next to Ohio’s capital city, Columbus. First is Indian Run Falls to the north west of the city just off I-71. There are actually two falls here – a pretty little cascade, as found above, and then a more traditional drop fall.''I couldn’t find a good angle to photograph the latter, so I made do with standing in the middle of the water with my tripod for the upper cascade, which I thought was very pretty, if not overly dramatic. Do note that this is a very popular urban waterfall, and there are often people splashing around, so you might have to time your visit or your photographs to exclude them (or do a long exposure which will generally fade them out).''The above image was shot atop my Vanguard VEO 2 which has no problem standing in water, although of course, as with all equipment, you’ll want to dry your tripod off after leaving the water. Settings were as follows:''Thirty second exposure, f/9, ISO 400, 6 stop ND filter.''13. Hayden Falls, Columbus''Last, but definitely not least, in my list of the best waterfalls to photograph in Ohio are Hayden Falls, which are also just outside Columbus, a little to the west of the city. As you can see from the photo, these are a really pretty set of falls that you can get nice and close to, plus there’s a lot of water going of them in this shot which made for a great scene.''These were easily some of my favourite falls in Ohio, and they’re so close to Columbus that you should definitely check them out. As you can see from the shot above, I even snuck myself into the photo – another great reason to use a tripod when travelling – you can achieve rather more impressive selfie’s than with a selfie stick! Here’s a behind the scene shot of that setup before I ran round the camera into the shot and tried to stand still for six seconds:''I thought I managed it pretty well! Speaking of time, that shot was a six second exposure at f/6.3 and ISO 1600 and a six stop filter. To be honest, I should have stepped the ISO down and used a lower ND filter, but I had the camera all set up and I was feeling a bit lazy, plus the noise at ISO 1600 on a Canon 6D is very manageable.''Ohio Waterfalls Map''That sums up some of my favourite spots in Ohio for waterfall photography! Here’s a quick map to help you locate them, which you can also see''here on Google Maps.''Now, let me share some general:''Tips and Gear for Photographing Waterfalls in Ohio''Waterfalls are definitely one of my favourite subjects to photograph. I love the possibility that moving water offers, and the creative opportunities that waterfall photography allows for. Here are a few tips to help you get better waterfall photos, along with ideas on the photography gear you need for waterfall photography.''1. Neutral Density Filters''As you’ll have seen from my images above, nearly all the shots were taken with a neutral density filter. These block out a lot of the light coming into the camera, allowing you to take photos at much longer exposures, which lead to those beautiful fluffy water effects. Neutral density filters come in various shapes, sizes and prices – check out my''definitive guide to neutral density filters''so you know what to look for!''2. A Tripod''Whilst a tripod is handy for all sorts of photography, I’d argue it’s a must for waterfall photography. You won’t be able to get away with long exposures without a tripod, and exposure bracketing shots without a tripod is also quite tricky.''As I said at the start of the post, I’m am ambassador for Vanguard, and for travel and hiking especially, I love their VEO range. I’ve used both iterations of the VEO tripod, and love them both. You can read my full''review of the original VEO here'', and I’m pleased to say the new model is even better. As a bonus, the box artwork features one of my photos. Ok, so you might not think that’s a bonus. I think it’s pretty cool though.''Still not convinced you need a tripod? Read my post of''reasons you need a tripod for photography'', and see if that sways you! Then, take advantage of my 20% discount code in the''Vanguard US store''to get yourself set up – just use code''FindingTheUniverse''at checkout!''3. Composition''Photographing waterfalls is certainly no different to other kinds of photography, and you need to consider your composition carefully. The rule of thirds, use of color, reflections, and consideration of your foreground, midground and background elements are all key to getting great waterfall photos. Getting your composition right is a whole post of itself, and is in fact one that I’ve already written – you can check it out''here''.''4. Time of Day''Last but not least, shooting at the right time of day will make all the difference to your waterfall photos. I admit to not strictly following this rule in all the above photos, largely due to time constraints on our trip, but if you are able to shoot waterfalls with the sun behind you rather than behind the waterfall, and ideally at a time of day when it is closer to sunrise or sunset, you will definitely get better overall results.''Further Reading''That’s everything I have to share with you regarding some of my favourite waterfalls to photography in Ohio! Before you go though, here are a few resources you might find useful, both for general photography purposes, and for waterfalls too!''If you’re travelling and searching out waterfalls, you’ll find the website''Go Waterfalling''to be really helpful for finding all the best waterfalls in the areas you travel to.''If you enjoyed this post, I have an ever expanding series of''photography location guides'', which includes guides to''Iceland'',''Paris'',''London'',''Yosemite''and more!''I wrote a''guide to travel photography''over on Jess’s blog''I also have a series of photography tips to help you out with your photography, which you can see''here''Finally, if you’re interested in improving your photography, take a look at my''online travel photography course'', which has everything you need to know to start taking awesome travel photos, from choosing a camera, to mastering the settings, to editing – and more!''And that’s it! I hope you enjoyed this post – if you’ve got a favourite waterfall in Ohio, do let me know about it in the comments below!''So you know: As mentioned throughout the post, I’m an ambassador for Vanguard, and they provided me with my tripod and bag for this kit as part of the VEO 2 launch campaign. I love their gear and am thrilled to be able to work with a company I love, but as always, all opinions remain our own and we of course adhere to our''code of ethics''for any work we accept.''SHARE ON''Sleeper trains! Jess and I are big fans, and we’ve taken them in a wide variety of countries. We’ve ridden all sorts of sleeper train, from creaky old eastern European models through to the vintage''Orient Express''.''But one thing we’d never done is try a sleeper train in the UK. After all, the UK isn’t exactly that big. You can get from London to Edinburgh in under five hours by train, so why would you want a sleeper version?''Well, there are a few reasons. First, you save on the cost of a hotel night by sleeping on a train. Second, you don’t waste precious exploration time stuck on a train – instead, you arrive bright and early in your destination, ready for a full day of adventure. Third, unlike many train services in the UK, this can be booked a whole year in advance, helping you figure out your transport well in advance. And fourth – well, fourth, it’s kind of fun!''In today’s post I’m going to share our experiences of travelling with the''Caledonian Sleeper''between Edinburgh and London, a journey we did once in each direction. This was due to a kind invite by the folks at Caledonian Sleeper who offered to let us try out their services.''This post will cover the different classes available on board the Caledonian Sleeper, our review of the Caledonian Sleeper service between London and Edinburgh, and provides information on travelling with the Caledonian Sleeper.''First though, let me answer the question:''What is the Caledonian Sleeper?''The Caledonian Sleeper is a train service which operates a number of routes which link London with cities in Scotland, including Glasgow, Edinburgh, Inverness, and Aberdeen. Services run both ways six days a week, with the exception of Saturdays.''A sleeper service has been running between London and Scotland since the 1850’s, although the service has been updated a few times since then – with a major update coming into service in 2018.''It’s been running in it’s current name, the Caledonia Sleeper, since 1996, and in 2016, Lonely Planet named the journey from London Euston to Fort William the best sleeper train journey in the world.''What Sleeping Options Are There on the Caledonian Sleeper?''There are three main options for travel on the Caledonia Sleeper. These are a Sleeper Seat, Standard Class and First Class.''1. Sleeper Seat.''This is generally the most economical way to travel, with prices starting around £35 per person one way. These are reclining seats in a 2 + 1 arrangement, which are similar in layout to first class seats on a normal British train.''As you will be sharing with other people in the same carriage, this is likely to be the least comfortable option, and you won’t be able to lie flat. There’s a counter-service, but the lounge / dining car is off limits to sleeper seat passengers. All Caledonian Sleeper Seat passengers receive a sleep kit which comes with earplugs and an eye mask.''2. Standard Sleeper Room''With prices starting at £70 per person, the Caledonian Sleeper standard cabin is an excellent option if you actually want a lie-flat bed and some privacy – especially if you’re travelling with a friend or as couple or family. The sleeper rooms accommodate two people, with two bunks on the walls – one above the other. You also get a sleep kit with eyemask and ear plugs.''The room also has a sink, towels, bedding, and 4x USB power outlets. If you’re travelling on your own, you will usually be allocated a room with another solo traveller of the same sex. You are also able to access the lounge car, subject to space (priority is given to first class passengers, although it is rarely full), which has a range of seating options as well as a drinks and meal service. You can see an idea of available on board meals''here''.''The room doesn’t have a toilet, but individual ladies and gents toilets are available at the end of each carriage. There are also no showers on board, but showers can be found at many of the stations along the route – for standard sleeper and sleeper seat passengers there’s a small fee to use these.''3. First Class Sleeper Room''For the ultimate experience, or for those travelling alone who really value their privacy, the Caledonian Sleeper First Class Sleeper room offers you a whole cabin to yourself, with prices starting at £130 per person.''This is basically exactly the same cabin as the standard sleeper room, but the top bunk is folded away, so you have the place to yourself.''As well as all the amenities included in the standard sleeper room, you also get a lovely toiletry kit, access to the first class lounges at departure and arrival stations (some of which have free showers), as well as a free hot or continental breakfast, which you can enjoy either in your room or in the lounge car. You also have priority access to said lounge car on the train and free use of showers at departure and arrival stations.''If you’re travelling as a couple (or with a friend or family member), you can book adjoining sleeping rooms with an interconnecting door, meaning you end up with a pair of rooms that are private from the outside world, with plenty of room for the two of you.''Our Caledonian Sleeper Review''As I said at the start of the post, Jess and I were invited to try out the Caledonian Sleeper on a journey from Edinburgh to London and back again. This is one of the shorter journeys available on the Caledonian Sleeper, lasting around eight hours. This is the “lowland sleeper” route, which operates between London and Glasgow/Edinburgh.''In Edinburgh, which was where we started our journey, the train is available for boarding from 11pm, and the train itself departs at 23.40. We were lucky to have been given first class tickets, so we got on board in plenty of time to take advantage of everything the train had to offer.''On arrival our rooms were allocated and our breakfast order was taken, and after popping our luggage in our rooms, we headed to the lounge car to try out an evening meal from the options available. This was actually very good (and reasonably priced!), even though the current galley is restricted to sandwiches and microwaveable meals, and we enjoyed it.''Then, ready for bed, we headed back to our cabins. Cabins do lock, but only the steward has the keys, so to get back into our cabin we had to find our carriage steward. This isn’t hard as each carriage has a steward at one end, but is something to bear in mind if you find yourself outside your cabin with no way to get back in. There is a steward call button in the cabin, but obviously you have to be in the cabin to use it.''Back into our cabins, we got ourselves ready for bed (I particularly liked the pillow spray that came in the first class cabin, and the provided bottled drinking water), plugged my phone into one of the four (four!) available USB ports, and went to sleep.''I’m pleased to report that we both slept well on the train down to London, although certainly we appreciate this won’t be an experience for everyone. Trains move around and make noise as they travel, and whilst the earplugs certainly help, it’s really down to the individual as to how you will sleep.''I would also add that to get the most sleep you should arrive as soon as the train is ready for boarding, having eaten before hand, and just head straight to bed. Trains arrive into London at just after 7am, and as we wanted breakfast in the lounge car, we had to be up by 6.30am to take advantage of that. A wake up call was available, but we just used my phone alarm.''We woke with my alarm and headed for breakfast. We were particularly impressed by breakfast – Jess had Scottish smoked salmon and scrambled eggs, whilst I went for the full highland breakfast. Then, finding ourselves already in Euston, we offloaded and started our London adventure.''Our return trip was similar, with the exception that on the journey north, the train from London to Edinburgh can be boarded at 10pm, meaning you can get a bit more sleep should you wish – or just enjoy a dram of whisky or two in the lounge car. It still doesn’t leave until just before midnight, so if falling asleep whilst the train is moving is a problem for you, getting on board a little bit earlier might be the best option.''We were also a little disappointed on our northern version of the trip that an issue with food delivery meant that the highland breakfast wasn’t available. Jess again availed of the smoked salmon and scrambled eggs, and I went for the bacon bap, which was excellent. It was also particularly nice to have breakfast in the dining car as we headed into Edinburgh, as the scenery on this part of the journey is really lovely, and is an excellent way to start getting excited for your Scottish adventure.''Overall, we’d definitely recommend you consider the Caledonian Sleeper for your transport needs when visiting the UK. You’ll save the cost of an overnight stay, won’t lose time travelling in the day, and will experience one of the world’s great sleeper train journeys.''Things to Know About the Caledonia Sleeper''Here are a few things to keep in mind when planning your Caledonian Sleeper adventure:''Train arrival times''The lowland trains to and from Edinburgh and Glasgow arrive early into their respective destinations. This is great for giving you lots of time to sightsee, but if you are travelling with luggage you will have to factor that in as you’ll have to find somewhere to leave it.''Many hotels will let you leave luggage if you arrive early for no additional fee, otherwise you may have to look at left luggage options. For example,''this site''provides Baggage services at a number of stations in the UK.''WiFi on the Caledonian Sleeper''There’s no WiFi at all on the Caledonia Sleeper, although if you have a data package on your phone you should get good reception for the majority of the route.''Food / Drink\xa0on the Caledonian Sleeper''For travellers in standard and first class, the Caledonian Sleeper lounge car has a range of drink and meal options including full dinners and breakfasts. First class guests can also order meals to their cabin. There is a counter service available to guests in the sleeper seats for snacks and refreshments.''Pets on the Caledonian Sleeper''Pets are welcome on board the Caledonian Sleeper. Assistance dogs are free, whilst all other pets have a charge of £30 at time of writing. If you wish to travel with a pet you need to have a room that is for your exclusive use so as not to inconvenience a stranger – either by booking a standard room for two people, or travelling in first class.''Power\xa0on the Caledonian Sleeper''Power is available is the form of 4 USB sockets for each room. Rooms do not have standard power outlets, although if you do need to plug into an outlet, you can find these in the lounge car. There are no power outlets of any kind in the sleeper seat section, so we suggest charging devices before travelling.''Toilets / Showers\xa0on the Caledonian Sleeper''There are no showers on board the Caledonian Sleeper, although as previously noted a number of stations offer Caledonian Sleeper passengers the option to shower either on departure or arrival. This is free for first class passengers and there is a small fee for standard sleeper and sleeper seat passengers.''Stations with showers include London Euston, Glasgow, Edinburgh and Aberdeen. You can see all the facilities available for each station on this''comprehensive station list''.''Toilets are located at the end of each carriage, and unusually for a UK train, can be used when in a station.''Spring 2018 Planned Updates''In 2018 the Caledonian Sleeper will benefit from a massive investment that will see 75 new carriages rolled out across the service. Improvements will include en-suite rooms for first class guests, the option for double beds, free WiFi that will offer films and TV streaming, improved standard class rooms and a new Brasserie Club Car.''We’re looking forward to trying out the new service when it goes live in 2018, and will be sharing our thoughts on it when we do in a new post.''Further Reading''As you can see, we thoroughly enjoyed our trip on the Caledonian Sleeper, and are already looking forward to trying out the new version next year. In the meantime though, here’s a little extra related reading we’ve put together for you on the theme of the''UK''and trains. Enjoy!''Click here''if you want to book a trip on the Caledonian Sleeper train service''If you want to read more about our sleeper train experiences, look no further than our luxury voyage on the''Orient Express from London to Venice''. For a shorter luxury train experience in the UK, you can read about our journey on the''Belmond British Pullman''. Yes, we like trains.''For your time in London, take a look at our''Two Day London Itinerary''to help you see all the highlights of London. There’s also a''1 day version''if you’re short on time.''London transport can be confusing. That’s why we wrote a''guide to buying and using the London Oyster Card'', and a''guide to public transport in London''to help you get around without spending too much money''London’s also photogenic – check out our tips for finding the''best Photography Locations in London''And, to really save money in London, read our full''review of the London Pass''to help you decide if this can save you money on your visit to London''Beyond London, we’ve got lots of experience in the UK as well. Take a look at our''detailed itinerary for\xa0 two weeks in the UK'', and the''1 week version'', for inspiration.''We’ve written a number of guides to Edinburgh, including a guide to''visiting during the August festivals'', the''Highlights of Edinburgh'',''Hidden Gems in Edinburgh''and a''2 day Edinburgh itinerary'', to name a few''We’ve also visited Glasgow of course – and put together a''comprehensive Glasgow guide''for you''Heading even further north in Scotland, here are some ideas, including information on the epic''North Coast 500''road trip, exploring the''Highlands and Skye'', and even''whisky tasting''!''And that sums up our experience on the''Caledonian Sleeper''train service! Have you ever considered travelling by sleeper train in the UK? Have any questions for us? Let us know in the comments below!''So you know, Caledonian Sleeper provided us complimentary first class tickets each way from Edinburgh to London Euston for the two of us. We covered the cost of our own evening meal on board. As always, our opinions remain our own – see our''code of ethics''for more on how we choose to who work with.''SHARE ON''Rome is easily one of our favourite cities in Europe. It is absolutely stuffed full of sights, with thousands of years of history layered upon itself – you’ll find everything here from Roman ruins to Renaissance art. It’s also home to fantastic food, the Vatican City and sights like the Trevi Fountain, the Coliseum and the Spanish Steps.''Certainly 3 days in Rome is not enough to see absolutely everything that the city has to offer, but it’s definitely enough to see all the highlights if you manage your time effectively.''With that in mind, we wanted to share what we think is an excellent itinerary for three days in Rome, which covers the attractions that visitors to Rome are most likely going to want to visit. This covers all the major highlights for your three day visit.''Following the itinerary, this post is then full of tips and advice for visiting Rome that will help you get the most out of your stay, as well as save money on attraction entry, transport and accommodation.''To get the most out of your trip and to be sure you see all the major attractions, you will need to do a bit of forward planning and even reserve your entry time to the key attractions – otherwise you’ll waste your time standing in lines unnecessarily. Don’t worry though, we explain everything in this post to help you save time!''Now, let’s get started with our idea of how to spend the perfect 3 days in Rome.''Contents:''3 Days in Rome''Rome 3 Day Itinerary Map''How to Save Money And Skip the Lines in Rome''Getting Around Rome''Where to Stay in Rome for 3 Days''When to Visit Rome''Practicalities for Visiting Rome for 3 Days''Any Tours You Recommend in Rome?''Next Steps for Visiting Rome''Further Reading for your 3 Days in Rome''3 Days in Rome''Day One''1. Vatican City''The Vatican City is the first thing on our list for your visit to Rome. It’s a country of its own, inside Rome, and is home to world-famous sites including the''Vatican Museum'', the Sistine Chapel, and St. Peter’s Basilica.''We recommend you come here early and head straight for the Vatican Museum with your''skip the line ticket''(more on this later, in the section on saving money). Doors to the Vatican Museum open at 9am, so we recommend you arrange your entry for as close to then as you can manage. The Vatican Museum gets really crowded as the day progresses, so getting here early will let you enjoy it for a while before it gets too busy.''There’s loads to see in the Vatican Museums, which span 7km of exhibits, so you could spend a whole lot of time here. Our favourites include the Map Room, the Sistine Chapel, and the fabulous double helix exit stairwell, but we’re sure you’ll discover treasures of your own.''Next, it’s back outside and on to''St. Peter’s Basilica''. Again, our recommendation is to have a''ticket that lets you skip the line'', which at busy times can stretch right around the piazza. You’ll still have to go through security, but it will be a matter of minutes rather than hours.''Once through, you’ll be able to enjoy visiting the world’s largest church, and what is regarded as one of the holiest Catholic shrines. With designers including Bramante, Raphael and Michelangelo, it’s a truly Renaissance building, and is a work of art in itself – before you even start to consider all the artworks within! If you’re up to it, we highly recommend the climb to the top of the dome. This offers superb views across the city, as well as the chance to see the Basilica from above.''Once you’re done with the Vatican, you can head on to our next stop. Don’t feel you need to rush though – the Vatican City is definitely going to be a highlight of the day, and you are welcome to spend a few hours exploring at your leisure. The rest of Rome will wait. When you’re ready, a short walk will take you to the next stop on our list:''2. Castel Sant’Angelo''Originally built as a mausoleum for the Emperor Hadrian, the''Castel Sant’Angelo''has been sitting on the banks of the river Tiber for nearly two thousand years. In that time it has evolved from its initial role as a tomb, becoming a fortress, a castle, and finally, a museum.''Today it is open to the public, and you can climb right to the top, for gorgeous views of the city. You’ll also be able to marvel at the building techniques that have allowed it to survive for two millennia.''From Spring to Fall, last admission to Castel Sant’Angelo is at 6pm, for the rest of the year it is at 1pm. So as long as you are here by then you will be good for the remainder of the day as nowhere else on today’s list has a closing time.''3. Piazza del Popolo''From the Castel Sant’Angelo it’s a pleasant twenty minute walk along the banks of the river Tiber to the Piazza del Popolo. This was the location of the northern gate of Rome, and is where, for countless years before trains, planes and cars, travellers would actually arrive into Rome.''From here, three roads span southwards in a trident formation, with the central road, the Via del Corso, running dead straight through the centre of Rome to the Piazza Venezia. Originally this would have been the route from the northern gate of Rome to the Roman Forum.''In the centre of the Piazza is an Egyptian obelisk, dating from the rule of Rameses II, which was brought to Rome in 10BC, and put in this plaza in the 16th century. On the south side of the Piazza are the twin churches of Santa Maria in Montesanto, and Santa Maria del Miracoli, sitting either side of Via Corso.''4. Spanish Steps''We’re going to continue our first day by taking in a few of Rome’s highlights that you can take as long or as little time to visit as you wish. First on the list are the''Spanish Steps''.''You can access these by walking in a south easterly direction through the Villa Borghese Gardens and down Viale della Trinita dei Monti.''This 135 step staircase was opened in 1735 to link the Spanish Embassy near the bottom of the steps to the Trinita dei Monti staircase at the top, and are today a popular spot to stop, eat Gelato, and watch the world go by. They were made particularly popular in the 1953 movie''Roman Holiday'', starring Audrey Hepburn.''5. Trevi Fountain''Continuing our must-visit Rome highlights, our next stop in our wanders through Rome is the''Trevi Fountain''. This is the world’s largest Baroque fountain, and is always a popular location – whatever time of day (or night!) you visit. Built in the early 18th century, it is said that if you throw a coin into the fountain, you are guaranteed to return to Rome.''This seems to be a popular past time, as over three thousand euro’s worth of coins are throw into the fountain each day. These go to a good cause – each night the coins are removed from the fountain and used by a charity that helps those in need purchase food.''6. The Pantheon''A little walk from the Trevi Fountain is the incredible Pantheon. This building, which has been standing for almost 2,000 years, is the best preserved Ancient Roman monument in Rome, and I dare you not to be impressed by it’s incredible dome, which even today, two thousand years since it was built, still holds the record as the world’s largest unreinforced concrete dome.''Originally built as a temple to the Roman gods, the Pantheon was converted for use as a Christian church in 609 AD, which is the main reason it survives in such excellent condition today. It’s also notable for being home to the graves of a number of important folk, including the painter Raphael and two Italian Kings.''7. Piazza Navona''Wow, this has been a busy first day in Rome! We recommend finishing your adventure off with a visit to the Piazza Navona. This has been a designated public space since the 15th century, and is full of gorgeous Baroque architecture. It’s most famous feature is undoubtedly Bernini’s fountain, which stands at the center – the Fountain of the Four Rivers, which dates from 1651.''The Piazza is a fun place to be, and often features street performers and markets, depending on the time of day and week that you visit. There are also a lot of options here for dining and drinking as well, although bear in mind that you always pay more in Rome at the more popular locations, especially if they have a terrace or view.''We ate at Caffe Domiziano, which has two seating areas. It’s cheaper to sit in the section on Corsia Agonale rather than on the main square. The food is the same, just the price is different.''Now, time to rest before day two of our three day Rome itinerary!''Day Two''8. Coliseum''Our second day in Rome starts with another Rome highlight – the''Coliseum''. Built in Roman times as a space for holding public spectacles, the Coliseum is most famous for being the home of gladiators, who would battle it out in front of audiences that could number as many as 80,000 people.''The Coliseum is the largest amphitheatre in the world, and despite suffering some damage in it’s two thousand years of existence, is still hugely impressive to visit. It’s one of the most popular destinations in Rome for visitors, so again, our advice is to come as early as you can, and take advantage of a pass or advance ticket purchase options so you can skip the ticket queue and go straight to the security line.''9. Roman Forum & Palatine Hill''Your Coliseum ticket is also good for entry to the Roman Forum & Palatine Hill (as long as you visit on the same day), which is conveniently located right next door. If you don’t buy a ticket in advance for the Coliseum, or have a ticket with skip the line privileges, then we suggest you visit the Roman Forum first, as the queues for tickets are much shorter, and since they include the Coliseum you’ll get in faster there once you’re finished at the Forum.''So what’s special about the Forum? A lot! This was the seat of power during the reign of the Roman Empire, as well as the central marketplace and business district. Basically, Roman life for centuries revolved around this area of Rome, and no visit to the city is complete without walking these ancient ruins.''10. Mouth of Truth''Time for a bit of fun! If you’ve seen the movie''Roman Holiday''with Audrey Hepburn, you’ll remember that Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn pop their hands into the mouth of this massive stone figure, which is said to bite off the hands of liars.''It’s not exactly known when or how this belief originated, but the good news is that you too can visit the Mouth of Truth, or Bocca del Verita, and pop your own hand in for a photo opportunity. You’ll find it outside the entrance to the Santa Maria in Cosmedin church, which is also worth visiting. In can get busy here in the summer months, but the line is kept moving fairly quickly, so you won’t have to wait too long.''11. Pyramid of Caius Cestius''Did you know that Rome has a two thousand year old Egyptian style Pyramid? Well, it does. The''Pyramid of Cestius''was built around 12BC, at a time when Rome was obsessed with all things Egypt, to serve as the tomb for a wealthy Roman.''The tomb has since been looted, and little is known about its original occupant, but the marble covered 36 meter high pyramid is the only one of its kind in Europe, and we think is definitely worth your time to visit. It’s now incorporated into the Aurelian Walls of the city (which helped to ensure it’s preservation), and one of the best places to see if from is the non-catholic cemetery of Rome.''Whilst you’re at the cemetery, which is a beautifully peaceful spot, do take the time to visit the grave of the English poet Keats, one whose “name is writ in water”, who died in Rome at the young age of 25, far before his recognition as one of the greatest English poets of all time.''12. Baths of Caracalla''Those Romans really liked to build stuff on a big scale. The Baths of Caracalla are no different. This vast bathing complex could accommodate up to 1600 bathers at one time, in a complex that covered over 62 acres.''Whilst time has taken it’s toll on the Baths, they are still open to visitors. You can wander between the mighty walls and\xa0 appreciate the vast scale of the operation and the millions of bricks that were used to construct them, as well as some of the surviving details like the mosaic floors.''It’s not at the top of visitors lists to Rome, but is definitely one of our favourite spots to visit in the city, so we urge you to include it in your itinerary, especially as you’re already in the area.''13. St. John in the Lateran''The Papal Archbasilica of St. John in the Lateran is the cathedral church of Rome and the seat of the Pope in the city, and as such, is one of the most important churches in the city. Whilst nearly everyone makes it to St. Peter’s Basilica, less people make it out here, to what is in fact the oldest Basilica in the city, making this a quieter and more relaxing place to visit.''Highlights include the Lateran Obelisk, the largest standing Egyptian obelisk in the world, the Borromini designed Knave, the Cloister and the Scala Sancta. These lasts are a stairway of 28 steps, found in a building just across the road from the Basilica itself, which are said to be the same steps that Jesus walked up on his way to trial in Jersualem. Today, pilgrims to Rome can be seen climbing the stairs on their knees, which is the only way you’re allowed to ascend.''Finally, find yourself some delicious food or perhaps a gelato, and congratulate yourself on another excellent day in Rome!''Day Three''14. Appian Way and The Catacombs''For the third day on our three day Rome itinerary, we suggest you take a break from the city centre sight-seeing and head out along the Appian Way.''Built in 312BC, this is believed to be one of the oldest surviving roads in the world, and was of enormous importance to the Roman Empire, linking the capital to southern settlements including Naples and Brindisi, and allowing for the quick movement of troops and goods. At the time, it was the widest and longest road in the world, and in testament to the quality of it’s construction, much of what you can see today is still original stonework. Those Romans built things to last!''There are a variety of attractions to see along the Appian Way, beyond the road itself, and the key sights are to be found along the first ten miles of the road, in the Parco dell’Appia Antica. To get to these, you’ll want to head to the start point of the road, the Porta San Sebastiano, which you can reach via public transport from the city. From here, it’s a ten minute walk to the first major sight on the Appian Way, the Church of Domine Quo Vadis, which dates from the 9th century.''After the Church, there are two Catacombs you can visit, the''Catacombs of St. Callixtus''and the''Catacombs of St. Sebastian''. The former are slightly larger and were the burial place of 16 popes, numerous Christians and a number of martyrs.''Following on from the Catacombs, you can continue your journey along the Appian Way should you so wish, to the tomb of Cecilia Metella and the Circus Maxentius, which are about another 10 – 15 minute walk along the Appian Way. All in all, from the Porta San Sebastiano to the tomb of Cecilia Metella, you’re looking at about a thirty minute walk, with plenty of attractions on the way. Whilst you can continue on at this point should you wish, we’d suggest returning to the city now, and heading to the:''15. Borghese Gallery''The''Borghese Gallery''is in the Villa Borghese gardens, and houses the Borghese collection, a collection of art that is easily one of the finest in Rome. With incredible pieces from the likes of Raphael, Bernini and Caravaggio, to name but a few, this museum is truly a must visit.''It’s not huge, spread across two floors and twenty rooms, but the high quality of work on display means that everything you see is basically a masterpiece. It’s also guaranteed not to be too crowded, as they only allow 360 people in at a time. Compare this to the 30,000 visitors a day that the Vatican Museum hosts, and you will enjoy being able to breathe whilst you appreciate the art on display.''It’ll take forty five minutes to an hour to get to the Borghese Gallery from the Circus Maxentius part of the Appian Way, so you need to factor this in when planning your routes. Also, be aware that if you visit on a Sunday that public transport can be reduced.''The reason I mention this is because the Borghese Gallery has timed entry and reservation is mandatory – even with a pass.\xa0 To reserve, just call the reservation line: +39-06-32-810. Once you enter, you have two hours to see the Gallery. Alternatively, if you wanted to do a guided tour, your tour company will arrange the time for you, although again, these need to be booked in advance. Read about our experience touring the Borghese Gallery with Walks of Italy''here''.''16. Villa Borghese Gardens''Once you’re done with the Borghese Gallery, we recommend heading over the west side of the Gardens, towards the Piazza del Popolo.''The view from the terrace overlooking the Piazza del Popolo is one of our favourite views in Rome. It’s particularly good at sunset – so do your best to time your visit here to enjoy that and reflect on three wonderful days spent exploring Rome!''Rome 3 Day Itinerary Map''Here’s a map of the above itinerary showing all the attractions across the three days you’ll be in Rome. You can click''here''to see this map on Google.''How to Save Money And Skip the Lines in Rome''As with many cities around the world, Rome has a number of passes that help you get free and discounted admission, as well as skip the line privileges at key attractions – including many of the above.''There are two main attraction passes for Rome that we usually recommend – the''Omnia Rome and Vatican Card''and the''Roma Pass.''Which you choose depends on your sight-seeing goals, so we’re going to go through these in a bit of detail now to help you choose.''In brief, the card we recommend for our three day Rome itinerary is the''Omnia Rome and Vatican Card''. We think this offers the best combination of value for money, attraction entry and skip the line access.''This pass is brought to you by the same folks who also run some of our other favourite city passes including the''London Pass''and the''Barcelona Pass'', and consists of two physical passes – an OMNIA card and the aforementioned''Roma Pass''.''Here’s what the Omnia Rome and Vatican Card covers:''Free entry with Skip the Line access to the Vatican attractions, including the Vatican Museum & Sistine Chapel, St. Peter’s Basilica and the Basilica of St. John in the Lateran and the Cloister''Free audio guide at St. Peter’s Basilica''Free entry to''two out of six listed attractions'', which includes the Coliseum, the Roman Forum, Castel Sant’Angelo and the Borghese Gallery.''Skip the line entry at the Coliseum and Roman Forum (these count as one attraction when visiting using the card in the same day)''Discounted entry at attractions once you have used up your two free visits – this will be the concession rate''Discounted entry at over thirty other sights in Rome, including the Baths of Caracalla and Appia Way attractions''A 72 hour travelcard for Rome which covers all the major public transport, including buses, trams and metro''A 3 Day Hop-on Hop-off Bus ticket''A detailed guidebook to Rome and map of the city''As you can see, this pass includes a lot. One of the most valuable aspects of it, in my mind, is the skip the line access at the Vatican Museum, St. Peter’s Basilica and the Coliseum. I cannot stress enough how important these features are. The line for the Vatican museum in particular can be hours long (seriously, hours), and in the heat of the summer this can be a torturous experience.''The''Omnia Vatican and Rome Card''gets you past this queue and straight in to the security line, and the same applies at St. Peters Basilica and the Coliseum. Seriously, don’t waste your time in Rome standing in line.''To get the most out of the Omnia Vatican and Rome Card though, you have to be a little bit clever, and plan ahead. Or, you can just follow my itinerary, as I’ve ordered the attractions in a way that will save you the most money when using the Omnia Vatican and Rome Card.''As you can see, there’s a''list of six attractions'', of which you can choose two that you get free entry to with the card. As these are not all the same price, to maximise your savings you want to try and use your free entry on the most expensive attractions.''Once you’ve used those two entries up, you will get a discounted admission when you use your card. Based on the three day itinerary above, we recommend you use the pass for free entry to the National Museum of Castel Sant’Angelo, and then for the combined entry ticket to the Coliseum and Roman Forum. This will save you €34.50.''The other thing to be aware of is that you need to book your entry into the Vatican Museum in advance, as skip the line access is run on a timed system. Once you order your pass online, you will be able to pre-book your time for entry. My advice, as you can see in the itinerary, is to book the earliest entry you can. The Vatican Museum gets very busy, and the first hour or so in the morning is the quietest time to visit.''You might be wondering how much you will save with the Pass. Well, if you follow the itinerary above, purchasing skip the line tickets for attraction where available, you’d be looking at around €100 in entry fees. Then there’s the travel card which is currently worth €18, and the Hop-on Hop-off bus which is valued at €32. So a total value for this itinerary of €150. Currently, a 72 hour''Omnia Vatican and Rome Card''is €113, which we think is excellent value. They also regularly run sales, making it even more of a bargain.''You can of course book tickets individually for some of these attractions which include skip the line access. This will be more economical if you only plan on visiting some of these attractions, although does require a bit more advance planning and you’ll have to make a number of individual purchases.''For example, you can book Vatican tickets directly''here'', and Coliseum tickets directly''here''. If you go down this route, make sure you choose the option that lets you print the ticket yourself so you can proceed directly to the security line. Also be aware that there are many sites that sell tickets at a mark-up, so do only buy from the official site for each attraction.''The other pass that is often recommended is the''Roma Pass''. Whilst this comes with the Omnia Vatican and Rome card, it can also be purchased separately, in a''2 day (48 hour)''or''3 day (72 hour)''version.\xa0 The Roma Pass includes free / discounted admission to many of Rome’s attractions as well as a transport card for the public transport network in Rome.''However, it doesn’t include entry or skip the line access to any of the Vatican attractions, including the Vatican Museum or St. Peters Basilica, nor does it include the Rome Hop on Hop off bus. We think that for 3 days in Rome, the''Omnia Vatican and Rome Card''is a better option, particularly if you’re following our Rome itinerary.''For us, the true value of\xa0 the''Omnia Vatican and Rome Card''isn’t the cost saving – even though it does offer that. Instead, it’s the fact that it makes it so much easier and hassle free to visit Rome. You’ll get to all the attractions you’re really going to want to see without spending time standing in line. And that’s why we think it’s worth investing in. You can buy yours from the official site,''here''.''Getting Around Rome''Rome is really easy to get around, with much of it very walkable. The itinerary we’re laid out is designed to be logical and easy to follow, so you won’t waste time getting from place to place. Getting from each location to the next should be either a short walk, or a single bus or metro ride away.''If you decide to buy the''Omnia Vatican and Rome Card''it includes free public transport for your three days in Rome, as well as the Hop on Hop Off bus. Alternatively, you can either buy a travelcard yourself, or just buy tickets as you go. A one way ticket, known as a “B.I.T” costs €1.50 and is valid for 100 minutes from when you activate it.''With the B.I.T. you can change transport types as you go, with the exception being you cannot re-enter the metro system if you leave it. These single tickets can be bought from metro stations as well as convenience stores and newsagents, and need to be activated with a timestamp when you board the first transport. For buses this will require putting the card into a machine located on the bus. Metro entry barriers will automatically timestamp your ticket as you insert them at the barrier.''Not stamping your ticket is the same as travelling without a ticket, and you can be penalised for doing this.''Where to Stay in Rome for 3 Days''Rome certainly has no shortage of places to stay. For this three day itinerary, we’d suggest you stay somewhere central, to make accessing all the attractions as easy as possible. Our suggestion would be to stay somewhere\xa0in the area between the Piazza Navona, Piazza Venezia and Piazza del Popolo.''For an idea of where I mean, take a look at these hotel options:''The''Navona Theatre Hotel''The''Mimosa Pantheon Hotel''Th''e Hotel Navona''Di Rienzo Pantheon Palace''Of course, there are many more options. We tend to use''Booking.com''for most of our accommodation when we travel, they have a wide selection of options, with everything from''hostels''to''apartments''to''hotels''. The review system makes it easy to pick a good option, and they have an excellent cancellation policy.''As an example of what is available, beyond the above mentioned hotels, here’s a''well rated hostel'', and a''fantastically located apartment''. As you can see – loads of options!''Of course, Booking.com isn’t the only option. We’ve also stayed in apartments and vacation rental properties in Rome, often booked through''AirBnB''. If you’re interested in using AirBnB,''this link''will give you a discount off your first stay. If you can’t find what you want on AirBnB, we’ve got a definitive list of''AirBnB alternatives''to help you get a decent vacation rental.''When to Visit Rome''With a Mediterranean climate, Rome is a city that can be visited throughout the year. However, it gets very busy and very hot in the summer months, especially in August, so we’d advise avoiding August if you can. If you must visit in August, we highly recommend you pick up the''Omnia Vatican and Rome Card''so you don’t have to queue for attractions in the unshaded heat.''We’ve visited Rome at all times of year, and our favourite time to visit is April / May, which we think offers a good balance between nice weather and less crowded attractions.''Another thing to be aware of is that many museums and attractions are closed on Mondays. In addition, there is free entry to lots of the key attractions in Rome on the first Sunday of every month – we’d suggest avoiding this day if you possibly can as the crowds are unbelievable!''Practicalities for Visiting Rome for 3 Days''Safety:''In our many visits to Rome we’ve never had any safety problems although pickpocketing is not uncommon in crowded tourist areas. As always, practice basic safety precautions. Keep valuables concealed, don’t carry large quantities of cash, only use official taxis and so on.''Power:''Electricity is of the 220v standard, with the 2 pin European style plug. Travellers from countries like the UK and the US will need an adapter, and US travellers need to check their equipment supports the 220v standard – it will be written clearly on the power adapter.''Currency:''Rome is a part of the Eurozone, meaning the currency is the Euro. You can get these from ATM’s, banks and currency exchanges, although credit cards are of course widely accepted. We suggest using a credit card where you can – just ensure it has no foreign currency transaction fee.''Internet:''Internet access is widely available in the form of WiFi all around the city and in hotels and coffee shops, so you shouldn’t have any trouble getting online. You can also pick up local SIM cards if you have an unlocked phone. Travellers from the UK on the''Three network''will be able to use their Feel At Home data, which is a great deal if you’re a regular traveller from the UK. For more options on getting online when travelling, check out our''guide to getting online when travelling''to help you figure out the best options.''Water:''The water in the taps is safe to drink, although many locals prefer the taste of bottled water. You can also drink the water that comes out of the taps in the fountains, so just carry a drinking water bottle with you and hydrate as you go. Of course, if you don’t like the taste, bottled water is widely available.''Clothing.''Many of the attractions in Rome are holy places, and you need to be dressed appropriately. There are big signs up explaining what you should wear, but generally, you need to have clothing that covers your knees and shoulders. This can be an issue with warm weather clothing choices, particularly in summer, so we advise that if you choose to wear tank tops or shorts to keep items to cover your shoulders and knees with you like shawls, scarfs, long skirts, or pants that convert into shorts.''Any Tours You Recommend in Rome?''We’ve taken a number of tours in Rome, and can definitely recommend these if you’re looking for a guided experience. The two companies we recommend are''Context Travel''(10% off tours with''this link'') and''Walks of Italy''.''With Walks of Italy, we can recommend the “''Pristine Sistine''” tour, which gets you early access to the Vatican Museums before they open to the public, which is even better than skip the line access. If you go down one of these routes, then you may find that a Roma Card is going to be better value than the Omnia Rome and Vatican Card.''We also took the “''VIP Caesar’s Palace tour with the Colosseum & Roman Forum''” tour, which covered the Roman Forum and the Colosseum, as well as the 1st century BC home of Emperor Augustus, previously off limits to the public. Finally, we took a tour of the Borghese Gallery on the “''Borghese Gallery Tour with Tickets''”.''We also did tours with Context Travel, who offer very small group tours for the intellectually curious. These were fairly specialised tours, one focusing on Rome, the''Grand Tour and the Romantic Poets'', and the other on the''history of the Popes and Rome political power.''We’ve written fairly extensively about our tours in Rome, and I link to these reviews in the further reading section below to help you decide if these are going to be good options for you.''Next Steps for Visiting Rome''Having read all the above, I hope everything is clear. I admit, Rome is a wonderful city to visit, but planning in all the attractions and avoiding those dreaded queues might feel a little overwhelming. With that in mind, here’s a quick checklist to help make sure you get the most out of your stay.''Plan when you are going and book your''flights''and''accommodation''Decide which attractions you really want to visit based on the above itinerary, and any other research you have done''Make any walking tour reservations with either''Context Travel''or''Walks of Italy''Decide if something like the''Omnia Vatican and Rome Card''is going to be for you, and purchase it in advance. If you aren’t interested in the Vatican attractions, or are going to visit them on a walking tour, you should definitely consider the''Roma Pass''instead. This includes transport and a number of other attractions in Rome.''If you’re not getting an''Omnia Vatican and Rome Card'', make your reservations in advance for all the attractions you know you want to visit which aren’t part of any walking tours you book. In particular, our suggestion would be to book in advance for the Vatican Museum, the Coliseum and the Borghese Gallery.''Enjoy your trip to Rome knowing you’re not going to waste time in line for anything but''gelato''!''Further Reading for your 3 Days in Rome''Well, that was a lot of content to help you plan your trip to Rome! As well as the above, we have a number of other resources we’d like to recommend to help you out, both content we’ve written ourselves, and resources we’ve found online. Between this post and these resources, you should be able to put together the perfect trip to Rome!''If you’re in Rome for a shorter amount of time, check out our guide to''spending 2 days in Rome''We’ve taken a number of tours in Rome. You can read about our experience visiting the Vatican, Coliseum and Roman Forum with Walks of Italy in Rome''here'', and our experience at the Borghese Gallery''here''. With Context Travel, you can read about the Grand Tour and the Romantic Poets tour''here'', and Popes, Power and Parties''here''.''If you’re planning on visiting Rome in summer, read our''tips for visiting a European city in summer''to stay sane''Obviously you’ll want to eat Gelato in Rome! Check out our guide to the''best gelato in Rome''to be sure you get the best''Looking to visit more of Italy? Check out our content on''Venice'',''Milan''and''Florence''for inspiration!''If you’re looking for a physical (or Kindle!) guidebook, we recommend the''Rick Steves Rome 2017 guide'', which has lots of practical information to help you make the most of your stay''And that sums up our idea of how to spend the perfect three days exploring Rome! We hope you found this itinerary useful. Are you planning a trip to Rome? What do you want to see when you do? Let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''We’ve all heard horror stories from people who’ve gone away on a trip and then returned home to a huge bill thanks to their mobile phone roaming on data networks when they’re away.''The good news is, this doesn’t have to be you. There are lots of options for getting online when you travel, ranging from entirely free through to more premium options.''In today’s post I want to help guide you through the options available to you when you travel for getting online – both on your mobile phone, and on any other devices you might have with you, including tablets and laptops. This will focus purely on data access, rather than texting or calling, although some of the solutions below will also work for texting and calling.''These are based on our personal experiences travelling through multiple countries each year, and are listed in order of our personal preference for how we get online when travelling. We’ve also included any discount codes that we’ve been able to find from suppliers for you guys.''Contents:''The Best Options for Getting Online When Travelling''1. Use Your Mobile Provider''2. Buy a SIM Card in the Destination Country''3. Use a specialist roaming SIM''4. Use a Mobile Hotspot''5. Just use WiFi''The Best Options for Getting Online When Travelling''1. Use Your Mobile Provider''The first thing to do is check with your mobile phone company if they offer any form of roaming as part of your package for the countries you are visiting. This might be the easiest and cheapest way to get online when you travel.''For example, here in the UK, we use the''Three network''. They let us use our home data allowance at 3G speeds for no extra charge in over sixty countries, which is an excellent deal. The only restriction is that we can’t share that connection when abroad with other devices. A number of other networks also include free roaming as part of their plans.''In the US, T-Mobile users on a qualifying plan have access to 2G speeds in over 140 countries with no additional charges. Whilst 2G isn’t super fast, it’s certainly good enough for the essentials like e-mail, messaging, and getting directions.''Some mobile providers also let you purchase overseas roaming packages, letting you get online on the days you really need to. This can be cost effective if you only need to get online on a small number of days, but can add up over a prolonged period, in which case you might want to investigate the other options below.''Note that if you aren’t planning on using your provider’s mobile data when you go abroad, it’s really important to disable data roaming before you leave, to avoid running up hefty charges when you arrive in your destination country. Here’s a guide on how to do that for''Android'', and one for''iOS''(Apple).''Advantages of using your mobile provider: If your provider supports roaming at no or minimal cost in the destination you are visiting, this can be the easiest and most cost-effective way to get online with minimum cost and effort.''Disadvantages of using your mobile provider:''Even if your provider supports it, speeds may not be as fast as you would get with the other solutions below, due to throttling by your provider.''2. Buy a SIM Card in the Destination Country''Depending on the country you are travelling to, you might find it is cost effective to purchase a SIM card on arrival for your device, and use this for your data needs. For this to work you need an unlocked handset – you can check with your carrier if your handset is unlocked, and they should be able to assist you with unlocking it if you are allowed to.''If your device is unlocked, then you will be able to put any SIM card that you like into it. This has the advantage that you’ll be able to get the maximum speeds available in that country as the provider will be local, and you’ll also generally be able to do things like tether other devices to your handset. Tethering allows you to set up your phone as a WiFi hotspot, meaning you can connect your laptop to the internet through your device connection. See''this guide for instructions on setting up a WiFi hotspot on Android'', and''this guide for how to do it on Apple iOS''devices.''Depending on the country you’re visiting there will be different packages and providers available. We’re a big fan of''Three''for visitors to the UK – their Pay as You Go SIMS are great value for visitors, and they can be picked up on arrival in many stores as well as airport kiosks. Another option is''GiffGaff''– if you’re outside the UK they’ll let you order the SIM and have it shipped to your international address.''For travellers to the US, we recommend''Straight Talk SIM cards''. These can be purchased in Walmart locations across the US, with the current offer being $45 for a month of connectivity which includes 8GB of data, which is competitive for the US, especially on a 30 day plan.''For full details on SIM cards for a wide range of countries across the globe, take a look at the''Pre Paid Data SIM Card wiki site'', which has all the advice you could ever need on the best SIM card options for the majority of countries in the world.''For short trips, or for trips where you are hopping across many countries, purchasing a SIM card everywhere you go might be more hassle than it is worth. The exception is for travel in the EU – regulations introduced in June 2017 mean that providers can no longer charge for roaming in these countries, so a SIM card bought in one EU country *should* work across all other EU countries without additional charge.''Also be aware that some countries make it quite hard to purchase a SIM card, requiring you to have the equivalent of a social security number or other local government issued unique identifier in order to activate the service. In these countries, you’re probably better off investigating other options.''Advantages of buying a local SIM card'': Buying a SIM card abroad will usually give you the fastest local speeds available at the most cost-effective price, and is a great option if you have an unlocked phone, and will be in the country for more than a day or two.''Disadvantages of buying a local SIM card'': A local SIM card will take a bit of effort on your part to find, depending on the country you visit, and activation can sometimes be tricky. It also requires an unlocked handset to work. For short stays, or multiple country trips (excluding the EU), it’s probably not worth it.''3. Use a specialist roaming SIM''If your operator doesn’t offer good roaming prices and you don’t want the hassle of switching SIMs in and out of your phone as you travel, you might want to look into a solution that is designed for travellers – a travel SIM.''We have tried a few of these in our travels, and in our experience the best option is from a company called''KnowRoaming''.''They offer a number of products, but our favourite is the SIM sticker. This is a really neat solution, which involves you applying a sticker to your existing SIM card, which basically turns it into a clever dual SIM card. When you’re travelling, you can activate this KnowRoaming SIM, for access to their rates.''KnowRoaming have two main models for payment. You can opt for pay as you go, and rates are very competitive compared to other world SIM suppliers, and certainly cheaper than the roaming fees your operator will charge you if you don’t have some form of inclusive roaming deal. Alternatively, they offer unlimited data packages. For $7.99 / day, you can access truly unlimited data from your device, which you can also activate on a “per-day” basis, meaning you only use it when you need to.''We’ve used KnowRoaming in a number of countries, both those not supported by our Three FeelAtHome network including Turkey & Canada, and also in countries where we wanted a faster experience than the throttled Three experience. In our experience the speeds are really fast, and the unlimited data allowances are not capped – unlike some competitors which throttle your speeds after a certain amount of data is used.''We’ve also been able to tether our other devices to the KnowRoaming SIM without trouble, and as a bonus, KnowRoaming includes free Whatsapp usage globally, which can be handy for staying in touch with visitors''If you do decide to go down the''KnowRoaming''route, we’ve got an''exclusive discount code''for you, which will get you 50% off your order. Just enter “JLSAVE50” at checkout for the discount to apply.''The KnowRoaming solution, and other SIM solutions like this, do require your device to be unlocked so you can use the other SIM options. If you aren’t able to do this, or want a solution that lets you connect multiple devices at once, you’ll need to:''Advantages of using a specialist SIM:''A specialist travel SIM is usually a really simple option that will let you get online quickly and easily at high speeds, without having to worry about roaming fees. It’s perfect for travelling across multiple countries, and will just work as soon as you arrive in the country. If you’re looking for the easiest option, this is likely it.''Disadvantages of using a specialist SIM:''A specialist SIM is one of the more expensive options for getting online, and you require an unlocked mobile.''4. Use a Mobile Hotspot''A mobile hotspot is a standalone device which connects to a cellular network for data, and creates a local WiFi hotspot that you can connect your devices to. This lets you get all your devices online (handy if you have multiple people travelling together!), and means you don’t have to worry about unlocking your phone. Some even offer 4G speeds, meaning you’ll get super fast speeds as well.''The downside to all this awesome is that for connecting a single device, a mobile hotspot will usually work out to be more expensive than the other options, and they don’t offer voice or text capabilities – just data. However, if data is all you are after, and you have multiple devices that you want to connect (if you’re travelling as a couple or family for example), then these can be a cost effective option. Unlike something like KnowRoaming however, you usually have to pay for every day of your trip – in our experience they don’t let you pay as you go.''Prices vary depending on where you are travelling and how much data you want to use, but in general you are looking at around $7 – $10 per day of travel for unlimited internet. Do check the terms and conditions on your rental though as many providers throttle speeds after a certain amount of usage each day.''If you are looking for a hotspot solution for travel, take a look at''Tep Wireless''. They offer free delivery of their device to your home before you travel, as well as very competitive rates. Plus,''use discount code “tepon”''for a 15% discount on their prices.''Advantages of using a mobile hotspot:''A mobile hotspot will let you connect multiple devices at high speeds, perfect for a family trip together.''Disadvantages of using a mobile hotspot:''It’s another device to carry with you and keep charged. You usually have to pay for every day rather than the days you want to use, making it the most expensive solution for individual use. In addition, you obviously need to be in range of the hotspot for it to work, so if your group splits up this could cause issues!''5. Just use WiFi''If all the above sounds like a lot of work, and you don’t think you really need to be online every minute of the day, then our suggestion would be just to use free WiFi networks as you go. In many countries around the world you can find free WiFi all over the place. In the UK for example, most restaurants, bars, museums and many public spaces as well as public transport operators offer easy, hassle free connections.''The same can be said for the US and much of Europe. Reliable locations to find WiFi include McDonalds, Starbucks, and many others. Your hotel or lodging will nearly always include free WiFi as well – thankfully we’re almost past the days when hotels feel they can charge for WiFi access.''If this is a route you decide to go down, then we would highly suggest that you invest in a VPN service to keep your data secure. Wireless networks, in particular unsecured wireless networks (those you can connect to without needing a password), can be exploited and sensitive data like passwords can be stolen as you browse.''One of the most highly reviewed and respected VPN services in the world is''NordVPN''. They offer competitive pricing, especially on their 1 year plan, and by connecting through their VPN software on your devices you’ll know your sensitive data is safe from prying eyes.''You might also want to consider investing in a wireless range extender. This is a small device that can boost a weak wireless signal, allowing you to connect your devices from further away to something like a hotel or coffee shop that you might not have been able to previously connect to.''We did a full review of the''Netgear Trek''to give you an idea of what these devices do and how they work. That model has since been discontinued, and Netgear have not made an equivalent replacement. Instead, we suggest the''TP-Link N300 Nano Travel Router'', which is well reviewed and very cost effective.''Advantages of using WiFi:''This definitely one of the easiest options, because all you have to do is disable your phones data roaming and then just find WiFi as you go. It’s also the cheapest option, and WiFi is usually faster than mobile data in many cases. If you don’t urgently need the internet at every waking moment, this is a great option.''Disdvantages of using WiFi:''WiFi is not yet ubiquitous, so you won’t be online all the time. There are also some security risks to using unsecured wireless networks, so you are likely still going to have to pay for a VPN.''And that sums up our guide to getting online when traveling! As you can see, there are plenty of options for you, ranging from free through to more premium solutions. The best option for you will vary depending on your destination country, budget, and number of people travelling, but certainly we believe that one of the options above will help you get online and avoid nasty bill shock when you get home!''SHARE ON''Jess and I are both fans of''Harry Potter''. Jess has already written the definitive''guide to Harry Potter locations in Edinburgh'', and on a recent trip to London we decided we should do the same for London. Hence this post, which aims to be a comprehensive guide to finding Harry Potter in London, listing Harry Potter filming locations, Harry Potter walking tours and even the film studio where the majority of the Harry Potter films were shot!''Unlike Edinburgh, London was actually used as a filming location for many of the scenes from the Harry Potter movies, so you can visit actual sights that appear in the movies. Which is pretty cool!''Before reading further, be aware that this post does contain some minor spoilers for the Harry Potter movies and books. So if you’ve somehow not read the books or watched the films, now would be a good time to catch up. Otherwise, let’s wave our wands and get on with our guide to finding Harry Potter in London.''Contents:''Where to Find Harry Potter in London''1. London Zoo – Reptile House''2. Lambeth Bridge''3. Leadenhall Market: Harry Potter’s Diagon Alley''4. Borough Market: Also Diagon Alley!''5. Scotland Place: Harry Potter’s Ministry of Magic''6. Australia House: Harry Potter’s Gringotts Bank''7. Westminster Tube''8. The Millennium Bridge''9. Kings Cross''10. St. Pancras''11. Claremont Square, Islington: Harry Potter’s Order of the Phoenix HQ''12. Piccadilly Circus''13. Walking Tour or Bus Tour of Harry Potter Locations''14. The Warner Bros. Studio Tour – The Making of Harry Potter''Where to Stay in London''Further Reading For Your London Visit''Where to Find Harry Potter in London''1. London Zoo – Reptile House''In the heart of Regent’s Park, a little way north of central London, is''London Zoo''– the world’s oldest scientific zoo. But you’re not here for history – you’re here to know what the Harry Potter connection is.''Well, of course, it was in the Reptile House at London Zoo that Harry sets a Burmese python free in''Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s''Stone. This scene was filmed on location in the Reptile House, and the actual enclosure used is home to the zoo’s black mamba. Which you probably don’t want to try and set free. Note that whilst you do have to pay to get into London Zoo, you can get in for free if you have a''London Pass''.''2. Lambeth Bridge''Remember when Harry Potter takes the awesome triple decker night bus in''Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban''? As well as handy features that you don’t get on other London buses, including beds, candles, instant hails and super-fast speeds, the Knight Bus is also able to compress itself so as to avoid muggle traffic.''In one notable scene, the Knight Bus squeezes itself between two standard double decker buses. And this scene takes place on Lambeth Bridge, which is the bridge upstream from Westminster Bridge.''3. Leadenhall Market: Harry Potter’s Diagon Alley''Whilst much of the Diagon Alley scenes were shot in a studio, a number of real life London locations were also used as Diagon Alley filming locations, and you can visit these quite easily.''The first of these Diagon Alley filming locations was Leadenhall market, a beautiful old covered market in the City of London, which actually dates from the 14th century, making it one of the oldest markets in the city.''Leadenhall Market was used as the entrance to the Leaky Cauldron in Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone. More specifically, the door to an opticians shop in Bulls Head passage was used as the Leaky Cauldron entrance.''4. Borough Market: Also Diagon Alley!''In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkhaban, the entrance to Diagon Alley’s Leaky Cauldron moved from the real world location of Leadenhall Market to Borough Market. Well, it is magical after all!''In the film, after his ride on the Knight Bus, Harry disembarks in Borough Market at what is in real life the “Chez Michele” flower shop, and walks into the Leaky Cauldron pub.''The remainder of the scenes for the Leaky Cauldron were filmed on a set at the Warner Bros Studio. While you’re at Borough Market though, pick up something to eat – there are lots of excellent food vendors here where you can get something to suit all palates!''5. Scotland Place: Harry Potter’s Ministry of Magic''Whilst it is a bit tricky as a non-wizard to get into the Ministry of Magic, you can still visit the location in the films where magic wielders would enter this Ministry. This is found in Westminster, snuggled up against real-life government buildings, which seems appropriate.''The location is the intersection of Scotland Place and New Scotland Yard. In the movie''Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince'', Harry and Mr Weasley enter a phone box which serves as the entrance to the Ministry of Magic. Unfortunately, this phone box was just a prop and never existed at this location in real life.''Still, you can imagine it being there, and you’ll most likely spot some of London’s Harry Potter walking tours here.''6. Australia House: Harry Potter’s Gringotts Bank''Gringotts! Who wouldn’t want to visit a goblin run wizard bank with vaults guarded by a dragon? Well, sadly, that’s not quite possible. As it is, you can take a look at the building that was used for Gringotts – the grand Australia House, which sits on the Strand and was where the interior scenes of Gringotts were filmed.''Australia House, as the name hints, is home to the Australian Embassy, and unfortunately you can’t actually go inside. Still, you can look at it from the outside and know that just beyond the doors is a magical world of marble, chandeliers and goblins, which Harry visits in a number of movies, including Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone, and in the dramatic scenes in''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2''.''7. Westminster Tube''In''Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix'', Harry and Mr. Weasley travel through Westminster tube station, with Mr. Weasley getting somewhat confounded by the Muggle ticket barriers at the station.''These scenes were filmed over a whole day at Westminster tube station, necessitating it being closed for the full day. Given how busy this station is, that must have caused quite the disruption!''8. The Millennium Bridge''The death eater chase sequence in''Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince''was filmed across a great many London locations. Most memorable perhaps though is the sequence which has the Millennium Bridge being ripped apart and tossed into the river.''Thankfully, this was just a piece of movie magic, and the Millennium Bridge still stands, and it is a pedestrian footbridge which links St Paul’s Cathedral with the Tate Modern Museum. Of course, when the books were written this bridge didn’t actually exist, but given how nicely it implodes, we’ll give them a pass for this artistic license.''9. Kings Cross''How do you get to Hogwarts? Why, you take a train from Platform 9 and 3/4 at Kings Cross station of course! The scenes from Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone and''Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets''were filmed on location at Kings Cross station, actually between platforms four and five.''Of course, you’ll struggle to actually find a real Platform 9 and 3/4 at Kings Cross station today. For a long while there was a trolley located in the wall near platforms nine, however, as it became so popular, it was moved, and can now be found in the''main concourse of Kings Cross station'', next to a''Harry Potter store''.''You can have your photo taken pushing the trolley “through” the wall, although be aware that as this is probably the most famous Harry Potter location in London, queues can be lengthy! Lines can be 1 hour to 2 hours long to take a photo so be prepared.''Don’t panic if you don’t get your shot here though, if you happen to visit the Warner Bros Studio tour (see below), they have a row of trolleys stuck in walls, just ready for you to get the perfect photo!''10. St. Pancras''Those film makers are tricky folks. When Harry arrives at “Kings Cross” to catch the Hogwarts train, the exterior shots are actually of St. Pancras, which just happens to look a bit nicer.''St. Pancras was also where the magical Ford Anglia takes to the skies in''Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets''. It’s just next door to Kings Cross, so worth the wander across.''11. Claremont Square, Islington: Harry Potter’s Order of the Phoenix HQ''Whilst you’re in the Kings Cross area, you might want to take the ten minute walk up to Claremont Square.''This was the setting for 12 Grimmauld Place, which any Harry Potter fan will of course recognise as being the home of Sirius Black, and the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix in''Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix''&''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 1''.''12. Piccadilly Circus''Continuing with the''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 1'', Piccadilly Circus was a key location in the film when Ron, Hermione, and Harry narrowly avoided being hit by a London bus.''Piccadilly circus is of course a hugely busy and well known location, which made for a challenging real world filming location. Definitely a must on your tour of Harry Potter filming locations in London!''13. Walking Tour or Bus Tour of Harry Potter Locations''If you’d prefer not to find everything yourself, or don’t have the time to do so, then you should take a guided bus or''walking tour of the Harry Potter filming locations''.''While this won’t include everything in the list above, it will include many of the highlights, and the guide will bring the locations to life with still images of the scenes and information on how it was transformed for the filming, to help you visualise everything better.''There are a few companies offering Harry Potter themed walking tours of London. We recommend checking out the Harry Potter tours offered by''Brit Movie tour''(the walking tour is currently free with London Pass) and''London Walks''(discounted with London Pass). We’re big fans of the''London Pass''if you’re doing a lot of sight-seeing in London – check our our full''London Pass review here''to see if it will help save you money on your visit.''Viator also have a good value and comprehensive Harry Potter walking tour of London, which you can check out and book''here''.''14. The Warner Bros. Studio Tour – The Making of Harry Potter''Last on our list of Harry Potter filming locations in London is the Warner Bros Studio, home of the''Warner Bros Studio Tour''. This is actually a little way outside the city, near Watford Junction, but as it’s such a fabulous place to visit we definitely wanted to include it in our list. If you only do one Harry Potter thing in London, make it this.''This film studio was where all eight of the Harry Potter films were actually filmed, and they have retained a great many of the sets, clothing, and props from the movies. You can visit the Great Hall, the railway station, numerous filming locations from inside Hogwarts, the Forbidden Forest, and even Diagon Alley.''You’ll learn many of the secrets of how the films were made, have the opportunity to drink Butterbeer, and generally get all the Potter magic you could imagine. There are also places to stop and eat and a giant gift shops full of all things Harry Potter.''As I said, if you only do one thing on this list of Harry Potter things to do in London, we definitely recommend making it this one – we really enjoyed our visit and learning all about how the films were made. The tour lasts for about three hours and is largely self-guided, so you can take as much or little time as you like. There’s lots to see and do though, so we’d suggest three hours is a good amount to plan for, not including travel time.''Speaking of travel time, you have a number of options for getting to and buying tickets for the Warner Bros Studio London Tour.''The easiest option is just to''book a tour from central London''. This handles all your return transport from central London as well as admission entry to the Warner Bros Studio itself. See prices and book your trip''here''.''Alternatively, you can make your own way to the studio.\xa0Before you do that, you have to''buy tickets in advance''as tickets are not available on site. Also be aware that the tour times can book up well in advance, so advance booking is essential.''You have a couple of options for getting to the Harry Potter studio tour from London: you can drive yourself, or you can take public transportation.''If you are driving yourself or taking public transport, you’ll need to book your ticket directly on the official''Warner Bros Studio Tour London website''. Then if you are driving, it is free to park at the studio as long as you already have your booking confirmation.''If you are taking public transport to the Warner Bros Studio Tour, the cheapest way is to get to Euston station in London and then take the train to Watford Junction. From Watford Junction there’s a regular shuttle bus to the studio which takes around fifteen minutes, and at time of writing, costs £2.50 return.''If you have an''Oyster Card''or contactless payment card you can use this to travel from central London on any train departing from London Euston that stops at Watford Junction. See our''guide to buying and using the Oyster card in London'', and our''guide to paying for public transport in London''for more on that. Note that the Oyster card cannot be used beyond Watford Junction so don’t go any further!''Again, if you’d prefer to not have to figure out the transport yourself, you can book a tour that includes both your studio tickets and your transport from central London. We’d suggest''this tour''which is well reviewed and includes your entry fee and return shuttle bus transport. This is not too much more expensive than doing it all yourself and is certainly hassle free.''Where to Stay in London''London has a wide range of accommodation options, ranging from hostels through to self catered apartments and seriously upscale hotels.''There’s something to suit every budget, with en-suite double rooms starting from around $80 a night. Here are some tips for getting the best deal on your accommodation, whatever your budget.''Our''favourite way''to find the''best deals on accommodation''is booking.com. They’re easy to use, usually have the best prices, and have everything from hotels to apartments.''Try them for London and see!''If you prefer an apartment, then we recommend''AirBnB''. We’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get up to''a $100 discount''if you sign up with''this link.''(Discount varies by currency and if you choose to host at some point).''If you can’t find what you want on AirBnB, or you want some new options to try out, we have some alternatives we also use. We suggest trying''VRBO'',''Flipkey''or''HomeAway''to start with. For even more ideas to help you save money and get the best choice, we wrote a whole post on the''best alternatives to AirBnB''which you should check out!''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''Further Reading For Your London Visit''So now you’re fully equipped for visiting all the best Harry Potter locations in London! Of course, there’s more to do in London (and the UK!), and with that in mind, here’s a handy reading list to help you get more out of your stay. With everything from tips on how to get around to full itineraries on the days you’re not tracking down wizards, these resources should help make your trip perfect!''A''Two Day London Itinerary''to help you see all the highlights of London. There’s also a''1 day version''if you’re short on time, and a''six day itinerary''if you’re here for longer''Our detailed''packing list for London'', to help you prepare for your trip''Our''guide to buying and using the London Oyster Card'', and our''guide to public transport in London''to help you get around without spending too much money''My tips for finding the''best Photography Locations in London''Our full''review of the London Pass''to help you decide if this can save you money on your visit to London''8 Things to Do in Kensington'', London, in case you wanted to focus more on a specific region of the city''A review of a''one day walking tour in London'', should you want a guided tour''Our''detailed itinerary for\xa0 two weeks in the UK'', should you want to have London as the start of a bigger adventure. We also have a''one week UK itinerary''for a slightly shorter visit.''Jess’s detailed''guide to finding Harry Potter in Edinburgh'', to keep your Potter hunt alive!''Thoughts on taking a''day trip from London, taking in Stonehenge, Bath and the Cotswolds''And another day trip from London, this time to''Oxford in a day''A guide to driving Scotland’s epic''North Coast 500'', as well as''accommodation options on the North Coast 500''The''Eyewitness Travel Guide to London'', which has all sorts of information within, including more itineraries and ideas for your trip''Rick Steve’s London 2016''guide, the #1 bestseller on Amazon for UK travel guides, and always an excellent source of relevant information''And that sums up our guide to our favourite Harry Potter filming locations in London! Have you visited any of these, or any other Harry Potter sites in England? Let us know if you have any questions in the comments below!''SHARE ON''On our recent trip to Glasgow Jess and I were both impressed by the amount and quality of the street art and wall murals that we found in the city. So much so in fact, that of course we wanted to share it with you.''In today’s post I’m going to take you on a tour of some of our favourite pieces of the street art in Glasgow. These range from murals depicting the sporting history of the city, through to some famous Glaswegians, and even a variety of wildlife. Something for everyone! Let’s get started with the:''Street Art of Glasgow''Definitely one of our favourite pieces of street art in Glasgow, this is by the street artist “Smug”, and it depicts a modern day St. Mungo – Glasgow’s patron Saint who happens to be buried in the Cathedral a few hundred yards from this piece.''Glasgow is home to Tennents Lager, and if you wander down near the Tennents factory, there’s a wall full of murals paying homage to both the beverage…''…and some of the advertising they’ve done over the years.''If you take a tour of the Tennents factory, you’ll see that it’s not just the walls where you can find murals – Tennents actually hired street artists to paint the sides of their factory. Which we think is pretty cool.''Sometimes you just want a pint.''This “Tiger” piece by James Klinge looks out over the banks of the River Clyde, and is one of many animal themed murals that we found.''This Panda was another one!''Glasgow hosted the Commonwealth Games in 2014, and a number of street art murals were commissioned to celebrate this, including the badminton players above, and the swimmers below.''I’m a big''fan of space'', so obviously I was excited to find a number of space themed murals, including the spaceman.''This huge telescope and satellite was also impressive.''There’s a whole mural dedicated to some famous Glaswegians, including Stan Laurel, of Laurel and Hardy fame.''This mural definitely reminded me of the famous street artist Banksy, and whilst there are some old pieces by Banksy in Glasgow, this isn’t actually one of them.''This street art show a gallery with interpretations of various classic painters and paintings. Personally I just loved the giant purple tentacles coming out of the wall!''Ever felt like you’re just a puppet on a string? This street art is for you!''More huge building art!''Just because you’re in the city centre doesn’t mean you can’t imagine yourself out in the countryside, as this impressive piece of street art challenges you to do.''I actually met a fox up in the Glasgow Necropolis, so particularly liked this piece of street art.''Of course, it’s not all giant murals on the sides of buildings. You can find all kinds of fantastical scenes like this one we found tucked away down an alleyway.''And finally, this giant mural of a musician is found in one of the cities most popular spots for watching live music, around Sauchiehall Lane.''Where to Find Glasgow Street Art''I’m reluctant to share with you the exact locations of all these pieces, not because I’m the secretive kind, but because street art is by it’s very nature somewhat transient. Whilst I would like to think that these murals will all be here for years to come, there’s always the chance that they’ll be painted over or replaced – or new murals will be added!''Instead, I’d like to direct you to the official''Glasgow City Centre Mural Trail website''. This has information on where to find the majority of the pieces above, as well as a great many more, with a handy walking guide to get you to all of them. It’s also kept up to date with any changes – even since our visit there have been new additions to get excited about!''Further Reading for Your Visit to Glasgow''Hopefully these photos have helped inspire you to include Glasgow in your travel plans! If so, here’s a bit more reading to help you make those plans.''There’s more to Glasgow than the street art! To help you plan your stay, here’s our''2 Day Glasgow & Loch Lomond itinerary'', which covers the highlights of the city and the nearby Loch Lomond area.''If you’re visiting Glasgow, we’re sure you’re also thinking of visiting Edinburgh too. Check out our guide to''spending two days in Edinburgh'', as well as''getting off the beaten path in Edinburgh''.''If you’re a Harry Potter fan, you’ve got to check out Jess’s''Guide to the Best Edinburgh Harry Potter locations''.''If you were thinking of taking a trip around the UK and want to include Glasgow as part of that itinerary, we have both a''one week itinerary of the UK''and a''two week itinerary of the UK''for you to give you some ideas for what’s possible in those timeframes..''Heading further out of the city? How about a trip to''the Scottish Borders''or a''tour of some Whisky distilleries''?''Or, if you want to get further afield, check out our''five day Isle of Skye and Highlands itinerary''If you’re interested in getting better photos when you travel, take a look at my''online photography course'', where I’ll teach you everything you need to know about getting better photos – whatever camera you have!''And finally, if you want a guidebook, either physical or digital here’s a''Rick Steves guide to Scotland''as well as this''Insight Guide to Glasgow''to help get you started!''And that sums up our guide to the street art of Glasgow! Which was your favourite piece? Let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Hey! Have you heard of the''North Coast 500''? Well, if not, it’s an epic scenic drive around the northern coast of Scotland, starting from Inverness in the north east of the country and heading all around the top of Scotland in a big loop that brings you back to Inverness.''In those 500 miles of driving you’ll see some of the best scenery that the rugged Scottish north has to offer, from lochs to castles to highland landscapes. There’s delicious food, winding roads, white sandy beaches, whisky and gin distilleries, art galleries – basically, everything you can think of.''We’ve had the pleasure of experiencing the''North Coast 500''and had an absolute blast doing so, covering the 500 miles of the journey in about a week. And we’ve got lots of content from our adventure to help you plan your own!''This post shares an overview of some of my favourite photography locations along the route. There are hundreds of gorgeous photography spots to sate every photographer, and you’re going to find yourself stopping a great deal to grab photos as you tackle the North Coast 500, but these were definitely some of my favourites amongst the many great stops we had.''These are in order as you leave Inverness on a counter-clockwise route.''As well as this photography guide to the NC500, we’ve also written a guide to the''highlights of the NC500'', a''7 day North Coast 500 camping itinerary'',''14 reasons to drive the North Coast 500''and a detailed''guide to accommodation on the North Coast 500''. Jess has also put together the definitive''guide to planning a North Coast 500 trip''.''Now, let’s get started with my idea of:''The Best Photography Locations on the North Coast 500''1. Fairy Glen, Rosemarkie''After leaving Inverness we’re going to start our adventure with a beautiful waterfall at the wonderfully named Fairy Glen, a couple of minutes drive north of the town of Rosemarkie, found on the Black Isle Peninsula.''As you can see, this waterfall is well worth the thirty minute round trip hike. There are actually two falls here, with my favourite being the top falls, which is the one pictured. You’re going to want to''bring a tripod''(I use and recommend the''Vanguard VEO''range for travel!) and a set of''neutral density filters''to achieve the fluffy water look in this shot!''I’d also recommend taking some time to explore the village of Rosemarkie, which has a lovely beach and interesting''museum about Pictish standing stones''.''Nearby at''Chanonry Point''there’s also a popular dolphin watching spot – if you come here when the tide is rushing in, there is a good chance you’ll see dolphins feeding on the salmon as they head upstream.''2. Dunrobin Castle''Continuing up the east coast of Scotland, the next stop is a magnificent fairy-tale style castle with wonderful grounds –''Dunrobin Castle''.''The castle can be toured on the inside (but photography is not permitted inside sadly), and whilst I would recommend taking the tour (and visiting the fascinating old-world style museum on the grounds!), in my opinion, the best shots of the castle are to be had from the grounds.''When we visited I was delighted to find a patch of bluebells, which let me get a shot with the castle and the bluebells framed wonderfully by some of the trees on the site. There’s also a huge staircase leading up to the castle from the garden which makes for some good photography opportunities.''3. Duncansby Head''Heading right up to the far northern tip of Scotland now, near the town of John O’Groats, you’ll find Duncansby Head – the most north-easterly point of Scotland. Here there are some huge sea stacks visible within ten minute walk from the parking lot, offering a wonderful photography opportunity. It is also a very popular wildlife viewing area for whales and seabirds.''Admittedly, the weather wasn’t exactly co-operative when we visited (the Scottish weather is notoriously fickle throughout the year), but it made for some dramatic scenery. After all, blue skies the whole time would be kind of boring. And unbelievable, in Scotland.''As well as the views of the sea stacks at Ducansby head, this area is notable for a few things that might interest photographers.''From the car park, you can see both migrating whales and also nesting puffins, depending on the time of year. The town of John O’Groats is famous in the UK for being the most northern point in the UK, although that title is actually slightly misleading – the nearby location of Dunnet Head is in fact the most northerly point on the island. Instead, John O’Groats is the town which is the furthest away from another inhabited part of the UK – Lands End in Cornwall.''Despite the misinformation about the location, there is a great sign that just about everyone takes a photo of in John O’Groats, so you should do that. It is also a popular food and shopping stop.''4. Lochan Hakel''Time for some lochs, the Scottish word for lake. As you drive along the northern coast, you’ll come to the town of Tongue. Here, the North Coast 500 crosses over a bridge across the Kyle of Tongue (a sea inlet), but you can take a slightly longer route around the Kyle, on a small country road that passes between two small lochs – Lochan na Culice and Lochan Hakel.''From here, as you can see, there are some lovely views across to Ben Loyal, a 764m high mountain peak consisting of four rocky peaks. You’ll also see that I took this shot in the pouring rain – yay for the Scottish weather!''Parking is a bit limited here although there are some spots to pull off the road around''here''. Also, be aware that the track to the loch can be muddy, so good shoes or hiking boots are essential! We passed through here in the middle of the day, but it would make for an excellent sunrise or sunset location.''Smoo Cave''Continuing along the northern coast of the North Coast 500 route, and you come to a lovely stretch of white sandy beaches and coves, many of which are truly photogenic. I’m going to suggest though that the photography highlight of this area is the wonderful''Smoo Cave''.''This massive cave, which is a combination sea and freshwater cave, is carved out of limestone and features a waterfall''inside''the cave. Which is pretty neat. There’s also a hole over the main cave entrance through which the light enters, and if you happen to time it just right like we did, you can get a funky beam of light effect. Which naturally I had to stand in for a Star Trek transporter effect.''For best results shooting inside a cave you’re likely going to need a tripod as, well, caves tend to be quite dark places. Shooting out of the mouth of the cave is also a high contrast scene, so you might find that shooting a sequence of exposure bracketed shots and then blending them together to create a high dynamic range image will give you a more realistic effect.''5. Sandwood Bay''Often voted as one of the most beautiful beaches in Britain, Sandwood Bay requires a bit of an effort to get to in the form of a moderate eight mile round trip hike.''The effort is very much worth it though, as you’ll likely find the beach virtually deserted. And what a beach it is! With big grass covered dunes, white sands, and even a huge sea stack against a backdrop of towering cliffs, there’s plenty here to take photographs of.''This would be fantastic for either sunrise or sunset, although this would require a bit of hiking in the dark or some wilderness camping. On our trip we sadly didn’t have the time for that, but it was still beautiful to visit in the daytime as you can see.''6. Clashnessie Falls''Time for another beautiful Scottish waterfall! This one is on the west coast of Scotland, just near the town of Clashnessie and Clashnessie Bay, which is where the water from the falls enters the sea.''The falls themselves are very picturesque at around 15 metres high. Access to the falls requires you to park somewhere in the town, and then walk along the signposted route which can be found around''here''. It’s about a 15 minute walk each way and the trail can be very boggy, especially as you get closer to the falls, so good hiking boots or boots are essential.''When we visited there had been some rain and the falls were in good flow, plus there was no-one else around, so I was able to get some lovely shots. Definitely bring a tripod for this shoot and take your time, as the area around the falls can be quite wet and slippery.''7. Achmelvich Bay''Just a little way south of Clashnessie is the magnificent Achmelvich Bay. If you want to photograph a wonderful white sandy beach but don’t feel like the hike out to Sandwood, the bay at Achmelvich is the place to head. It’s a very short walk from the car park over the dunes to the bay, with another cove just over the headland to north.''Achmelvich is certainly a busier option that Sandwood – there’s an on-site campsite so expect lots of other people to be about – but the bay is truly beautiful, and the turquoise waters and white sands will almost have you thinking that you’ve arrived on some far flung Caribbean island rather than a Scottish beach.''If you’re particularly brave you could even take a swim in the sea, although despite it looking tropical, the water temperature will quickly remind you that you’re still in Scotland!''8. Lochinver / Loch Assynt''As I’m sure you’re aware, the best times of day for photography are sunset and sunrise. When we travelled the North Coast 500, in late Spring, sunrise was at around 4am, and sunset was well after 9pm. Those lovely long days meant we got plenty of daylight for exploring, but it did make getting up early for sunrise a challenge.''That’s not to say that I never made it up for sunrise. One location that I picked to shoot the sunrise was Loch Assynt, near Lochinver. Here there are wonderful views of the loch surrounded by mountains, including the iconic Suilven mountain ridge, which should definitely be on your list to photograph.''Coming out this early in the morning also means two things. You’re likely to have the world to yourself, giving you nice people-free scenery to shoot. You’ll also find a lot of wildlife out and about. I saw hundreds of deer wandering around with the golden dawn light illuminating them wonderfully. Definitely bring a nice long lens to grab shots of these chaps on the skyline!''9. Ardvreck Castle''A little way further along Loch Assynt as you head east from Lochinver is the spectacular ruin of Ardvreck Castle, which is a “must photograph” location.''Dating from the 16th century, this ruined castle sits on a promontory which juts out into the loch, and if there is enough water in the Loch it actually turns into an island. There are a number of locations from which you can shoot this castle, my recommendation is to find a spot where you can see the castle reflected in the loch, and hope that you get a still day!''You can also go onto the promontory where the castle is to get some different angles and backdrops, plus ensure you get the light in the best angle for your shot. As always though, you’ll want to try and make it here for sunset or sunrise if you can for the best possible light.''10. Knockan Crag''Heading a little south from Loch Assynt and the North Coast 500 passes by''Knockan Crag'', a National Nature Reserve which is notable for its outstanding geological features.''From the car park and hillside here there are spectacular views across the Scottish highlands, including the twin summited mountain of Cul Mor and a number of lochs. It’s also a nice place to get above the road and get some shots of the North Coast 500 itself. When we visited here we were lucky enough to see a supercar club drive past, with millions of pounds worth of Aston Martins, Corvettes, Ferraris, and Lamborghinis, amongst others, roar on by.''Also up here are a number of art installations and information panels explaining the geology and interest of this area. The globe shaped art installation is particularly photogenic, so don’t miss that as you wander along the path!''11. Ullapool''On your North Coast 500 drive it’s very likely that you’re going to stop over and spend the night in or near Ullapool, which is one of the larger towns in this area. With a beautiful harbour location, it’s a great spot for photography.''I particularly enjoyed watching the sunset across the harbour at Ullapool, with the still waters reflecting the sunset light. There are a number of locations here though, including some spots above the town that are worth getting to so you can shoot down across the town with the harbour and mountains in the background. Then, stop in somewhere like''The Arch Inn''in for a pint and bite to eat!''12. Highland Coos''I couldn’t do a photo roundup of the best photography locations on the NC500 without including the iconic Highland Cow, or Coo. These wonderfully hairy animals are fantastically photogenic, and definitely worth stopping to take a photo of if you happen to encounter them along your drive.''If you don’t happen to come across them on your trip around the NC500 though, don’t worry, there are a few locations where you are almost guaranteed a photo of these guys. These are''Robertsons Larder and Farm Shop'', just north of Inverness,''Braemore Square Country House''just south of Ullapool, and the''Torridon Hotel''near Torridon.''All of these locations have highland coos on their property, although as Braemore Square & the Torridon Hotel are hotels and private property we’d suggest that you should look to spend the night here if you want to meet the coos, as we did. Both have fairly large herds of cows, which affords plenty of opportunities to get some lovely shots. Both properties are also very nice and we highly recommend staying the night here.''The Robertsons Larder and Farm shop have a pair of cows, one older and one younger. You are welcome to stop here just to take photos, although we’d definitely recommend checking out the farm shop. We stocked up for a picnic here on local cheeses, meats, relishes and biscuits, and had ourselves a real feast. We also took a lot of photos of their friendly coos!''13. Mellon Udrigle Bay''When we visited Mellon Udrigle Bay the weather was very much against us, with moody grey skies and rain threatening to drench us.''Still, the weather is all a part of the wonder of Scotland, and you’ve definitely got to embrace it. Which we did, when shooting this lovely white sandy bay. This is an easy to access bay, although as it’s a little off the beaten track it shouldn’t be too busy – especially if it’s grey and rainy as it was when we visited!''14. Lone Pine Tree – Loch Maree''This was definitely one of my favourite locations to shoot when driving the North Coast 500. This lone pine tree sits by the road with Beinn Eighe towering behind it.''There is a small parking place just by the bridge here, but it’s not very big (or signposted), so if you blink you’ll miss it. The pine tree itself is just about''here'', with the parking spot a little to the east where the river is on the map (it’s on the south side of the road).''I thought this was a wonderful spot to capture the majesty of the Scottish wilderness alongside the winding road of the North Coast 500.''15. Road to Torridon''As the North Coast 500 starts to wind around the Applecross Peninsula there are a number of fantastic locations to shoot the scenery. I had two favourite spots on this route, one a little outcrop in the western part of Loch Clair, and one that offered some great shots of the road which at this point is just single track.''The first of these locations, shown above, can be accessed down a small track by pulling over at the cattle grid''here''. If you’re lucky enough to have a good, still day, you can get a fantastic shot of the hills and mountains reflected in the Loch, with some nice foreground reeds to help in the composition.''If you’d prefer to just shoot the road itself, I got the above shot a little further along the A896 in the direction of Torridon, specifically around''here'', looking to the west. I loved how the road winds off into the distance, the dramatic clouds and the mountain Ben Eighe in the distance.''16. Bealach na Bà''One of the driving highlights of the North Coast 500 is the infamous winding mountain pass road known as the Bealach na Bà, which means Pass of the Cattle in Gaelic.''This road features numerous hairpin bends that climb up the greatest ascent of any road in the UK, with an ascent from sea level to 626 metres. It’s the third highest road in Scotland, and quite a drive! From the top, you get excellent views back down the curving road itself, plus if you look in the opposite direction on a clear day you’ll get wonderful views of the Isle of Skye – another photographic paradise!''This is somewhere you’re going to want a super-wide lens to get as much of the road in as possible. I was shooting at 17mm on a full frame camera and still couldn’t quite get it all in – a fisheye might be best here!''17. Deer''The other animal in Scotland that you’re likely going to want to take a photograph of are the Scottish deer – and ideally a stag with those magnificent antlers. Of course, you’ll have to visit in the right part of the year, when they actually have antlers, if that’s the shot you’re after.''You will likely see a number of deer on your travels, but you can maximise your chances of getting a great shot in a few ways. First, getting up around sunrise will definitely help, as more wildlife will be out. I saw hundreds of deer when I was out and about at 4am for first light, and they seemed rather perplexed to see me, meaning I was able to get some great shots before they figured out they should probably be running away.''Another way to get really close up shots is to take a tour with''Colin Murdoch in Reraig Forest''. Colin is an expert deerstalker who manages a herd of deer in this forest, and he’ll take you to meet his beautiful deer. They’ll get within touching distance, affording you plenty of photography opportunities, so if it’s deer photos you want, this is definitely the place to come.''For wildlife photography, you’ll want a long, fast lens. I shot these with a''70-200 f/2.8 lens'', letting me fill the frame with the deer.''18. Your Own Location!''Last, but not least, please don’t take this as the definitive list of photography locations on the North Coast 500! One of the wonders of driving this road is making your own discoveries, and you’re going to come across so many beautiful locations, from castles to mountains to waterfalls and lochs!''So take your time, pull over often, and give your camera a good workout. You’re going to capture some fantastic images on this journey!''Tips for Photographing the North Coast 500''Having covered some of my favourite photography locations on the North Coast 500, here are a few tips to help you get the best shots as you go.''1. Prepare for the weather''Scottish weather is best described as fickle. You can have glorious weather in January, and torrential rain in August. It can also change on a dime, and predicting what it’s going to be like for your visit is going to be really challenging.''So my advice is just to prepare yourself for all eventualities. If the weather isn’t blue skies and white fluffy clouds, just go with it. Get your warm jacket and rain gear ready, and shoot some moody Scottish landscapes. A highland scene draped in misty fog can be a wonderfully dramatic shot, so do your best to capture the moment – whatever the weather.''2. Pack the right photography gear''Of course, the right photography gear will vary depending on what you like to shoot. My advice for the North Coast 500 is to pack for landscape and wildlife photography, which I would suggest would involve a wide angle lens and a zoom lens if you’re shooting with a camera that supports interchangeable lenses. I’d also suggest picking up a set of''neutral density filters''and a''tripod''.''If you’re using a compact camera, then I’d advise buying up a model that has a good zoom range, so you can shoot both landscapes and far away objects like deer or cows.''If you’re interested in what we pack for our travel photography,''this post goes through our travel photography gear,''while this''post has advice on picking a travel camera''.''3. Use the Road to Tell the Story''Composition is a key part of photography. I wrote a''whole post on composition,''so I won’t go into it in detail here, but on the North Coast 500, my advice is to take advantage of the beautiful roads that wind through the highland scenery in your compositions.''This will help draw your viewer into the scene, and if there’s a colourful car on the road it can help tell a story too. This is a journey that is very much about the road, so including it in some of your photos is definitely a good way to share your adventure with the people looking at the photos.''4. Get up (and stay out!) for the light''Light is everything in photography, and the best light is to be found around sunset and sunrise – the so-called “blue” and “golden” hours. At these times of day you get the most beautiful light for photography, letting you capture magnificent colours and scenes.''If you can, do try and capture a few sunrises on your trip, and plan your stops so you can be near something photogenic like a still loch or castle. Sunset is obviously easier to catch, but be aware that it can often take place during meal times, so try and plan your meals so as not to miss the sunset if you want to get the best photos on your North Coast 500 journey.''Further Reading for Planning your North Coast 500 trip''Well, that pretty much sums up some of our favourite photography locations on the North Coast 500! We’ve got a lot more content to share with you from our trip to help you plan your perfect North Coast 500 trip, but in the meantime, here are some links to help you with your trip planning.''Our ultimate''guide to planning a North Coast 500 trip''Jess’s incredibly detailed guide to''where to stay on the North Coast 500''which has accommodation options for every part of the route and is a must read resource if you’re planning a trip!''I’ve also put together a detailed guide to all the''highlights of the North Coast 500'', to ensure you don’t miss anything on the route!''If you’d like an itinerary, check out our detailed''7 Day North Coast 500 itinerary''For more reasons to drive the NC500, see our''14 reasons to drive the North Coast 500''The North Coast 500 has a lot of single track roads – see our advice for''how to drive on single tracks roads''to help you prepare if you’re not familiar with these.''The''official North Coast 500''website, which has maps, itineraries and advice to help you plan your route.''The official''Rough Guide to the North Coast 500'', available from the''official NC500 shop'', an ebook which is packed full of information about the route.''If you’re driving the North Coast 500 as part of a longer visit to the UK, check out some of our other guides to both''Scotland'', and the wider''UK''Finally, if you like the photos we took in this post and are interested in improving your photography, take a look at my''online travel photography course'', which has everything you need to know to start taking awesome travel photos, from picking a camera, to mastering the settings, to editing – and more!''And that sums up my guide to some of the best photography locations on Scotland’s epic North Coast 500! Have you driven this road? Got any photography locations you love? Let us know in the comments below!''So you know: our North Coast 500 trip was in partnership with the North Coast 500, who covered our accommodation and the majority of our meals and attraction entry. We covered our own transport costs and additional expenses. All opinions are our own, and you can always check our''code of ethics''to see how we choose who to work with!''SHARE ON''On our recent''trip to Glasgow'', Jess and I were keen to visit the nearby''Pollok House''. This grand old property, operated by the''National Trust for Scotland'', was particularly intriguing to us because as well as all the usual things you might expect at a historic property like this, they also had an escape room.''Jess and I had been keen to try out an escape room for ages, and having a period themed escape room to try out seemed just right for our first effort. If you’re not familiar with an escape room, or just want to find out if we got out, fear not, all will be revealed. But first, let’s talk about:''Visiting Pollok House''I’m going to start by orienting you a little about Pollok House, which is owned by the City of Glasgow, managed by the National Trust for Scotland, and open for visits by the public.''The National Trust for Scotland, if you’re not familiar with them, are a conservation charity that aims to protect and promote Scotland’s natural and cultural heritage, and they manage and own a number of properties and lands across Scotland.''Having the National Trust for Scotland operate Pollok House is quite appropriate, because it was at Pollok House that the idea for starting a National Trust for Scotland took root, in 1931, in the cedar-panelled smoking room (which you can still visit today).''The present house dates from the mid 18th century, with extensions added on in the 20th century. However the Stirling Maxwell family who owned and built this property lived here for nearly 700 years – the current property just being the final iteration of the ancestral home.''As you would imagine, the house is quite expansive, with room for the family, their guests, and a huge number of servants – at its peak there were 48 staff on hand to look after the family. It’s surrounded by wonderfully landscaped gardens, which include over 1,000 species of rhododendrons, and trees which are believed to be hundreds of years old.''Touring the house is easy. You can wander freely around the upstairs rooms, which were for the family to use and are therefore somewhat luxurious, filled with period furniture and an impressive art collection. This includes some of the finest Spanish art on show in the UK, most notably the El Greco “Lady in a Fur Wrap” painting, and works by Coello and Murillo. There are also a number of paintings by William Blake.''Note that not all the art will be on display all the time – when we visited for example, ongoing restoration work meant that the famous “Lady in a Fur Wrap” painting wasn’t on the property. Still, it gives us a reason to return!''Once you’ve seen how the wealthy owners lived in the upstairs part of the house, venture downstairs, and see how the servants made it all happen. In the sprawling warren of tiled passageways that make up the downstairs area you can visit servant’s rooms, the kitchen, and more. Some of these rooms have been converted for use as gift shop and dining areas (we had a lovely scone and tea in the original kitchen, now a café).''There’s also a guided tour of the downstairs servants quarters which runs daily (see website for tour information). We can recommend doing this, as it takes you into a number of rooms that you wouldn’t otherwise be able to see, including the hunting room, pantry, and room lived in by the butler.''As previously mentioned, as well as the house, there are extensive grounds to wander, and you could easily spend half a day or more here exploring, eating, and just wondering how the other half lived.''Then, once you’ve done all that, why not try your hand at the escape room, like we did? Let’s talk about that.''The Pollok House Escape Room''What is an Escape Room?''If you’re not familiar with escape rooms, the concept is that you are put into a room which contains various puzzles and clues, which you have to solve within a time limit in order to be released. Often the time limit is about an hour, and the escape room will accommodate groups. Some escape rooms have you working as a single team, others let you have more people and play competitively.''What was the Pollok House Escape Room Like?''The Pollok House Escape room is set in the servant’s quarters in a room all set up to look like a part of the Pollok House about 100 years ago. The idea of the escape room is that you have to “escape the past”, which is the title of the room.''I won’t give anything away regarding the room layout or puzzles so as not to spoil the surprise, but we found it was well thought out with a good storyline and plenty of period references to make you feel like you’re stepping back in time. For our first escape room experience we really enjoyed it!''In terms of difficulty it definitely required some clever thinking. We had an hour to solve the various puzzles inside the room which were, I have to say, quite challenging. Did we do it, and escape the past? In a word, no.''I’d say we got just over half way through the puzzles before our time ran out. We had a lot of fun doing it, but alas, our first escape room foiled us. Chatting with the lady running the room, she said that around 50% of people make it all the way through, so we didn’t feel too bad – obviously it’s meant to be a challenge rather than a walk in the park! We’d definitely recommend you give it a go if you like puzzles, lateral thinking challenges, and anything to do with the past.''Note that the Pollock House escape room is an additional fee on top of the house visit that you need to book in advance, even for National Trust members.''Any hints for the Pollok House Escape Room?''Bring some friends! Ok, we’re not going to give anything away in terms of the puzzles or the contents of the room, because we promised we wouldn’t. The only tip we would give you is to come with a few people – the room will take up to 5, and the more brains working on the problems, the better. You can do the puzzles out of order, so a policy of divide and conquer might help you get through it in time to escape the past!''Useful information for visiting Pollok House''Pollok House is found in Pollok Country Park, which is around five miles south of the city centre. It’s a National Trust for Scotland property, so National Trust members get free access, and non-members have to pay an entry fee – see the''official website''for the most up to date prices.''If you’re not a National Trust member and live in the UK, we think a National Trust membership is an excellent investment and easily pays itself off. Jess and I are both members and love it. You can''join here''if you’re interested.''If you’re visiting from overseas, the National Trust for Scotland can still help you save money if you’re thinking about visiting multiple attractions in Scotland, with the''National Trust for Scotland discover pass''.\xa0 Available in 3, 7 and 14 day durations. This pass will get you into over 60 properties in Scotland and is perfect if you’re touring Scotland.''Also, if you’re visiting more of the UK, you might want to invest in the''National Trust Touring Pass''. Available in 7 or 14 day versions, this lets you visit all the National Trust properties in England, Wales and Northern Ireland (but not Scotland!).''Everyone has to pay for the Escape Room, and this should definitely be booked in advance.''Pollok House is open daily year round from 10am – 5pm, with the last admission at 4.30pm. The tearoom and shop are also open daily from 10am – 5pm, with the lunch menu available from midday – 3pm, and last orders at 4.30pm. It’s also available for event hire, should you be thinking about hosting something at an lovely venue like this.''Note that photography is not allowed inside Pollock House – we were given special permission to be able to take photos as press. Photography is allowed in the gardens and of the exterior of the house.''How to get to Pollok House''Pollok House is about a fifteen minute drive from Glasgow City Centre, and there is plenty of parking on site. You can also drive from Edinburgh, it’s about a 51 mile drive and will take between an hour and ninety minutes on average, depending on traffic.''Pollok House can also be reached by public transport from Glasgow City Centre. By rail, you take the train from Glasgow Central Station to Pollokshaws West, after which it’s a 15 minute walk through Pollok Country Park to the house. Overall this journey will take around half an hour.''There are a number of buses serving the route also, again, you’ll have to walk through Pollok Country Park from the bus stop. The bus from Glasgow will take 40 – 50 minutes, depending on traffic and bus schedules.''Further reading for your visit to Pollok House, Glasgow and Scotland''Hopefully the above post has prepared and excited you for your own visit to Pollok House and the fun Escape the Past escape room experience. To help you plan your trip a bit further, here are some resources we think you will find useful.''If you’re visiting Pollok House you should take time to visit Glasgow and surrounds – here’s our''2 Day Glasgow & Loch Lomond itinerary''to help you do just that''The official''Pollok House website''has all the useful information you need to help you plan your visit including prices and opening times, as well as some history on the property''If you like houses like this, check out my guide to the''best stately homes you can visit in England''.''If you’re visiting Glasgow, we’re sure you’re also thinking of visiting Edinburgh too. Check out our guide to''spending two days in Edinburgh'', as well as''getting off the beaten path in Edinburgh''.''If you’re a Harry Potter fan, you’ve got to check out Jess’s''Guide to the Best Edinburgh Harry Potter locations''.''If you were thinking of taking a trip around the UK and want to include Glasgow as part of that itinerary, we have both a''one week itinerary of the UK''and a''two week itinerary of the UK''for you to give you some ideas for what’s possible in those timeframes..''Heading further out of the city? How about a trip to''the Scottish Borders''or a''tour of some Whisky distilleries''?''Or, if you want to get further afield, check out our''five day Isle of Skye and Highlands itinerary''If you’re interested in getting better photos when you travel, take a look at my''online photography course'', where I’ll teach you everything you need to know about getting better photos – whatever camera you have!''And finally, if you want a guidebook, either physical or digital here’s a''Rick Steves guide to Scotland''as well as this''Insight Guide to Glasgow''to help get you started!''And that sums up our experience visiting Pollok House in Glasgow! Have you ever done an Escape Room or visited a lovely house like this? Have any questions for us? Just let us know in the comments below!''So you know: As National Trust members we had free access to Pollok House. We were provided complimentary escape room tickets and a guided tour by Pollok House and the National Trust for Scotland''SHARE ON''Jess and I were recently invited to visit both''Glasgow''and the nearby national park called''Loch Lomond & The Trossachs''. Despite having been based in''Edinburgh''for over a year, we still hadn’t made it the short distance across to Scotland’s largest city, and we were keen to rectify this omission.''The goal of the trip for me, as you can see from the post title, was to share a perfect itinerary for spending 2 days in Glasgow and the beautiful Loch Lomond & The Trossachs National Park, demonstrating how you can''pack more in''to even a two day itinerary.''We actually spent four days in Glasgow discovering all the highlights, and we’ll be sharing more posts about the city in the coming months across both our blogs to help you plan your perfect Glasgow adventure.''Today though, I’m going to be sharing an itinerary that marries the best of both worlds – a city stay with a trip to the country. It’s wonderful how easy it is to get from the bustling cultural attractions of Glasgow up to the natural beauty of the Loch Lomond & Trossachs National Park, and this itinerary will help you do just that!''Contents:''2 Days in Glasgow & Loch Lomond''1. Glasgow Cathedral & Necropolis''2. Gallery of Modern Art''3. City Centre Street Art''4. Lunch at Hutchesons Bar & Brasserie''5. The Mackintosh House & Hunterian Art Gallery at Glasgow University''6. Hunterian Museum & Glasgow University Cloisters''7. Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum''8. Dinner at Drygate Micro Brewery''9. Cruise on Loch Katrine''10. Treezone''11. Falls of Dochart''12. Devils Pulpit''13. Dinner at Oak Tree Inn''Additional Sight-seeing Ideas for your 2 Days in Glasgow''A Walking Lunch''Science Centre''Riverside Museum''Tennents Tour''Where to Stay in Glasgow and Loch Lomond''When to Visit Glasgow and Loch Lomond''How to Get Around Glasgow & Loch Lomond''Further reading for visiting Glasgow & the UK''2 Days in Glasgow & Loch Lomond''Day 1 – Glasgow''Your first day has you exploring as much of Glasgow as is possible to see in a day. Of course, there’s loads more to see here than you can fit into one day, and I’ve included a few options at the end in case you wanted to swap anything out.''As it is though, I’ve put together what I think is a balanced itinerary to help you see the best of Glasgow in just a day.''1. Glasgow Cathedral & Necropolis''We’re going to start in the oldest part of town, up at''Glasgow Cathedral''– Glasgow’s oldest building. This is about a ten minute walk north-east of the city centre, and is a good place to start to get a feel for the history of the city. It’s here that the patron Saint of Glasgow, St Mungo, was believed to have founded his church, and he is buried in a crypt underneath the building.''The Cathedral is a beautiful gothic construction dating from the 12th century, and has a gorgeous ceiling as well as a lovely vaulted crypt. Near to it across a footbridge you’ll find the Necropolis, a large hillside burial ground, and the immediate area is also home to two museums –''Provand’s Lordship''and the''St. Mungo Museum of Religious Life and Art''.''The former is housed in Glasgow’s oldest house, dating from 1471, and is now a historic house museum featuring items and artefacts from various time periods.''The latter is dedicated to religious life and art, and covers a number of the world’s major religions, with information and artefacts from all of them. When we visited, there was an excellent exhibition on how death is handled in some of the world’s religions.''All of the above attractions are free to visit, with donations accepted and appreciated. For opening times and further information check the official websites for each.''2. Gallery of Modern Art''Right in the heart of Glasgow’s city centre, about a 10 – 15 minute walk down from the Cathedral, you’ll come to the''Gallery of Modern Art''. Outside of this building is where you’ll find one of Glasgow’s most iconic landmarks, the Equestrian Statue of the Duke of Wellington.''As the name suggests, this is a statue of the Duke of Wellington sitting atop a horse. This might not sound too exciting, but the star of the show is the traffic cone that is nearly always to be found on his head – the subject of a long running battle between local government workers and some secretive cone society who continuously re-cone the head of the Duke.''It’s probably the most photographed subject in Glasgow, so you’ll definitely want to get a shot of the Duke.''Then, you can head inside the excellent Gallery of Modern Art (free, donations accepted).''3. City Centre Street Art''As you walk around Glasgow you won’t be able to miss the incredible huge panels of street art that adorn the sides of city buildings. Ranging from giant tigers to spacemen, athletes, and famous Glaswegians, these murals are some of the best street art I’ve ever seen.''There’s even a''trail''you can follow if you’re so inclined, although it will take a bit of time to see them all. I’ve got a post on the''street art of Glasgow'', if you want to see more.''4. Lunch at Hutchesons Bar & Brasserie''It must be time for lunch by now, and one excellent city centre option that we can highly recommend is the''Hutchesons Bar & Brasserie''. If it’s a nice day they have outdoor seating, but we would still recommend you head inside to the incredible upstairs dining area with its high ceilings and beautiful decorations. You won’t be disappointed, either by the decor, or by the fantastic food.''Now you need to head over to the west side the city to the University. To do so, you can hop in a cab, or take a metro or a bus, and we’ll continue our day.''5. The Mackintosh House & Hunterian Art Gallery at Glasgow University''You really can’t visit Glasgow without taking in something designed by one of Glasgow’s most famous architects, Rennie Mackintosh. Largely unrecognised during his lifetime, in recent decades the importance of his work has come to light, and there are now a number of properties you can visit around the Glasgow area to see his work in person and learn about his life.''An excellent place to do just that is at the''Mackintosh House''at Glasgow University. This was actually the home that Mackintosh lived in, although it is no longer in its original location. In fact, from the outside, you can’t tell that this is an old Victorian era property as it’s been encased in a shell for preservation, and is now accessed through the Hunterian Art Museum''Inside, on a tour you can only take with a guide, you will learn about the life or Mackintosh as well as what made his architecture and designs so interesting. You’ll also learn about Margaret McDonald'',''Mackintosh’s design partner and wife, who was responsible for many of the interior design and artistic elements of the properties and objects they created. Bookings are advised for the tours, and a fee applies. See the''official website''for tour times and contact details.''Whilst you’re waiting for your tour to begin, or after it ends, you can checkout the Hunterian Art Gallery, which is home to Glasgow University’s extensive art collection, where you’ll find a great many watercolors by Mackintosh, amongst other works.''6. Hunterian Museum & Glasgow University Cloisters''Just across the road from the Hunterian Art Gallery is the''Hunterian Museum'', housed in the impressive neo-Gothic George Gilbert Scott building. This museum is primarily dedicated to the collections of William Hunter, an anatomist and collector. As well as making great inroads into the 18th century understanding of anatomy and obstetrics, he also found time to amass an impressive collection of artefacts.''These he bequeathed to Glasgow University, with the idea that it would help improve the students education, and you can now see them in the Hunterian Museum. Do take time to see the coin collection especially, as this is still regarded as one of the finest in the world, although there’s something here for everyone, including Roman Scotland, Egypt and more. Entry is free, see the''official website''for opening times and visitor information.''Whilst you are at the Hunterian Museum, do pop downstairs to take a look at the amazing arched cloisters of the George Gilbert Scotland building. These are truly impressive, and deserving of a photo!''7. Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum''A 10 – 15 minute walk down the hill from Glasgow University on a well marked route is the incredible''Kelvingrove Art Gallery and museum''. Originally opened in 1901, this museum is one of Scotland’s most popular free attractions. With over 8,000 objects on display across 22 galleries, you’re pretty much guaranteed to find something to tickle your fancy, with everything from a Dali painting to an original 1944 Spitfire aircraft on display.''You could easily spend a whole day here, so we’re going to leave this as the last item on the agenda for the day in terms of sight-seeing. It’s free (you have to pay for parking if you’re driving), and you can see opening times and other visitor information at the''official website''.''8. Dinner at Drygate Micro Brewery''You have seen a lot today and travelled far, so we’re going to recommend one of our favourite culinary (and drinking!) experiences in Glasgow – the''Drygate Micro Brewery'', which also has an excellent bar and kitchen.''This was definitely one of our most memorably meals in the city, and one we can highly recommend. They also brew a range of their own beers on site, and offer brewery tours – check their''tour website''for dates and up to date prices.''Day 2 – Loch Lomond''Time for a change from the city! The Loch Lomond and Trossachs National Park is less than an hour’s drive from Glasgow, but couldn’t be more different. I’m talking gorgeous lochs, rolling hills, forests, and wildlife. There’s a lot to see and do here, again, far more than a days worth, but here are some highlights to get you started.''9. Cruise on Loch Katrine''What better way to start your day in this beautiful part of the world than with a cruise on a steamship that has been operating for over a hundred years? I can’t think of one, so that’s exactly what we did, with a cruise on the beautiful old''steamship Sir Walter Scott''.''The Sir Walter Scott has been cruising on Loch Katrine since 1900, and while the world around has moved on, I suspect the views and experience are somewhat similar to those experienced by the Victorians who took this boat, way back in the day. The views are magnificent, and experiencing a Scottish loch from the water is a must-have experience. There’s even a bar on-board, should you wish to enjoy a wee dram (or, in our case, a hot chocolate) as you steam across the lake.''Sailings are scheduled every day during the season – check''this website''for times and prices. You might also find yourself hungry (as we did!) once the boat ride is over, in which case have a bite to eat at the lovely little''Brenachoile café''by the pier.''10. Treezone''If you have kids and want to do something exciting with them, then we can definitely recommend a trip to''Treezone''. This aerial adventure park on the south shores of Loch Lomond at Balloch offers a really fun aerial adventure course with a number of challenging obstacles as well as zip-lines.''We’ve done quite a few adventure parks, and this definitely had one of the best safety systems we’ve used so far, we were just clipped in at the beginning and then clipped in at the end – no messing around as we went. This made the whole course very smooth – all we had to worry about was getting across the obstacles. If you’ve got kids, we’re pretty sure they’ll love it (and go faster than you as well!). Check''their website''for prices and opening times.''11. Falls of Dochart''About an hours drive north of Loch Katrine in the village of Killin are the beautiful Falls of Dochart. Here you can watch the water as it tumbles around the rocks and under the village bridge, as well as around the islands of Inchbuie, the traditional and ancient burial place of Clan Macnab.''12. Devils Pulpit''One of the photographic highlights of the trip was the deep gorge known as the Devils Pulpit, about a fifteen minute drive south from Loch Lomond itself. More formally known as Finnich Glen, this deep gorge is famous for the reddish colored water and steep, moss covered walls.''To access the gorge you have to park off the road – there are some spaces along the A809. There’s a path that leads off the road and along the gorge, after which there is a very steep set of fairly crumbling stairs down to the gorge floor itself.''To get photos of the waterfall, you’re likely going to have to wade through the water, so be prepared for that – I just took my shoes and socks off. Also be aware that the water level can rise rapidly during rainfall, so be aware of weather conditions and be safe. Not recommended in bad weather or after a large rainfall.''Here’s a''map location''of the Devil’s Pulpit to help you out with finding it – car parking and the footpath can be found on the A809 just to the south of where it crosses the river. Additional parking can be found at the junction with the B834 a little further north.''13. Dinner at Oak Tree Inn''Our last entry for your trip to Loch Lomond & the Trossachs is going to be a meal at the''Oak Tree Inn''. This is found near the shores of Loch Lomond itself, and if you arrive a little early for your evening meal we can highly recommend taking a short walk along the loch itself.''The food varies, but we’ve eaten here twice and were impressed both times by the variety of local produce and Scottish specialties. An excellent way to finish up your two days in Glasgow & Loch Lomond!''Additional Sight-seeing Ideas for your 2 Days in Glasgow''There’s a lot to see and do in Glasgow – far more than is achievable in a day! We’ll be writing some more extended posts about visiting Glasgow and what to see and do, but in the meantime, here are some options that you might consider should any of the above ideas not appeal.''A Walking Lunch''If you’d prefer a walking tour of the city with a local expert then we can highly recommend the''Walking Lunch tour''. Run by Glaswegian food and travel writer Andrea Pearson, this three hour walking tour will take you through 1,000 years of Glasgow history (and food!). With four courses of local delicacies, loads of information about the history of Glasgow, and even a cocktail / beer & a coffee, this tour is both a lot of fun and excellent value for money.''We really enjoyed our tour with Andrea. If you do decide to do this, arrive hungry as it comes with plenty of food, so arrive hungry! At time of writing tours run once a month, check the''website''for booking information and prices as Andrea mentioned that she may be offering shorter tours more frequently in the future.''Science Centre''If you’re visiting Glasgow with kids, they’ll love the hands-on''Glasgow Science Centre''. Packed full with three levels of interactive exhibits and information panels, this place if a lot of fun for both adults and kids.''This is one of the few museums in Glasgow that isn’t free to enter, however we feel that the entry price is more than worth it as there’s so much to do and so many interactive exhibits to have fun with. You can also head up Glasgow’s tallest structure, the Glasgow Tower, which is the tallest freely rotating tower in the world. It’s an incredibly innovative building in terms of it’s design, and is well worth the trip up to the top for the view over Glasgow.''Riverside Museum''Another excellent free museum in Glasgow by the riverside is the''Riverside Museum''. This won the 2013 European Museum of the Year Award, so as you can imagine, is worth a visit. The museum focuses heavily on transport, primarily covering road, rail and sea based transport, as well as the history of public and private transport in Glasgow.''It’s stuffed full of real life vehicles, including the world’s leading collection of Scottish built cars and trucks, and fans of transport will definitely want to visit.''Right next to the museum is the''Tall Ship'', which, as you would imagine, features a tall ship that you can tour, also for free. The ship in question is the steel hulled “Glenlee”, an 1896 sail powered vessel built to haul cargo around the world. This is another wonderful experience, giving you an insight into this sort of vessel and an idea of what life might have been like aboard over one hundred years ago.''Tennents Tour''Finally in my list of alternative ideas for your day exploring Glasgow is something a little different – a tour of the''Tennents Brewery''! Tennents is without doubt the most famous of all the Scottish beers, and a tour of the brewery is an excellent way to learn all about how its made, as well as learn some of the 450 year history of the brewery and the family who started it.''Of course, you’ll also get to try some of the beer itself, which is an excellent way to finish a day! Tours run daily and do need to be booked in advance, you can see prices and information at the''official website''. The brewery is right next to the Drygate micro brewery, which you could visit afterwards for a meal.''Where to Stay in Glasgow and Loch Lomond''As part of our research for this post we actually stayed in Glasgow for four nights following by one night in the Loch Lomond & Trossachs National Park.''Glasgow has many lodging options, ranging from budget through to upscale. We stayed in an''AirBnB''in Drygate, which was great value for money and within walking distance of the cathedral and city centre shopping. If you’ve never used AirBnB, you can get up to $100 credit with''this link''.''If you prefer a hotel, then we’d recommend you check out the''Glasgow listings on Booking.com''. We find they usually have the best selection of properties, including apartments, and are our first go to for accommodation booking when we travel.''In the Loch Lomond we stayed at the wonderfully cozy''Loaninghead B&B'', where we had a truly wonderful room, views over the hills and a magnificent breakfast – served on fine china and sitting on antique furniture, no less. Little touches like a welcoming decanter of sherry in our room were also much appreciated. If you’re looking for something a little bit special, this is an excellent option.''When to Visit Glasgow and Loch Lomond''One of our favourite times of year to travel in Scotland is May and June. The weather is generally going to be better than in Winter or Spring, the days are wonderfully long, and the destinations aren’t so crowded – although Glasgow is certainly less crowded over the summer than Edinburgh.''Overall, anytime of year is fine to visit Scotland, as the weather can be so variable. You can have glorious sunshine in winter and terrible weather in summer. Generally it will be warmer in summer and colder in winter, but we’d suggest just checking the average temperatures for the month you want to visit, and bringing plenty of layers and some form of waterproofing, whatever the time of year!''How to Get Around Glasgow & Loch Lomond''Glasgow has an excellent public transport system which includes buses and a very easy to use metro (there’s only one line and it goes in a circle, so you can’t get lost!). There are also taxis of course. If you want to be sure to visit all the sights, then there’s a''hop on hop off bus''that will take you to all the highlights in the city, and we used this on one of our days. It’s great value too, plus the commentary is good for learning a bit about the key sights.''From Glasgow to Loch Lomond there is a ScotRail train service which takes around fifty minutes, however, to see all the sights I’ve listed in this post I’d recommend hiring a car, as public transport can take somewhat more time and you won’t be able to see as much.''Further reading for visiting Glasgow & the UK''We’re almost done with this post on visiting Glasgow & Loch Lomond! Before you go though, I just wanted to share some further reading to help you plan your visit to this area and the wider UK.''For more information about visiting Glasgow and Loch Lomond, check out the official''Pack More In''website, which has lots of practical information and tips for your trip, as well as the''Love Loch Lomond site''.''If you’re visiting Glasgow, we’re sure you’re also thinking of visiting Edinburgh too. Check out our guide to''spending two days in Edinburgh'', as well as''getting off the beaten path in Edinburgh''.''If you’re a Harry Potter fan, you’ve got to check out Jess’s''Guide to the Best Edinburgh Harry Potter locations''.''If you were thinking of taking a trip around the UK and want to include Glasgow as part of that itinerary, we have both a''one week itinerary of the UK''and a''two week itinerary of the UK''for you to give you some ideas for what’s possible in those timeframes..''Heading further out of the city? How about a trip to''the Scottish Borders''or a''tour of some Whisky distilleries''?''Or, if you want to get further afield, check out our''five day Isle of Skye and Highlands itinerary''Want to see some of Scotland’s most remote and stunning scenery? Check out our guide to driving Scotland’s epic''North Coast 500'', as well as all the''accommodation options on the North Coast 500''If you’re interested in getting better photos when you travel, take a look at my''online photography course'', where I’ll teach you everything you need to know about getting better photos – whatever camera you have!''And finally, if you want a guidebook to bring along with you, here’s a''Rick Steves guide to Scotland''as well as this''Insight Guide to Glasgow''to help get you started!''And that sums up our suggestions for spending two days exploring Glasgow and Loch Lomond! Have you ever visited either of these areas? Are you planning to in the future? Let us know if you have any questions or feedback in the comments below!''So you know – People Make Glasgow and Loch Lomond & The Trossachs covered some of our activities and meals in Glasgow and Loch Lomond, as well as one night’s accommodation in the Loch Lomond area. We covered all other expenses ourselves including transport, meals and accommodation. As always, our opinions are our own – see our''code of ethics''for more on how we work with people.''SHARE ON''Well, I’ve finally got to the final state from our epic Route 66 adventure across the United States! We drove the entire route from Los Angeles in California through to Chicago in Illinois, sticking to the original route as closely as we could for the whole journey, using''this incredible book''to help us stay on track.''I’ve created a post for each of the states in the series, and you can see our Route 66 highlights for each of the following states by clicking on their name: California, Arizona, New Mexico,\xa0 Texas, Kansas, Oklahoma.''Today’s post is the last of the photo series, meaning you can now see the best of Route 66 in every state it covers! Let’s see what Illinois had in store for us..''Route 66 Highlights: Illinois''As with many other sections of Route 66, the Illinois route followed different alignments across the decades. We always did our best to follow the original alignment, but that wasn’t always possible, as often it no longer exists!''It’s always nice when the Route is this easy to find!''Like many of the other states on Route 66, Illinois has some classic dining options that you just have to try. In this instance, the famous “Cozy Dog” at the Cozy Dog Drive-In''You can even pose with the Cozy Dogs, as Jess did.''It’s not just Cozy Dogs of course. There’s ice cream too. It was delicious.''Naturally Illinois has no shortage of quirky statues either. This is one of the “Muffler Men”, a 20ft fibreglass giant constructed to serve as advertising. Thousands of these statues could be found across the United Stated (and Route 66) in the 1960’s, and those surviving figures on Route 66 are now iconic visitor attractions. The one above is holding a hot dog, whilst the chap below is known as “Gemini Man”.''The Muffler Men aren’t the only giants on Route 66! Here’s a giant Abraham Lincoln aboard a giant wagon, who can appropriately be found in Lincoln, Illinois.''Illinois has further connections to Abraham Lincoln. In the town of Springfield, we visited the''Lincoln Home National Historic Site'', where Lincoln lived for a number of years prior to becoming President of the United States. It was also the only home he ever owned.''And of course, Springfield, Illinois is also home to Lincoln’s tomb, which can be found in the Oakfield Cemetery.''Moving on to somewhat more whimsical subjects, a visit to''Henry’s Rabbit Ranch''is a must when driving the Route in Illinois. Here you can meet Henry, his rabbits, and see all sorts of Route 66 memorabilia.''Henry has some pretty cool rabbits.''Yep, well worth the visit.''Naturally Illinois has it’s fair share of weird Route 66 roadside structures, with everything from a UFO…''… to a giant pink elephant.''Illinois has drive in theatres as well, definitely a must-stop somewhere along your Route 66 adventure.''There are murals, to help you figure out where you’ve been and where you’re going.''And of course, one of our favourite sights, those wonderful old gas stations.''As with every state, Illinois has it’s own Route 66 Museum, this one is in Pontiac Illinois and is called the''Route 66 Hall of Fame and Museum''. Well worth stopping in.''And round the back of the museum in Pontiac is this incredible converted school bus. It definitely gave me some ideas for transport options! Also, don’t miss the murals around the town of Pontiac, including the one at the start of the post.''Finally, and a little bit sadly, we of course made it to the end of Route 66! Which is, to be honest, not quite as exciting as you might imagine, just a little sign half way up a lamp post. Still, we posed for a photo…''…and then went for a meal at''Lou Mitchell’s''. Founded in 1923, this is famous as being the first (or last!) stop on the Route, and was traditionally the place to eat a meal before heading out west. So naturally, it seemed like the perfect place for us to end.''Planning your own Route 66 Adventure''If you’re planning your own Route 66 adventure, we’ve got a bit of reading for you!''First, be inspired by photos from all the states we visited, by checking our photos highlights from each Route 66 state:''California'',''Arizona'',''New Mexico'',''Texas'',''Oklahoma'',''Kansas'',''Missouri''&''Illinois''Next, check out Jess’s comprehensive guide to''planning a Route 66 trip''Then, take a look out our incredibly detailed''day by day Route 66 itinerary'', which covers all the sights you want to see, route tips, lodging options and places to eat.''If you’re new to driving in the US, check out my''tips for driving in the US''to get you started''Not sure how much it’s all going to cost? We’ve got you covered with our''guide to travel costs in the USA''Finally, take a look at''this book''– the best way in our opinion to successfully navigate the entire length of Route 66 as faithfully as you can. We followed it the whole way, and even met the author, and couldn’t have done without it!''Enjoy your Route 66 trip!''SHARE ON''Despite the name of this blog, I have been distressingly earth bound for all of my years thus far. Given recent developments in space exploration technology though, hope is not yet lost for the dream of going into space as a tourist – without having to shell out the millions of dollars that past tourists have paid!''In today’s post, I’m going to talk about a few things. I’m going to cover where space travel & exploration is today, in 2017. I’m going to talk about what options we have now, and may have in the future, for getting into space as a tourist. And I’m also going to cover a few ways those of us stuck on Earth without access to a giant pile of cash can still get our space fix around the world!''First, let’s look at:''The State of Space Travel: 2017''Huge strides are happening right now in space exploration, particularly with private companies looking at opening up space to your average person. Admittedly, right now, space tourism isn’t exactly accessible. At the time of writing, only 7 people have made it into space as tourists, all travelling with the Russian Space Agency, and all paying in excess of USD $20 million. These weren’t exactly hop-on hop-off trips either, with the participants undergoing months of training, and many of them actively running their own experiments in space. So to call them space tourists is perhaps a bit of a misnomer.''As you can see, getting into space right now as a private individual is not exactly something for your average, or even moderately wealthy traveller. Plus, all these trips took place between 2001 & 2009, and despite demand from wealthy individuals, there currently isn’t a way to get into space as a non-government astronaut. Has the space tourism boom already ended?''Quite the opposite! I’d argue that we’re on the cusp of space travel opening up at a more affordable (if still not exactly budget) price point. So what’s driving this?''Well, put simply, private investment. Whilst massive government organisations like''NASA'', the''Russian Space Agency''and the''European Space Agency''are always researching and expanding their space exploration efforts, their focus isn’t exactly on getting folks like you and me into space – at least not in the near term. Their focus is on long term scientifically focused exploration missions, with perhaps the most exciting being NASA’s''Journey to Mars''.''Other organisations though, see the potential for space based tourism as a way to generate funds and publicity for their projects. There are, I would say, three main players in the space tourism business right now –''Virgin Galactic'',''SpaceX''and''Blue Origin''.''There are also a number of other projects underway to help more ordinary folks get into space, including the''Space Island’s Group''and the''Mars One''project. These are both somewhat in the concept phase however, and whilst I would love to think that these projects will come to fruition, the challenges they have to overcome are fairly huge.''Let’s take a look at the main players with whom you have a real chance of getting into space with in the next few years.''How to Go To Space As A Tourist''Other than flagging down a passing UFO''Ford Prefect''style, or signing up to be an astronaut with a government agency, getting into space is a bit tricky. But that’s all set to change in the coming years, and these are the companies with whom you are most likely to be able to travel.''1. Virgin Galactic''Part of the Virgin Group headed up by Sir Richard Branson,''Virgin Galactic''is planning to offer sub-orbital flights to paying passengers aboard their craft, the SpaceShipTwo. Sub-orbital means that you’re not high enough to actually orbit the earth, but as the goal is to pass the 100km line that marks the edge of space, you will technically be in space, and also experience weightlessness. Hurrah!''The timeframe for this to happen has shifted multiple times, not least after the tragic accident during a test flight in 2014 where the vehicle broke apart, killing the co-pilot and seriously injuring the pilot. As of 2017, Richard Branson has been quoted as saying that commercial spaceflights should be running by the end of 2018, although I suspect this might shift.''Shift or not, 800 people have already bought tickets for a voyage into space, with tickets''currently on sale for $250,000''. Yep, you can buy a ticket right now, and join that line. Admittedly, $250,000 USD isn’t exactly small change, but it’s a lot less expensive than the $20 million that previous space travellers have paid. For your money, you get three days of training at Spaceport America in New Mexico, a 2.5 hour flight into space, a somewhat incredible view and a period of weightlessness. Not too bad.''2. Blue Origin''Unlike Virgin Galactic,''Blue Origin''plays its cards somewhat close to its chest. Owned by Amazon billionaire Jeff Bezos, Blue Origin is a private company which initially appeared to be focusing on sub-orbital flight, much like Virgin Galactic. Unlike Virgin Galactic though, which uses a combination of a normal plane and a rocket plane to achieve the necessary space altitude, Blue Origin are using more conventional rocket technology, with a focus on re-usable components that cut the cost of launches.''Other than the spacecraft, the forecast experience is largely the same – a sub-orbital flight that comprises a few days of training in Texas, a journey lasting around 11 minutes to up beyond the 100km line, weightlessness and some incredible views. The technology to do this will look familiar to any fans of existing space flight technologies, including the capsule that returns to Earth by parachute, meaning that there are fewer technical hurdles to overcome.''That said, a timeframe and pricing have not been set for the launch of Blue Origin’s New Shepherd program, although you can''sign up here''to hear more. Current estimates are for paying flights to launch in 2018.''Perhaps even more excitingly than the New Shepherd program is its successor – the New Glenn program. This should offer longer duration, possibly even orbital flights, although details are currently sparse on the ground, with operations unlikely to start before 2020. We do know however that priority on these trips will be given to New Shepherd customers.''3. SpaceX''Last in our trio of serious contenders for firms that will likely take your money and send you into space in the next few years is''SpaceX''.''SpaceX is owned by Elon Musk, who is particularly famous for being the CEO and co-founder of Tesla Inc, the electric car and battery manufacturer, amongst other things.''SpaceX largely focuses on commercial launch capabilities, with a particular focus on re-usable rocket technologies that bring down the cost of putting payloads into orbit. They’ve been hugely successful in this field, with multiple achievements, including being the first privately funded company to successfully launch, orbit and recover a spacecraft. They were also the first private company to send a spacecraft to the International Space Station, and have flown ten missions to date to the ISS.''Whilst the majority of their work is on commercial and government contracts for putting things like satellites into orbit, some recent developments have put SpaceX firmly on the space tourism map.''First, in 2017 they''announced''that they had been contracted by two private individuals who want to go on a trip around the moon. This is currently due to launch in 2018, and will be by far the most ambitious space tourism endeavour to date by any company.''Next, SpaceX is actively working on technology to colonise Mars, with a lofty goal of setting up a permanent colony on the red planet, home to over a million people, within the next 100 years. Whilst the current estimate of cost for such a ride is in the region of $10 billion USD per person, SpaceX is aiming to bring that down to $100,000 through the development of their''Interplanetary Transport System''. This won’t happen in the near-term, but by the end of the century tourism to Mars might be a real possibility, with lunar and earth-orbital flights the norm by then.''4. Other Contenders''So those are the main players who, in my opinion, have the most realistic chances of taking you to space in the coming decade. But they aren’t the only players in the space tourism arena! Here are a few others to be aware of who might give you a chance of getting off Planet Earth.''Bigelow Aerospace:''Bigelow Aerospace''are actually a pretty major name when it comes to space technology, and if you ever happen to find yourself in a hotel on the moon or floating around the Earth, it’s likely going to be inside one of their inflatable habitats. This isn’t theoretical either, they’ve got an inflatable capsule attached to the International Space Station already undergoing feasibility testing. Owner Robert Bigelow made his fortune in hotels, and he sees no reason why we can’t have them in space too.''Mars One:''Mars One''is an organisation with a goal of establishing a permanent human colony on Mars by the year 2035. Announced in 2012, it encouraged members of the public to sign up for the one-way mission, which resulted in over 200,000 applicants. That was whittled down to 100, and over 2017 this is planned to be reduced to a final 24 candidates. Unfortunately, the project is dogged by criticism, particularly around the technical and financial feasibility of their plan. Still, it’s one to keep an eye on in case they miraculously pull it off and need colonists!''Boeing:''Boeing''are currently under contract with NASA to build a crew transport vehicle that would be compatible with a number of rocket systems, primarily for the purpose of shuttling astronauts to the ISS. It’s currently due to start those flights in late 2018. As part of their contract, this''CST-100 Starliner''was specified to include''one seat specifically for the purposes of space tourism'', allowing one passenger to just tag along for the ride as it were. For a price, naturally. That price is currently unknown, although the original goal was to have it price competitive with the Russian Space Agency, so don’t expect it to come under the tens of millions mark!''The Best Space Sights and Activities on Earth''Ok, so based on all the above, you’re probably realising that space is still a pretty tough place to get to right now, and even over the next few years it’s still going to be pretty darn expensive for a fairly brief jaunt.''Don’t fret though. Planet Earth is a pretty cool place, and there are a lot of space-related activities you can take part in without re-mortgaging your house and strapping yourself to a rocket .''Here are a few place you can learn about space and space travel in the meantime! Let’s look at these.''1. Active Spaceports''Whilst you might not get into space right now, you can still visit a spaceport and dream of the future! I’ve picked three spaceports for you to think about visiting.''Spaceport America, USA.''Set in the high New Mexican desert,''Spaceport America''is the world’s first purpose-built commercial spaceport, meaning it’s designed for commercial users. Yes, people like you and me. It’s the home base of Virgin Galactic, and is where that company will be operating from when they finally launch their space tourism flights. SpaceX also conduct some of their testing here. Unfortunately, you still can’t board a space trip here, but it’s a worthwhile place to visit, if only to get a tantalising glimpse of a possible future.''Kennedy Space Center, USA.''Found in Florida,''Kennedy Space Center''is the main launch pad for NASA’s operations, and is where Apollo and Space shuttle launches took place. It’s a massive facility, spanning 144,000 acres. There’s a visitor centre on site, where you can learn all about NASA and it’s space operations, see an actual space shuttle and even experience a simulated space shuttle launch. Kennedy Space Center is still very much an active launch site, and you can also come here to watch rockets blast off into space – see their website for''the launch schedule''.''Baikonur Cosmodrome, Kazakhstan.''One of the world’s most famous spaceports, and certainly the oldest and largest,''Baikonur Cosmodrome''is where the majority of Russia’s space program has operated from, including the first man into space, Yuri Gagarin. It’s still very active, and you can in theory visit, however prices are steep for a one day tour ($700+), and can only be arranged via a specialist tour operator in a complex process that needs to be booked weeks in advance.''2. Space Museums''As well as active space ports, there are a lot of museums around the world dedicated to sharing man’s activities in space. Here are a few of the best.''Space Center Houston, USA.''The official visitor centre for NASA’s center for human spaceflight activities,''Space Center Houston''is an excellent place to come and learn all about NASA’s efforts around getting people into space. It has a number of artifacts from our explorations to date, including a lunar module replica and various actual capsules that have been into space. Tip – if you’re visiting a few sights in Houston, you can save money by investing in a''CityPASS card''which will get you into the Space Center as well as a number of other attractions in the city.''New Mexico Museum of Space History, USA.''Found in Alamogordo in southern New Mexico, the five storey''New Mexico Museum of Space History''is full of information about man’s efforts to get into space, with everything from information on early rocket technology through to more modern day exhibits including a space shuttle landing simulator. It’s also home to the International Hall of Space Fame, a planetarium, and offers fantastic views across the White Sands National Monument.''Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum'',''USA''. Found in Washington, D.C., this''enormous museum''is home to the world’s largest collection of historic aircraft and spacecraft in the world, including the Apollo 11 module and clothing worn by astronauts. With over 60,000 objects on display, you won’t run out of things to look at!''The National Space Centre, UK.''Both a museum and an educational resource, the National Space Center in Leicester, UK, is home to six interactive galleries and the UK’s largest planetarium. A highlight though is the 42 metre high''Rocket Tower'', which houses a number of upright rockets, really giving you a feel for the enormity of these machines.''3. Space Themed Sights''We may be currently fairly stuck on the planet, but that doesn’t mean we’re not still hurtling through space, a small rock in a vast galaxy. Here are a few ways to help remind ourselves that there’s more out there than our horizon.''Meteor Craters.''On our journey through space we regularly bump into errant lumps of space debris – around 100 tons a day in fact. Most often these lumps are so small (dust-specks really) that they just burn up in our atmosphere, creating beautiful shooting stars. However, anything larger than a marble has a chance of making to earth, although there are a lot of factors at work.''According to NASA'', it’s the lumps that are around the size of a football field and up that make the most impact, and one of these hits us every couple of thousand of years. They can cause significant damage and leave a lasting impact. Two worth mentioning that you can visit are the aptly named “''Meteor Crater''” in Arizona, USA, and the''Wolfe Creek Meteor Crater''in Western Australia. Both of these are around a kilometre in diameter, meaning you can see the whole structure with the naked eye and really get a feel for the force required to create such a hole. Of course you can also find smaller ones all over the world.''Star Gazing.''You might not be able to get to the stars, but that doesn’t mean you can’t appreciate them. I always find that just lying back and staring into the vastness of space from a really dark location is a very powerful experience. You need to be somewhere far away from light pollution to get the best views of the night sky – there are dark sky preserves (and even''festivals''!) where you can get a great view, otherwise, head as far away from the lights as you can and just look up.''4. Giant Telescopes''How about if you can’t get into space, you try just looking at it through a really big magnifying glass and pretend you’re there? It might be as close as you can currently get to space for free, whilst also being wowed by humanities technological accomplishments. Below are four locations around the world where you can learn all about the art of looking into space. Of course, there are many more sites around the world and you can find a list of some of the''major telescopes here''although not all can be visited by the public.''The Very Large Array, USA.''Far out in the New Mexico wilderness, the''Very Large Array''is one of the world’s largest and most impressive radio telescopes. Unlike an optical telescope, which look at visible light waves, a radio telescope looks at radio waves, and from that we can learn all sorts of things from how black holes are formed through to the creation of the universe itself. These radio waves require a very large telescope, which is why the VLA is actually made up of 27 dishes, which work together to capture radio waves. There’s a small visitor centre and self-guided walking trail, and there are guided tours on the first Saturday of the month. See the''official website''for more details.''Jodrell Bank, UK.''If you’re in the UK'',''then a trip to''Jodrell Bank''is a good option for viewing impressively large radio telescopes. In fact, Jodrell Bank is home to the world’s third largest steerable radio telescope, as well as a number of other active telescopes. There’s a visitor centre where you can learn all about the telescopes, and all sorts of other space-related things.''The Very Large Telescope, Chile.''Way up high in the mountains of Chile is the world’s most advanced visible-light astronomical observatory – the aptly named “''Very Large Telescope''”. Operated by the European Southern Observatory, this is the most impressive optical instrument in the world to date, consisting of four main mirrors that are over eight meters in diameter, as well as four 1.8m diameter mirrors. These work together to create a final image, and the telescope is powerful enough that it would be able to make out a cars headlights on the moon. It’s fairly remote, what with it being on a mountain top in Chile, but you can visit – check''here''for more information on tours.''Green Bank Observatory, USA''– At time of writing,''Green Bank Observatory''is home to the worlds largest steerable radio telescope, the Green Bank Telescope. Constructed in 2001, it’s one of the newest US telescopes, and with a total collecting area of 2.3 acres, is certainly impressive to behold. You can take a tour of the observatory, and there are also weekly and monthly events at the site.''5. Extra-terrestrial spots''If you’re really desperate to get off planet, you might want to frequent a location which has a history of extra-terrestrial activity such as UFO sightings. Whilst E.T. is yet to make formal contact, who knows, you might get lucky and have the chance to hop on a passing spaceship!''Roswell, USA.''If you want to learn about aliens, then the town of Roswell in New Mexico has definitely got to be on your list. It became famous as the alleged site of a huge government cover-up of a supposed alien spaceship crash at a nearby ranch property, and the town has since embraced it’s position as the world’s most famous UFO hotspot. There are a number of alien themed attractions here – we’d recommend visiting the''Roswell UFO museum''as a good starting point.''El Enladrillado, Chile.''Central Chile is well known as a UFO spotting hotzone. So much so in fact, that the country’s national tourism board established a UFO trail, a 30km long designated trail in the Andes mountains that centres around the town of San Clemente. This is definitely a good place to come to spot UFO’s, although the national tourism authority is keen to stress that a sighting isn’t guaranteed.''Nullabor Plain, Australia.''When I was travelling in Australia, I had a memorable''evening out in the outback''on the vast Nullabor Plain with a chap who was convinced he was regularly visited by aliens. He might have been on to something of course, with this region of Australia being particularly famous for UFO sightings. And if you don’t see a UFO, fear not, the star gazing here is pretty epic too!''HR Giger Museum, Switzerland.''If you prefer your aliens of the fantastical science fiction type, then a visit to the''HR Giger museum''in Gruyères, Switzerland, should definitely be on your list. It’s home a large collection of works by Swiss artists HR Giger, who famously created the monsters from the sci-fi classic horror movie Alien (and its sequels). Definitely one for the sci-fi fans.''Further Reading for your Space Trip''Well, that was a lot about space. Hopefully you’ve learnt a bit about your options for getting into space as a tourist, as well as some slightly more cost-effective ways to get your space fix on! Here are a few resources that you might find useful.''Our favourite sights along the''New Mexico Space Trail'', USA. Plus a''guide to attending the Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta''if you’re in New Mexico.''Our''guide to visiting Jasper National Park''for their annual Dark Sky Festival''Official websites for''Virgin Galactic'',''Blue Origin''and''SpaceX'', for when you’ve saved up enough for that ticket to space''The''NASA Instagram feed'', for mind blowing space images''John Glenn’s''memoir, to give you an insight into what it was like to be the first American to orbit the earth.''Chris Hadfield’s book “''An Astronaut’s Guide to Life on Earth''”, helping you understand how to make the impossible a reality, which seems like a good place to end this post!''Well, that was a lot to write about space travel and space tourism! We’re not quite there yet, but with the pace of developments I see no reason why, in the coming years and decades, that I won’t finally be able to realise my dream of heading up into space for real. Let me know in the comments if heading into space is a dream of yours!''SHARE ON''The Seychelles islands are known for a number of things. Right at the top of most peoples’ list would be the beaches, what with their turquoise warm waters, brilliant white sands, palm trees and, well, you’ve got the idea.''Another thing most visitors to these islands fall in love with is the Seychelles food. And there’s good reason for that. From freshly caught fish, to locally grown fruit, from spicy curries to sweet fried bananas, there is something here for every taste bud and palate.''I am lucky enough to be part Seychellois, and have spent a significant part of my life on these wonderful islands. My granny and aunt both made some pretty spectacular traditional Creole dishes, and it was always a pleasure to dine in their kitchen.''Here, in no particular order, are some traditional Seychelles foods you should try out when you hit the islands!''Traditional Seychelles Food''1. Fresh grilled fish''The Seychelles is home to a countless number of tropical fish species, which local fisherman will sell to you, either from the market in Victoria, or by the side of the road fresh from the boat. Listen out for the sound of a conch shell being blown – the traditional sign that fish has just been brought ashore for sale.''One of the most popular ways to prepare a fish is over the hot coals of a BBQ, often fired by coconut husks to give a wonderful aroma and flavour to the fish.''Usually preparation of the fish is minimal – just some slits down the side into which garlic, ginger and chilli is stuffed – and then grilled to perfection. Barracuda in particular are excellent done in this style.''2. Salted fish''Salted fish, or Pwason Sale, as the locals call it, is less common today than it used to be, but it is still available if you know where to look. Again, the lack of refrigeration until well into the late 20th century meant that food preservation was a challenge, so to keep produce edible all sorts of preservation techniques were used, including pickling and salting.''Salted fish is pretty much what you would imagine it to be – fish is liberally covered in salt and then left to dry in the sun. When you want to cook it, you soak it for a while, drain some of the salt out, then use it as you would any other ingredient.''I’m not going to lie to you – this is what could be described as an acquired taste. The taste is both incredibly fishy and incredibly salty at the same time. If you’re into anchovies, you will probably be in heaven. If you hate anchovies.. well.. perhaps go for the curry.''There are a variety of ways that salted fish can be served, but the absolute classic has to be the Rougay. This is basically just a tomato and onion base with plenty of garlic, ginger and chilli, fried up, then served with rice. Another excellent option, which cuts through some of the salt, is to have it as a coconut curry.''3. Coconut Curry''When my Mum moved out to the Seychelles way back in the seventies, she started out her culinary adventures by asking my Dad how they cooked things. She relates that she soon gave up asking the question because the default answer was invariably curry.''And curry really is a dish that your average Seychellois adores. This could be something to do with the history of the islands – electricity arrived late – so spices were used as a preservative. Whatever the reason, curry, often based around masala spices, curry leaves, hot chillies and lots of freshly made coconut cream, is a staple.''The ingredients vary, back in the day bat and goat were key ingredients, although you may struggle to find those today. Instead, chicken and fish curries are likely to be on your plate, with Octopus Curry a local Seychelles speciality you should definitely try at least once.''Enjoy, but do watch out, because the Seychellois do like their curries hot!''4. Lentils''An often overlooked dish, but a critical side component of a traditional Seychelles curry feast is the humble lentil. In Seychelles, red lentils are a popular staple, served as a side dish with many dishes. These are often cooked for a long time with garlic, onion and ginger, with the result being a fairly yellow paste.''This might not look hugely appetising, but it is very tasty. Definitely add some to your plate if you have the choice to do so!''5. Sausage Rougay''One of my all time favourite dishes is “sosis rougay”, or sausage rougay. This is a sausage based dish (as the name suggests) in a rich tomato and onion sauce, which usually also features garlic, ginger and chilli.''The secret to a fabulous sausage rougay though is the type of sausage. Ideally, this dish will be made with local coarse cut salted sausage. This is a little bit like a Tuscan sausage in texture, but a lot saltier, and gives the dish it’s signature flavour. Rougay can also have other ingredients – a salted fish rougay is another favourite Seychelles food of mine!''6. Anything with banana in''The Seychelles, at last count, is home to at least 23 different banana species. From tiny little sweet bananas, to giant plantains that need to be cooked, there is a banana size for everyone. And once you’ve tried a recently plucked banana you will wonder how you ever coped with the supermarket variety back home.''Bananas are used as a key ingredient in a number of dishes, most notably, desserts. Bananas fried with sugar and butter are a favourite of mine, resulting in a giant, sticky, toffee like mess. Bananas baked with coconut milk and sugar are another classic, the so called Banann ladob. You’ll also find them flambeed with rum or brandy, fried as chips, and of course, just served as they come. Delicious in every way!''6. Breadfruit''Breadfruit is a remarkably versatile food ingredient, basically imagine it as a giant potato in terms of cooking flexibility. So you can boil it, bake it, mash it and fry it. It can even be cooked in coconut milk and sugar as a dessert option, and breadfruit “ladobe” is a classic Seychelles dessert.''In my opinion though, by far the best way to eat breadfruit is to just put it whole (they are fairly large), with the tough skin on, into the embers of your fire, surrounded by coconut husks, leave it for around 45 minutes, and when the skin is charred, crack it open to reveal the steaming creamy white flesh within.''Traditionally, you would then lather it with pork lard and salt and chow on down, but these days people find butter to be a more than acceptable substitute. And don’t forget the Creole saying – if you’ve eaten breadfruit in Seychelles, you are guaranteed to come back to the islands!''7. Smoked Fish Salad''As you would imagine, the Seychelles has a lot of fish! One popular and traditional way of preserving fish, particularly before the advent of refrigeration, was to smoke it. Smoked fish has a wonderful flavour, and it works particularly well in a cold salad.''This can be served with a variety of vegetables with a dressing, and the fish is usually a larger fish with darker meat, like swordfish, sailfish or tuna. It’s also popular to use unripe fruits such as mango or papaya in the salad, which adds a tangy zest to the dish.''8. Traditional “Satini”''In the Seychelles a “Satini” is a sort of salad, which consists of finely grated ingredients. This is commonly made with either unripe fruits, such as papaya or golden apple, and mixed with spices and onions. It can also have quite a lot of chilli in, so do beware.''Satini can also be made with fish, most commonly shark, and it will usually be yellowed with turmeric spices and look like finely ground meat. Ground coconut is another popular ingredient. In the image above, you can see papaya satini at the top of the shot, and lentils at the bottom.''9. Fresh Fruit''Being a tropical paradise, you would think that Seychelles would be blessed with oodles of fresh fruit. And you would be right! There’s all sorts of fresh fruit on offer, including mango, papaya, avocado, banana, starfruit, coconut, limes, grapefruit – the list goes on!''Fruit is easy to come buy and pretty cheap to boot, so this is a great way to snack through the day. Fruit is nearly always served as a breakfast item, but you won’t have much trouble finding it throughout your stay in the Seychelles.''10. Traditional Seychelles Snacks''Speaking of snacking, if you find yourself getting hungry, there are a number of traditional Seychelles snack foods that you should try. These can be bought at most corner stores or supermarkets quite easily and cheaply.''Three of the more popular snacks are banana chips, breadfruit chips and “molouk”. The former are deep-fried and salted snacks, much like potato chips (crisps if you’re British). The latter is basically deep fried bread dough.''Sure, none of those snack options are exactly healthy, but they sure are tasty! If you want a slightly healthier, not deep-fried option, coconut is a popular snack option too!''Where to eat Traditional Seychelles Creole Food''I’m very lucky, because I got to grow up in the Seychelles, and with family out there, I have had traditional Creole dishes cooked for me by people who have spent a lifetime cooking delicious Seychelles food.''Don’t despair though – as a visitor to the Seychelles, you have a number of options for trying traditional Creole food.''1. At a locally owned guesthouse''One good option we’ve found for eating locally made Seychelles food is at a locally owned guesthouse or self-catering property where the owners offers meals as an optional extra.''We stayed at two properties in the Seychelles, both self-catering, where we were able to order food for dinner. In both cases, this was absolutely delicious and definitely authentic.''The two properties we stayed at which offered this service were''Villa Kordia''on Mahe and''Oceane Self Catering''on La Digue. It’s definitely worth checking to see if the property you are staying at offers home cooked meals as an option, and reading through the reviews to see what other visitors have to say about the food.''2. At a Creole restaurant''Your next best option for a good Creole meal is to go to a restaurant that specialises in Creole food. Whilst there are many places to eat out in the Seychelles, you want to go somewhere that has made a name for itself as a good place to eat.''There are a number of restaurants that fit this bill. On Mahe, the most popular and longest established is Marie Antoinette. Found in the capital city of Victoria and situated in an old Creole house, this restaurant has been serving up traditional Creole meals for many years.''The menu is fixed, and you get a variety of smaller dishes, meaning you get to sample a variety of traditional Seychelles foods at a relatively inexpensive price. Reviews are a little mixed – our advice is to go earlier on in the seating times, to ensure you get the food when it has been freshly made. We really enjoyed our meal here when we went in April 2018.''If you like seafood, then you’ll find a nice restaurant on the beach front at Anse Lazio on Praslin – Bonbon Plume. Whilst this is a little on the pricey side, the basic Creole dishes like fish curry are reasonable priced, and the grilled fish we had here was some of the best we ate on our trip.''3. At your hotel''The majority of hotels you are likely to stay at will likely offer some form of Seychelles food as an option – with the quality and value varying from property to property.''Of course, there are some hotels where you’ll be served fabulous food, and others where it will be westernised beyond recognition. But hopefully, with the choices I’ve given you, you’ll still be able to find the traditional flavours of the Seychelles when you visit!''And that’s it for my guide to some of the best foods in the Seychelles that you have to eat when you visit these stunning islands. Stay tuned – we’ve got a number of posts about visiting the Seychelles in the pipeline to help you plan the perfect trip. In the meantime, if you have any questions, don’t hesitate to let is know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Jess and I recently had the pleasure of visiting Vienna in Austria, a city that both of us were excited to visit. It’s a fantastic place for culture lovers, having played home to such icons as Mozart, Hadyn, and Strauss. It was also the seat of the vast Habsburg empire, which for a time was one of the largest empires in the world.''As you can imagine therefore, there’s quite a lot to see and do here!''This guide is designed to give you some ideas for what to do on a two day visit to Vienna. I will warn you up front – two days is definitely not going to give you enough time to see everything! Vienna is stuffed full of museums, palaces, art gallerys, churches and restaurants, and you could spend a great deal of time here sight-seeing.''So in this post I’ve tried to focus on some of the highlights and our favourite activities. We’ll also be putting together some longer itineraries if you’re lucky enough to have a bit more time to spend in this wonderful city. If you have more time, take a look at our suggestions for''three days in Vienna.''For now though, let’s get started on our idea of:''The Perfect 2 Day Vienna Itinerary''Day 1''1. St. Stephens Cathedral''Right in the centre of Vienna,''St. Stephens Cathedral''is an icon of the city skyline, and the seat of the Catholic church in Vienna. There’s been a church on this location since the 12th century, although the current version with it’s stunning multi-coloured tiled roof was largely completed in the early 16th century.''The church itself is free to enter, and being a popular attraction, it gets very crowded. We’d definitely recommend that you visit the treasury. This is a paid attraction, however it takes you up a floor or so above the main church floor, and as far fewer people visit, you can enjoy the views of the church interior with less of the crowds.''You can also head up both the south (136m high) and north (68m high) towers. These have individual prices – the south tower requires a certain level of fitness as it has 343 steps, whilst the north tower is accessible via a lift. Both offer close up views of the roof, although the south tower being higher offers more expansive city views.''2. Time Travel Vienna''To get a fun overview of some of the history of Vienna, our next stop is the''Time Travel Vienna''experience. This is a 50 minute partly guided tour through an underground “adventure area”, which features a 5D cinema ride, animated mannequins, and guides who provide commentary and information (audioguides are also available in 10 languages).''We really enjoyed this experience – it helped give us an overview of some of the key events that have shaped Vienna, from the time of the Romans through to the present day. It’s an excellent (and fun!) orientation, and should appeal to all ages.''3. Albertina''Time for some museums. Vienna has a huge range of museums covering nearly every niche, so do feel free to swap different museums into this itinerary depending on your interests. There’s everything from Mozart’s House to a museum entirely dedicated to globes (one of Jess’s favourites!).''The''Albertina''though, is definitely worth having on your itinerary. Partly a palace and partly a museum, it has an excellent collection of classic modernist paintings, including a number of works by Monet and Picasso on permanent exhibition. They also have over 100,000 photographs in their collection, some of which are displayed on a rotating basis.''There are also rotating exhibitions from the Albertina’s collections of modern art, contemporary art, graphic art and architectural art, as well as guest exhibitions. Check their''official website''for details of what will be on when you visit. And don’t forget to also visit the staterooms when you do.''4. Lunch at Augustinerkeller''Directly underneath the Albertina and in the site of one of Vienna’s few remaining ancient monastery cellars, this Austrian restaurant has been in the hands of the Bitzinger family since 1954.''There’s a focus on excellent, traditional Viennese food, as well as their own brand of beer. This is an excellent place to grab yourself some lunch in between adventures in gorgeously traditional surroundings.''Food in Austria tends to be fairly heavy (but delicious), so we recommend not over-ordering. Local specialities include Schnitzel, Goulash, Tafelspitz (boiled beef) and of course, Appel strudel. We loved eating here and are sure you will too. See their''official website''for opening hours and menu examples.''5. Natural History Museum & Kunsthistorische Museum''Full from lunch, it’s time to push on for a bit more culture. Again, so much to choose from in Vienna, but we’re going to suggest two popular options which happen to be directly opposite each other and of the same exterior design.''These are the''Natural History Museum'', and the''Kunsthistoriche Museum'', which sit right beside the''Hofburg Palace''complex and also''Vienna’s Museum Quarter''. Yes, Vienna has a whole museum quarter!''The Natural History Museum, opened in 1889, focuses on the natural history of the world, with everything from meteorites to dinosaur skeletons. The building itself is truly magnificent, built in a palatial style, and is worth visiting of itself.''Directly across from the Natural History Museum is the Kunsthistoriche Museum, or Museum of Art History. This is a massive museum dedicated to the arts which opened in 1891 – both of these buildings were originally built to house the rather extensive Habsburg collection and make it accessible to the public. The Kunsthistoriche Museum in particular features a large amount of pieces from the Habsburgs, and includes paintings, sculptures and antiquities.''Fear not if neither of these museums pique your interest. Only a few minutes walk from both of these you’ll find the''Papyrus Museum'', the''Modern Art Museum'', the''Leopold Museum''and of course the various Habsburg museums. You will definitely not run out of museums to visit in Vienna!''6. City River Cruise''All that museum time might have you hankering for a more relaxing way to spend your afternoon, so we suggest that you allocate some time to taking a river cruise along the Danube River, or at least, the Danube Canal, an arm that branches off the main river and runs near to the old part of Vienna.''There are a number of companies that offer river cruises of varying lengths. We took the option that was''included on the Vienna Pass'', a 75 minute cruise aboard the''MS Blue Danube'', which we enjoyed very much, watching the sights of Vienna roll by accompanied by a cold beer and some Viennese schnitzel. Definitely a good way to spend the afternoon!''7. A Ride on the Giant Ferris Wheel''As you come towards the end of your first day, we think you might enjoy heading up into the sky for great views over the city. Ideally, you’ll have timed this for sunset, although of course this will depend on the time of year you visit.''One of the best ways to get a great view of the city skyline is aboard the Vienna’s “Giant Ferris Wheel”, officially known as the''Wiener Riesenrad''. This is found in the Prater amusement park a couple of metro stops from Schwdenplatz where the city cruise departs and returns to.''Originally built in 1897, the wheel was the world’s largest of its type for 65 years, and is one of the few surviving 19th century Ferris wheels. It was however heavily damaged in World War 2, so much of it dates from 1945.''History aside, it’s an excellent place to get a great view of the Vienna skyline, especially at sunset. The ride takes around 20 minutes for one full revolution and is a nice way to end your day of exploring.''Day 2''8. Schönbrunn Palace''Schönbrunn Palace is a must-visit when in Vienna, and even though it will take up at least half of your second day in the city, we’d suggest it’s more than worth it. There’s a huge amount to do here, and we’d even forgive you for spending the whole day here and skipping the other attractions on our itinerary – there’s just so much to do here!''The Palace itself, now a UNESCO world heritage site, was the centre of Viennese court life in the 18th century, and is one of the finest examples of Baroque architecture in Vienna. It was witness to a number of historical events, and was where a six year old Mozart had his first major concert. With over 1,400 rooms, it’s not exactly small, and there are hundreds of acres of garden to explore, with a number of attractions to visit as well.''Being so popular means that you’ll want to arrive as early in the day as possible, especially if you want to do the tour inside the palace itself, as this gets booked up very quickly. We arrived at the palace before 10am, and the first tour wasn’t available until after 12!''Thankfully, there’s plenty more to do than tour the palace. We’d highly recommend you visit the Carriage House, the world famous Schönbrunn Zoo (the oldest zoo and one of the best zoos in Austria), the Glorietta (which offers incredible views of the palace and Viennese skyline), the labyrinth, the Palmhaus and the Princes Gardens. We also loved the Strudel show, where you’ll learn how the famous Austrian dessert is made, plus get a slice of your own!''Just wandering the grounds on a nice day is a pleasure of itself, and you could even bring a picnic to make a real day of it. Definitely not to be missed when visiting Vienna!''Schönbrunn is a few kilometres outside of the city centre. It’s easily accessible by metro from central Vienna, and is also on the hop-on hop-off bus route.''9. Military History Museum''If you manage to pull yourself away from Schönbrunn , we’d suggest taking the''hop-off hop-on bus''(also''included in the Vienna Pass)''to a couple more locations before returning to the city centre. First of these is the''Vienna Museum of Military History.''This museum covers the full history of the Austrian military, with everything on display from military weapons and vehicles through to uniforms and medals, spanning a time period of the 16th century up to the present day. It’s housed in Vienna’s oldest purpose built museum building, which formed a part of Vienna’s original arsenal complex. Again, almost worth visiting for the building alone!''10. Belvedere Palace''Further along from the Military History Building on the hop-off hop-on bus route (or a relatively short walk), you will come to the UNESCO listed''Belvedere''palace complex. This consists of two palaces, the Upper and Lower Belvedere and is home to the Belvedere Museum.''These were constructed in the late 17th and early 18th century by Prince Eugene, at a time when magnificent buildings were popping up all over Vienna. The two palaces are constructed at opposite ends of the landscaped gardens, and were used by Prince Eugene as his summer residence.''Today, as well as being able to visit the grounds, you can tour the Baroque-style palaces, which are home to one of Vienna’s best collections of Austrian Art, including the famous “Kiss” painting by Gustav Klimt.''11. Rooftop Bar''It must be time to relax after all that culture, and what better place to do that than at one of Vienna’s rooftop bars?''There are''many to choose from''– we enjoyed cocktails at Cafe Bar Bloom accompanied by lovely view of Stephansdom and the sun setting over the city. They also serve snacks on the rooftop or you can head downstairs for a meal.''12. Dinner at Zwolf Apostkeller''Just round the corner from Cafe Bar Bloom is another of Vienna’s monastery cellar restaurants – the''Zwolf Apostkeller''. Housed in a building that dates from at least 1339, this winding maze of arched brick ceilings offers authentic old-world charm with classic Viennese dining and drinking options. You might also be serenaded by live musicians as you dine! A wonderful way to round out the end of this two day Vienna itinerary.''Practicalities for Visiting Vienna''Now we’ve covered what to see for a two day stop in Vienna, let’s look at some of the practicalities for visiting this wonderful city. Starting with:''How to Get Around''Central Vienna is incredibly walkable, with the majority of the attractions located inside the “ring road”, which runs around the central city and follows the route of the old city walls.''For attractions that are further out, Vienna has a good public transport system which will get you easily and quickly to all the main sights. If you think you’ll be using public transport extensively, investing in a transport card for your time in Vienna is likely going to be the cheapest option, although in our experience, we hardly needed them. The cards can be purchased at ticket machines located at all the subway stations in time periods of 24, 48 and 72 hours, and let you use all the public transport options in the city.''Alternatively, you can buy tickets for the hop-on hop-off sightseeing bus which offers narrated sightseeing and transportation. It is also included as part of the''Vienna Pass''. This covers all the major attractions in the city, including those further out destinations like Schönbrunn Palace, across a number of routes.''More on how to use the Vienna Pass to save money on your Vienna trip towards the end of the post.''When to Visit Vienna''Like much of Europe, Vienna is a city that can be visited year round. A great many of the attractions are indoor, so even if the weather isn’t great, there will be no shortage of sights to see.''However, we’d definitely suggest that the months of May and September are likely to be the best for visiting. The weather will be warm but not too hot, there’ll be lots of sunlight hours for exploring, and you’ll miss the majority of the summer crowds. Of course, sunshine isn’t guaranteed, so packing a light raincoat is advised, but on the whole you should get good weather in these months.''If you can’t avoid travelling over the summer, check out our''top tips for surviving a European city in summer''to preserve your sanity!''Internet Access''Your accommodation is very likely to come with free Wi-Fi, and you’ll also be able to get online in most cafes, bars, and restaurants. For mobile data, you have a number of options depending on your phone.''First, check if your cell phone provider has some form of overseas roaming policy. I use (and love!) the''Three network in the UK'', because it lets me use my home data allowance at no extra charge in''nearly 50 countries'', including Austria. So I can just roam without worry on my unlimited data package. A number of other providers offer roaming plans, so check with them first.''You can also buy a pay as you go SIM locally in Austria when you arrive – see a list of''prices and packages here''. You should be able to pick up a pay as you go SIM for under €20 with more than enough data for your trip.''Electricity''Austria uses a two pin 220v system like the majority of continental Europe. If you’re coming from the UK you’ll need an adapter. Travellers from the US will also need an''adapter'', and to check that their equipment supports the 220v standard. In our experience, laptop and mobile phone chargers will support voltages from 110 – 240v, whilst hairdryers and curling irons may not.''Supported voltages should be clearly marked on the power adaptor for the device – if in doubt, don’t plug your device in as it could cause serious damage.''Where to Stay in Vienna''As we often do when visiting a city like Vienna, we opted for an''AirBnB''apartment. This was around 100 USD per night for an apartment to ourselves right in the city centre, and meant that we had room to work, cook meals and do our laundry.''Of course, there are plenty more options than AirBnB in Vienna, with everything from hostels through to luxury five star hotels. We recommend you check out the''Vienna listings on Booking.com''if you prefer a hotel stay, we find they usually come back with the widest choice and best deals – plus they have apartments now too.''For more tips and ideas on how to get the best deals on accommodation (and more!), check out our comprehensive''travel resources page''.''If AirBnB sounds good to you, use''this link''to score a saving off your first trip. And, don’t forget that AirBnB is far from the only game in town when it comes to finding accommodation! Check out our guide to''our favourite AirBnB alternatives''to see what’s out there!''How to Save Money on Your 2 Day Vienna Itinerary''Vienna is definitely not a budget city, and the majority of the attractions listed on this two day itinerary have an entry fee.''You can however save serious money on Vienna sight-seeing by investing in the awesome''Vienna Pass''. Seriously, it’s awesome.''To give you an idea of how much you can save, visiting all the attractions I’ve listed on this itinerary would cost you well over 200 euros. In particular, the various sights at Schönbrunn each carry an individual price – just visiting all the highlights I’ve mentioned at Schönbrunn would add up to nearly 70 Euros!''Conversely, a two day''Vienna Pass''only costs €79. It’s incredibly easy to use, normally requiring just a quick scan when you arrive at an attraction and it also includes skip the line access at a number of locations as well, meaning you can make the most use of your time.''Everywhere I’ve listed in this itinerary, with the exception of St. Stephen’s north and south towers (and meals of course!) are included on the Vienna Pass. In fact, the pass comes with free entry to over 60 of Vienna’s most popular attractions, meaning you can slip in a few more sights onto the list above without it costing you anything more.''We’ve used city passes and museum cards in destinations around the world, and love how much money they save us on sight-seeing. We highly recommend the Vienna Pass to anyone looking to save money in Vienna – it’s definitely one of the best value city passes we’ve ever used! You can reserve one in advance''here'', for easy collection on arrival in the city.''Further reading for your visit to Vienna''This post should give you nearly everything you need to plan out your two day Vienna itinerary. On top of all the above though, we have some additional content and resources we think you might find useful. Some of this is content we’ve written ourselves, and some is content from around the web or that you can take with you. Do check back from time to time and bookmark this page, as we’re always updating and adding new content to our sites to help you make the most of your travels!''If you have a bit longer in Vienna, check out our detailed guide to spending''3 days in Vienna''If you liked this itinerary, check out some of our other''detailed itineraries'', which cover cities, countries and road trips around the world.''Visiting Vienna in summer? Take a look at our tips for''visiting Europe in summer''to make the most of your time''Looking for a guidebook? We used the''DK Eyewitness Travel Guide to Vienna'', and found it very informative''Planning to stay in an apartment? Check out our''guide to over 20 websites that allow you to book apartments online''to make sure you get the best deal''And that sums up our post on how to spend two fantastic days in Vienna! There’s lots to do here for many more than two days, and we’re going to be putting some more posts together covering longer itineraries. In the meantime, if you’ve got any questions or thoughts on how to spend two days in Vienna, let us know about them in the comments below!''SHARE ON''It’s time for post seven in our''photo essay series covering our Route 66''trip from California to Chicago, with Missouri being the seventh state on our adventure.''We followed as closely as we could the original route, and saw a lot along the way, from the high desert scenery of the west through to more rural scenery in the mid and eastern parts of the USA.''We’ve got some resources at the end to help you plan your own Route 66 adventure, but for now, lets focus on some of our favourite sights along Route 66 in Missouri.''No Route 66 adventure would be complete without a drive-in movie theatre. We passed a few of these on our adventures, and stopped at one in Oklahoma for a double-bill. Definitely a must if you’re driving the route!''We also loved all the murals along the Route. This was in the town of Amanda, where there were all sorts of murals depicting scenes from the past.''Boots Court in Carthage is a classic old Route 66 motel that has recently been lovingly restored to how it would have been during its heyday in 1949. We weren’t able to stay the night here, but we were given a full tour. If you get the chance, we highly recommend you stay over.''Bowling was (and still is!) a popular way to spend an evening on Route 66, so stopping at one of the many bowling alleys along the way is a great option. And this one has the name and everything!''I couldn’t do a Route 66 post without a photo of some diner food.''And the inside of a diner. Love these old style locations! This is in Carthage.''Like every state, not all the businesses in Missouri have survived the coming o the interstates and the decline in Route 66 traffic, with plenty of abandoned buildings and properties to photograph. Here, this motel seems to be not much more than a sign.''Route 66 is all about quirky road side attractions, like this giant statue of a pirate.''And this giant rocking chair!''One of Missouri’s most famous attractions are the Meramec Caverns, a huge cave complex near Stanton. The caverns were advertised all across middle America, primarily on barns, and they have now become a classic part of the Route 66 legend. A few still survive on the route, so keep an eye out.''And of course, once you’ve seen the barns, you’ll want to check out the caverns themselves!''Of course, no Route 66 photo essay would be complete without some motel signs.''We stayed in this one, so managed to get some photos of that Route 66 neon!''This vintage car is part of the Red Oak II ghost town. It’s not strictly a ghost town, rather, all the buildings have been brought here from around the country, to be restored and looked after. It’s a really cool place to visit, and we loved wandering around. The next two pictures are from Red Oak II.''The city of St Louis is particularly known for it’s Gateway Arch, signifying how this was the gateway to America’s West. The arch is 192 metres high, making it the world’s tallest arch, as well as the largest man-made monument in the western hemisphere.''Speaking of man made monuments, we also came across this scale replica of Stonehenge in the town of Rolla.''Every state on Route 66 seems to have a must-try food stuff. In Missouri, that’s frozen custard. Which of course we tried, and it was delicious.''There are also numerous dining options offering huge plates of great value food.''Finally, our photo essay of the highlights of Route 66 in Missouri concludes with this wonderful old gas station.''As you can see, Missouri has no shortage of photogenic locations along Route 66, and we loved driving through the state and exploring all of them. Hopefully, this series has inspired you to want to do your own Route 66 adventure – if so, read on for our:''Tips for Planning your own Route 66 Adventure''If you’re planning your own historic Route 66 adventure, we’ve got a bit of reading for you!''First, be inspired by photos from all the states we visited, by checking our photos highlights from each Route 66 state:''California'',''Arizona'',''New Mexico'',''Texas'',''Oklahoma'',''Kansas'',''Missouri''&''Illinois''Next, check out Jess’s comprehensive guide to''planning a Route 66 trip''Then, take a look out our incredibly detailed''day by day Route 66 itinerary'', which covers all the sights you want to see, route tips, lodging options and places to eat.''If you’re new to driving in the US, check out my''tips for driving in the US''to get you started''Not sure how much it’s all going to cost? We’ve got you covered with our''guide to travel costs in the USA''Finally, take a look at''this book''– the best way in our opinion to successfully navigate the entire length of Route 66 as faithfully as you can. We followed it the whole way, and even met the author, and couldn’t have done without it!''Enjoy your Route 66 trip, and let us know which has been your favourite state so far in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Thinking about planning a trip to Iceland? You’ve come to the right place! In this post, I’m going to go through everything you’ll want to consider for planning an Iceland trip.''This post covers a lot, including the different ways to visit and get around Iceland,\xa0 some of the regions you might want to consider visiting for different length itineraries in Iceland, packing advice, practical considerations like electricity, money and tipping, tips on when to visit and where to stay, how much to budget for your trip to Iceland, as well as the steps you need to follow to plan the perfect Iceland trip.''This is based on our experiences visiting Iceland, both on a self-drive tour itinerary with''Iceland Travel''(which included car-hire, accommodation, and a suggested itinerary), as well as our own personal exploration in the country.''We’ll also be sharing a brief overview of our experiences with Iceland Travel, to help you decide if a self-drive type of trip we did is right for you, and how we picked that trip.''Contents:''Steps For Planning a Trip to Iceland''Step 1. Decide When To Visit Iceland''Step 2. Decide How Long You Want to Visit Iceland For''Step 3. Decide What kind of Trip to Take in Iceland''Step 4. Choose an Itinerary for your Iceland Trip''A Review of Our Winter Trip To Iceland''Why we went in Winter''How Long We Went For''The Trip we Chose to Do With Iceland Travel''Why we Chose a Self-Drive Tour''Who Are Iceland Travel?''What’s Included (and what isn’t) on a Self Drive Tour with Iceland Travel?''Types of Trips Iceland Travel Offer''A Summary of our Eight Day Iceland Itinerary''What we Enjoyed About Our Iceland Trip with Iceland Travel''What could have been improved?''What to Pack on a Trip to Iceland''Where to Stay in Iceland''How Much Does it Cost to Travel in Iceland?''Practicalities for your Trip in Iceland''1. Safety in Iceland''2. Power''3. Internet Access / WiFi''4. Language''5. Money in Iceland''6. Tipping in Iceland''Further Reading to Help you Plan your Trip to Iceland''Steps For Planning a Trip to Iceland''Step 1. Decide When To Visit Iceland''The time of year you visit Iceland will make a big difference to what you see and how you experience the country, as well as how busy the attractions are. As an overview:''Visiting Iceland in Winter''Running roughly from mid-October right through to the end of April, winter is the least busy time in Iceland. The closer to December you visit, the darker the days will be – in mid-December you’ll get less than six hours of daylight! In March however this is up to 12 hours of daylight or more.''That darkness is great for seeing the Northern Lights, so if that’s a key cbonsideration for your trip, winter is the time you should visit. Winter means snowy landscapes and icy driving conditions (see our guide to''driving in Iceland in winter''), and some parts of the country, particularly the high ground, become inaccessible for all but the most extreme off-road vehicles.''I’d definitely not be put off visiting Iceland in winter. Temperature rarely fall far below freezing, there are far fewer visitors, and the wintery landscapes are stunning to behold. Plus, that chance of seeing the northern lights is tempting!''If you do plan on visiting Iceland in winter, check out our detailed guide to''winter activities in Iceland''to give you lots of ideas for what you can get up to, plus our guide to''what to pack for Iceland in winter'', so you’re prepared!''Visiting Iceland in Fall & Spring''April, late September and early October are about as close to fall and spring as you are able to come in Iceland. These are essentially the shoulder months, with longer days than in winter, less chance of snow and more roads and attractions likely to be fully open and accessible.''Whilst it’s not likely to be too hot, the winter chill won’t be around, and you have a better chance of greener landscapes. It also won’t be as busy as summer time, although the longer days will limit your chance at seeing the northern lights.''Visiting Iceland in Summer''Summer is the most popular time to visit Iceland, so prices are likely to be higher and attractions more crowded with visitors. Roads will be open around the country, making attractions more accessible, and a number of tours that weren’t possible in the other months will be operational.''The long days means that you aren’t going to see the aurora borealis. The country will be beautifully green and lush though, with colourful wildflowers lighting up the landscape if you visit when they’re in bloom. Also a great time to see wildlife.''Step 2. Decide How Long You Want to Visit Iceland For''There’s a lot to see and do in Iceland, and you could easily fill up two or three weeks here. There are also many attractions within easy reach of Reykjavik, so even if you just did a two or three day stopover, you’d still be amazed by how much natural beauty you could fit in. See our guide to some of the''best day trips from Reykjavik''for ideas. We’d suggest that you should spend at least three to seven days in the country if you can to see as much as possible – and check out our''seven day Iceland itinerary''for inspiration.''If you want to tackle the ring road that goes all the way around Iceland (advisable in the summer months), then you should think about at least seven days in Iceland, but preferably 10 – 14 days in order to get the most out of your experience.''However long you choose to visit Iceland for though, we think there’s a great experience waiting for you.''Step 3. Decide What kind of Trip to Take in Iceland''There are multiple options for how to travel in Iceland, which can be broadly categorised as follows:''A Self Drive Trip''Usually our preferred way of travelling, and definitely a good option in Iceland. A self-drive trip has you hiring a car and then travelling around Iceland under your own steam, staying in different locations and sight-seeing based on your interests. You have the flexibility to reschedule sights and activities if the weather is poor, add (or remove!) sights from your itinerary if you wish, and generally have the most control over your trip.''The disadvantage of a trip like this is that it can work out to be a more expensive option than a group tour once you’ve factored in all the costs of the hire-car, accommodation, fuel and so-on.''A group guided tour''If you prefer to have someone else handle the driving while you enjoy the scenic views, then you might prefer to take a guided tour. These come in various types, from single-day excursions to multi-day trips, and you can book both private tours or group tours.''Iceland Travel for example offers a wide variety of group tours, including''single day trips''that cover a majority of the highlights of Iceland, such as the''Golden Circle''and''Snaefellsnes Peninsula''. They also offer longer, more in-depth multi-day group tours, including a full tour of Iceland, and one focusing on the South Coast highlights. See''their website''for more information on all the tours they offer.''Guided tours have the advantage that you don’t have to worry about anything other than being on time for the bus. They usually work out to be cheaper than doing it yourself, and you know that you’re going to see all the highlights.''Many people, especially those with only a few days to spare, base themselves in Reykjavik and then take a series of single day excursions to places to visit highlights like the''Golden Circle'', Blue Lagoon, do a glacier hike, and to''see the Northern Lights''. Although you do need to be prepared to spend some time in a bus, it is amazing how much you can see doing''day trips from Reykjavik'', and returning back to your hotel in the city each night!''The disadvantage is that you don’t have the flexibility to stop as and when you want, and in a group tour in particular, obviously you’ll be with a number of other people. Of course, this can be a great way to meet people and have a social aspect to your trip.''A private guided tour''A private tour can be a “best of both worlds” option, but these do tend to end up being the most expensive option for a trip, so unless there is a fairly large group of you, or money is no object, we’d suggest that either a self-drive trip or a group tour are going to be better value.''Public Transport / Bus Passports''There are also sight-seeing bus companies which offer transport rather than entire tours. You buy what they call a “''bus passport''“, which are available for different durations and cover different parts of the country. These can be a good way to sort out your transport independently of the rest of your trip, and are definitely a cost-effective option. See''here''for a list of options. Note though that as far as we can tell, most of these bus passports only operate in the summer months.''Finally, you could try to get around Iceland by public transport. There are public buses, but from a sight-seeing perspective, this is definitely not an optimal option as they generally don’t stop at the sights you want to see. We’d definitely advise picking one of the other options rather than public transport if you want to see Iceland’s natural attractions beyond the major towns.''Step 4. Choose an Itinerary for your Iceland Trip''Now you’ve decided when and for how long you want to visit Iceland, you’re going to want to plan an itinerary. Of course, once you’ve started putting an itinerary together, you might decide you need even longer in this wonderful country – and that’s fine of course!''1 – 4 days in Iceland''We’d suggest tor trips of one to three days you focus on the sights around and within a three to four hour drive of Reykjavik. For example, a''day trip around the Golden Circle'', a morning at the blue lagoon, a day trip along the south coast of Iceland to see some of Iceland’s most famous waterfalls, and perhaps a''day trip up to the Snaefellsnes Peninsula''. These can all be easily done as either a''day trip tour from Reykjavik''or as part of a''self drive tour''.''4 – 7 days in Iceland''Four to seven days gives you lots of choice in Iceland. Our suggestion would be to explore from the Snaefellsnes Peninsula in the west all the way along to Jökulsárlón in the east, taking in highlights including the Golden Circle, the Blue Lagoon, the mighty waterfalls of the south coast and the glacier region in the south-east. These would be perfect as part of a''self drive tour'', or you could join''multiple single-day tours''together from the city.''We have two itineraries to give you ideas, one for''five days in Iceland'', and one that goes through a''seven day itinerary for Iceland''.''7+ days in Iceland''With seven days to play with, and if you’re not travelling in the middle of winter, then the Ring Road is likely going to be your natural choice. You’ll be able to see the major highlights of Iceland on this incredible journey around the country, with more photo opportunities than you can imagine. This is a popular option, and can be done either as''a self-drive trip''or as part of a group tour.''Alternatively, you could thoroughly explore from the east of the country right along the south coast and see everything from the highlights to the less visited attractions, really taking your time and taking it all in.''Now you should have an idea of when you’re going to visit Iceland, how long you’re going to spend in Iceland, what sort of trip you’re going to do in Iceland and where you want to go in Iceland! We went through all these steps, and now I’m going to share with you what that ended up looking like, and why we made the choices we did.''A Review of Our Winter Trip To Iceland''This section covers our planning and decision making process for our winter trip to Iceland, followed by an overview of the trip we ended up doing, including a detailed trip itinerary. After that, there’s information on what to pack, where to stay, practical considerations for travelling in Iceland and information on much it costs to travel in Iceland.''Why we went in Winter''We chose Iceland in mid-March as it seemed like a good trade-off between the amount of available daylight (around 11 – 12 hours each day) whilst still having the chance to see the northern lights. I’ve wanted to see the northern lights for a long time, and been foiled on every attempt.''Spoiler alert, we didn’t see the northern lights in Iceland on this trip either. We were unlucky to be in Iceland during a quiet period for solar activity, and many of the nights were cloudy. We didn’t let this spoil our trip of course, but it’s definitely something to think about when picking a time of year to visit – the northern lights are not guaranteed!''How Long We Went For''We were in Iceland for 12 nights, which gave us plenty of time to do everything we wanted to do. As we were visiting in the winter months, we focused our attention on the south and west parts of the country, as these were more accessible. Much of the northern part of the country is harder to access in winter, and road closures due to snow and ice can be a problem.''The Trip we Chose to Do With Iceland Travel''The trip we chose with Iceland Travel was an eight day / seven night self-drive trip called''Glacial Exploration and Auroras.''At the time of writing this is the longest self-drive itinerary available in the winter months, because Iceland Travel don’t offer self-drive tours around the ring road at this time of year. If you are interested in seeing all of Iceland in Winter, then we would suggest the Iceland Complete Winter tour, which goes around the whole country, and runs October through to April.''We chose the itinerary not just because it promised glaciers and auroras, but because looking at the map, it covered the majority of the highlights that we were interested in, including the golden circle and all the highlights of the south coast all the way to Jökulsárlón Glacier Lagoon.''It even covered a part of the country a little north of Reykjavik, although not quite as far as the Snaefellsnes Peninsula. As we had extra time after the trip though, we were able to explore the Snaefellsnes Peninsula in our own time – we just extended the hire car a few more days.''Why we Chose a Self-Drive Tour''We chose a self-drive trip because it exactly matches our way of travel. We often take longer at stops because I’m waiting for the right light for a shot, or I’m waiting for the crowds of people to disperse. Sometimes we want to spend more time at a location because Jess wants to drop in at a museum. Often, I’ll need to drive somewhere for a sunset or sunrise.''Basically, we like to have control and flexibility over our plans, and a self-drive trip exactly lines up with those needs. With Iceland Travel, they took all the hassle out of the trip – things like finding a place to stay or getting a local SIM card. They provided us with loads of information about where we were going and what we might like to see. And then, we were essentially left to do as we pleased.''We’re not averse of course to other types of trip, and enjoy group tours as well. Overall though, a self-drive tour was definitely the best choice for us in Iceland.''Who Are Iceland Travel?''At this point, we’ll provide a quick overview of who Iceland Travel are, in case you were wondering! They’ve been around for a long time, since 1937 in fact. Which means they know a thing or two about travel in Iceland. They’re a subsidiary of Icelandair, which operates one of the major Icelandic airlines, as well as running a number of hotels around the country that they use on their trips.''Despite being a well established company, Iceland Travel have kept pace with the times, taking advantage of modern technology where it can be used to enhance a visitors experience.''We loved that they gave us a SIM card for example as part of our package, and in 2017 they’re introducing the''Iceland Travel Companion'', an iPad available on all 38 of their self-drive itineraries that serves as itinerary, GPS and route guide, highlighting everything you might want to see as you go. Pretty cool and something we hope to use when we return!''They have lots of choice when it comes to tours as well, with well over 100 day tours, 35 group tours and 38 self-drive tours. So we’re pretty sure you’ll find something to suit.''What’s Included (and what isn’t) on a Self Drive Tour with Iceland Travel?''The Iceland Travel''self-drive tour that we took''included:''All of our accommodation with free breakfasts''Rental car with CDW (collision damage waiver), theft protection and unlimited mileage (including a free additional driver)''Free GPS''Car pick/up and drop off at Keflavik International airport''A detailed road-map and welcome pack with our itinerary''A SIM card that included calls, texts and data''As mentioned above, all tours for 2017 going forward will also receive the''Iceland Travel Companion''digital package.''Of course, the Iceland Travel tour doesn’t include everything. Notably, (and like most similar tours) it didn’t include:''Optional activities''Airfare to and from Iceland''Fuel for the car''Any other meals or snacks''Additional optional car insurance including ash damage, windscreen damage, or underbody damage. These were all available to purchase at car pickup.''These inclusions are pretty standard for all their self-drive tours, although of course check the details for the tour you’re interested in to be sure.''Types of Trips Iceland Travel Offer''Iceland Travel offer two main types of tour:''self drive tours'', and guided group trips, the latter of which can be''single day trips''or''multi-day trips''.''Self-drive tours span from 1 to 19 nights, with availability for each tour depending on the time of year. The majority of these trips are available at four different price points, depending on the accommodation comfort level you are interested in. These four levels are budget, economy, comfort and superior.''Budget trips''are the cheapest, with private accommodation featuring shared facilities in basic hotels, farmhouses and guest houses.''Economy trips''are the next level up. All accommodation features private facilities in a mix of standard hotels, farmhouses and guest houses.''Comfort trips''are another level up, with higher quality hotels and guesthouses throughout Iceland, and of course, private facilities.''Superior Self-Drive''trips are the top level product. These are available as a nightly upgrade to the comfort level, where you can choose certain nights to be upgraded at a fixed price per room. This is an on request service that needs to be arranged in advance.''In addition to the accommodation options, you also have the option to choose what kind of car you want. These range from basic small cars through to top of the range four wheel drive vehicles. Each tour has a recommended car type so you can be sure you pick a suitable option. If you’re travelling in winter, we definitely suggest you choose a four wheel drive.''As well as the self-drive tours, Iceland Travel offers guided tours. These are available from single day trips through to twelve day tours, and departures are guaranteed with a minimum of two people on the trip. Group sizes are for the most part limited to 36 people. Group tours often include dinner and some attraction entrances also, check each tour itinerary details for information.''A Summary of our Eight Day Iceland Itinerary''So, we did all the planning, we figured out when and where we wanted to travel, and we had our tour all lined up! Now I’m going to run through the tour and let you know our experiences, what we liked, and anything we were unhappy with.''A previously mentioned, we chose the eight day''Glacial Exploration and Auroras''self-drive trip, and we opted for the comfort package with a mid-range four wheel drive station wagon style vehicle.''This started and ended in Reykjavik, and had us exploring the fjords, glaciers and waterfalls just north of the city, followed by the golden circle, and then along the south coast to the mighty waterfalls and stunning black sand beaches, heading as far east as the Glacier Lagoon.''Here’s a quick overview of what we got up to each day, and you can see the full details of this tour on the''Iceland Travel website''.''Day 1 – Reykjavik.''Our first day had us picking up our car from Hertz Iceland (see''here for car hire providers in Iceland'')\xa0We’d actually arrived in Reykjavik a day early, so rather than picking it up at Keflavik International Airport, we picked it up in the city centre.''Our suggested itinerary then had us visiting the Blue Lagoon, which is a great option on the way to or from the airport as it’s only a few kilometres from Keflavik International Airport. This would be a great way to unwind after a long flight. As it was, because we had arrived the day prior and taken the bus transfer to the airport, we actually visited the Blue Lagoon on our second day.''We spent our first day exploring the city, which both of us enjoyed – Reykjavik has a lot to offer, and we had no problem finding things to do. So much so in fact that we spent a further two days exploring the city after our trip was over, and Jess will be writing a post all about those experiences over on''her blog''soon.''Day 2 – Fjords''We started our second day heading out of the city to the Blue Lagoon for an early morning swim. Visiting the Blue Lagoon first thing in the morning is something we’d definitely recommend as it was very quiet when we did so. And whilst neither of us are exactly “spa” people, we both really enjoyed the Blue Lagoon experience. There’s just something very relaxing about being in a huge body of warm water underneath blue Icelandic skies, with steam all around and it was definitely one of the early highlights of our trip.''We then doubled back on ourselves and headed north. In retrospect, we definitely feel that following the suggested itinerary and doing the Blue Lagoon on the first or last day makes more sense so as to avoid this detour, however, this worked for us.''From Reykjavik our route took us up around Hvalfjordur, a beautiful 30km coastal drive, and then onto the coastal town of\xa0 Borgarnes where we visited the church, a statue on the hill, and also the''Settlement Centre''. Found in two of Borgarnes’s oldest buildings, this tells the story of Iceland’s earliest days and some of the heroes of the Icelandic Sagas.''We then headed inland stopping at Deildartunguhver (Icelandic names are fun!), which is Europe’s most powerful hot spring. 180 litres per second of water at boiling point pours out of the ground here!''After Deildartunguhver we continued on up to Hraunfossar, one of Iceland’s more unusual waterfalls. Hraunfossar is actually a sideways waterfall that runs for 900 metres along the Hvítá river. The water actually pours out from underneath the lava field here, and so it looks like it’s just coming out from under the ground – which of course it is. It looks very cool, and was particularly pretty at sunset, which was when we visited.''Finally, we headed back to our hotel, the Icelandair Hotel Hamar, just outside Borganes, for a relaxing nights sleep.''Day 3 – Falls''Our itinerary for our third day had us visiting a glacier in the afternoon, with the morning set aside for exploring the region. Jess had found out that Iceland’s highest easily accessible waterfall was less than an hour’s drive away, so I set out to find that whilst Jess relaxed in the hotel.''The hike up to Glymur Falls was a wonderful experience, with seabirds swirling, stunning views across the landscapes and plenty of photography opportunities. It was a natural entry for my post on my''favourite photography spots in Iceland''.''Returning to Jess and the hotel, we were sad to learn that our scheduled trip onto the glacier had been cancelled due to poor weather. It was rescheduled to the following morning, weather permitting, but we now had a free afternoon. Thankfully, our Iceland Travel guidebook had plenty of options, and we explored the region, and took advantage of the hotel’s outdoor geothermal hot tubs – even more fun as it was snowing when we used them!''Day 4 – Glacier and Golden Circle''On our fourth day the weather was good enough for our Glacier tour! We were excited about this because neither of us had been on a glacier before. This was an optional excursion arranged through Iceland Travel with''Into the Glacier''. The tour involves a 40 minute ride in a huge 18 wheeled converted ex-NATO missile launcher, followed by an hour or so exploring inside the world’s largest man made ice tunnel. Definitely a recommended option!''From our glacier expedition we headed east, taking advantage of our four wheel drive to take a couple of mountain roads and stop off at the beautiful Þórufoss waterfall, which we had all to ourselves. Then, it was on Iceland’s famous Golden Circle – a loop road that’s popular as a day trip from Reykjavik, and includes the UNESCO listed Þingvellir National Park, the stunning Gulfoss waterfall and the Geysir national park. That was a busy day, but we managed to get everything in before sunset, and headed to our Icelandair hotel in Flúðir.''Day 5 – Waterfalls and Beaches''Our fifth day of exploration had us heading along Iceland’s incredible south coast, which is home to some truly spectacular scenery. Ok, who am I kidding, Iceland is home to spectacular scenery pretty much everywhere. Highlights of this day were truly dramatic though, including two of Iceland’s most famous waterfalls, Skogafoss and Seljalandsfoss.''The former you can actually go behind, which makes for some unique (if wet!) photography opportunities. Further along we stopped at Dyrhólaey Arch and the beautiful basalt lined beaches near the picturesque town of Vik. As you can imagine, our camera’s were kept very busy. Finally, we arrived at Klaustur, where we overnighted at another Icelandair hotel.''Day 6 – Icebergs and Glaciers!''Pushing further east, our sixth day had us crossing a huge lava field, as well as the site of a massive glacial flood, which washed away chunks of the ring road in a huge deluge. As we travelled we saw a number of waterfalls as well as those beautiful Icelandic horses, that of course we had to stop (safely off the road!) to photograph.''Then we vistited Svartifoss, a remarkable waterfalls over black basalt columns which has given it the name the “Black Falls”. We also took in the Svinafellsjokull glacier, which was as close to end of a glacier that we came on the trip, with the chunks of blue hued ice almost in touching distance.''Finally, our day culminated with a visit to Jökulsárlón, the glacial lake on the edge of Vatnajökull National Park. The Breiðamerkurjökull glacier meltwater flows into the lake, along with the ice that breaks off the glacier, creating a truly wonderful sight of an iceberg filler lake.''Even better, the icebergs float out to sea and are washed up on nearby Diamond Beach, making for countless photo opportunities, and the perfect place for us to watch sunset.''Day 7 – Back to Reykjavik''Our last full day on our trip had us making the journey back along the south coast to Reykjavik. We didn’t mind retracing our steps, in fact, we took full advantage of it, stopping off at some locations again to get a few more shots. This was particularly handy at one of the beaches we visited where the tide was lower, meaning we could get some shots we hadn’t previously caught before.''We also stopped at a number of picturesque fishing villages on the way back, and finished off a wonderful self-drive itinerary with a gorgeous sunset over the remote and stunning church of Strandarkirkja\xa0 on the south west tip of Iceland. Then it was back to Reykjavik for our last night on our tour!''Day 8 – The end!''Our last day would normally have had us heading to the airport and returning our hire car, perhaps with a stop at the Blue Lagoon on the way. However, we weren’t ready to stop and we had a few more days in the country. So we extended our hire car a few more days, and went off on further explorations under our own steam. More on those in a future post!''That pretty much summarises what we got up to on our self drive tour with Iceland Travel. Now let me go over some of the things we enjoyed about it!''What we Enjoyed About Our Iceland Trip with Iceland Travel''There were a number of things we really liked about our trip with Iceland Travel. First, it was super-easy. With all our accommodation taken care of, plus a detailed suggested itinerary, we had no problem filling our days.''The information we received on the way up to and as we started our trip was wonderfully comprehensive, helping us to ensure we were fully prepared. We were sent a 27 page PDF walkthrough of our itinerary and all the highlights we could expect to see on the route, as well as shorter detailed itinerary of our exact hotels and booked excursions.''We also loved the massive choice that Iceland Travel have, both in terms of types of trip available, and the itineraries they have on offer throughout the year. Whatever you’re interested in, we’re pretty sure you’ll find a tour to suit.''What could have been improved?''Overall, our experience with Iceland Travel was fantastic, but of course, not everything is perfect in life. A few minor niggles. First, when hiring the car, whilst CDW was included, there were a number of optional insurances that weren’t included, which would have been nice for peace of mind. Admittedly, this would likely have caused the cost to go up, but perhaps having the option presented up front when booking the tour would make it clearer.''Another area that might have been nice would have been to give us the option for half board at some of the hotels. Meals in Iceland are a big cost for a trip, and a half board option might have helped offset that.''Lastly, it would have been nice to see the Northern Lights. Of course, this has nothing to do with Iceland Travel, we were really unlucky with our timing and the weather conditions, and despite our best efforts, we just didn’t get to make it happen. So it just goes to show that even on a longish trip like ours, at the right time of year, you might not have luck. Still, it’s an excuse to go back, and we’re happy about that!''What to Pack on a Trip to Iceland''Iceland is a country where the weather can change very quickly, whatever time of year you visit. Layers are going to be the answer, we’d suggest thermal base layers, then warm mid-layers like fleeces, followed by waterproof and windproof outerlayers.''You’re also going to want good hiking boots or shoes, gloves and a hat. If you’re visiting any of the thermal springs, save money by bringing your own towel, and of course don’t forget your swimwear, and maybe a waterproof case for your phone so you can get the perfect selfie!''We also have a full guide to''what to pack for a trip to Iceland'', which includes a downloadable checklist. Worth checking out to help you make sure you don’t miss anything!''Where to Stay in Iceland''Iceland has a wide range of accommodation options, from farm stays, vacation rentals and B&B’s through to higher end full service hotels. Check out''Iceland’s listings on booking.com''for a full range of options.''On our tour with Iceland Travel we stayed at 3 and 4 star properties throughout the country, which were comfortable and included a full breakfast. When travelling by ourselves, we largely booked through AirBnB, which is usually our preferred way to find a place to stay if available. We also use a number of other sites like AirBnB, check out our full''guide to AirBnB alternatives''right here.''How Much Does it Cost to Travel in Iceland?''Iceland is far from a budget destination, and prices vary depending on the time of year you visit, with the peak summer months tending to be much more expensive than the quieter winter months.''A mid-range hotel room will generally be in the region of $80 – $150 a night, and this will often include breakfast.''Car hire costs will vary depending on the type of vehicle you hire. Expect to pay $50 – $150 a day, and don’t forget to factor in the cost of the various insurance options. Gas is quite expensive.''See here for some car hire providers''in Iceland.''Food is a real budget-killer in Iceland. Even burgers from gas stations will be in the range of $10 – $15, whilst a sit down meal at a restaurant will have prices in the range of $30 – $50 for a main course.''The good news is that many of the attractions themselves, and particularly the natural attractions like waterfalls and national parks, are free to visit.''We think that Iceland is very much worth visiting, and that you should just prepare yourself to spend a bit more money than you might in other European countries. It’s definitely money you will not regret spending!''Practicalities for your Trip in Iceland''1. Safety in Iceland''Iceland is one of the safest countries in the world to travel in, with extremely low crime rates and good medical care. The main dangers that travellers will face will usually be related to the quickly changing weather, and natural hazards like slippery rocks or steep cliffs. Car accidents are also something to be aware of, especially in the winter months when driving conditions can be hazardous.''2. Power''Iceland uses a 220v system with the same two pin plugs as most of Europe. If you are travelling from the UK or US, you will need some form of travel adapter – see our''Iceland packing list''for suggestions. We highly recommend you pick anything up before you come as Iceland is not cheap.''3. Internet Access / WiFi''WiFi is generally easy to find in Iceland, and all the hotels and guesthouses we stayed in had good, free WiFi access. In addition, on our road trip with Iceland Travel, we were provided with a pre-paid SIM card which came with data, meaning we could get online easily. If you want to get online with your phone, a SIM card from a local provider will likely be the cheapest option, and these can be picked up at Keflavik airport when you arrive.''If you don’t have an unlocked phone, take a look at my guide to''getting online when you travel''for more options.''4. Language''The primary language in Iceland is Icelandic, although as you will have noticed from many of the place names in our itinerary, it’s a bit of a daunting language to learn. Here is a list of''common phrases in Icelandic'', which you might find useful, at least for starting a conversation. We found however that English was very widely spoken, and we had no trouble communicating with the Icelandic people, who were friendly, helpful and welcoming.''5. Money in Iceland''The local currency is the Icelandic Kroner, or ISK. There are ATM’s around the country from where you can withdraw cash, just be aware that they will all charge you a fee for doing so. In our experience, nearly everywhere we travelled accepted our international credit cards, however, it is always worth having cash on you just in case cards are not accepted.''6. Tipping in Iceland''Tipping is generally not expected in Iceland for service. At many restaurants, a tip is already included, so do check your bill before you add a tip.''If a tip is not included, it’s not common to leave a tip, although it is not rude to leave a tip if you wish, around ten percent would be a reasonable amount to tip in Iceland. Alternatively, many people choose to round up the bill to the nearest 1,000, which is also very acceptable.''Further Reading to Help you Plan your Trip to Iceland''We’ll be writing a lot more about Iceland across our two blogs in the coming months, so this list will be updated as we go. In the meantime, here are some great resources to get you started with planning your trip.''We’ve put together a list of some of our''favourite photography locations in Iceland''from this trip to give you some ideas of where to aim to get the best photos''Our guide to''driving in Iceland in Winter''should give you lots of tips for staying safe on the roads if you choose to do a self-drive trip''Jess has put together a detailed post outlining a''seven day Iceland itinerary''to give you some route ideas, plus we have a guide to spending''five days in Iceland''.''If you’re visiting Iceland in Winter, check out our guide to the''best winter activities in Iceland''We have a detailed guide to help you decide''what to pack for Iceland''We’ve also got a guide to the''best day trips from Reykjavik''should you wish to base yourself in the capital''We travelled with''Iceland Travel''– check out their website for tour options and prices''If you’re thinking of hiring a car, see''this website for a number of options for car rental in Iceland''The weather in Iceland can be fickle – the best website for real-time cloud cover is''this one from the Icelandic Met Office''.''Iceland is not a budget destination, but here are some''excellent tips on saving money on your Iceland trip''from a budget travel expert''Whilst Iceland is a safe country to travel in when it comes to things like crime, the country itself is home to extreme conditions and all sorts of seismic activity. So to stay safe as you go, check out the''safetravel Iceland page''If you’re not sure what camera gear to take with, take a look at both our guide to''picking a travel camera'', and our personal''travel photography gear''Finally, if you’re visiting in winter, you’ll want to read through my''tips for cold weather photography''.''And that finishes up my guide to planning the perfect trip to Iceland! I hope you enjoyed it. Is Iceland on your list? Let us know in the comments below!''So you know: We received a complimentary seven day tour of Iceland with Iceland Travel, which included our accommodation and hire car, plus an allowance for fuel. In addition, if you book any trip with Iceland Travel from the links above we’ll earn a small commission. We covered our own flights and the remainder of our time exploring Iceland was on our own budget. As always, you can see our''code of ethics''for how we choose who to work with!''SHARE ON''Barcelona is one of Europe’s most popular cities for visitors, and one of our favourite cities too. There’s loads to see and do, from the incredible architecture of Anton Gaudí, through to museums, UNESCO world heritage sites, markets, delicious tapas – and even a beach.''As you might imagine, it is not hard to fill your time when visiting Barcelona, even on a longer stay. We’ve visited multiple times, and are always coming across new sites and things to do.''You should be aware that Barcelona is a fairly big city, with a number of fairly distinct areas. It does have a good public transport system, but obviously you want to spend more of your time sightseeing and less of your time on a bus or metro.''With that in mind, I’ve put together what I think is a good overview of some of the city’s main sights that should take around three days of your time when visiting the city, as part of our''series of itinerary posts''.''I’ve ordered the sights for each day by a logical order of how you might want to visit them and also put those sights first that you should visit earlier in the day before the crowds arrive, where possible. Barcelona is very popular with visitors, and especially in the summer months attractions can become very crowded, so booking ahead where possible and turning up early are the key to a frustration free trip.''You might also want to consider looking into either the''Barcelona Pass''or''Barcelona Card''for your visit. These offer free and discounted admission, as well as skip the line access, travel options and various other perks that might make your visit easier.''For each attraction, I’ve highlighted which pass is best, and there’s a section on both of them towards the end of the post. Jess has also written a comprehensive''review and guide to using the Barcelona Pass'', as well as a''comparison of the three main discount passes available in Barcelona'', which are both worth a read.''Of course, an itinerary like this should just be a starting point for your plans, and at the end I’ve also added some optional sights that you might want to add in. You could also extend this itinerary over some more days if you want to really take your time.''Now, let’s take a look at our idea of the perfect way to spend 3 days in Barcelona.''Contents:''A 3 Day Barcelona Itinerary''1. Casa Batlló''2. Casa Milá''3. Las Ramblas''4. La Boqueria''5. Mirador de Colom (Columbus Monument)''6. Las Golondrinas Boat Tour''7. Barcelona Aquarium or Catalonia History Museum''8. Sagrada Familia''9. Recinte Modernista Sant Pau''10. Gaudí Experience''11. Park Güell''12. Chocolate Museum''13. Gothic Quarter''14. Jamon Experience''15. Montjuïc Hill Attractions''Montjuïc Castle''Poble Espanyol''Joan Miro Foundation''National Museum of Catalunya Art''Magic Fountain''16. Take a Walking tour or Bike tour''17. Palau Güell''18. Camp Nou''19. Parc de la Ciutadella''20. Torre Bellesguard''21. Colonia Güell''How to Save Money on Your Barcelona Sight-Seeing''Getting Around Barcelona''Where to Stay in Barcelona''Practicalities for Visiting Barcelona''Further Reading for your 3 Day Barcelona Trip''A 3 Day Barcelona Itinerary''Day One''The first day of our exploration focuses on the city centre of Barcelona, and everything here is easily walkable. It covers some of the more famous''works by Anton Gaudí'', plus one of the cities most famous streets.''1. Casa Batlló''Certainly one of the most famous of Gaudí’s houses in Barcelona,''Casa Batlló''is also one of the most popular, so we definitely recommend you put this at the beginning of your day. Even from the outside this property is intriguing, with the famous balconies on the buildings façade, which are reminiscent of Venetian masks.''Inside, there’s a stunning spine-like staircase and organic-feeling rooms which you can explore at your leisure before emerging onto the incredible roof terrace which is shaped to represent a dragon – one of Gaudí’s favourite icons.''As already mentioned, this is a popular spot. You can skip the ticket line by booking tickets in advance from the official website. Casa Batlló is also included on the Barcelona Pass, giving you free entry to this, and many other attractions on the itinerary. Alternatively, you can get discounted admission with a Barcelona Card if you buy your ticket on the door.''2. Casa Milá''Casa Milá'', also known as La Pedrera, is a short walk from Casa Batlló, and is another of Gaudí’s houses in Barcelona – the last of his major civil works. This one also has a famous façade, this time of undulating limestone, the stone-like look which earned it the nickname “La Pedrera”, which means the Quarry. This façade is self-supporting, freeing up the rest of the building from requiring load-bearing walls.''As soon as you enter the building, it will intrigue you. From the ground floor courtyard looking up there’s an incredible view of the inside of the building, with light pouring in from the roof to the interior apartments. As you go up the floors, you’ll explore some of the apartments that are open to the public, as well as the magnificent brick-ribbed loft space.''The highlight for many though is the roof terrace area, with its famous chimney’s, skylights, and stairways. From here there are excellent views across the city, including to some of Gaudí’s other works, most notably the Sagrada Familia.''Casa Milá is also a popular stop for visitors. It’s a good place to use the Barcelona Pass, which has''skip the line access to Casa Mila'', meaning you don’t need to queue to get in here. Again, you can get discounted admission with a Barcelona Card if you buy your ticket on the door.''3. Las Ramblas''Time for a spot of walking, and maybe all this sight-seeing has you hungry? Why not head past Plaça de Catalunya, and onto one of the cities most famous streets for a stroll – Las Ramblas. Take a drink from the fountain at the northern end of the street, which will guarantee you’ll return to the city.''Then, head down the street for a spot of people watching and a wide range of outdoor dining options. Sure, they might not be the cheapest or most “authentic” options, but hey, you can get a pitcher of Sangria and watch the world go by, and what’s wrong with that?''4. La Boqueria''About half way down Las Ramblas you’ll come to La Boqueria, the cities oldest and most famous market. This used to be just outside the old city wall, and has always been famous as the market that would have the items you couldn’t find elsewhere.''Today, the market is still popular with locals and visitors alike, and still has the reputation for having one of the widest choices of the city markets, with everything from meat and fish through to fruit, sweets and even food stalls. It’s a good place to get a freshly squeezed fruit juice, to have a snack or just to admire the 19th century Modernista design, which is certainly worth the visit alone.''5. Mirador de Colom (Columbus Monument)''From Palau Güell, I suggest you continue your journey south along Las Ramblas until you get to the end, where you’ll be greeted by the sight of a large column, atop which sits a statue of Christopher Columbus, the famous Italian explorer largely responsible for opening up the Americas to European exploration.''This was a venture he achieved under the sponsorship of the Spanish monarchs at the time, and the statue commemorates his first voyage to the Americas.''Originally built for the Barcelona Universal Exposition in 1888, today the statue serves as both monument and tourist attraction, with the bonus that you can head up inside it for good views of the southern side of the city, including along the port and an excellent aerial view up Las Ramblas.''There’s an entry fee to the monument. Tickets can be''bought online'', or in person. You get a discount if you have in a Barcelona Card.''6. Las Golondrinas Boat Tour''At the end of Las Ramblas where you find the Columbus Monument is the marina area of Barcelona. So far the day has involved a fair bit of walking, so this might be a good opportunity to rest and let the scenery float by, perhaps accompanied by a coffee or something stronger.''From the port area, a number of operators offer boat tours of varying length which will give you a different perspective of Barcelona harbour. We took the''90 minute boat tour with Las Golondrinas'', which is\xa0 included for free with the Barcelona Pass (discounted for holders of the Barcelona Card). There are a number of operators though with different tour lengths and routes, depending on what you want to see.''7. Barcelona Aquarium or Catalonia History Museum''If a boat ride isn’t for you, or you want to keep exploring once the ride is finished, there are a couple of great options at this end of town. Depending on your interests, you could visit the''Barcelona Aquarium''or the''Catalonia History Museum''(both free with the Barcelona Pass and discounted with the Barcelona Card).''We’ve been to both, the former is an excellent Aquarium and a good option for families. The Catalonia History Museum will take you through the full history of the region and its people, from prehistory right up to the modern day. It’s a fascinating insight into the region, and will keep you occupied for some time.''And that’s the end of a full first day in Barcelona! Time for an evening drink and some food, before we kick off our second day of our three day Barcelona itinerary.''Day Two''Our second day in Barcelona will have you exploring the more north-eastern part of the city and visiting some of Barcelona’s highlights, starting with the famous:''8. Sagrada Familia''Without a doubt Gaudí’s masterpiece, this massive basilica was the work that Gaudí was labouring over when he tragically died. Construction started in 1882, although by the time of Gaudí’s death in 1926 it was still less than a quarter finished. At time of writing, it’s still not complete.''This doesn’t mean you can’t visit though. Despite this being an active construction zone, the majority of building is open to the public. It’s another popular stop, so again we suggest you pencil this in as the first stop of the day – perhaps taking in sunrise from the park over the road, before heading in.''Entry is timed, so your best option is to''buy your ticket online in advance''(also cheaper!) and pick a time slot that suits you. Again, as it gets later in the day the building gets more crowded, so we definitely recommend visiting earlier in the day if you can. There’s also the option to take a''guided tour of the cathedral''. Holders of the Barcelona Card get a discount on tickets, however to our knowledge this can only be redeemed when purchasing tickets in person, not online.''9. Recinte Modernista Sant Pau''A relatively new opening to Barcelona visitors, the''Recinte Modernista Sant Pau''is quickly becoming one of Barcelona’s more popular attractions. Originally built as a hospital, this series of buildings is one of the finest examples of Art Nouveau architecture in Europe, and has been awarded''UNESCO world heritage status''alongside the Palau de la Musica Catalana in the Gothic Quarter.''You can explore this complex and go inside a number of the buildings. It’s just a stunningly beautiful place to walk around and experience, both inside and outside, and is only a 15 – 20 minute walk from the Sagrada Familia. Well worth doing.''Free to Barcelona Pass holders, discounted admission for Barcelona Card holders.''10. Gaudí Experience''Next on our itinerary is a trip up towards Park Güell. On the way, we suggest you might want to pop into the''Gaudí experience'', an interactive exhibition that will take you through the life and works of the architect responsible for so many of Barcelona’s sights. There’s an overview of some of his most notable works, as well as a 4D cinema.''Free with the Barcelona Pass.''11. Park Güell''Situated on the hills towards the north of the city,''Park Güell''is another of Gaudí’s works. This is a little bit different though, being as it is a large park area with a number of installations to explore and visit.''Originally planned as a housing development of upper class properties offering spectacular views, the vision of sixty homes was never realised, with only two actually completed. However, many of the features envisioned by Gaudí for the public spaces were created, including the entrance houses, main terrace area, mosaic serpentine bench, and colonnaded footpaths.''There is also a''house museum''you can visit on site which was Gaudí’s home for the last twenty years of his life. This has a separate entry fee, but if you are interested in seeing how he lived, is worth the visit.''Park Güell used to be free to visit, but its overwhelming popularity led to a ticketing system being put in place. This has timed entrances, helping to keep the park more pleasant for everyone to visit. You can visit parts of the park without a ticket, but the key attractions, known as the Monumental Zone, do require a ticket.''We advise''booking tickets for Park Güell online in advance''to be sure you are not disappointed or have to wait when you arrive. If you do this, be sure you arrive at the entry time specified on the ticket as otherwise you won’t be able to get in.''And that sums up our second day of exploration in Barcelona! It might seem that there’s not so much on this day, but the attractions will take you a while to visit, and you will have to factor in transit times between them, so we’d suggest not trying to add too much more to today in case you run out of time.''Day Three''The third day on our Barcelona itinerary has us starting in the Gothic Quarter, and then heading up above the town to visit a castle and a number of Barcelona’s most popular museums, finishing off with a spectacular free sound and light display. But first, we start with the:''12. Chocolate Museum''What better way to start the day than with chocolate? And given that your entry ticket to''Barcelona’s chocolate museum''is actually a real bar of chocolate, you can’t fail to be happy when you visit.''When you do, you’ll learn all about the history of one of the world’s favourite treats, including how it came to be so popular in Europe, how it is made, and some of the culture that grew up around it. Barcelona was one of the major ports for chocolate to arrive into Europe, and it played a key role in the economy of the city.''Also fun are the many chocolate statues and displays made of chocolate. Definitely a fun way to start a full day of exploration in Barcelona!''This one is free for Barcelona Card holders.''13. Gothic Quarter''From the Chocolate Museum you’re going to head deep into the warren of narrow streets that is the Gothic Quarter. This is the oldest part of the city, and has some of the highlights of Barcelona tucked away. I’d definitely recommend having a paper map handy when you start to explore – the high buildings and narrow streets mean GPS signals can get easily confused.''Whilst wandering the Gothic Quarter is an experience of itself, there are a number of attractions within that you should check out. First of these, coming from the Chocolate Museum, is the excellent''Picasso Museum'', which celebrates the early part of the artists life and work, as well as housing some of his later work. A must for fans.''From here, you can also visit the UNESCO world heritage listed''Palau de la Musica Catalana''. You’ll need to take a guided tour, and you can book tickets for this online, or buy them in person at the box office. If you have a Barcelona Card, it’s good for a 20% discount on the tour price, but only when purchasing tickets in person.''Heading further west in the Gothic Quarter, you’ll find yourself at Barcelona’s massive gothic Cathedral. This is free to enter, and worth popping into. Next to it is the''Gaudí Exhibition Centre'', the first museum entirely dedicated to the works of Anton Gaudí. You can learn all about the architect and his architecture through images, models, audio-visuals and documents, and it’s a fascinating journey through his work.''This one has free entry with a Barcelona Pass, and discounted admission with a Barcelona Card.''14. Jamon Experience''You can’t come to Barcelona without trying their world famous ham, and a good place to learn about the “Jamon” of the region is at the''Jamon Experience''on Las Ramblas. This will take you through the process of how the ham is made, what makes it special, and all the different grades of ham that is produced, via a series of well thought out rooms and displays that use clever light and sound displays to tell the story.''The highlight for me though was actually getting to taste the different ham types, some of which take over three years to make. This was a tasty experience, and one we can happily recommend. In terms of the itinerary, the Jamon Experience is open relatively late, so could be an evening option instead, and it would also fit into the itinerary on Day 1 if you can’t wait for your ham fix.''You get a free museum tour, ham tasting, and a drink (including wine or beer) with the Barcelona Pass. You get a free museum tour with the Barcelona Card, and a discount on tasting.''15. Montjuïc Hill Attractions''We’re now going to head up Montjuïc Hill, which has a number of attractions atop it. Depending on your interests and how much time you have, you will probably want to pick a few of these rather than try to rush around all of them.''Montjuïc Castle''First on my list is the large fortress atop the hill,''Montjuïc Castle''. This huge fortress has played a key role in the history of the city over the last few hundred years, serving as a Spanish control over the potentially unruly Catalan city, as well as a prison and execution centre.''Today the castle is open to visitors and you can wander the huge walls, take in the views across the city skyline, and think back to darker times. There’s an entry free, although it’s free to visit on Sunday afternoons.''Poble Espanyol''If you’re interested in learning about the different regions of Spain, and in particular their architecture and food, then a visit to''Poble Espanyol''should be on your list.''This is a huge open air architectural museum, built in 1929, which consists of 117 full-size buildings representing fifteen different regions of Spain, many of which are replicas of actual buildings. It’s also home to local artists, restaurants and shops, and you can see everything from glass blowing to jewellery making.''Again, you could spend a few hours just wandering around here as there is a lot to see and do. It also regularly hosts concerts, gastronomic festivals and other events.''Free to holders of the Barcelona Pass, discounted admission for Barcelona Card holders.''Joan Miro Foundation''Fans of Barcelona-born Joan Miró will definitely want to stop in at the''Joan Miró Foundation''on Montjuïc Hill. Created by the artist himself with the aim of promoting the work of young experimental arists, the museum displays a large number of Miró’s creations, stretching throughout his career.''The purpose built building is also an impressive and logically laid out structure, that will guide you through the artist’s works. There’s also a library on site which is home to Miró’s book collection.''There’s an entry fee, holders of the Barcelona Card get free admission with skip the line privileges.''National Museum of Catalunya Art''An imposing building with a spectacular view over the city, the''National Museum of Catalan Art''(MNAC) is a must-visit for anyone with an interest in the art of the Catalonia region. It has art of various styles from across the centuries, including an impressive collection of romanesque church paintings.''The building itself is also quite spectacular, in particular the Oval Hall, a massive event space which houses one of Europe’s largest organs. You can also take the lift to the top floor to wander on the roof, which offers excellent views of the city.''There’s an entry fee, holders of the Barcelona Card get free admission with skip the line privileges.''Magic Fountain''The last entry on our final day of our three day Barcelona itinerary is the''Magic Fountain'', which you can see from the steps in front of the National Museum of Catalan Art. This fountains runs a spectacular sound and light show in the evenings which is a real treat to watch as the water displays synchronise with the sound and light.''Built in 1929 for the International Exhibition, and restored for the 1992 Barcelona Olympic games, this is definitely one you won’t want to miss. The schedule depends on the time of year – you can see it''here''.''Optional Extras''There’s a lot to see in Barcelona beyond the above, and I wanted to highlight a few of our favourite spots. If you have a bit more time in Barcelona, or simply want to swap a few things around in the itinerary, the below items should definitely be in your list.''16. Take a Walking tour or Bike tour''If you buy a Barcelona Pass, you’ll find it comes with both a''free walking tour''of Barcelona and a''free bike tour of Barcelona''. We took advantage of the free walking tour, and chose a three hour tour around the highlights of the Gothic Quarter and Las Ramblas.''This was an excellent way to learn a bit about the history of the city and see some of the main attractions with a local. If you do a tour like this, we’d suggest scheduling it early on in your trip as it will help orientate you to the city – plus you can ask your guide for tips and advice on things like local restaurants, bars and nightlife.''17. Palau Güell''Just off Las Ramblas you’ll find the''Palau Güell'', one of the earlier works by Gaudí in the city, and one where you can see many of his architectural visions coming into focus. This is strikingly obvious as soon as you see the building from the outside, with its hugely impressive twin front doors in Gaudí’s famous parabolic arch shape. These were designed to be large enough to accommodate a horse drawn carriage, with one door being for entering the building, and the other for exiting.''Once inside you’ll have the opportunity to see many of the rooms inside, including the central hall and the bedrooms, and of course, the roof terrace. This latter place is a popular spot to see the sunset, depending on when you visit.''18. Camp Nou''Fans of FC Barcelona will probably have a visit to''Camp Nou''right at the top of their list. This is the home of Barcelona’s hugely successful football team, and during the day you can take a tour of the stadium to get a behind the scenes look at everything from the VIP suites to the players locker rooms. You can even sit in the seats the coach sits in during the game!''There’s also a well laid out museum which takes you through the history of the club, its impact on the city, and some of its notable players and achievements. Jess and I actually really enjoyed this visit, despite neither of us being huge football fans. If you do decide to visit, we definitely advise coming early as it gets very popular. You’ll also want to check match times as obviously you can’t take a tour when the stadium is in use. Although fans may want to also catch a game here.''Camp Nou is free for holders of the Barcelona Pass, and there is a small discount for holders of the Barcelona Card.''19. Parc de la Ciutadella''If you would like to visit a city centre park, a good option is the Citadel Park, or Parc de la Ciutadella, which isn’t too far from the Chocolate Museum. Dating from the 19th century, and the earliest green space in the city, this 70-acre park has plenty of green space – perfect for a picnic, or to grab a breather from all your exploring.''Its best known feature is likely the large water feature, which was one of the earlier works in the city that Gaudí was involved with, although he wasn’t well known at the time and his involvement was fairly minimal. It’s a grand construction, topped with giant golden horse drawn chariots, and is worth seeing. Entry is free.''20. Torre Bellesguard''A little way north of the city centre,''Torre Bellesguard''is a relatively recent addition to the works of Gaudí that you can visit in the city.''Built for a private owner between 1900 and 1909, the home is still occupied by a private owner, so only certain parts of the property can be visited, although this does include the spectacular attic and roof areas which were the highlights in my mind. I would suggest that this is well worth doing – this is a much less popular attraction than many of the other Gaudí properties, and you will have a bit more room to breathe.''I particularly enjoyed visiting the roof terrace, which has spectacular views over the city, with the bonus that the whole roof is designed to look like a dragon. Guided tours currently run on weekends, and there are also audio guided tours available. See times and languages on the''official site here''.''21. Colonia Güell''Colonia Güell''is 23 kilometres from the city centre of Barcelona, but can still be reached by public transport, so don’t let the distance put you off. It’s a purpose built 19th century industrial village, which you can explore with the help of an audioguide.''The village is definitely worth exploring, but the highlight of a visit to Colonia Güell is the church known as Gaudí’s Crypt. Whilst the final vision was never completed, this building was the place where Gaudí first incorporated all of his architectural innovations, and it serves very much as a blueprint for much of the Sagrada Familia.''The only part of the church to be completed was the crypt area, although this feels more like a church than a crypt, with a full nave, altar and pews. It’s a truly unique creation, and as it requires a bit more effort to get here than say the Sagrada Familia, is a lot less crowded – we actually had the whole Crypt to ourselves for large parts of our visit.''Entry is free with the Barcelona Pass, and you get the audioguide as part of your entry too. The Barcelona Card\xa0 gives discounted admission.''And that sums up our suggested itinerary for three days in Barcelona! As you can see, there’s a lot to see and do here, and you’ll have no trouble filling your time. Now, let’s take a look at some practicalities for your visit, starting with:''How to Save Money on Your Barcelona Sight-Seeing''As you’ll have seen throughout this post, there are two main ways to save money on attractions when visiting Barcelona, the''Barcelona Card'', and the''Barcelona Pass''. These work a little differently, and depending on what you want to visit, you might find one works better for you than the other.''If you plan to visit everything on the main itinerary above, the Barcelona Pass is a must. The combined price of the attractions above that are covered by the Barcelona Pass at time of writing is over €150, and a three day pass is only €129.''Consider that it also''includes''the''Barcelona Bus Turístic''Hop on Hop off bus tour worth €28, plus a number of other attractions as well as a walking tour and bike tour, then we think the''Barcelona Pass''is excellent value for money and well worth considering for your Barcelona visit. Read Jess’s full''review and guide to using the Barcelona Pass''to see if it makes sense for you.''If you don’t think you’ll visit enough attractions to make the Barcelona Pass worth it, then you might consider the''Barcelona Card''instead. This is a cheaper option, and whilst it does offer free admission to a number of attractions, the majority of its benefit comes in the form of free public transport (including the airport train) and a range of discounts on popular attractions.''Neither card includes free admission to the Sagrada Familia, which is one of Barcelona’s top attractions, although the Barcelona Card does give a small discount on admission.''In the text above for each attraction I’ve made it clear where each card offers a benefit, so do take a look through and figure out which card might be best for you, and also check out the other features of both the''Barcelona Pass''and the''Barcelona Card''before making a decision, which may include discounted admissions, guide books, and so on.''Getting Around Barcelona''Barcelona is easy to get around, with an extensive bus, metro and light rail network. It’s also easily walkable for the most part, although you will likely want to take public transport for some of the slightly further out destinations.''If you are going to use public transport, the most cost effective way to do so is the ten ticket (T10) card, which lets multiple travellers use the same card. This is much cheaper than buying individual tickets and also lets you change transport options within an hour and fifteen minutes of starting your journey.''There are a couple of other options for paying for your Barcelona transport, which circle back to the two cards I’ve mentioned in the post.''First, if you''purchase a Barcelona Card''or a''Barcelona Card Express'', you get free travel on the metro, buses, trams and trains for the duration of the card. This includes the airport metro and train.''Second, If you purchase a''Barcelona Pass'', it comes with one day access to the''Hop On Hop Off Barcelona Bus Tour'', which covers nearly every major tourist site in the city including nearly everywhere in this photography location guide. You also have the option to add on a''Barcelona Travelcard'', which covers regional travel on all public transport networks in Barcelona, including the airport.''Where to Stay in Barcelona''Barcelona has no shortage of choice when it comes to accommodation, and we’ve stayed at a number of different locations in the city in both apartments and hotels.''Our preferred option when booking accommodation is booking.com (see their''Barcelona listings here''). They list everything from hotels to apartments to hostels, and we find they usually have the widest range at the most competiive prices.''To give you an idea of what’s available, here are some options we researched for you:''Hostel One Ramblas''– a very well reviewed and incredibly central hostel option''The 8 Boutique B&B''– a highly rated and well located bed and breakfast''Duquesa de Cardona''– a 4* property on the waterfront with a roof top bar''It’s worth bearing in mind that Barcelona is a city which is a little overwhelmed by tourism, and as such, is taking measures to ensure that residents are able to afford to live in the city.''In particular, there has been a crackdown on city centre AirBnB accommodation, as well as a restriction on new hotel builds in the city centre.''Short term rental properties, such as those found on sites like AirBnB, need to be registered with the city, and will have been issued a license number. If you want to stay in a vacation rental, then we recommend picking one which has the license number on the listing to be sure you are not bothered whilst you stay.''Unfortunately, this will really limit your options on apartments, as most of the listings with a license are outside of the gothic quarter and immediate surrounds.''Of course, AirBnB isn’t the only option! Barcelona has many great hotels to choose from across a wide range of prices (see a''full listing of Barcelona hotels here''), plus there are numerous alternatives to AirBnB – we’ve listed some of our favourite''websites like AirBnB here''.''Practicalities for Visiting Barcelona''Safety:''We’ve not had any problems in Barcelona, although the city carries a reputation for petty crime, in particular pick pockets. These are known to frequent tourist areas, especially Las Ramblas and the metro system. We believe that most crime is opportunistic in nature, so if you take basic precautions and are''aware of some common Barcelona scams'', you should be fine.''Power:''Electricity is of the 220v standard, with the 2 pin European style plug. Travellers from countries like the UK and the US will need an adapter, and US travellers need to check their equipment supports the 220v standard – it will be written clearly on the power adapter.''Currency:''Barcelona is part of the Eurozone, so the main currency is the Euro. You can get these from ATM’s, banks and currency exchanges, although credit cards are of course widely accepted.''Internet:''Internet access is widely available in the form of WiFi all around the city and in hotels and coffee shops, so you shouldn’t have any trouble getting online. You can also pick up local SIM cards if you have an unlocked phone. Travellers from the UK on the''Three network''will be able to use their Feel At Home data, which is a great deal if you’re a regular traveller from the UK.''For more options on getting online when travelling, check out our''guide to getting online when travelling''to help you figure out the best options.''Water:''The water in the taps is safe to drink, but tastes heavily chlorinated. If you don’t like the taste, bottled water is widely available.''Further Reading for your 3 Day Barcelona Trip''Well, that was a lot of content to help you plan your trip to Barcelona! Hopefully you find it useful. As well as the above, we have a number of other resources we’d like to recommend to help you out, both content we’ve written ourselves, and resources we’ve found online. Between this post and these resources, you should be able to put together the perfect trip!''If you’re visiting for a shorter time period, here’s a''suggested itinerary for one day in Barcelona''Our guide to the''best photography spots in Barcelona''Jess’s comprehensive''review and guide to using the Barcelona Pass''A post''comparing the three main discount passes available in Barcelona'', to help you decide which one will save you the most money''A guide to''taking a day trip from Barcelona to Girona and Figueres''A guide to the best locations for getting a''great view of Barcelona''Some of our''favourite street art in Barcelona''Want to see some of Gaudi’s creations? Check out our definitive guide to the''best Gaudi sights in Barcelona''Thinking of heading out of town? Check out our''definitive guide to the Spanish Pyrenees''!''The''Lonely Planet Guide to Barcelona''Rick Steve’s''Pocket Barcelona Guide''The''WikiVoyage guide to Barcelona''The official''Barcelona Tourism webpage''And that sums up our idea of how to spend the perfect three days exploring Barcelona! We hope you found this itinerary useful. Are you planning a trip to Barcelona? What do you want to see when you do? Let us know in the comments below!''So you know: We received free entry as press or through free entry arranged by Barcelona Turisme for some of the sites listed in this article. We covered our own accommodation, meals and Barcelona Pass purchase, as well as all other travel expenses. As always, this article contains only our own honest thoughts and opinions. You can read more in our''Ethics Code''about how we accept work.''SHARE ON''Iceland has been on my to-do list for the longest time – as a photographer, I couldn’t wait to visit and photograph this beautiful country. Thanks to an invite from''Iceland Travel'', we were able to do just that, taking a glorious''self drive road trip''in which we were able to explore the southern and western parts of the country, with a focus on Glaciers and Auroras.''Due to it being Winter when we visited, we couldn’t get up to the North – a repeat trip is required! Still, as the majority of folks come to Reykjavik and explore Iceland from there, I feel that we were able to cover the majority of sights that visitors will be keen to visit and photograph, particularly on a first trip to Iceland.''In today’s post, I’m going to share some of my favourite photography locations in the south and west of the country, as part of my ongoing series of''photography location guides''.''Some of the locations below we encountered as part of the''Iceland Travel tour''itself, and others we explored in our own time. For inspiration, we have a couple of itineraries to help you plan your Iceland route, both of which include many of the locations in this post, a''seven day itinerary''and a''five day itinerary''.''In this post I’m also going to share some practicalities for visiting Iceland and tips for your visit, to help you make the most of your stay, although I recommend you check out our''Iceland planning guide''for the most comprehensive tips and advice.''Now, lets take a look at:''The Best Photography Locations in Iceland''Below are some of my favourite photography locations in Iceland. I’ve placed these in order, running from the east of the country to as far west as we travelled. Of course, there are many more beautiful spots in Iceland, and stumbling upon the less popular spots is always a rewarding exercise. But this list should cover the majority of the highlights of south and western Iceland that you’d be interested in visiting and photographing, and should make a great starting point for any photographer planning a trip.''1. Kirkjufell''Kirkjufell is one of the most iconic (and photographed!) locations in Iceland, so much so in fact that it was even on our Iceland Travel tote bag. It’s found up on the Snæfellsnes peninsula, about a two hour drive north of Reykjavik. The peninsula is definitely worth visiting, either as a''day trip from Reykjavik''or ideally over a couple of days, which will give you plenty of time to explore everything on offer.''Kirkjufell itself is a wonderfully symmetrical mountain with a handy set of waterfalls (Kirkjufellsfoss) right beside it, and most people take the shot to include the waterfalls and the mountain. There are of course other angles to shoot it from, including some great reflection opportunities from the shore if the weather is calm .''Depending on the time of year you visit, you can get the sun in shot during sunset. Sunrise is also good as the light illuminates the mountain side. Finally, if you’re lucky and have clear skies and aurora activity, this would make a wonderful shot of the northern lights. We weren’t so lucky, but I was happy with my shots nonetheless! There’s free parking on site, and it’s about a five minute walk from the car park up to the falls – just be careful in Winter as it can get icy up here (yes, I fell over).''2. Hraunfossar''One of the more unusual waterfalls I’ve seen, Hraunfossar is a series of falls that emerge from underneath a huge lava expanse and flow down the sides of a gorge into the below river. It’s quite the sight, spanning some 900m, and worth visiting. There are actually two falls here – Hraunfossar and Barnafossar.''Barnafossar is a more traditional waterfall, with the water rushing through and down a narrow gorge. When we visited the water was in full flow, so it was less of a waterfall and more of a raging torrent, but impressive nonetheless.''Hraunfossar is about an hour and a half north west of Reykjavik by car, and was included on our seven day''Glaciers and Auroras self drive road trip''with Iceland Travel, along with many of the other sights on this list. There’s free parking on site and it’s less than a minutes walk from the car park. There are also a number of''day trips from Reykjavik''which include these falls.''3. Glymur Waterfall''For a long time, Glymur was known as the highest waterfall in Iceland. Then some scientists came along and found a higher waterfall on a glacier somewhere, and poor Glymur was demoted to second place. Still, it’s likely the highest accessible waterfall in Iceland, and the hike up to the falls is stunning, so I’d still recommend a visit.''There are two routes up to Glymur, one on the south side of the river and one on the north side. If you visit in Winter like I did, you’ll struggle to get to the south side as there’s a river crossing which requires you to walk over a log, and the log is removed in Winter. I tried to find a safe crossing point and failed – other, braver (more foolhardy?) people than me succeeded.''This was a bit of a letdown for me as the best view of the falls is said to be from the viewing area on the south side of the river, but as I climbed all alone to the top of the falls, I concluded it wasn’t such a bad thing. A giant gorge fell off to my right, seabirds circled, and the view back down to the fjord and ocean was spectacular. Plus, I loved the top of the waterfall, even if I couldn’t quite see the whole thing.''This is a fairly strenuous hike which is approximately a three hour round trip from the car park. It’s well marked, but does have steep drops without barriers, so you need to be careful. Definitely worth it though.''4. Inside a Glacier''I mentioned that our road trip focused on glaciers and auroras. Well, our first glacier experience was also a great photo opportunity – we took a tour inside an actual glacier! This was operated by Into the Glacier, and involved a 45 minute ride (each way) on a massive 18 wheel truck, followed by around an hour inside an actual glacier. This was a great deal of fun, and led to some fun photo opportunities.''As for the auroras – we didn’t have any luck on our trip. But we did find some more glaciers, some of which make it into our photography highlights further on in the post!''5. Thorufoss (Þórufoss) Waterfall''This was one of those waterfalls that we happened upon as part of our travels when taking a shortcut on a gravel road. We were so glad we did, because we had these incredible falls all to ourselves, and it was definitely a highlight for both of us on our trip. It was even possible to walk down to the falls via a steep path, although we didn’t have time to do that. Still, we got lots of photos.''Thorufoss is on the 48, about a half hour drive to Reykjavik. If you’re driving yourself, you could visit either on your way up to Glymur, or it’s a ten minute detour from the famous Golden Circle, although again, you’d likely have to''drive yourself''. There’s a parking spot just off the road and it’s a two minute walk to the falls.''6. Sun Voyager Statue, Reykjavik''Whilst many people base themselves in Reykjavik, the city is often overlooked as folks rush out to immerse themselves in Iceland’s natural beauty. We’d suggest that’s a mistake – there’s a lot to see and do here, and Jess will be writing a whole post shortly on what to see and do in Reykjavik.''In the meantime though, from a photography locations perspective, there are plenty of opportunities for photography in the city. One of my favourites for both sunrise and sunset is the Sun Voyager statue, found on the waterfront on the cities north coast. This statue, created by a local artist, is sculpted out of stainless steel, and represents a voyage following the sun.''It’s an easy walk to get here from most parts of the city, and is definitely best for either sunrise or sunset when the light reflects wonderfully off the steel frame.''7. Hallgrimskirkja, Reykjavik''The other sight that most people get a photo of in Reykjavik is the Hallgrimskirkja, Iceland’s tallest church. It’s 73 metres tall, and sits atop a hill in the centre of the city, meaning you can see it from pretty much everywhere.''The church has a design that reflects some of Iceland’s best known features, namely its mountains and basalt rock columns. It’s also home to a statue of Leif Eriksson, the Icelandic explorer who is believed to be the first European to journey to North America.''As well as the view from the front of the church, it’s worth taking the trip up to the top of the tower (fee required) for the panoramic views over the city. In particular, I loved photographing the colourful houses that make up the main streets of Reykjavik’s city centre.''8. The Blue Lagoon''If you’re near Rejkyavik, the chances are that you will visit the Blue Lagoon! This geothermal hot spring is probably the most famous in Iceland, and is particularly convenient as its near the airport, meaning you can often include it as part of your transfer.''In terms of photography opportunities, there are two main options. First, outside the Blue Lagoon facility itself there’s a path where you can wander around and get shots of the incredibly blue water against the green moss covered lava. That’s pretty much my favourite Blue Lagoon shot right there, and it’s even free.''Then, of course, there’s the obligatory selfie of you *in* the Blue Lagoon. Which of course we did, mud masks and all!''9. Strandakirkja''About a forty minute drive south of Reykjavik you’ll find the beautiful little church called Strandakirkja. Iceland certainly has no shortage of pretty little churches, but I particularly liked the lonely location of Strandakirkja, and its position on the south coast makes it particularly good for visiting at either sunrise or sunset.''The church is locally famous for having divine powers, and dates to the 12th century, with the original having been built by sailors who, so the story goes, were guided to the spot through treacherous seas by an angel. To give thanks, they built the church. Today’s structure is a little less old, but I’m sure, no less spectacular. Parking is free.''10. Öxarárfoss Thingvellir (Þingvellir) National Park''Thingvellir National Park''is a UNESCO world heritage site, and the most important cultural site in Iceland. It was here that the original Icelandic peoples would meet for an annual assembly, and it was here that the Icelandic parliament is said to have been founded.''There’s also plenty to see here from a photography perspective, with a highlight for me being the beautiful waterfall of Öxarárfoss. Whilst it was unfortunately somewhat grey and cloudy when I visited, I still enjoyed shooting this waterfall. It’s about a ten minute uphill walk to visit from the closest car park, but I’d definitely recommend spending some time exploring the surrounding area.''Öxarárfoss and Thingvellir are about a 40 minute drive from Reykjavik. Entry is free, but there is a parking fee if you’re driving yourself which is good for all the car parks in the park. We’d suggest visiting as part of a''golden circle tour''– see more information on this as part of the Gullfoss waterfall entry below.''11. Geysers''Here’s a fun fact that I learnt on our visit to Iceland – the word Geyser derives from the Icelandic “Geysir”, which is the name of a an actual Geyser in Iceland – the first to be known by Europeans. Geysir is now a part of the Geysir Hot Spring Area, a popular stop for visitors in Iceland, and a place where you can wander amongst bubbling pools and steam filled landscapes.''Whilst the Great Geysir itself is currently somewhat dormant, the nearby Strokkur Geyser goes off every few minutes, giving you plenty of opportunity to photograph this wonderful sight, along with those bubbling pools and steamy landscapes!''12. Gullfoss waterfall''One of Iceland’s most well known and spectacular waterfalls, Gullfoss (which means Golden Falls), is an incredible multi-tiered waterfall that appears to vanish into the earth. There are multiple viewing angles of the falls as you walk along the river, plus you can view it from a couple of different heights, and you will want to spend some time here photographing.''Gullfoss is around a ninety minute drive from Reykjavik, and has a large on-site car park. Whilst it is very popular with visitors, I found that I had the place almost to myself for sunrise, and even sunset wasn’t that busy. There is an on-site restaurant and shop, although these are only open during the day. Parking was free at time of writing.''The three photography locations above, Thingvellir, the Geysers and Gullfoss, form what is known as the “Golden Circle”, a loop road that you can drive yourself from Reykjavik, or as part of a''Golden Circle Day tour''. This was on our self-drive itinerary, and is on the majority of''self-drive itineraries with Iceland Travel'', so we don’t think you’ll be missing these attractions easily!''13. The Icelandic Horses''Definitely something Jess and I were both looking forward to on our visit to Iceland were the beautiful Icelandic horses. This incredibly tough breed have really thick fur and beautiful long manes, and are able to withstand incredibly harsh environments. They’re also both friendly and wonderfully photogenic!''We initially wondered how easy it would be to get photos of them, the answer – quite easy! You’ll find them all around Iceland in the fields, and we were able to find easy parking spots off the road from where we could get some nice photos of them.''Don’t panic if you see a group of horses with no safe parking – just keep driving and you’ll find another group somewhere else. We’d definitely suggest avoiding parking on the shoulder of the road, especially on Iceland’s main roads, as passing traffic might throw up stones that will damage your vehicle. Also, it’s best not to feed the horses, and of course, don’t trespass on private property to get the shot! We found plenty of opportunities to shoot them from safe, public property, and we’re sure you will too. Ok, safety lecture over.''14. Seljalandsfoss Waterfall''We’re firmly on the south coast of Iceland now, which has to be one of the most incredible drives in the world from a photography perspective – this 200 mile stretch of road from Selfoss to Jökulsárlón is home to everything from unbelievable waterfalls to lava fields, glaciers and black sand beaches. We were delighted that we’d chosen a''self-drive tour''– it meant we could stop when, where, and for however long we wanted to get the shots we were looking for.''The first major stop along the route is the Seljalandsfoss Waterfall. With a sixty metre drop, and a free car park within viewing distance of the falls, this is definitely one of the more popular waterfalls in the country. It’s also interesting because you can actually walk behind the falls, which makes for some interesting photography opportunities.''If you’re going to do this, I highly recommend investing in a camera bag with a rain cover (see our''photography gear list''for what we use), or at least some plastic bags to put over your gear. Even a small amount of wind can have the spray blowing everywhere, and wet lenses don’t make great photos – assuming your camera survives the experience! I’d definitely recommend doing this though, as going behind a waterfall makes for both a fantastic experience and a wonderful photography opportunity. Just be prepared to get wet!''15. Skogafoss Waterfall''From Seljalandsfoss the road continues past a number of other beautiful waterfalls (again, lots of opportunities to stop for photos!) until you get to Skogafoss, another of Iceland’s hugely famous waterfalls. Like Seljalandsfoss, this has a drop of 60 metres, however there is a far greater volume of water, making for a hugely impressive sight.''We loved that you can walk right up close to the base of where the falls crash into the pool below. With a telephoto lens, this gives plenty of opportunity for placing your subject seemingly right into the falls themselves, which can be a lovely shot. With a wide angle lens, you can also get the whole of the falls, which are just beautiful. Finally, there’s a staircase that will take you right up to an overlook at the top of the falls.''Parking is free here, with a five minute walk to the base of the falls. It’s a bit longer up to the viewing platform.''16. Reynisfjara Black Sand Beach''A break from waterfalls now, although, as you drive along highway 1 you’re going to find plenty more locations you’ll likely want to stop at to take pictures.''My next favourite photography location along highway 1 was the Reynisfjara black sand beach. Most of the beaches in Iceland are of black sand, so that’s not too special, but Reynisfjara is notable because there are basalt rock columns right on the beach which make for great photography foreground, as well as rock columns in the sea that make for great background.''All you have to do is time the tide right (at mid to high tide the beach past the rock columns is largely impassable) and then wait for the crowds of people to give you a break for shooting. Also near here is the huge rock arch at Dyrholaey. You can actually drive right to the top of the cliff top here for wonderfully panoramic shots along the beach, with the mountains of Iceland in the background. Both are definitely a worthwhile stop.''17. Skeiðará Bridge Monument''As you head towards the huge glaciers of''Vatnajökull National Park''you’ll cross the plain of Skeiðarár Sandur, a wide stretch of black volcanic sand where the run-off from the Skeiðarárjökull glacier runs.''In 1996, the Vatnajökull volcano exploded in spectacular fashion, causing a huge glacial flood complete with house sized icebergs. No engineer on earth had foreseen the scale of the flood, and chunks of the ring road were just washed away, including what was then the longest bridge span in Iceland – the Skeiðará Bridge.''I’m telling you all this so you can appreciate the photography opportunity that is the twisted remains of two girders from this bridge, which have been placed together as a monument to the power of nature.''Speaking of remains, another famous sight that’s not too far from this location is the wreck of a DC-10 plane. We didn’t make that on our tour this time, but it’s a popular photography location nonetheless, and you might be interested in visiting. If so,''these instructions''will get you there.''18. Svartifoss Waterfall''Ok, that was a long enough break from waterfalls, right? The next stop on our photography tour of Iceland is Svartifoss, or the Black Falls. Found in Vatnajökull National Park, these falls are named for the dark lava columns which surround them, giving them a fairly unique look of all the falls in Iceland, which warrants their inclusion on this list.''It’s about a forty-five minute largely uphill walk to these falls from the visitor centre, and you can either choose to view them from a viewing point a few hundred metres back, or you can get pretty close. We did both, and personally I preferred the up close shots. Like many of Iceland’s attractions, this is a popular stop for independent travellers and group tours, so you may need to exercise a little patience to get the shot you want.''Parking at the visitor centre is free, and there’s information on additional hiking trails available here. There’s also a reasonably priced selection of sandwiches and snacks to give you energy for the walk, as well as a small gift shop.''19. Svínafellsjökull''An outcrop of the massive Vatnajökull glacier, Svínafellsjökull is a relatively easy glacier to visit and get close to, letting you get some great up close shots of a glacier. There’s about a two mile dirt road to access the parking lot, from where a short five minute walk will have you gaping at giant chunks of blue hued ice.''The path continues along the side of the glacier, and you can explore at your leisure. We would however advise against trying to get onto the glacier itself unless you’re on a dedicated tour with the correct equipment – glaciers are somewhat treacherous environments!''20. Jökulsárlón Lagoon''At the far end of our adventure along Route 1 you will come to the amazing Jökulsárlón Lagoon. This is a glacial lagoon, formed as the''Breiðamerkurjökull''glacier started to melt. It’s now the deepest lake in Iceland, and is full of gorgeous blue toned icebergs, which are the main attraction.''It’s wonderful to just wander along the shore of the lake here and find yourself some beautiful spots for photography, watching the icebergs slowly drift around the lake with the winds and the tide. There are also sometimes seals in the lagoon, as well as birdlife. Like Diamond Beach below, and many of Iceland’s other attractions, this is a fantastic spot at both sunrise and sunset.''There’s free parking here, and the lagoon is a few metres walk from the car park, from where you can wander as far as you like. At some times of the year you can also take boat tours on the lagoon, depending on how much ice there is.''21. Diamond Beach''Right next to the Jökulsárlón Lagoon is the Diamond Beach. This is a truly epic photography location, definitely one of my favourite spots in Iceland. As the icebergs in the lagoon melt, they drift out to sea, with many then washing up on the shore. I’ve never seen so much ice on a beach, and the colours and patterns are just fantastic.''This is a magnificent place for both sunset and sunrise, as the light works its magic through the ice. I’m also told this is one of the best spots in Iceland for viewing the aurora, although we weren’t lucky enough to see them on our visit. Still, I can only imagine what that must be like.''Definitely expect to spend some time here shooting the icebergs on the beach, and I’d recommend both a tripod and a Neutral Density filter to get the best results from your photos. Enjoy!''How to Get Around Iceland''Iceland is a relatively easy country to get around, either driving yourself or you can take a tour. As I’ve said throughout the post, for part of our visit we took a''self-drive tour with Iceland Travel'', which included our accommodation and hire car, as well as a suggested itinerary.''I’ve written a''full post on our experience with Iceland Trave''l which also includes planning tips, but in brief, we can definitely recommend a self-drive tour as a great option for anyone visiting Iceland who is looking for a good value option that is both flexible and easy to sort out.''You can also''book your own hire car''of course, and build your own itinerary – see our suggested''five day Iceland itinerary''and''seven day Iceland itinerary''posts for ideas.''If you’re on a tight schedule and want to see as much as possible, and would prefer not to drive a car, Iceland Travel''has a number of day tour options''that offer great experiences at reasonable prices.''As an example, the''five for three package''looks to be a fantastic option. This includes nearly every location in the list above, including the Snaefellsnes Peninsula, the Golden Circle, and the highlights of the South Coast all the way along to Jökulsárlón, as well as airport transfers to and from Reykjavik.''This would be a good tour to combine with a three day stopover, fitting a lot into a few days. Add in a''night of aurora hunting''and your Iceland experience will be complete!''Alternatively, they also have group guided multi-day tours, such as this epic''Iceland Complete Winter Escorted Tour''. So lots to choose from!''Where to Stay in Iceland''Iceland has a wide variety of accommodation options to suit a variety of budgets, although is certainly at the more expensive end of the scale. During our trip with''Iceland Travel''we stayed in a number of IcelandAir branded hotels, these were generally around a 3 – 4* standard, offering comfortable en-suite rooms, often the use of a geothermal hot tub and an extensive inclusive breakfast.''Outside of our trip with Iceland Travel we found''AirBnB''to offer some very competitive prices for a range of lodging options. We’d definitely recommend checking that out, and also reading through our guide to''AirBnB Alternatives''which should give you plenty of options for your trip.''Cost of Travel in Iceland''Iceland is far from a budget destination, although with care you can manage your costs. The main expenses are accommodation, transport, food and drink – with the latter two being fairly high.''We think that''Iceland Travel''is a very reasonably priced option for helping with the accommodation and transport costs, and you can keep your other costs down by finding budget friendly dining options, and trying not to buy drinks too often.''The majority of the attractions in this list are currently entirely free to visit, although should you wish to explore any museums or take tours then fees will apply.''Getting To and From Iceland''There are two main Icelandic carriers,''Icelandair''and''WOW Air''. These operate from a number of US and European destinations. We flew with WOW Air, which is a low-cost no frills airline, with everything that entails – you have to pay extra for food, cabin baggage and hold baggage. It is however great value and we had no problems with the flight.''Icelandair is a more established carrier, with the bonus that they offer a''free stopover of up to seven nights''on flights that pass through Iceland, which include the majority of their routes from the US to Europe and vice versa. This is a great way to get to Iceland “for free” if you were already planning a trip between the two, and fares tend to be very competitive.''There are also other airlines that fly to Iceland of course, including easyJet, Norwegian and Vueling, and the best option will depend on where you are flying from and what level of comfort and service you are looking for.''When to Visit Iceland''Being fairly far north, Iceland has very different climates depending on when you visit. In the Winter months, and often as late as May and June, access to the north and highland roads becomes almost impossible in anything but a highly modified four wheel drive.''So if you want to see everything in the country and not be disadvantaged by the weather, then a trip in June through to September is probably for you. You’ll have longer days and green landscapes, although there will likely be more visitors at this time of year.''On the other hand, if you’re particularly keen on seeing the northern lights, you’re going to be better off visiting from around October through to mid-April. Whilst the weather is going to be worse, and access to some parts of the country is going to be harder, you stand a much better chance of seeing the aurora. Of course, you aren’t guaranteed to see any aurora (we sadly didn’t see any during our two week trip!), but at least there’s a chance.''If you do visit in winter, check out our''guide to driving in Iceland in Winter''for more tips on staying safe on the roads if you choose to do a self-drive trip.''I’d also add that Iceland, despite it’s northern latitude, never gets as cold as some of the other countries in these latitudes, because the warm water of the Gulfstream tends to keep it warmer. This is a bit of a double edged sword – whilst it rarely drops far below freezing, rain and snow are common occurrences at any time of year!''Some Quick Practicalities for Visiting Iceland''Like the rest of Europe, Iceland uses a 240v system for power, and plugs are of the European two pin variety. Visitors from the UK and the US will need a travel adapter, and visitors from the US will need to ensure their equipment works at 240v.''Internet access is generally widely available in Iceland in the form of WiFi, although is often speed limited in hotels unless you pay for a premium service. Our Iceland Travel tour came with a free local SIM card that included calls, text and 4G data, so we had no problems getting online when we visited. You’ll need an unlocked phone to take advantage of this.''The Icelandic currency is the ISK, or kroner. We took cash out at an ATM, but to be honest, everywhere accepts credit cards, so you’ll generally be fine with only a small amount of currency for those rare situations your card might not be accepted.''Further Reading for Your Visit to Iceland''We’ll be writing a lot more about Iceland across our two blogs in the coming months, so this list will be updated as we go. In the meantime, here are some great resources to get you started with planning your trip.''Jess has put together a detailed post outlining a''seven day Iceland itinerary''to give you some route ideas. We also have a detailed''five day Iceland itinerary''if you have a little less time.''I’ve put together a post on''planning your Iceland trip'', to help you get the most from your visit.''If you’re visiting Iceland in Winter, check out our guide to the''best winter activities in Iceland'', as well as our''guide to driving in Iceland in Winter''We have a detailed guide to help you decide''what to pack for Iceland''If you want to base yourself in Reykjavik, we’ve put together a list of the''best day trips from Reykjavik'', which will get you to the majority of the locations above.''Here’s an awesome list of some of''Iceland’s most Instagrammable locations''to give you even more ideas to add to your Iceland photography itinerary''If you’re specifically looking for northern lights locations,''this post''will give you some ideas''One location we missed along the south coast was the famous DC-10 plane wreckage. If that’s on your list, check out this''detailed post on how to get there''.''We travelled with''Iceland Travel''– check out their website for tour options and prices''The weather in Iceland can be fickle – the best website for real-time cloud cover is''this one from the Icelandic Met Office''.''Iceland is not a budget destination, but here are some''excellent tips on saving money on your Iceland trip''from a budget travel expert''Looking for some more inspiration for your Iceland trip? Here are some of the''best Iceland Instagram accounts''to follow (we figure you’re already''following us on Instagram'', right?)''Whilst Iceland is a safe country to travel in when it comes to things like crime, the country itself is home to extreme conditions and all sorts of seismic activity. So to stay safe as you go, check out the''safetravel Iceland page''If you’re not sure what camera gear to take with, take a look at both our guide to''picking a travel camera'', and our personal''travel photography gear''Finally, if you’re visiting in winter, you’ll want to read through my''tips for cold weather photography''.''And that finishes up my guide to some of the best photography locations in Iceland! I hope you enjoyed it. Is Iceland on your list? Let us know in the comments below!''So you know: We received a complimentary seven day tour of Iceland with Iceland Travel, which included our accommodation and hire car, plus an allowance for fuel. In addition, if you book any trip with Iceland Travel from the links above we’ll earn a small commission. We covered our own flights and the remainder of our time exploring Iceland was on our own budget. As always, you can see our''code of ethics''for how we choose who to work with!''SHARE ON''In what might be the longest running series of posts on this site, today I’m continuing my Route 66 Photo Story with Kansas – the sixth state on the route as we travelled from west to east. Two more to go! You can see''highlights of the other Route66 states here''. We’re nearly there folks!''Now, I’ll be honest, Kansas was a bit tricky to do. Other states have long stretches of Route 66, giving me lots of options of photos to choose from. Kansas has a grand total of 12 miles of Route 66 before it heads into Missouri.''Thankfully, those 12 miles do have a number of attractions, including the “Cars on the Route” gas station that is home to the tow truck which inspired the character “Mater” in the animated Pixar movie “Cars”. We also cheated a little and went off Route to visit a huge mining machine.''Here then are some of our favourite photos from our brief Kansas Route 66 adventure!''You can’t have a Route 66 road without the Route 66 logo printed on the road somewhere! And Kansas delivered, with this road marking taking pride of place on the entry to this bridge. Top marks Kansas.''There’s really only one town on Route 66 in Kansas, and it’s called Galena. It’s fully embraced it’s role as the Route 66 town of Kansas though, with signage…''…murals…''and even an old city jail!''The streets were very pretty with nice signs and shops to see.''As well as some interesting houses.''I mentioned the Cars movie earlier. You can pop in to the home of “Mater” when you’re here.''There he is!''And from another angle. Because he’s so cute.''Of course no Route 66 photo essay would be complete without an old style gas station.''There’s an old Route 66 park just outside the city.''Perfect to pause awhile.''And here is that promised mining machine – the “Big Brutus”. At its time, this was the second largest machine of its kind in the world. Yes, we had to cheat a little in terms of Route 66 for this one – a worthy deviation I think you’ll agree.''And that brings us to the end of Kansas! A short Route 66 journey, but an essential one. Now for a bit of further reading to help you plan your own Route 66 adventure.''Tips for Planning your own Route 66 Adventure''If you’re planning your own historic Route 66 adventure, we’ve got a bit of reading for you!''First, be inspired by photos from all the states we visited, by checking our photos highlights from each Route 66 state:''California'',''Arizona'',''New Mexico'',''Texas'',''Oklahoma'',''Kansas'',''Missouri''&''Illinois''Next, check out Jess’s comprehensive guide to''planning a Route 66 trip''Then, take a look out our incredibly detailed''day by day Route 66 itinerary'', which covers all the sights you want to see, route tips, lodging options and places to eat.''If you’re new to driving in the US, check out my''tips for driving in the US''to get you started''Not sure how much it’s all going to cost? We’ve got you covered with our''guide to travel costs in the USA''Finally, take a look at''this book''– the best way in our opinion to successfully navigate the entire length of Route 66 as faithfully as you can. We followed it the whole way, and even met the author, and couldn’t have done without it!''Enjoy your Route 66 trip, and let us know which has been your favourite state so far in the comments below!''SHARE ON''As part of our five week epic road trip around New Mexico, we spent a few days exploring Santa Fe, the state capital. Located about an hour’s drive north of (the much bigger!) Albuquerque, Santa Fe has long been known as a laid back place that is popular with artists as well as folks looking to explore the outdoors.''We spent our time visiting museums, eating, taking photos and generally exploring everything the state capital has to offer. From that, we’re delighted to share with you our ideas for some of our favourite things to do in Santa Fe.''Contents:''Things To Do In Santa Fe New Mexico''1. Learn about Georgia O’Keeffe''2. Visit the Loretto Chapel''3. Take a Tour at El Rancho de Las Golondrinas''4. Watch a Sunset from La Fonda Hotel''5. Visit the Museum of Indian Arts and Culture''6. Explore the Palace of the Governors''7. See one of the oldest houses in the USA''8. Tour the Art on Canyon Road''9. Visit the Museum of International Folk Art''10. Wander the Plaza''11. Have your mind blown at Meow Wolf''12. Visit the Cathedral Basilica of St. Francis of Assisi''13. Visit the Santa Fe Railyard''When To Visit Santa Fe''Getting to Santa Fe New Mexico''Where to Stay in Santa Fe''Our Tips for Getting the Right Accommodation For Your Budget:''Further Reading for Your Visit to Santa Fe and New Mexico''Things To Do In Santa Fe New Mexico''1. Learn about Georgia O’Keeffe''If you’re from the US (and even if you’re not), the chances are you have heard of Georgia O’Keeffe. She was the artist who essentially put American modernism on the map, and she spent a great deal of her life living and painting in the area of New Mexico near to Santa Fe.''Visiting the''Georgia O’Keeffe museum in Santa Fe''is definitely a good way to get up to speed on the artist, as well as enjoy some of her many works. We particularly enjoyed visiting as we had been to a number of the locations around the Abiquiu area where she drew much of her inspiration, and it was nice to see her depiction of scenes like the white city and chimney rock.''2. Visit the Loretto Chapel''One of the most popular things to do in Santa Fe is to visit the Loretto Chapel. This is a lovely little chapel in downtown Santa Fe which is particularly famous for having a “miracle” staircase. Constructed by a mystery carpenter, this beautiful spiral staircase stands with no apparent means of support, completing two 360 degree turns as it ascends towards the roof of the church.''Whilst''the truth is a little less exciting'', it is still worth visiting. The craftmanship on the staircase, built by hand in the 19th century, is very impressive, and the chapel itself is beautiful.''3. Take a Tour at El Rancho de Las Golondrinas''About a twenty minute drive south of Santa Fe''is El Rancho de Las Golondrinas'', or the Ranch of the Swallows. This is a living history museum, situated on a 200 acre ranch, which is dedicated to the history, heritage and culture of 18th and 19th century New Mexico.''They offer both self-guided tours and free (with admission) guided tours, and we would definitely recommend doing the latter if you can. We learnt all about the history of life in this area thanks to our well informed and entertaining guide, who showed us around a number of the key buildings on site. Then we were able to explore the rest of the property by ourselves.''You definitely want to set aside a few hours for exploring. As well as the guide, there are costumed “villagers” to find and interact with, a hacienda, water mill, schoolhouse and more buildings to explore, plus there are events throughout the year to attend.''4. Watch a Sunset from La Fonda Hotel''After a lot of exploring, you’re going to want to relax with a cocktail. Or a beer. Or a nice chilled glass of wine. Or something entirely non-alcoholic. Whatever your choice, a wonderful place to enjoy it is going to be the rooftop bar at the''La Fonda hotel''.''There has been some kind of travellers lodging on this site for over 400 years, although today’s hotel is a little younger, dating from 1922. It’s certainly one of the premiere hotels in the city, with a fantastic central location, and multiple dining options.''It’s the fifth floor rooftop bar that I’m suggesting you visit. From here you get panoramic views over the whole city, and far off into the distance. It’s particularly popular for sunset, when you can have a drink and a few nibbles. It does get busy, so arrive early if you want to sit down!''5. Visit the Museum of Indian Arts and Culture''Time for some culture! The''Museum of Indian Arts and Culture''is dedicated to helping visitors learn all about the native inhabitants of this part of the world, and features everything from archaeological exhibits to art pieces, jewelry and more. Over 75,000 pieces are in the collection (not all on display!), and we’re sure you’ll learn a thing or two during your visit.''6. Explore the Palace of the Governors''Built in 1610 and once the seat of the Spanish government in what was then the Spanish controlled southwest, this 17th century building now houses displays on the history of Santa Fe, as well as the region. It’s also the oldest continuously occupied public building in the United States!''Right next door to the Palace of the Governors is the''New Mexico State History Museum'', which, as the name suggests,\xa0 will teach you all about the history of the region, from the native people, through to the Spanish conquerors, right through to the present day. There are also temporary exhibitions. When we visited, one of these was on the history of lowriders in the area, which I found very interesting.''7. See one of the oldest houses in the USA''Whilst not the''oldest house in the USA'', the De Vargas street house in Santa Fe does date from 1646, which certainly makes it one of the older Spanish era properties in the country. It’s now home to the Oldest House Museum, which consists of a couple of rooms inside the house which you can tour to get an appreciation of how these structures were built.''8. Tour the Art on Canyon Road''As I mentioned at the start of the post, Santa Fe is well known as an artistic community. One of the best places to explore this in on Canyon Road, home to multiple galleries showcasing all sorts of art, from Native American pieces through to sculpture, pieces that move in the wind – everything really!''We really enjoyed wandering the street and popping into various galleries to see what was on display, although many of these are fairly serious places so the prices were somewhat out of our budget! But it’s definitely worth exploring, you might find something you love!''9. Visit the Museum of International Folk Art''In the same part of town (up on Museum Hill) as the Museum of Indian Arts and Culture is the fun''Museum of International Folk Art''. With a collection of over 130,000 objects from 100 nations, it’s the largest collection of folk art of its kind in the world.''Exhibits rotate so what you see will vary, with the exception of the long term Girard Collection, which was one of our favourite parts of the museum. Consisting of hundreds of miniatures, which range from bull fighting rings through to depictions of life in US towns across the years through to, well, pretty much everything you can imagine. There’s a lot to see and we guarantee you’ll spend more time here than you were planning!''10. Wander the Plaza''For over 400 years the Santa Fe Plaza has been at the centre of life in the town, so we suggest you would want to take a bit of time to enjoy this history. Depending on when you visit you might find a concert or dance going on, or a community gathering, or a market of some kind.''All along the wall of the Palace of the Governors you’ll also find artisans selling traditional New Mexican crafts. This is a result of the Native American Vendors Program, which has seen traditional Native American crafts sold here for over six decades. If you’re looking for an authentic piece of native New Mexican art, this is a good place to come.''11. Have your mind blown at Meow Wolf''And now for something completely different. At the site of a former bowling alley sits the massive''Meow Wolf''venue. Part art installation, part interactive puzzle, part… well, it’s hard to describe. Visiting Meow Wolf is like waking up inside a video game, or a choose your own adventure story.''It’s beautifully crafted, the result of over 100 local artists all working together, and will definitely entertain you, even if you leave with a sense of not quite knowing what it was all about. We visited meaning to stay for an hour, and ended up there until they closed! If you’re looking for something really unlike anything you’ve been to before, you’ve got to head to Meow Wolf.''12. Visit the Cathedral Basilica of St. Francis of Assisi''Santa Fe is a town of beautiful adobe structures, so this Romaneque style basilica is a bit of a shock on first sight. Built in the 19th century, the''Cathedral Basilica of St. Francis of Assisi''is quite beautiful from the outside, but also worth heading inside, as there are a number of uniquely New Mexican touches that are worthy of your time.''Speaking of churches, you should also visit the''San Miguel Mission''if you have the time. Dating from 1610, this is believed to be the oldest church in the United States, a testament to how long an adobe building will last if properly maintained and cared for.''13. Visit the Santa Fe Railyard''Last, but not least, on our list of things to do in Santa Fe – the Santa Fe Railyard. Once a key interchange for 19th century train traffic, today the Railyard is more focused on entertainment, shopping and dining.''There’s a regular farmer’s market, plus in the summers you can come by and watch a movie on the lawn. The Railyard is also where you come to catch a train down to Albuquerque – the Rail Runner service.''When To Visit Santa Fe''Santa Fe is a good destination to visit year round, but you should be aware that it is at relatively high altitude (7,000 ft above sea level), and is also a ski destination, so winter snowfall and cold temperatures are to be expected in the Winter months.''It’s also an arid climate, although summer monsoon rains can bring bursts of humidity, and temperatures in the summer months can exceed 90F. Rain is most common July – September, and even hot summer days can have cool nights, so you’ll want to bring appropriate clothing.''So really, it’s up to you and what you want to do in and around Santa Fe! For winter activities, you’ll obviously want to visit in Winter. For general exploring, I’d suggest Spring and Fall would likely be a good balance – reasonable temperatures and less people. Summertime is definitely busier, with weekends booking out fast. There are also a number of festivals throughout the year, in particular the Indian Market in August, where rooms can be booked out up to a year in advance.''Also, keep in mind that during the''Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta'', Santa Fe will also likely be busier due to the high number of visitors to the region.''Getting to Santa Fe New Mexico''Santa Fe does have an''airport'', with flights to Texas, Arizona and Colorado at time of writing. If you want to fly from further afield, you’ll likely want to fly to Albuquerque, and then make your way up to Santa Fe. Between Santa Fe and Albuquerque there’s an excellent and regular train service, otherwise it’s an easy 1 hour drive.''There are currently no major bus lines servicing Santa Fe – you’ll have to travel into Albuquerque and then make your way from there.''Where to Stay in Santa Fe''There are''plenty of accommodation options in Santa Fe'', everything from the previously mentioned centrally located La Fonda through to lodges and motels. We stayed in an AirBnB when we visited, which was perfect for our needs. See below for our tips on getting the best deal on your accommodation when you travel.''Our Tips for Getting the Right Accommodation For Your Budget:''Finding the''best deal on your accommodation''is an important part of travel planning, helping you to''get the most from your budget'', as well as''find the property that is right for you''.''Our''current favourite way''to find the''best deals on accommodation''is with Booking.com. They have a wide range of choices, good prices, and are super easy to use. Check out their''Santa Fe listings here''.''If you prefer an apartment or private room, then we recommend''AirBnB''. We’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get up to''a $100 discount''if you sign up with''this link.''(Discount varies by currency and if you choose to host at some point).''If you can’t find what you want on AirBnB, or you want some new options to try out, we have some alternatives we also use. We suggest trying''VRBO'',''Flipkey''or''HomeAway''to start with. For even more ideas to help you save money and get the best choice, we wrote a whole post on the''best alternatives to AirBnB''which you should check out!''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''Further Reading for Your Visit to Santa Fe and New Mexico''Our trip to Santa Fe was part of a much longer trip exploring the wonderful state of New Mexico. We’ve written a number of posts about out experiences and will be sharing more. In the meantime, here are a number of resources that you might find useful for planning your Santa Fe (and New Mexico!) trip.''The''official Santa Fe tourism website''The top rated''travel guide to Santa Fe''from Frommers''Our guide to''how much it costs to travel in the USA''If you’re visiting Santa Fe as part of a road trip, you might find out''Tips for Driving in the USA''useful''Don’t miss our series of guides on Albuquerque, including''What to Do in Albuquerque'',''Where to Eat in Albuquerque'',''how to find Route 66 in Albuquerque'', and a guide to the''Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta''Our guide to the best''Airbnb Alternatives'', to help you get the best lodging, whatever your budget''And that sums up our guide to what to do in Santa Fe, New Mexico! Have you ever visited this town? Do you have anything you’d like to add? Let us know in the comments below!''So you know, Santa Fe tourism supported our trip by arranging discounted or free access to a number of the attractions listed above. We covered all the other costs of the trip, including lodging, transport and food. As always, you can see our''code of ethics''for information on how we choose who to work with!''SHARE ON''Barcelona is definitely one of my favourite European cities, and one I love to photograph. Today, as part of my series of''photography location guides'', I’m going to share with you some of the best photography spots in Barcelona to help you get the best photos when you visit.''After that, I’ll share some general tips on visiting the city, everything from where to stay, when to come, and how to save money on your stay. But let’s get started with:''The Best Photography Spots In Barcelona''1. Sagrada Familia''Gaudi’s masterpiece, the giant cathedral known as the Sagrada Familia, is still far from complete, decades after the architect’s death. Whilst it’s fun to imagine what it will be like when completed, it’s still an iconic location to photograph, both inside and out.''Outside, you’ve got the soaring towers to shoot, and countless details on the outer walls. Yes, there are cranes and scaffolding, but that’s just part of the story. Shooting wise, I’d recommend heading to the Placa de Gaudi – a little park just over the road from the cathedral. Here you’ll get a wonderful shot of the Sagrada Familia reflected in the small lake at the centre of the park.''The best time to visit is either at sunrise (when there will be far fewer people) or at sunset. The sunrise illuminates the front of the building, making some lovely warm colours on the stone. Sunrise is also a great time because it means you can get into the church itself first, and fire off some photos before the crowds descend. Inside, it’s a true marvel to photograph, with a stunning coral like “forest” of support pillars. Unfortunately you can’t use a tripod, but there’s quite a lot of light in here, so you should be fine. Bring a wide angle lens to get as much in as you can!''2. Casa Batlló''Fair warning – a lot of the locations in this list are going to be Gaudi properties – the man left an incredible mark on Barcelona, and the organic nature of his buildings means they’re wonderfully photogenic.''Casa Batlló is no exception. The outside of this building is famous for its Venetian mask-like balconies, whilst the roof is known for its beautiful chimneys. Mid to late morning is probably the best time to visit for photos, as the building is on the west side of a north-south street, so only has the light falling on it for some of the day.''3. The Magic Fountain''The Magic Fountain (definitely the best name for a fountain) is a huge fountain that was built on the side of Monjuic hill for the 1923 International Exhibition. It runs a daily sound and light show which draws big crowds, and is a great spot for photos.''There are a number of locations to enjoy the show – either up close at the fountain itself, or from the top of the hill by the National Museum of Catalan. From the top, you get a wonderful view across the city with the fountain display as the foreground. Definitely worth photographing during your time in Barcelona!''4. Parc Güell''Another Gaudi installation, Parc Güell is situated a little north of the city centre on one of Barcelona’s hills. This means you get great views back across the city, and the Parc is a good spot for sunset photos.''It’s also an excellent photography location during the rest of the day (although of course, the best light will be closer to sunrise and sunset!). Whilst the vision of the Parc that Gaudi came up with was never completed, the version that exists today is full of interesting photography locations, from the giant mosiac salamander to the huge pillared area supporting the terrace.''The Parc has an entry fee for non-residents in order to manage capacity, and entries are timed. Barcelona is a city that is known for being busy, so this has definitely helped with the crowds, but be aware that for the classic shots of the entry gates, the mosaic terrace and the salamander, you might have to wait your turn a little or just be OK with having some fellow travellers in your shots.''5. Mercado de la Boqueria''Spanish markets are always fun to photograph and the Mercado de la Boqueria on Las Ramblas is no different. There’s been a market here in some form or another since at least 1217, and the market is particularly known for being the place to come for things you can’t find anywhere else.''The structure as it exists today was constructed in 1840, and the metal work and market stalls make for excellent photography opportunities, everything from colourful fruit to tourists wandering through and interacting with the stall owners.''6. Las Ramblas''One of Barcelona’s most famous walking streets, La Ramblas runs from Placa Catalunya down to the port area and the statue of Christopher Columbus. Just over a kilometre in length, there’s always something to photograph here, from the various buildings and attractions, through to street entertainers and open air dining experiences.''It’s also busy at night, when people come out to see and be seen, so there’s no really bad time to visit to be honest. It’ll be quieter in the mornings if you want to get a more empty street feel, and then get more and more busy as the day progresses. A word of warning – Las Ramblas is known for its pickpockets, so be aware of your belongings and keep them safely about your person away from prying hands. More on staying safe in Barcelona at the end of the post.''7. La Barceloneta''Barcelona has a lot to offer the visiting photographer, not least of which is the beautiful stretch of beach known as La Barceloneta.''This whole part of town has a very “beach” feel, and this is a great place to come photograph if you want to see a sunrise over the water, palm trees against a beautiful sky, people playing, or just some funky outdoor art!''8. Recinte Modernista de Sant Pau''I’ve visited Barcelona a number of times, however it was only on my most recent visit that I headed to the Hospital de Sant pau. This UNESCO World Heritage Site is a beautiful early 20th century piece of Modernisme architecture, featuring numerous buildings, many of which are now open to the public as a museum and cultural centre.''It was originally built as a hospital, although the majority of the hospital functions have since moved to the new hospital building opened in 2003.''There’s a lot to photograph here (it’s Europe’s largest Art Nouveau Site), from the wonderful exteriors of the buildings through to the incredible interiors of those buildings that are open, and in particular, the stairway and upper floors of the Sant Salvador Pavillion, which is the largest building on the site. Note that only a handful of the buildings’ interiors are open to the public.''The hospital is a 15 minute walk from the Sagrada Familia, and you can find opening times and ticket information on''their website''. Very much worth your time to visit.''9. The Gothic Quarter''Ok, so this is a bit of a cheat. Naming a whole neighbourhood as a photography location? Well, bear with me. The Gothic Quarter is a maze of narrow alleyways, most of which are car-free due to their size. This maze of streets is full of photography opportunities, from hanging laundry through to street art, old tucked away churches, and quirky shops and cafes.''There’s also the mighty impressive Barcelona Cathedral and the UNESCO listed Palau de Musica, although to get the best photos of the latter you’ll have to go inside to see its beautiful interiors.''I suggest that you just spend some time wandering these streets and getting some shots. They can be dark, as not much light gets in, so you might want to bring a tripod, and consider shooting for HDR as the dynamic range between the sky and the alleyways can be tough on your camera.''10. Port Vell''At the south end of Las Ramblas you’ll find the Port Vell area of Barcelona. This is a lovely part of town where you can wander, photograph the moored boats and people-watch. It’s particurlarly nice at sunset and sunrise, when the light is warm and low.''I’d definitely recommend taking some time to shoot the Barcelona Port Authority Building, which is beautifully photogenic. Port Vell is also the place where you can grab a boat for a short cruise along the Barcelona shore, which will give you a totally different perspective and view of the city.''11. Montjuic Castle''Above the port and the city, Montjuic Castle offers excellent views of the city from it’s massive walls. Dating from 1640, this impressive construction evolved over time to meet varying military needs, although today is used predominantly for cultural events.''It’s also a wonderful photography spot – both for shots of the castle itself, and for the views over the city.''12. Torre Bellesguard''Torre Bellesguard is one of the less well known and more recently opened Gaudi houses in the city. It’s a little way north of the city centre, so has less footfall, but is nonetheless truly impressive.''As well as exploring the grounds, you can take a tour inside the house itself, with the highlight being the roof. This has another fantastic view of the city, and if you look carefully, is designed to look like a dragon! Very cool.''13. Parc de la Ciutdella''Just to the east of the city centre and near one of the main train stations is the Parc de la Ciutdella. This has a number of interesting buildings, including the museum of natural science and the Barcelona Zoo.''Most visitors, however, come to see the Cascada, also known as the Horse Fountain. This was created by Josep Fontsére with a little help from a then largely unknown Anton Gaudi. It’s very photogrenic, with a huge golden statue of a horse chariot atop an arch in front of the water cascade and pool, which offers some excellent reflection opportunities.''14. Casa Mila''Also known as La Pedrera, this is a Gaudi property just a short walk from Casa Batlló. The organic design of the front of the building is very photogenic and worth shooting from the street, however I’d suggest that to truly appreciate this building you have to head inside.''Here, there’s an amazing central atrium which is designed to let the light in to the interior apartment rooms. You’ll also find the chimneys on the roof to be very photogenic, along with the vaulted rooms of the loft space. Definitely worth the entry fee.''15. Colonia Guell''This one is a bit of a stretch, being in a suburb of Barcelona rather than the city itself. However, if you can get yourself out here, it’s worth it. Built as a workers village, there are a number of interesting buildings here, and an informative self-guided tour.''The real highlight though is the unfinished church. This is another work by Gaudi, and only the “crypt” part of the building was completed. Gaudi used the architectural innovations he had pioneered when designing this building, meaning you’re going to see amazing curves, pillars and building materials in a building quite unlike any you’ve seen before. An excellent place to end our tour of the best photography locations in Barcelona!''When to Visit Barcelona''Barcelona is a very popular destination with tourists from all over the world visiting. The best time to visit is in the off-peak season – we visited most recently in January, when queues were short. We were also lucky with the weather – it was sunny most days, even if it was fairly cold (5 – 10 degrees above freezing most days).''Of course, I appreciate not everyone can (or wants to) visit in January. My advice would be to avoid the summer months of July and August if you can, when it will be hot and incredibly crowded. In August in particular, many locals take holidays and so many shops and restaurants may be closed or have erratic hours.''Finally, Barcelona hosts a number of major conferences each year – the largest being the Mobile World Congress in February. Hotel prices during this time can be much higher while conferences are in the city, so check in advance before heading here to be sure you aren’t visiting at a peak time.''Safety Tips for Visiting Barcelona''Personally I’ve not had any problems in Barcelona, although the city carries a reputation for petty crime, in particular pick pockets. These are known to frequent tourist areas, especially Las Ramblas and the metro system.''A friend of mine also had his photography gear stolen from a park bench whilst he was taking a shot (the bag was behind him on a park bench), so be mindful of your stuff. Don’t leave bags or tripods unattended.''I believe that most crime is opportunistic in nature, so if you take basic precautions and are''aware of some common Barcelona scams'', you should be fine.''Where to Stay in Barcelona''There are a lot of accommodation options in Barcelona, however, you have to be aware that Barcelona is a city which is a little overwhelmed by tourism, and as such, is taking measures to ensure that residents are able to afford to live in the city. These measures include a crackdown on city centre AirBnB, as well as a restriction on new hotel builds in the city centre.''AirBnB (and''sites like AirBnB'') need to be registered with the city, and will then be issued a license number. If you want to stay in an AirBnB, then we recommend picking one which has the license number on the listing.''Unfortunately, this will really limit your options on apartments, as most of the listings with a license are outside of the gothic quarter and immediate surrounds. We weren’t aware of this rule when we visited, and stayed in a gothic quarter AirBnB when we visited, however we feel that the days of these properties may be numbered.''Of course, AirBnB isn’t the only game in town. Barcelona has many great hotels to choose from across a wide range of prices\xa0(see a''full listing of Barcelona hotels here''), plus there are numerous alternatives to AirBnB – we’ve listed some of our favourite''websites like AirBnB here''.''How to Get Around Barcelona''Barcelona has an excellent public transport system, with regular metro, bus, and train options around the city. We found the metro to generally be the easiest and most convenient way to travel.''Tickets can be purchased either individually per ride, or you can buy a card valid for 10 rides. If you are taking more than four rides, a card is much better value. The card allow multiple people to travel (just put it through the ticket reader for each person) and unlike the single ticket allows you to change transport modes, say from a metro to bus (within an hour and 15 minutes of starting your journey for Zone 1 cards).''From the airport, there are multiple ways to get into the city. You can take a metro, a train or a bus, all of which are reasonably priced. Depending on where you want to go in the city you should pick the best option for you. Taxis are also available, but are more expensive.''There are two more options for transport in Barcelona to consider.''1 – If you''purchase a Barcelona Card'', you get free travel on the metro, buses, trams and trains. This includes the airport metro and train.''2 – If you purchase a''Barcelona Pass'', it comes with one day access to the''Hop On Hop Off Barcelona Bus Tour'', which covers nearly every major tourist site in the city including nearly everywhere in this photography location guide. You also have the option to add on a''Barcelona Travelcard'', which covers regional travel on all public transport networks in Barcelona, including the airport.''More on the benefits and differences between these two options in the next section:''How to Save Money on Your Barcelona Visit''There are two main options for saving money in Barcelona that I’ll quickly cover here.''The Barcelona Card''First, the''Barcelona Card''. This is the official city card from the''Barcelona Tourist Office'', which is available in a standard version, and an express version. The normal version can be purchased for 3, 4 or 5 consecutive days, whilst the Express version is valid for two days. The normal version includes free access to a range of attractions, as well as discounted admission to a number of other attractions. It also includes free public transport.''The''Express version''comes with free transport for two days, as well as a range of discounted admission, but doesn’t include free entry. However, it is very competitively priced.''The Barcelona Pass''Newly launched at the end of 2016, the''Barcelona Pass''is from the same people who make the''London Pass that we love''. It is more expensive than the Barcelona Card, however it includes free entry to a number of attractions on our photography locations guide including the''Casa Mila'',''Casa Batlló'',''Recinte Modernista Sant Pau''and''Colonia Guell''.''It also comes with a day of free''hop on hop off bus transport'', a free''Barcelona Walking tour'', a free''Bike tour'', a''free boat tour'', and a number of other attractions. If you are planning on visiting the''attractions covered by the Barcelona Pass'', it can quickly save you money. If you’re interested in the Barcelona Pass, Jess has written a comprehensive''review and guide to using the Barcelona Pass''which you should check out.''Should You Get the Barcelona Pass or Barcelona Card?''The answer to this question very much depends on what you want to see! It’s worth being aware that no card offers free admission to the Sagrada Familia.''Overall though, you can save a lot of money with the''Barcelona Pass'', especially the three day version. The''Barcelona Card''is good for saving money on transport and for museums, however doesn’t include free admission to a lot of the key attractions like the Gaudi sights.''For a detailed comparison of the various cards available in Barcelona to help you decide which is best for you, check out our''Barcelona card comparison post'', and also see our full''review of the Barcelona Pass''.''Further Reading For Your Visit To Barcelona''There’s a lot of information out there about visiting and photographing Barcelona – some we’ve written ourselves, plus some external resources. Below you’ll find some of the best of that content to help make the most of your trip to Barcelona.''Our recommended itinerary''for a day in Barcelona''And a''recommended itinerary for three days in Barcelona''A guide to the best locations for getting a''great view of Barcelona''Our comprehensive''review and guide to using the Barcelona Pass''Want to see some of Gaudi’s creations? Check out our definitive guide to the''best Gaudi sights in Barcelona''Some of our''favourite street art in Barcelona''The''Lonely Planet Guide to Barcelona''Rick Steve’s''Pocket Barcelona Guide''The''WikiVoyage guide to Barcelona''The official''Barcelona Tourism webpage''And that sums up our guide to the best photography locations in Barcelona! Got a question, or a favourite spot that we missed? Let us know in the comments!''SHARE ON''Edinburgh is one of my favourite cities in the''UK'', and was an obvious addition to my''perfect two week itinerary of the UK''. Until now though, I’ve not put together a detailed overview of my favourite pastimes in Edinburgh.''Today I’m going to address that, sharing tips and ideas for what to get up to on with 2 days in Edinburgh. We think two days is a great amount of time to spend in Edinburgh – perhaps as a weekend break, or as part of a longer trip exploring the UK and Scotland. Of course, you could spend much more time getting to know the city, but two days will certainly let you see many of the highlights of Edinburgh.''Contents:''A 2 Day Edinburgh Itinerary''When to Visit Edinburgh''Getting to and from Edinburgh''Save Money On Edinburgh Attractions''Where to Stay in Edinburgh''Further Reading for your Edinburgh Trip''A 2 Day Edinburgh Itinerary''This itinerary is laid out to be fairly logical in progression, with two full days of exploration in the city, covering some of the main attractions. There’s lots more to see and do in the city of course, so check out the resources at the end of the post to help you plan your perfect trip to Edinburgh!''Day One''1. Explore Edinburgh Castle''We’re going to start our two day Edinburgh itinerary with a visit to the stunning''Edinburgh Castle'', which perches fantastically above the city, and offers a wonderful panoramic view of the city and surrounds.''The castle is home to a variety of exhibitions and artefacts from Scottish history, including the Scottish crown jewels. The castle is also where the 1pm gun is fired every day, so if you do have a chance to be there for this then do, as it’s quite an experience.''Get your''tickets for Edinburgh Castle in advance here''to skip the line, and see the end of the post for tips on how to save on access to some of Edinburgh’s Royal attractions.''2. Go Whisky Tasting''Scotland and Whisky are intractably linked. Don’t make the mistake of referring to the Scottish version as “Whiskey” though, that’s from the folks across the Irish Sea.''Scottish whisky is my favourite spirit, and whenever I’m in Edinburgh I’ll always find time for a drop. You can do this of course just by popping into pretty much any pub in the city, but if you want to learn about the process of making whisky, as well as the various regions of Scotland and the flavours available, then the''Scotch Whisky Experience''is where you need to head.''Here you’ll journey through the Whisky creation process, as well as learn about why Whisky from different parts of Scotland tastes different. Finally, you’ll be given the opportunity to taste one of four whisky flavours, before taking a look at the largest Scotch Whisky collection in the world.''3. Be Mystified at Edinburgh’s Camera Obscura''Almost opposite the Scotch Whisky experience is''Edinburgh’s Camera Obscura'', also home to the World of Illusions attraction. Being a photographer I was particularly interested in the Camera Obscura at the top of the building, but I have to admit to finding the World of Illusions a lot of fun.''These take up the first four floors of the building, and are a series of interactive exhibits which focus on optical illusions. There are holograms, a mirror maze, a vertigo inducing tunnel, and all sorts of other optical illusions to entertain and amuse. We spent a lot longer in here that I thought we would!''The Camera Obscura right at the top of the building is also interesting, although as it was a cloudy day when we visited, the effect was not as pronounced – you need a sunny day with lots of light to get the most out of the experience. Still, it was an interesting look into how light and prisms work, and the view from the top of the Castle and the Royal Mile is excellent.''4. Drop in at St. Giles’ Cathedral''Also on the Royal Mile, about a third of the way down from the castle, is''St Giles’ Cathedral''. Both the interior and exterior of the cathedral are stunning, but the highlight in my mind is the little Thistle Chapel, home to the Most Ancient and Most Noble''Order of the Thistle''.''These were essentially a group of sixteen Knights and Ladies, plus the British Royal Family, set up by James II of England in 1687, who was the Sovereign of the Order.''The Order still exists today, and is overseen by the current British Queen, Elizabeth II.''All that aside, the Thistle Chapel is just gorgeous, stuffed full of lovely wooden panelling, and very much worth taking a little bit of time to see, as is the rest of the Cathedral.''5. Walk Edinburgh’s Royal Mile''All the recommendations so far have been along''the Royal Mile'', the lovely stretch of interconnecting streets which run from Edinburgh Castle down to Holyrood Palace. It’s not exactly a mile long, but it’s near enough, and is filled with a variety of attractions, from the above mentioned, through to souvenir shops, restaurants and pubs.''There are also a number of gorgeous buildings, churches and monuments along the length of the street, all of which contribute to making this a worthy way to spend half an hour or so of your day.''6. Visit the Free Museums in Edinburgh on the Royal Mile''Since you’re on the Royal Miles, you should definitely take advantage of the many free museums that you can find along it’s length. Some of our favourites include the Edinburgh Museum, the Writers Museum and the Museum of Childhood. You can read much more about what is in each of these museums and why you might want to visit them in Jess’s excellent post on''the highlights of Edinburgh''.''7. Climb Calton HIll''Towards the end of the day, I’d suggest you head up''Calton Hill''. This is a wonderful spot for a view of the city and can be found at the east end of Princes Street. This hill is home to a series of monuments, including the''National Monument of Scotland'', which bears more than a passing resemblance to the Parthenon in Greece. Which makes sense, because that’s what it was modelled on.''Up on the hill you will also find Nelson’s Monument and the Royal Observatory, amongst other things, but the highlight for me, really, is the view up here at sunset. From here you can watch the sun set across the city, with the mountains in the background, which is ample reward for the effort required to climb up.''8. See a traditional Scottish Show''If you want to take in a number of traditional Scottish experiences as part of your visit to Edinburgh, we highly recommend the''Spirit of Scotland show''. Here you’ll be entertained by local performers, who will do everything from the Highland Fling through to playing the Bagpipes. All whilst you sit back and enjoy an excellent four course Scottish meal which, of course, includes the opportunity to try haggis!''Jess and I had a really fun time when we visited the show, and it’s both central and good value for what you get. If you have the time and budget, we think it’s an excellent way to finish off your first day in the city! Tickets need to be booked in advance, and you can do that''here''.''Day Two''9. Visit Holyrood Palace''At the opposite end of the Royal Mile from Edinburgh Castle is''Holyrood Palace'', which is where we’re going to start the second day of our two day Edinburgh itinerary. Holyrood Palace is the official residence of the British monarch in Scotland. although the Queen herself only spends a week a year here – most of her time in Scotland is spent up at Balmoral.''When the Queen isn’t here, the Palace is used for visiting dignitaries, other members of the royal family, and of course, as a tourist attraction, being open daily. It’s worth checking however that there isn’t someone of importance staying, as the palace closes to visitors when fulfilling its main role as an official residence. Check''the official website''for information.''10. Check out the Scottish Parliament''Right over the road from Holyrood Palace is the''Scottish Parliament''building, a relatively new addition to the city, from where the governing of Scotland takes place. It’s possible to visit the Scottish Parliament, either as part of a guided tour, or you can pop in yourself and see government at work. It’s free to visit, both on a guided tour or self-guided, although you need a ticket (free) if you want to watch a debate in the chamber.''11. Visit Dynamic Earth''If you like fun, interactive science museums, then''Dynamic Earth''is a must-visit. Right next to the Scottish Parliament building and underneath the stunning backdrop of the Crags and Arthur’s Seat, Dynamic Earth tells the story of the history of the Earth.''This is a really fun museum, with an emphasis on interactive and entertaining rides – although the science is certainly not dumbed down. We really feel it has something for everyone. From a time machine ride into the past, to a spaceship simulation that takes you right to the Big Bang itself, this is an educational and fun experience that we think is fun for the whole family. Definitely worth checking out when you’re in Edinburgh.''12. Hike Arthur’s Seat''One of my favourite things about Edinburgh, other than how magnificently walk-able the city centre is, is that just a stones throw from Holyrood Palace, the Parliament Building and Dynamic Earth is the ancient volcano of''Arthur’s Seat'', part of the 640-acre Holyrood Park.''This 251 metre high peak offers spectacular views of the city and surrounds, as well as nice hiking, sunset and sunrise views, and the walk is easily manageable right from the city centre.''13. Feel Royal on HMY Britannia''The''Royal Yacht Britannia''(ranked #1 visitor attraction in the UK on''Tripadvisor''in 2014) was, for over forty years and a million miles of sailing, the floating residence of the Royal Family. She shuttled them to formal events, retreats and even honeymoons in luxurious style over many years of service, and was the only ship in the world to demand no less than an Admiral as her Captain.''After all that service, she was retired, and never replaced, ending the line of six Royal yachts to bear the name Britannia.''The good news is that she is now a permanent visitor attraction, and you can visit and tour every part of her, from the sumptuous royal quarters through to the Admiral’s cabin, and the rather less upholstered bunks of the crew. It’s a fascinating insight into life as a Royal, and if you have even the slightest interest in boats or the British monarchy, is worth a visit.''Money saving tip:''If you plan on visiting the Royal Yacht and the other Royal sights in Edinburgh, including the Castle and Holyrood Palace, you can save money by picking up a''Royal Edinburgh ticket'', which gets you into all the aforementioned attractions and also includes a Hop on Hop off bus ticket. See our''full review of the Royal Edinburgh ticket here''.''14. Take in a festival''If you have time on your second day, and you are lucky enough to be in town for one of Edinburgh’s twelve official festivals, then I’d highly recommend finding time to take some of it in.''Edinburgh is an incredible city for festivals, with the most famous likely being the''Edinburgh Fringe Festival''. Held for three weeks in August, this is the world’s largest performing arts festivals, with a firm focus on comedy. Over the three week period the festival runs there are thousands of acts and performances, ranging from unknowns looking for their big breakthrough through to international comedy stars.''At the other end of the festival season, Edinburgh plays host to one of the world’s most celebrated New Year’s Eve parties –''Hogmanay''. We have attended three times, and can honestly say it’s the best New Year’s Eve festival we’ve ever attended, with everything from Viking Processions through to international singers and incredible fireworks.''Definitely one to add to your list. Read more about some of Edinburgh’s fantastic festivals and how to plan your visit in this comprehensive''guide to the Edinburgh Festivals''.''And that sums up my two day Edinburgh itinerary! Now, let’s get on to some practicalities for your visit.''When to Visit Edinburgh''Like much of the UK, Edinburgh has variable weather, so you need to be prepared for everything from rain to sunshine. Layered clothing is the key to a successful trip. Be aware that being fairly northerly, Edinburgh has generally cooler weather than the southern cities in England, although it does rain less than Glasgow.''There’s not really a bad time to visit Edinburgh as there is so much going on throughout the year, but if you prefer better weather and longer days to explore by daylight, then visiting in the summer months is preferable.''Of course, visiting outside of these months will mean it’s quieter, and if you’re not interested in the fringe festival, avoid August as accommodation can be harder to get and more pricey. If you’re visiting in winter, and you should check out out guide to''what to pack for Edinburgh and Hogmanay'', which will give you ideas for what to bring.''Getting to and from Edinburgh''Edinburgh is very easy to get to.''Flights operate to Edinburgh''airport, both nationally and internationally, and the airport itself is around six miles outside the city centre, and easily reached by''airport bus''or with a taxi service like Uber ($20 off your first ride with''this link''!).''The train station in Edinburgh has fast rail services to London (around four and a half hours), and is magnificently located directly underneath the castle. Emerging from the rail station and being confronted by the beauty of Edinburgh for the first time is something you’ll never forget.''You can also drive to Edinburgh, which is how you’d get here if you are following my''suggested UK itinerary''. Parking is possible in the city centre, and a car will let you get to attractions outside of the city, but isn’t generally needed for day to day sight seeing as Edinburgh is very compact.''If you’re coming from London, see our''guide to getting from London to Edinburg''h, which covers multiple transport options. It also works from Edinburgh to London of course!''Save Money On Edinburgh Attractions''Whilst Edinburgh unfortunately doesn’t have a comprehensive attraction pass like the''London Pass'', there is still a way to save on some of the attractions in this post. These are:''The''Royal Edinburgh Ticket''. This gets you into the key Royal attractions in Edinburgh – Holyrood Palace,''Edinburgh Castle''and the Royal Yacht Britannia. It also includes a Hop-on Hop-off bus pass, which is perfect for getting around all the sights in this post. This pass will save you up to 25% on admission fees, so is definitely worth getting if you plan on visiting at least two of these attractions. Jess wrote a''full post about the Royal Edinburgh Ticket here''. You can get yours in advance''here''.''The''Historic Scotland Explorer Pass''. This pass is a good investment, but only if you’re planning on exploring Scotland beyond Edinburgh. It gives access to 77 attractions across Scotland, including Edinburgh Castle. However, if you’re only going to be in Edinburgh, the Royal Edinburgh Ticket is going to be more useful.''Hopefully these two options will help you save a bit of money on your trip to Edinburgh.''Where to Stay in Edinburgh''Edinburgh has a wide range of accommodation options from hostels to mid-range hotels to luxury properties. We’d advise finding a city centre hotel, that way you’ll be able to walk to all the attractions in this list and save on taxis or public transport fares.''If you’re travelling in the busier time of year, such as during the August Festivals or around New Years Eve, you’ll definitely want to book as far in advance of your trip as possible to be sure you find somewhere that suits.''There are lots of options in Edinburgh to suit all budgets. For some inspiration:''The Haystack Hostel'', which has a fantastic location and great reviews''The Royal Terrace''– just round the back of Calton Hill has excellent reviews and great value''The Principal''on Charlotte Square – a lovely, well located hotel – perfect for a couples getaway''The Witchery''– One of Edinburgh’s finest hotels, and just next door to Edinburgh Castle. Incredible restaurant too.''Our favourite way to find the best deals on accommodation when we travel is booking.com. We find they usually have the best deals across a wide range of properties, including hotels and apartments, and are really easy to use. Check out their''Edinburgh listings here''.''We also have a page full of travel resources, which includes our tips for getting the best deals on accommodation, which you can find''here''.''Further Reading for your Edinburgh Trip''As you’d expect, we’ve written a lot of content about visiting Edinburgh and the UK in general, plus we have other resources we think you’ll find helpful. Here they are:''Want to see more of Edinburgh? Check out my guide to''getting off the beaten path in Edinburgh''If you’re a Harry Potter fan, you’ve got to check out Jess’s''Guide to the Best Edinburgh Harry Potter locations''. If you’re with kids, you might also like to check the Context Travel tour that explores literary Edinburgh as well as some of the major Harry Potter sights in the city. Plus you get 10& off with''this link''.''If you’re in Edinburgh in December, there are loads of Christmas activities to choose from. See our favourites in Jess’s guide to spending''Christmas in Edinburgh''.''Coming to Edinburgh for the festivals? Check out our''guide to visiting Edinburgh for the August Festivals''If you were thinking of taking a trip around the UK and want to include Edinburgh as part of that itinerary, we have both a''one week itinerary of the UK''and a''two week itinerary of the UK''for you.''Heading out of the capital? How about a trip to''the Scottish Borders''or a''tour of some Whisky distilleries''?''Want to see some of Scotland’s most remote and stunning scenery? Check out our guide to driving Scotland’s epic''North Coast 500'', as well as all the''accommodation options on the North Coast 500''For budget planning, see our guide to''how much it costs to travel in the UK''And finally, if you want a guidebook to bring along with you, check out the''Lonely Planet Pocket Edinburgh Guide''or the''Rick Steves Snapshot Edinburgh Guide''.''Hopefully these resources will help you plan your trip to Scotland’s capital Have a great time, and as always, if you’ve got any questions or comments, just get in touch!''SHARE ON''One of the trips in the US that we had always wanted to do was a “Deep South” road trip. We think the USA is the perfect country for road tripping in, and we’ve already done a number of road trips here, including iconic''Route 66'', the''Pacific Coast Highway'', and the Oregon Trail.''The Deep South was a part of the USA that neither of us had fully explored, so we decided to spend five weeks crossing five states to find out what it was all about. Read on for everything you need to know to plan your own perfect USA Deep South Road Trip, including what to eat, what to see, and where to go!''Contents:''Where is the Deep South of the USA?''Why Should You Visit the Deep South of the USA?''Deep South Road Trip Itinerary''Deep South Road Trip Itinerary Map''How Long Does a Deep South Road Trip Take?''When to Visit the Deep South''What to Eat in the Deep South''Where to Stay in the Deep South''Practicalities for your Deep South Road Trip''Further Reading for your Deep South Road Trip''Where is the Deep South of the USA?''First things first. If you’re going to road trip somewhere, you should probably know where it is, right? Well, the Deep South of the USA is''usually defined''as covering the following states: South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana.''This Deep South road trip itinerary covers a road trip across all five of those states, covering key sights and attractions along the way. We’ve personally done this itinerary, and can definitely recommend it to anyone looking for a fantastic road trip across America’s Deep South.''Why Should You Visit the Deep South of the USA?''The Deep South is a fascinating part of the USA, a land with its own culture and history. The people are known for their friendliness, the food is legendary (so are the portion sizes!), and there is a huge amount of history here to learn about, from the native peoples through to the American Civil War and civil rights movement.''There are lovely old towns, stunning wilderness areas, sumptuous plantation homes, spooky old cemeteries and fun events – like the world famous Mardi Gras parades. To be honest there’s something for everyone. And what better way to experience all of this than by taking a classic road trip across the Deep South?''We’d argue there isn’t a better way. So let’s take a look at our idea of a perfect Deep South road trip itinerary.''Deep South Road Trip Itinerary''This is a one way road trip itinerary. We find this makes the most sense for this road trip, as it saves you driving all the way back to the start.''If you rent a car for the trip, be aware that most car rental providers charge a one-way fee. As is often the case with our road trips, we''booked our hire car directly with Enterprise''who offered the best value for our trip.''1. Charleston, South Carolina''Charleston''is the perfect place to start this road trip. It has a food scene that is one of the best in the country, and there is a lot to see and do here – plus the airport is fairly large, so it’s easy to get to.''We’d suggest spending at least two days in Charleston. Spend some time exploring the downtown area – a good way to do so is to take a carriage ride through the historic part of town. There are also a number of museums and old houses that are worth visiting, including''Charleston Museum''– the oldest in the US, and the''Old Slave Mart Museum'', which will help you learn about a darker part of US history.''If you’re interested in naval or military history, the''USS Yorktown at Patriots Point''is well worth a visit – a retired US aircraft carrier which you can lose a whole day exploring. A trip out to''Fort Sumter''is also well worth it – this was where the first shots were fired in the American Civil War. You’re going to be encountering a lot of civil war sights and information on this road trip, so starting with Fort Sumter will get you up to speed quickly.''If you’ve got time, I’d also suggest heading out of town and visiting some of the old plantation homes around Charleston. We visited four of these, and can definitely recommend adding at least one to your itinerary. There are four within a twenty minute drive of the city:''Magnolia Plantation'',''Boone Hall Plantation'',''Middleton Place Plantation''and''Drayton Hall''.''For more on Charleston, take a look at my''detailed guide to visiting Charleston'', which has everything you need for getting the most out of your stay. Now, on to a new state, and the city of:''2. Savannah, Georgia''The oldest city in Georgia,''Savannah''has a totally different vibe to Charleston – and there’s plenty to see and do here as well.''For that reason, you’ll want to spend at least a day or two in Savannah. I’d also suggest on your way down that you take the time to pop out to Botany Bay Island – there’s a beautiful beach here full of driftwood trees that is worth visiting.''Once you get to Savannah, you won’t be short of options for signt-seeing, eating and drinking. From learning about the town’s history and the civil war and civil rights movement at the''Savannah History Museum'', through to taking a trolley tour and exploring the beautiful waterfront, you’ll find your days full in no time.''If you’ve got time, we also recommend heading out of town to Tybee Island – an old seaside resort, where you’ll find a lengthy beach and historic lighthouse. On the way there, you’ll also be able to visit the civil war era''Fort Pulaski'', and the excellent''Oatland Island Wildlife Centre'', home to everything from mountain lions to birds of prey.''Finally, don’t miss the incredibly''Bonaventure Cemetery'', and, as you head out of town, we also suggest visiting''Wormsloe Historic Site''. Read more about what to see and do (and some great food ideas!) in Savannah in our''Savannah guide''.''3. Atlanta, Georgia''Next on our stop is the capital city of Georgia – Atlanta.''If you have time though, I’d recommend taking the time to head a bit further south of Savannah to Jekyll Island. There’s a beautiful driftwood beach at the north end of the island, perfect for watching the sunset or sunrise, and the island itself has a relaxed laid back feeling. Then, rather than the interstate, cruise up the quieter country roads from Brunswick to Macon, and the onto Atlanta.''Atlanta is the capital city of Georgia, and has a definite city feel. We didn’t spend a lot of time here, but we did visit the''World of Coca Cola'', where we learnt all about the history of this iconic soft drink (and drank a lot of it too!).''Other highlights in Atlanta include the''Georgia Aquarium'',''CNN Studio Tours'', the''Centre for Civil and Human Rights''and the''Fernbank Museum of National History''. If you’re planning on visiting a number of these locations, we recommend checking out the''Atlanta CityPass'', which can save you over 40% on ticket prices.''Once you’re done with Atlanta, it’s time to head to a new state – Alabama!''4. Birmingham, Alabama''The Civil Rights movement in the USA existed across the nation, but many of the key events in the march towards equal rights for all happened in Alabama. One of these events was the bombing of the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church, which killed four African-American girls, and injured at least 14 others. It was also the home of the''Birmingham Campaign'', one of the key movements that focused the attention of the country, and the world, on the civil rights movement.''One of the best places to learn about these events is at the excellent''Birmingham Civil Rights Institute'', which forms a part of the''Birmingham Civil Rights National Monument'', alongside other key civil rights locations in the city. These include the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church and Kelly Ingram Park, both of which are just over the road from the Insititute, as well as the Bethel Baptist Church and the A.G. Gaston Motel.''As well as learning about Civil Rights, Birmingham has a number of other attractions. This was a major mining town and there are a number of sights you can visit to learn about this history. The old''Sloss Furnaces'', now a National Historic Landmark, offer an insight into the industrial past of the city.''You can also head to the top of Red Mountain, home of the Sloss Mines, where the ore for the furnaces was mind. Today, the mountain is topped by a giant statue of the Roman god Vulcan – the largest cast iron statue in the world. This statue is the symbol of the city, and from the top of the hill you can get a wonderful view of the city and surrounds.''Finally, before continuing your adventure, a food recommendation. We ate a lot of great BBQ across the South, and''Saw’s BBQ''in Birmingham was definitely aming our favourites. If you like BBQ – check them out.''5. Montgomery, Alabama''Heading south from Birmingham now, and our road trips takes us to Alabama’s state capital – Montgomery. Again, there’s a lot to see and do here.''We really enjoyed visiting the free Museum found in the''Alabama Department of Archives and History'', which took us through a whole history of the state, from the native people through to the civil war, civil rights movement and on to modern day Alabama.''Just opposite this is the''First White House of the Confederacy,''also worth a visit, which was where the President of the Confederate States was based during the period of time that Montgomery was the capital city of these states in early 1861.''There are some other fascinating museums in and around Montgomery if you’re feeling like learning. There’s the''Mooseum'', which will teach you everything you didn’t know about the beef industry.''Then there’s the''Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald Museum'', found in one of their former homes, which, as the name suggests, is all about the life of Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald – Scott being particularly famous for penning''the Great Gatsby''. Finally, there’s the excellent''Montgomery Museum of Fine Arts'', showcasing fine art from both American and International artists.''Don’t worry, there’s more to Montgomery than museums of course. We loved visiting''Chris’ Hot Dogs'', a staple Montgomery diner, which has been serving up classic American fare since 1917!''Finally, there are some lovely locations just to wander. Montgomery has some''wonderful historic districts''that are worth exploring on foot, and the riverwalk area (also home to the visitors information centre), is a pleasant spot for a stroll.''6. Selma, Alabama''From Montgomery, it’s a short trip across to Selma, which is well worth visiting. We had recently seen the movie''Selma''when we visited, which had helped with some of our understanding of the importance of this town.''It was in Selma that the famous''Selma to Montgomery march''took place, with marchers including Dr. Martin Luther King. The march met with violent resistance on Edmund Pettus Bridge on a day that became known as Bloody Sunday, and was unable to continue. The march was attempted again two days later, but again was forcefully stopped. Finally, on the 21st March 1965, the march was allowed to proceed, and made it all the way to Montgomery, arriving on the 25th March 1965.''Today, Selma is worth visiting to get a feel for the town where these key civil rights events took place. You can walk across the bridge, visit the''National Voting Rights Museum & Institute'', and the Selma Interpretative Centre, to get eye witness accounts and first hand information on the civil rights movement.''Once you’ve finished seeing Selma, our next destination will be Mobile, but we definitely recommend taking the 20 minutes to drive out to the''Old Cahawba Archaeological Site''. For over 100 years, Cahawaba was the state capital of Alabama. This is hard to believe today, as the town is entirely abandoned, known instead as Alabama’s most famous ghost town. Some buildings have survived, and it is eerie to drive or walk around what was once a large town that is now silent.''7. Mobile, Alabama''Time to head for the coast now, and the last stop in Alabama – Mobile. In Mobile you’ll notice that famous style of French architecture that the old quarter of New Orleans is famed for, this is because Mobile was the original capital of French Louisiana. It was subsequently colonised by the British and then the Spanish, before joining the United States in 1813.''Again, there’s a lot to do in Mobile, with plenty of museums, historic attractions, parks, not to mention restaurants and bars. However, our real interest in visiting Mobile was to learn about the roots of the Mardi Gras Carnival, because it was in Mobile that the first organised Carnival celebrations took place, leading to the huge parades and celebrations that we now associated with Mardi Gras in the south.''We were in Mobile for their Mardi Gras festivities, and very much enjoyed seeing the night time parade. We also visited the''Mobile Carnival Museum'', which is a great way to get up to speed with the history of the Carnival in the USA.''8. Biloxi, Mississippi''From Mobile, it’s time to leave Alabama and head west, into Mississippi. I’ll be honest – time constraints meant that we didn’t have time on our trip to do a lot of sight-seeing in Mississippi. Which is a shame, because this is a state with a lot to offer, and it’s somewhere we fully intend to return to. On the route across to Louisiana we mostly just drove through, but we think if you have time, you might want to add in some sight-seeing in Mississippi.''Most logically, the city of Biloxi falls on the route and is a good stopping point. Other highlights of the route include the''INFINITY Science Centre''– a 72,000 sq foot NASA visitor and science museum which forms a part of the John C. Stennis Space Centre. If you like space, rockets and science, this is a must visit. Then, across the border and into:''9. Baton Rouge, Louisiana''Baton Rouge''is the State Capital of Lousiana, and again, there’s plenty to do here to fill two or three days of exploring and eating time.''A highlight for us was a trip to the''State Capitol building''. This incredible construction towers over the city, and you get incredible views from the top floor – plus you can visit the House of Representatives, and the State Senate, to see politics in action.''Whilst you’re at the State Capitol, you should also visit the old Baton Rouge Arsenal, originally a powder magazine, and now a museum about its history.''Capitol Park Museum'', which covers a full history of the state of Louisiana, is also well worth a couple of hours of your time at least.''Other highlights of Baton Rouge include the castle-like''Old State Capitol Building'', which has a stunningly beautiful interior, the''Old Governors Mansion'', and the''USS Kidd''– a naval museum on an old warship anchored in the Mississippi.''For more information on what to do on your time in Baton Rouge, including advice for visiting during Mardi Gras, check out our post on''the Top Things to Do in Baton Rouge''.''Between Baton Rouge and New Orleans, along the mighty Mississippi river, is the famous “river road”. This was once home to hundreds of plantation homes and some of the wealthiest people in the country, who made their money predominantly growing sugar cane and through slave labour.''Today, a small number of these plantation homes survive, mostly as visitor attractions. There are a good many to choose from, all of which offer a slightly different experience to the visitor, including some which let you stay overnight.''Helping you choose which one to visit is a post in itself – thankfully Jess has already written one. Check it out for''the definitive guide to the Plantations of the Louisiana River Road'', based on our experiences visiting 12 of these plantations.''10. New Orleans, Louisiana''Last stop on our epic road trip across the Deep South of the USA is''New Orleans''. Famous for its huge Mardi Gras celebrations, there is a lot to see and do here – so much so that we happily spent a week exploring the city.''Of course, if you want to experience a huge Mardi Gras, then New Orleans is the place to come. The parades are massive, the crowds are gigantic, and the atmosphere is tough to beat. We had a lot of fun visiting during Mardi Gras and would happily recommend it. That said, there is a lot more to the city than Mardi Gras.''We suggest visiting''Mardi Gras World''to get a handle on the carnival, heading to the French Quarter to admire the beautiful old balconied buildings, eating Beignets at''Café Beignet'', sipping coffee at''Cafe du Monde'', and taking a tour of one of the old cemeteries. We also took a river boat cruise on the''steam powered riverboat the Natchez'', which was a wonderful way to end our Deep South adventure.''For more on what to see and do in New Orleans, check out our guide to visiting''New Orleans during Mardi Gras'', which has lots of information on activities, plus advice on visiting during Mardi Gras.''Deep South Road Trip Itinerary Map''Finally,''here’s a map''of the above route to help you plan your own trip.''Well done – you made it! And so did we. Now, let’s answer some questions you might have, and then cover some practicalities for your trip.''How Long Does a Deep South Road Trip Take?''We spent five weeks road tripping from Charleston to New Orleans, although we spent almost a week at either end, and we travelled fairly slowly, taking our time and really savoring the adventure.''We’d suggest that a two week deep south road trip would be the minimum amount of time we’d recommend, and if you have time, try to stretch it to three weeks so you can fit more in.''Of course, there’s a lot more to see in all the states we’ve mentioned, so you could easily extend this itinerary for as long as you wish!''When to Visit the Deep South''We visited in January, when the temperatures were pleasant for the most part – although we did experience light and brief snowfall in Birmingham, Alabama! We’d definitely suggest Winter or Spring / Fall would offer the most reasonable temperatures. In the summer this part of the USA gets very hot and humid, which can make sight-seeing uncomfortable.''If you’re interested in attending the Mardi Gras festivities, these vary in timing as they are based around Shrove Tuesday, a religious date which changes every year. It usually falls somewhere in February or March.''If you’re not interested in Mardi Gras, it’s best to avoid cities that celebrate it during this time, particularly places like New Orleans, Mobile and Baton Rouge, as accommodations will be both expensive and hard to find.''What to Eat in the Deep South''Fair warning, don’t come to the Deep South expecting to lose weight. Portions are large and the food is definitely waist expanding.''There are a lot of foods to try, but some of our favourites were:''Gumbo –''A soup which can be made with seafood or meat and is either cajun or creole in style''Jambalaya –''A Louisianan rice dish mixed up with various meats, usually including smokey sausage''Fried Chicken –''No round up of Southern food would be complete without mentioning fried chicken. Usually battered, this is an absolute must-try when journeying through the south. We had it presented in all kinds of forms, from the classic no frills fried chicken, through to fried chicken on waffles with bacon and maple syrup. Amazing.''BBQ –''Of course, the Deep South doesn’t have a monopoly on BBQ (Texans in particular would have something to say about this I suspect), but the origins of BBQ are definitely in the south. Different regions have different BBQ sauce styles, with the classic meat being pork.''Grits –''I’d never had grits before visiting the Deep South, and was I missing out! Served generally as an accompaniment, they are made from ground corn which is boiled. Tastier than they sound!''Where to Stay in the Deep South''There are a lot of lodging options in the USA, truly something for pretty much every budget. On our trip, we did a mix of motels, hotels and AirBnB stays, generally booking online using''booking.com''as we found that was cheaper than turning up at the property.''Often we’d arrive at hotels and ask if they would price match, but we were usually told by the reception staff to book through booking.com for the best deal! So we did.''For your convenience, here are direct links to all the city pages on''booking.com''that we used for our deep south road trip:''Charleston''Savannah''Atlanta''Birmingham''Montgomery''Selma''Mobile''Biloxi''Baton Rouge''New Orleans''Practicalities for your Deep South Road Trip''Travelling in the Deep South of the USA is relatively easy. People are generally friendly, you can ask for help, and the infrastructure is good. There are a few things to be aware of, so here’s a run down of some of the most important:''Power''The USA uses a 120 Volt electrical system, which means if you’re coming from Europe you need to check if your equipment is supported. Most laptops and phone chargers will work (the adapter will have 100 – 240V marked on it), however high powered items like hair dryers and travel kettles may not. You can buy voltage convertors, but these tend to be heavy – my advice would be just to pick up a cheap version of whatever it is you need in the country from somewhere like Walmart.''The plugs are for the most part a narrow two pin plug, if you’re coming from abroad you’ll need a''travel adapter''. I also advise travelling with a power strip – often motels / hotels don’t have enough outlets to charge all those gadgets we travel with. Something''like this''would be good.''Internet Access''Internet access is relatively easy to find in the US. WiFi networks can be found at most bars, restaurants, cafes and hotels, and there are also free networks in some public areas. So getting online isn’t too hard.''If you need to be permanently online with data on your phone, you have a number of options. First, check if your cellphone provider has some form of overseas roaming policy. I use (and love!) the''Three network in the UK'', because it lets me use my home data allowance at no extra charge in''nearly 50 countries'', including the USA. So I can just roam without worry on my unlimited data package.''If you’re travelling to the USA from the UK, getting a''pay as you go SIM from Three''before you go might be the cheapest way to get data on your phone – you can''order a free SIM here''.''If you’re not from the UK, then check with your provider to see what options they give you for data abroad. If the prices are unreasonable, you have a number of other options. First, if your phone is unlocked, you can pick up a SIM card locally. One of the better value deals in the USA I found was the''Straight Talk''plan, which offers 5GB of data for $45, and can be picked up at any Walmart. There are lots of other PAYG options to choose from, see an''overview here''.''Finally, if your phone isn’t unlocked, or you want a solution that will work in multiple countries, we use and recommend the KnowRoaming products. They have SIM cards, SIM stickers and mobile hotspot solutions that can get you online nearly everywhere in the world, and most countries have a fixed daily price for unlimited data. This is a really easy to use option that saves you time, although is a little more expensive than some of the above options. If your phone is locked though, then a mobile hotspot is going to be your best option. Find out more about KnowRoaming, and sign up,''here''.''Health / Insurance''The USA has a great healthcare system, with the huge caveat that it’s mind-bogglingly expensive. I cannot stress the importance of good travel insurance enough that will cover your medical fees if the worst should happen.''Depending on where you live in the world there are numerous travel insurance companies, so do shop around for a good policy. One that is often recommended for travellers, wherever they come from, is the''World Nomads travel insurance'', which offers great coverage for trips of varying duration.''Safety Tips''The USA is a safe country to travel in for the most part, however, sensible precautions should apply. Don’t leave valuables alone or in plain sight, especially in parked cars. Take advantage of the safe in your hotel or motel. Don’t travel with large amounts of cash – use your credit card or debit card instead, and just keep small bills for tips and instances where cards aren’t accepted.''Be aware of your surroundings, particularly if travelling alone or in an unfamiliar neighbourhood. Check with locals, like your AirBnB host, if there are neighbourhoods to avoid. Finally, take a look at your governments travel advice page for the latest information that may apply to you – for example, the UK Foreign Office has some helpful information for travellers to the USA''here'', which applies to both UK and non UK nationals.''Money''The USA uses the US dollar bill. These are all green, and come in seven denominations – $1, $2, $5, $20, $50 and $100. They are all the same size, with only the number and illustration being different, so they can be a little hard to get used to at first. There are also coins, running from 1 cent through to $1.''Credit cards are widely accepted, and are usually the easiest way to pay. At gas stations in particular, it’s most common to pay at the pump with a credit card rather than at the till.''One thing to be aware of – prices in the USA are usually displayed without sales tax or tip included. Sales tax varies state to state, from 0% to around 10%. This is something to keep in mind, especially in restaurants, as everything on the menu will be a bit more expensive than indicated once tax is added.''Tipping is also a part of the culture in the USA, especially in the service industry. Tips average 15%, but can vary between 10% and 20%. You can either add the tip to the credit card, or leave cash. It’s always helpful to have some $1 bills for tipping purposes.''For an idea of how much to budget for a road trip like this, see our guide to''how much it costs to travel in the USA''.''Driving''Driving in the USA is quite easy – the roads are large, well-signed and the vehicles are usually automatic which gives you less to worry about.''There are definitely a few quirks to be aware of though if you’ve not driven here before – things like turning on a red light and the rules at STOP intersections. It’s a lot to cover, so I wrote a whole post on''tips for driving in the USA''which will answer all your questions.''Otherwise,''take a look at car rental prices here''to compare the best deals from a number of providers and get yourself booked for your adventure!''Further Reading for your Deep South Road Trip''We’ve written a fair amount about''travelling in the USA'', plus we have some resources that we think you will find useful for a trip like this. These are:''A guide to''how much it costs to travel in the USA''Tips for Driving in the USA''A comprehensive guide to the''River Road Plantations of Louisiana''City guides''for''New Orleans'',''Baton Rouge'',''Savannah''and''Charleston''For more road trip inpsiration, take a look at our two week''California road trip'', and our''two week Route 66 itinerary''.''This is my South''– a travel blog focused on what to see and do in this part of the world''Lonely Planet’s guide to''Louisiana and the Deep South''Our guide to the best''Airbnb Alternatives'', to help you get the best lodging, whatever your budget''And that pretty much sums up our post on the perfect USA Deep South Road Trip! Have you ever done a trip like this? Anywhere you’d suggest adding to the itinerary? Let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''I’m a big fan of skiing, even if I haven’t been for a while. So when Jess and I were invited to experience skiing in Spain, specifically the Spanish Pyrenees region near to Barcelona and Girona, naturally we leapt at the chance.''Jess doesn’t ski, but enjoys the snow, and we built an itinerary around skiing, winter activities, and exploring some of this beautiful area – sampling four of the main resorts in the Spanish Pyrenees near to Barcelona.''From those adventures, Jess wrote a post all about''enjoying a ski holiday as a non-skier''. In this post, I’m going to be sharing with you my experiences skiing in the Spanish Pyrenees.''A bit of background – I’ve skied a fair bit in my life, in the USA, Austria, Italy and France. I enjoy all the aspects of skiing, from the stunning views through to the après ski (and of course, the actual skiing itself!).''In all my years of skiing, I’d never considered the Spanish Pyrenees as a destination. This, it turns out, was a major oversight on my part. Let’s find out why!''Where Can You Go Skiing in Spain?''First, let’s talk about where you can ski in Spain. The majority of skiing locations are to be found in the Spanish Pyrenees – the mountain range which divides France and Spain. There are almost 20 skiing areas in the Pyrenees, so lots of choice.''There are other locations in Spain that you can ski, including the Cantabrian Mountains (6 locations), Sistema Central (5 locations), the Iberian Mountains (3 locations) and the Sierra Nevada, home to 1 ski resort, which is also Europe’s most southernmost ski resort.''Why Ski in the Spanish Pyrenees?''The Spanish Pyrenees offer a wide range of ski resorts to suit every taste. Whilst not perhaps as well known as other areas of Europe, they have excellent snow, offer great value, and are easy to get to. Two of the resorts we visited, La Molina and Masella, are known as being the sunniest ski resorts in Europe, so if you’re a fair weather skier, these are a good option to head for.''The resorts that we experienced, in the Catalonia region, are beautifully picturesque and easy to get to – most are within a two hour drive of Barcelona. You also get to experience fantastic Spanish food, prices are reasonable, and they aren’t too busy either!''For families and beginners, I’d say the Spanish Pyrenees are perfect. There are lots of introductory slopes, ski instruction is reasonably priced and there are a lot of ski schools to choose from. One of the resorts we visited is also perfect for those physical or mental health needs, being fully equipped for accessible skiing.''When Is the Ski Season in Spain?''Resorts are open from November through to April, however the best snow is usually best January or February. Days are longer in February, so that is often a good month to come. Weekends are usually busy, as locals head out of the cities and up the mountains, so if you want quieter slopes, aim for the weekdays.''If you want a more lively feel come during the weekends. There is often special entertainment and more activities on offer on the weekends – plus some of the resorts offer public transport to and from major cities on the weekends.''Skiing in Spain: Five Ski Resorts in the Spanish Pyrenees''So that’s the where, why, and when. Now I’m going to share with you the four ski areas and resorts that we visited plus a fifth that is for those who are Nordic or cross-country skiers, to help you make a decision as to which ones might be best for you. Starting with:''1. Vallter 2000''Found at the top of an epic 12km long switchback road,''Vallter 2000''is the only resort in this list that doesn’t have some form of on-site accommodation – unless you’re in a campervan, in which case there is some allocated parking available for overnight stops.''It’s not a huge ski resort, with 17 slopes across 18.7km of piste, ranging from green to red in difficulty. It offers up spectacular views across the Pyrenees though, and the café at the top of the slopes is well worth stopping at for the view from 2,535 metres.''As well as skiing / snowboarding, there’s also a children’s play area, snowshoeing and snow tubing, plus four bars and restaurants.''As mentioned previously, with the exception of campervans, you can’t stay on site. There are a number of towns nearby, including''Camprodon''and''Setcases'', where you’ll find lodging options. We were staying in''Hotel Resguard del Vents'', in Ribes de Freser, which at 90 minutes is quite a drive, but still feasible for a day trip.\xa0 You’re going to want a car to make your way up to the mountain though.''My suggestion is that Vallter 2000 is a great one-day skiing option. It’s a 2 hour drive from Girona (3 hours from Barcelona), and there is in fact a bus that runs here from Girona on the weekends. If you can make it here under your own steam, I’d suggest avoiding the weekends if possible, as these are the busiest times usually.''I visited on a foggy and grey Thursday, and there were probably less than twenty people across the whole resort. My guide explained that most people come up from the cities for the day, and if the weather isn’t good, they’ll stay home and wait for better weather.''I persisted through the whole day (with regular hot chocolate stops, admittedly), and my efforts were rewarded in the last hour, when the sun gloriously broke through the mountains, and I had the whole place to myself. That was a magical moment that I won’t forget for a while.''2. Vall de Núria''The''Vall de Núria''is quite unique in terms of ski resorts, in that there’s no vehicular access to it. Instead, you have to park in one of the villages at the bottom of the mountain, and then take a special rack rail train up the mountain. This is a beautiful ride in of itself, and well worth doing even if you aren’t going skiing. Tip: sit on the right side of the train as you go up the mountain for the best views.''At the ski resort itself there’s a large building which serves as the main resort hub, with accommodation, equipment hire, restaurants, a cafeteria, and an information centre. It’s an important site of religious pilgrimage as well, so has more to offer the visitor than just winter activities. We enjoyed walking around the area and visiting the little church, as well as visiting the informative centre which went through the history of the valley (although most information is in Spanish and Catalan).''On to the snow activities. Vall de Núria doesn’t have a huge skiing area, with 11 runs and 7.6km of slopes. However, it’s the perfect place for families and folks learning to ski, with on-site accommodation, a children’s play area with snowtubing and sledding, plus there’s a tour operator on site offering snow shoeing expeditions – something we very much enjoyed doing. You can even go ice scuba diving in the lake if you’re so inclined – not something you see very often!''As I mentioned, we stayed in the''three star hotel''in the main building at Vall de Núria, which gave us easy access to the slopes. They have a variety of room types available, as well as a number of apartments which come with their own kitchen and dining room should you prefer to self cater. There’s also a hostel, the''Alberg Pic de l’Àliga'', 1km up the slopes and accessed by cable car, which offers excellent value for money''I’ve''visited the Vall de Núria before'', on a 2012 trip to the Spanish Pyrenees. That time though, I visited in summer, so it was lovely to see it in Winter, all covered in snow. I enjoyed the skiing here as well, although there aren’t too many slopes, so if you’re hankering for variety this might not be the place for you. We just enjoyed all the activities available to us as well as the skiing (my sledding skills need a bit of work!), and would definitely recommend spending a night here. If you do, we think the full-board and half-board options are probably the best value.''3. La Molina''Now for a more traditional ski resort. A couple of hours drive from both Girona and Barcelona,''La Molina''is a relatively large ski resort village and is home to the oldest ski slopes in Spain.''There’s a lot to do here. As well as the 68km of piste across 63 slopes, there’s snowtubing, snowshoeing, bowling, ice-skating, snowmobiling – and even winter Segway tours! There’s even an adventure park, which offers zip lines, tarzan jumps, and all sorts of high wire devilry with courses designed for both children and adults.''I’d say La Molina is the perfect spot to come on a family or group trip where you have skiers and snowboarders of different levels and abilities – and even with folks like Jess who don’t ski or snowboard at all. There’s loads to do off the slopes as well as on – we had a lot of fun in the adventure park, Segwaying, and snowshoeing, and I loved the variety of slopes to choose from when I went skiing.''Speaking of skiing, with 63 slopes to choose from, I certainly didn’t have time to try them all, and experienced skiiers will find plenty of variety on the slopes. Plus, La Molina is linked to the next-door Masella ski resort, and if you purchase an''ALP 2500 pass,''you get access to both slopes – doubling the amount of piste available!''La Molina is also the best place to come if you have reduced mobility – they have a fully adapted sports centre with a wide range of equipment, plus instruction for those looking to learn how to ski. We saw this in action, and were very impressed by the facilities available. They can help adapt equipment to people with a very wide range of physical handicaps as well as mental health issues, so that almost anyone can experience the sensation of skiing, and, depending on ability, learn how to ski for themselves!''There are''plenty of accommodation options''to choose from. We stayed in the''Hotel Solineu'', which was a 5 – 10 minute walk from the main ski lifts, and had everything we needed, from an excellent on-site pizzeria through to a hot tub and sauna. Overall, we’d suggest La Molina is a great stop if you’re looking at a longer trip and want to be based in a single location with a lot of variety and activities to choose from.''4. Masella''Next on my list of ski resorts in the Spanish Pyrenees, is''Masella''. This is a short, ten minute drive from La Molina, but has its own extensive range of slopes – 65 of them in fact, covering 78km, the most of all the resorts in this round up.''That means you have a lot of slopes to choose from, and with 18 ski lifts, plenty of options for getting about the mountain. It’s a resort that is more focused on the skiing and snowboarding though, whilst there is a children’s area, there’s no dedicated sledging or snowtubing – or other activities that you might find.''For people who love to ski and snowboard though, Masella is brilliant. La Molina and Masella have the most sun of any ski destination in Europe – towards the end of the season its not uncommon to see people skiing in vest tops! The other unique selling point of Masella is the night skiing, on Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays and holidays, 10km of the slopes are floodlit for 2- 3 hours, meaning you can keep skiing after dark!''I’ve never skied at night before, and this was a truly unique experience. The floodlights are so bright that visibility is excellent, and I really enjoyed myself. One word of warning – after the sun goes down the temperatures can really drop, so make sure you wrap up really warm if you’re going for a night skiing option. I’d definitely recommend some form of face covering as well, to protect your skin.''Night passes are available separately to day passes – I’d suggest this is a worthwhile investment for something a bit different. Otherwise, Masella is a resort more focused on the pure skiing and snowboarding experience, so will likely appeal more to folks who are either looking to focus on learning, or already know the ropes pretty well. And of course, you have access to La Molina with the ALP2500 pass as well.''There is some accommodation available, but it’s not as extensive as La Molina. There are two hotels on site, plus apartments. Otherwise there’s accommodation in La Molina and Puigcerdà, and we were staying at Hotel Solineu when we visited which is a ten minute drive away.''5. Guils''Last in my list of resorts in this area of the Spanish Pyrenees is''Guils''. We didn’t actually visit Guils, because they only offer Nordic style skiing, which isn’t something either of us do. However, if you enjoy cross-country skiing then Guils is definitely an option to consider. They also offer winter cycling on specially designed “fat-tyre” bikes, which looks like a unique experience!''Spanish Pyrenees Ski Resorts Map''As a guide to help you figure out where all the above are in relation to each other and major cities like Barcelona, we’ve put together the below map, which you can also see''on Google Maps here''.''And that’s it…!''We had a lot of fun in our ten day period of skiing and exploring the Spanish Pyrenees region in winter. It opened my eyes to the possibilities of skiing in Spain, and some of the awesome resorts and facilities that are available.''I’ll definitely be recommending this part of the world to people looking for a snow experience outside some of Europe’s more well known destinations – the prices are great, access is easy, and there’s loads to see and do. Not just in Winter either – check out all the''things to do in the Spanish Pyrenees''as a year round destination.''Have you ever skiied in the Spanish Pyrenees or in Spain? Would you consider doing so? Let us know your thoughts, questions and experiences in the comments below!''So you know: Our trip to the Spanish Pyrenees was in partnership with the''Costa Brava tourism board''who covered all our flights, transport accommodation, meals, equipment hire, and activities. As always, word and thoughts remain our own. Check out our''code of ethics''for more on how we work with brands.''SHARE ON''Hey guys! Today I’m delighted to be giving away one of my''travel photography courses'', plus in partnership with''Trover'', we’re giving away a $250 USD Expedia travel voucher as well! This is open to anyone around the world.''Entry is super easy, all the details are below. If you’re itching to enter, feel free to scroll down.''Otherwise, here’s a quick overview of what you’re going to win!''The Prizes''There’s going to be one winner, and they are going to win a copy of my online travel photography course, and a $250 USD Expedia travel voucher.''My Travel Photography Course''I am often asked for help and advice from people around the world with their photography, and I have led workshops and given talks at events and destinations around the world. It turned out though, that not everyone who wanted to come to these could make it, so I decided to put everything I knew about photography into an incredibly comprehensive online course.''The course assumes zero starting knowledge, and walks you through everything right from the basics. With 33 lessons, it’s really got something for everyone, with all the basic knowledge you need to master your camera, through to information on gear, advanced photography techniques like long-exposures, astrophotography, and HDR. It also covers post-processing, mobile photography, and even how to turn your hobby into a profession, and how to start making a living through photography.''I poured nearly half a year into creating the course, and feedback from students has been overwhelmingly positive. You can check the course out''here''.''The Expedia Voucher from Trover''As you may know, I’ve been''talking about Trover''for a while here on the blog. In case you’re not up to speed, it’s an app and a website to help you discover all the awesome things around you – be those attractions, places to eat, or just a great view.''I love how easy the app makes it to find fun new places in the world around me – I’ve discovered new locations in destinations I thought I knew well, and used it to plan whole days out. They also run''regular competitions''(like this one!) with fantastic prizes, so definitely a community worth checking out and joining.''Trover is part of the Expedia family, they’ve kindly donated a $250 Expedia voucher as a prize to the sweepstakes winner.''How to Enter''Entry is super simple!''All you have to do is head over to the Trover website and upload an image along the theme of “Finding the Universe”. That’s a pretty broad description. The idea is that you share some of your favourite places in the world with the Trover community, and pop in a description as to where it is and what makes it so awesome. I’ll leave the interpretation up to you!''Then, at the end of the description, put the text:''#FindingtheUniverse''That part is super important as it lets us find the images that were entered.''The winner will be picked at random from all the entries, and yes, you can enter more than once – just use a different photo each time! The contest is running until the 26th February at 18:00 (6:00pm) GMT – so get uploading!''Let’s run through that:''Head over to''Trover''Sign-in (or sign-up, if you’re new!)''Choose “''add a photo''” from the top navigation bar''Pick a photo you want to upload and upload it''Enter a snazzy description of the photo''Include the text''#FindingtheUniverse''in your photo description so I can find it!''Note that only new uploads to Trover will count as entries, adding the hashtag to photos you’ve previously uploaded won’t be counted as entries.''That’s it! Good luck!''The Inevitable Terms and Conditions''1. The promoter is:''Finding the Universe''2.''Finding the Universe''contributors, Trover and their family members or anyone else connected in any way with the competition including helping to set up the competition shall not be permitted to enter the competition.''3. The sweepstakes is open worldwide except in countries where participation is against the law''4. There is no entry fee and no purchase necessary to enter this sweepstakes.''5. Route to entry for the sweepstakes and details of how to enter are via''blog post on''Finding the Universe''6. Closing date for entry is''18:00 GMT 26th February 2017.''After this date no further entries will be permitted. Multiple entries per participant will be considered. Only new uploads to Trover will be considered. Incomplete, incorrect or otherwise invalid entries will not be considered. The Promoter reserves the right to verify the eligibility of all participants.''7. No responsibility can be accepted for entries not received for whatever reason.''8. The prize for the winner is as follows: one Expedia Travel Voucher worth $250 USD and 1x Photography Course, worth $99.''9. The promoter reserves the right to cancel or amend the competition and these terms and conditions without notice and for any reason. Any changes to the competition will be notified to entrants as soon as possible by the promoter.''10. No cash alternative to the prizes will be offered. The prizes are not transferable. Prizes are subject to availability and the promoter reserves the right to substitute any prize with another of equivalent value without giving notice.''11. Winners will be drawn at random by''Finding the Universe''from all valid entries received on the Trover website''12. The winner will be notified by email and/or letter within 28 days of the closing date. If the winner cannot be contacted or does not claim the prize within 14 days of notification, the promoter reserves the right to withdraw the prize from the winner and pick a replacement winner.''13. The winner consents to their name, postal address and mobile contact number to be passed on to Trover for the purposes of fulfilling the prize.''14. The winner agrees to the use of his/her name and image in any publicity material. Any personal data relating to the winner or any other entrants will be used solely in accordance with current UK data protection legislation and will not be disclosed to a third party without the entrant’s prior consent.''15. The promoter’s decision in respect of all matters to do with the competition will be final and no correspondence will be entered into.''16. By entering this competition, an entrant is indicating his/her agreement to be bound by these terms and conditions.''17. The competition and these terms and conditions will be governed by UK law and any disputes will be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the UK.''SHARE ON''In my ongoing''series of photography tips'', today I want to answer a question that many of you have – namely, what is a Neutral Density Filter in photography, more commonly known as an ND Filter.''If this isn’t a question you had, and you have no idea what I’m talking about, fear not. I’m going to break it down simply for you.''Let’s start off by answering the question – what is a filter?''Contents:''What is a Filter In Photography?''What does an ND Filter do?''When Should I Use An ND Filter?''What Do I Need to Look for When Buying An ND Filter?''Do I Need Anything Else With My ND Filter?''Recommended ND Filters''1 – Haida Slim Filter Kit''2 – Formatt-Hitech Filter System''3 – Lee Filter Kit''4 – B+W ND Filters''Further Travel Photography Reading and Resources''What is a Filter In Photography?''A filter is a product, usually made of glass, but sometimes made of resin or other material, which is designed to have some impact on the light hitting your camera’s sensor. For example, a UV filter is designed to filter out UV light – a throwback from film days, as modern camera sensors tend to have built-in UV filters. A polarizing filter filters out polarized light, good for cutting down on reflections and making blue skies pop.''The majority of filters attach to the front of your camera’s lens, and directly affect the light as it passes through them and enter the lens. Some cameras, particularly newer advanced compact cameras, come with a built in ND filter, for example the''Fujifilm X100T''and the''Sony RX100 V''.''We’ll be primarily looking at the attachable filters that can be attached and detached onto the front of your camera lens in this post, although the effect of a built-in ND Filter is the same as the one you attach to the front of your lens.''What does an ND Filter do?''An ND Filter reduces the amount of light that passes through it and therefore, the amount of light that ends up on the camera’s sensor. It is essentially a darkened piece of glass (or resin) that is designed not to change anything other than the quantity of light that passes through it. Other factors such as the color of the light or polarization of the light should not be affected.''This allows for creative effects such as using a wider aperture (for depth of field effects) or a longer shutter speed (for time-based effects) than would not be possible otherwise. They are most useful in bright conditions where there is a lot of available light.''Here’s an example of two similar shots, they are both good shots, but obviously different. the first without an ND filter:''The second with a ND filter:''As you can see, the longer exposure of the second shot has resulted in the water movement in the lake smoothing out, and the clouds blurring across the sky.''More on when to use an ND Filter in the next section.''There are different types of ND Filter, and they offer different strengths, depending on how much light you want to block. This is measured using different terms, but the most commonly used term is the number of “stops” of light the filter blocks.''Commonly used filters are 3 stop filters, 6 stop filters, and 10 stop filters.''To explain, a stop is basically a measurement of the amount of light. If you increment by 1 stop, you are doubling (or halving) the amount of light. So for example, if you go from a shutter speed of 1/250th of a second to 1/125th of a second (twice as long), you are doubling the amount of light. That is what we photographers refer to as a “stop”.''A three stop filter would let you go from a shutter speed of 1/250th of a second to 1/30th of a second.''A six stop filter would let you go from a shutter speed of\xa0 1/250th of a second to 1/4 of a second.''A ten stop filter would let you go from a shutter speed of\xa0 1/250th of a second to 4 seconds.''When Should I Use An ND Filter?''An ND Filter is perfect for use in landscape photography, especially when you want to achieve long-exposure effects such as a milky effect in the water, or to show the movement of clouds in the sky.''Like many things, this is best explained with an example. Here’s the first one:''Water, and particularly waterfalls, are perfect examples of when you would want to use a ND Filter. Moving water creates a really nice effect when you use low shutter speeds (1/15th of a second and longer).''Unfortunately, achieving low shutter speeds in the day time, especially with all that water reflecting the light, is basically impossible. Even if you close the aperture to as small a hole as possible, and use an ISO 100 setting, in most cases you’ll struggle to shoot a shutter speeds slower than 1/30th of a second.''Thankfully, with an ND filter, we can cut down on the light and shoot for longer shutter speeds without having to resort to crazy-high apertures. Shooting at apertures above f/16 is generally not recommended as an effect called diffraction can reduce the quality, notably the sharpness, of our images.''In the waterfall shot above for example, I shot with a 10 stop filter, meaning I could use a four second shutter speed. Without that 10 stop filter, the shutter speed would have been 1/250th of a second, which would have given the image a totally different look. Now let’s look at another example:''This sunset on the beach in Costa Brava was taken using a 10 Stop ND Filter. This allowed me to use a shutter speed of 120 seconds. If I’d not been using an ND Filter, that shutter speed would be been 1/8th of a second.''What Do I Need to Look for When Buying An ND Filter?''There are a number of different features to look for when buying an ND Filter.''Filter Attachment.''There are two main options for how a\xa0 filter attaches to a camera. They can either screw directly onto the lens (screw-in), or they’ll slot into a mount on your lens (slot-in). Each filter type has its own pros and cons.''Screw-in filters can be easier to put on and remove, but as different lenses have different thread sizes, if you have a number of lenses, you’ll need different size filters for all of them.''Slot-in filters allow you to more easily stack filters, and as they attach to the lens body, once you have bought the mount, you can use the filters across lenses. In addition, individual filters are generally less expensive than individual screw-in filters, after the initial investment in the mounting system. The initial attachment of the mount can take longer than with a screw-in filter, but once set up, filters are quite easy to drop in.''Filter Type.''ND filters come in a number of types. The two most common are standard, and graduated.''A standard ND filter just reduces the light coming into the camera across the whole image. A graduated filter, which is darker in a part of the filter, allowing you to reduce the brightness in a part of the image, but not all of it – particularly useful for high-contrast scenes with a lot of light in the sky.''Filter Size:''If you’re buying a screw-in filter, you need to make sure it is the same size as the screw thread on your lens.This will be a number measured in mm, and may even be written on the lens. If not, your manufacturer will be able to provide it. A common size for dSLR cameras is 77mm – so you would need a 77mm ND filter to fit onto a 77mm size lens.''Strength:''As previously mentioned, ND filters come in different strengths, with some of the common strengths being 3, 6 and 10 stop filters. Some systems allow you to stack filters, for example if you stack a 10 stop and a 6 stop filter, you’d end up with a 16 stop filter.''It’s also worth mentioning at this point that you can also purchase variable ND filters, which allow you to adjust the strength of the ND filter, usually between a range of say 2 and 10 stops. This sounds ideal, and certainly has the advantage that you need less filters. However, these filters are usually more expensive and can cause issues such as strange cross-hatch patterns and vignetting in images due to their thickness.''Color-shift:''The last thing to be aware of when buying an ND filter is that whilst the goal is to reduce the amount of light entering the camera without effecting the look of the image (hence “neutral”), some filters can cause a color cast – particularly at the higher stops, or if you stack them. This can usually be corrected in post-processing, but it is something to be aware of – check online reviews before purchasing to see if this is a common issue with the filter you are interested in.''Do I Need Anything Else With My ND Filter?''There are two accessories that I would suggest you need when picking up an ND Filter. These are:''A Tripod.''A tripod is a critical accessory for using an ND filter. One of the main reasons to use an ND filter is to cut down the light and increase the exposure time – something that will result in shutter speeds that are too low to hand hold your camera. To solve this problem, you’re going to need a tripod. Don’t worry, I have a''whole post on the reasons you need a tripod, and advice on picking the best tripod for you''.''ND Calculator App.''This is more of a nice thing to have than a necessity, but it sure can be handy in the field when you realise that figuring out the math for those long exposures is a bit tricky. An''ND calculator app''lets you enter in values for your shutter speed, aperture and ISO, and then choose an ND filter strength. It will then show you the appropriate new values for your shutter speed based on that strength, taking the guesswork out of your exposure calculation.''This means you can set up a shot without the ND filter, check the camera’s exposure settings, pop the filter on, and then use the app to calculate the correct settings.''Recommended ND Filters''Now, down to some recommendations. These are a mix of my favourites, and brands I know fellow photographers swear by. There are a lot out there though, so be sure to get the right pick for you. My advice would be to get a 10 stop filter and work from there – my''10 stop filter from Haida''is the one I use the most often.''1 –''Haida Slim Filter Kit''We’ve been using the Haida 77m slim filter kit for years, and I love them. They’re super portable, you can stack them, and they have minimal color casting. They’re also great value, particularly in kit form.''2 –''Formatt-Hitech Filter System''If you want to go down the slot-in road, these are a good place to start.''3 –''Lee Filter Kit''Stepping up somewhat in price, Lee are amongst the best known names when it comes to filters. Their “Big Stopper” 10 Stop ND filter is the go-to filter of choice for a great many photographers, and for good reason. These are high quality filters that should last for a good long time.''4 –''B+W ND Filters''I’ve used B+W polarizing and UV filters across my lenses for many years now, and have always been impressed by the build quality and durability. Again, a premium option, but a good one.''Further Travel Photography Reading and Resources''Well, that sums up my guide to Neutral Density, also known as ND Filters. I hope you found it useful – don’t forget to fire any questions at me in the comments. I’ve also put together a number of other photography related guides and resources that you might find useful. These are:''My always expanding series of''Photography Location Guides'', to help you get the best shot in locations around the world.''An overview of my''Travel Photography Gear'', in case you wondered what a professional photographer has in his bag''A guide on''how to pick the best camera for travel photography'', along with recommendations for every budget''A''Beginners’ Guide to Improving your Travel Photos''My series of''Photography Tips'', which I am always expanding and updating with posts like this one''And, if you’re serious about improving your photography, I run an incredibly comprehensive''online travel photography course'', which will teach you everything you need to know about photography and allows you the chance to get personal feedback from me and ask me as many questions about photography as you wish. Check that out''here''.''And we’re done! Thanks for reading – if you’ve got any comments, feedback or suggestions, just let me know in the comments below.''SHARE ON''As part of our five week adventure exploring New Mexico we spent a number of days in Albuquerque, both to attend the Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta and also to explore Albuquerque itself.''We had a lot of fun doing both of those things – but one thing I’ve so far failed to mention is all the excellent food we had in Albuquerque. New Mexican cuisine is an absolute delight, with a focus on the chilli plant, and we were thrilled to eat at some fantastic restaurants during our time in the city – me for my first time, and Jess returning to a city she used to live in.''With that in mind, I wanted to share some of our favourite places to eat in Albuquerque, covering both New Mexican food and some other options. Some of these locations were new to both of us, others were favourites of Jess’s that she wanted to share. Whatever you’re into, I’m sure you’re going to find something you’ll love from the following choices!''Contents:''The Best Places to Eat in Albuquerque''1. Sadie’s''2. Indian Pueblo Cultural Centre''3. Los Poblanos Historic Inn & Organic Farm''4. Farm & Table''5. Zacatecas Tacos & Tequila''6. Dog House''7. Route 66 Diner''8. Food trucks''9. Scalo Northern Italian Grill''10. Golden Crown Panaderia''11. Standard Diner''12. Church St Cafe''13. Papa Felipe’s''14. Grove Cafe and Market''15. Kelly’s''16. El Pinto''Further Reading for your New Mexico Trip''The Best Places to Eat in Albuquerque''1. Sadie’s''When we arrived into Albuquerque, Jess was craving some New Mexican dishes, and so one of our first stops was an old favourite of hers –''Sadie’s''. Sadie’s is a New Mexico institution, started in the 1950’s and now expanded to three locations across Albuquerque – all focused on serving up classic New Mexican cuisine.''If you’re not sure what that means, New Mexican food is a cross-over between Native American staples and the supplies that Spanish settlers had on them – resulting in a cuisine that features blue corn, squashes, chile peppers, flour, and pork. Then add in a heaping of beans and cheese, and you’ve got the idea. Nearly every dish (ok, every dish) comes with red or green chile (or both, if you ask for it Christmas style) – a sauce like affair that is the signature of New Mexican cuisine.''Back to Sadie’s. As I said, they’ve grown beyond their initial roots, but are still famous for serving up good, no-fuss New Mexican food, and are particularly known for their home-made salsa. We had a huge pile of all things New Mexican, and can happily recommend that you do the same.''Best for:''Traditional New Mexico cuisine''2. Indian Pueblo Cultural Centre''Speaking of Native American culture, a visit to the''Indian Pueblo Cultural Centre''is well worth it when in Albuquerque, as I already mentioned in my post on my''favourite things to do in Albuquerque''. Here you can learn about the 19 surviving Native American communities in New Mexico – everything from their history, through to their art, cultures and food.''But what better way to learn about their food than by eating it? Which is just what you can do at the on-site restaurant – the Pueblo Harvest Cafe, where they serve up Native fusion fare, incorporating Native flavors and ingredients into contemporary meals.''We visited for breakfast, and it’s safe to say that this was a truly excellent feast. We tried a variety of dishes, and I can highly recommend\xa0 the blue corn pancakes – although we feel you won’t be disappointed with anything on the menu.''Best for:''Tasting Native American Pueblo fare''3. Los Poblanos Historic Inn & Organic Farm''As the title suggests, this restaurant is a part of the''Los Poblanos Historic Inn'', which in its current form was built in the 1930’s – although the land has been run as a ranch for a while longer than that. Today, it’s open as a beautiful hotel offering luxurious accommodation, a fine-dining restaurant experience, and an organic lavender farm.''We took a tour of the property and learnt a little about the history and architecture of the property and the families who lived here. Now on the register of historic places, Los Poblanos offers an insight into the lives of some of the people who made this corner of New Mexico their home, and feels nothing at all like the Albuquerque you may have imagined from popular TV shows.''We also learnt about the farm to fork ethos of the restaurant – the property has 25 acres of land, and they try and use as many locally grown and sourced ingredients as possible in the restaurant. We also met the resident peacocks, who wander around as if they own the place.''On to the meal. As we’d been invited to dinner, we were presented with lovely scrolls with our names on, which also had our featured menu. The food was absolutely delicious – contemporary and classic in a casual fine dining environment with a fairly European feel. We sat outside on the terrace, although indoor seating options are also available.''Best for:''A relaxed fine dining experience''4. Farm & Table''As the name suggests,''Farm & Table''is a restaurant, but also a farm – split between 9 acres of grazing land, and 2 acres of produce. This means that whilst you eat you can gaze out at where much of the food on your plates comes from, which is both a lovely view and means that it’s hard to find food much fresher!''In operation since 1996, Farm & Table is one of the most popular brunch (and dining) locations in Albuquerque, and after our dining experience, it’s not hard to see why. The food is fantastic (you have to try the trio of pastries), beautifully presented, and the views from the sunny terrace are wonderful.''We also appreciated that we were free to roam the gardens, see where our food was coming from, and that the owner, Cherie Montoya, took the time to meet us and walk us through some of the property and produce farm. This is definitely a great spot for brunch.''One last tip – spare a bit of time to visit La Parada, the next-door retail shop and sister business, which is housed in a 200 year-old adobe building. Featuring items from local artisans and artists around the world, it’s well worth a bit of your time exploring.''Best For:''A truly fantastic, lengthy brunch''5. Zacatecas Tacos & Tequila''There’s a definite difference between New Mexican and Mexican cuisine, and if it’s the latter you’re hankering for, then head to''Zacatecas Tacos & Tequila''. Found in the funky area of Nob Hill in Albuquerque, Zacatecas is a “taqueria”, or a restaurant that specialises in tacos. Which should be pretty obvious from the name. Also obvious from the name is their focus on another Mexican staple – Tequila!''They have an extensive selection of both tacos and Mexican tequilas, as well as other Mexican dishes, ranging from Ceviche to sea food. Some of the menus items have a New Mexican twist, but this is definitely more of a Mexican experience overall. We enjoyed the tacos and ceviche very much, along with a delicious cocktail!''They run daily happy hours, have a wide range of cocktails (and beers and wines!) to choose from and a fresh, fun decor.''Best For:''Tacos and Margaritas!''6. Dog House''And now for something completely different. The''Dog House''is a Route 66 classic which has been serving up their signature foot long chilli coated hot dogs for over fifty years. So they must be getting something right.''It’s not exactly a fine dining experience, but it’s definitely an experience, the hot dogs are delicious, the price is fantastic and it’s a classic piece of Route 66 and Albuquerque history. You can eat in or take out, and of course they have more than just hot dogs – other New Mexican highway staples like the green chilli cheeseburger are available.''Best For:''Great value fast food with a dose of nostalgia''7. Route 66 Diner''Want to believe you’re living in the fifties – sipping milkshakes, picking music on the Wurlizter, and paying cents for a gallon of gas? Well, look no further than the''Route 66 Diner'', which can offer you nearly all those things in a fun, vintage style diner.''It’s got pretty much everything you’d want from a fifties themed diner, including wonderful decor, costumed staff, and the glorious neon lighting – hallmark of Route 66. Don’t miss the wall of signs outside!''Best for:''Milkshakes, burgers and that 1950’s Route 66 vibe''8. Food trucks''Albuquerque really has something for everyone, whatever kind of dining experience you’re looking for. If you’re more the eat on the hoof whilst sight-seeing, then Albuquerque has you covered with its food truck scene!''A good place to experience the food truck scene in downtown Albuquerque is at the Civic Plaza on a Tuesday, where a number of food trucks will set up shop. We found a number of options, including a BBQ food truck & a frozen yoghurt food truck when we visited – and since it was a hot day, we took advantage of the frozen yoghurt!''You can find out more about which food trucks are where at''this facebook page''and also''on this map'', which should list recent locations for some of the more popular food trucks in the city.''Best For:''Tasty food on the go''9. Scalo Northern Italian Grill''If for some reason you are starting to hanker for something a bit different to Mexican or New Mexican cuisine (variety is always good!), then we can definitely recommend the''Scalo Northern Italian Grill''. This offers up excellent Italian fine dining, with huge portions and a fantastic selection.''As well as staples like pizza and pasta, Scalo offers a great range of other Italian dishes, from Antipasti to fish and meat dishes. I can particularly recommend the Fritto Misto and the Costola Breve – the former being fried seafood, the latter being an incredible slow roasted beef short-rib. Bring an appetite here though – portions are generous!''Best For:''Excellent Italian food in an upscale environment''10. Golden Crown Panaderia''A bit of a curve-ball this one – but one of our favourite food experiences in Albuquerque, so it’s being included anyway. The''Golden Crown Panaderia''is a family owned bakery in Albuquerque which specialised in New Mexican baking. Their Green Chile bread in particular is fantastic, and they have some of the best biscochito’s in the state.''As well as bread, they do sandwiches, pizzas and pastries, so you definitely won’t leave hungry, plus of course they offer a range of beverages. This place is a real Albuquerque gem, so make sure you visit.''Best For:''Filling yourself with incredible baked goods''11. Standard Diner''As the name suggests, the''Standard Diner''is a restaurant that seeks to provide an authentic American diner experience but with a modern, locally inspired twist. Menu items include such staples as Mac & Cheese and their famous Meatloaf, and this diner was made famous by an appearance on US TV show Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives.''There are of course plenty of other options, including burgers, New Mexican staples and fish and meat options – definitely something for everyone. We definitely enjoyed the meatloaf as well as the decor, which evokes the Route 66 nostalgia, with booth seating, neon signs, and Route 66 memorabilia. Definitely worth a visit.''Best For:''A modern take on the Diner Experience''12. Church St Cafe''Whilst the old town of Albuquerque is well worth visiting, it’s not a place that many locals often come to – being generally focused on the tourist trade, with shops, restaurants and museums catering to visitors for the most part. There are a number of dining options, but the most regularly visited and recommended is the expansive''Church St. Cafe''– a Tardis like property that seems to go on forever.''Housed in one of Albuquerque’s oldest buildings (around 300 years old), there are plenty of seating options, and we opted to dine outside. The meal choices focus very much on New Mexican dining, with the restaurant open throughout the day.''Best for:''New Mexican Cuisine in the Old Town''13. Papa Felipe’s''Another of Jess’s go-to places from her time living in Albuquerque was''Papa Felipe’s'', located a short drive from where she used to live. It has been serving up great value tasty Mexican and New Mexican food for over 35 years. It’s particularly good value at lunch time when they have a variety of lunch specials on offer, which we took full advantage of, but it’s worth visiting any time of the day for a tasty feast of local favourites.''Don’t miss the sopapilla’s – a fried pastry that you’ll smother in honey for desert and eat warm.''Best for:''Authentic great value Mexican & New Mexican cuisine in relaxed surroundings.''14. Grove Cafe and Market''The''Grove Cafe and Market''in downtown Albuquerque is an excellent city centre location for brunch, meeting friends, and eating delicious local food. It was also the first place in Albquerque that I had a breakfast burrito on this trip, which is an essential part of any New Mexico trip – a state where pretty much everything can be served in a burrito. This is no bad thing.''As well as wonderful brunches, breakfasts and lunches (or just coffee), the Grove Cafe and Market is, as the name suggests, a market. So you can pick up everything from recipe books to granola as you sip your coffee.''Best for:''City centre casual brunch with friends''15. Kelly’s''When we drove''Route 66 through New Mexico and Albuquerque'',''Kelly’s''was one of the places Jess made sure we visited as she loves the soup here. Housed in a former car dealership and service station, this brewpub has a large outdoor party, a full sports bar and some fantastic relics from its past.''Of course, all of the above only go so far – the good has to be good to have made it onto our list. Obviously, Kelly’s doesn’t disappoint in this regard – the food focuses on American pub classics (think, burgers, wings, nachos, pastas and salads) – with the Creamy Green Chile Soup an absolute must – its been voted best soup in Albuquerque for years now, and for good reason!''Best for:''A pub style meal''16. El Pinto''A New Mexico institution, Jess was super-excited to have the opportunity to visit''El Pinto''on our trip to Albuquerque. Running since 1962 (although greatly expanded since then), this family owned restaurant creates absolutely fantastic New Mexican cuisine – and has been voted as the city’s best New Mexican restaurant.''Dining here is a wonderful experience, with a wide range of excellent meals to choose from, not to mention the largest Tequila Bar in New Mexico. They also make their own line of green chile sauces and salsas, produced on site. Finally, we were thrilled to meet their on-site chickens who supply them with eggs, and learn about the focus on sustainability.''We had an absolutely incredible meal (and drinks) here, and I feel it’s a fitting place to end this post. It was the last restaurant we visited in Albuquerque, and was the perfect end to our trip!''Best For: An upscale New Mexican dining experience''Further Reading for your New Mexico Trip''This isn’t our first post on New Mexico, nor will it be our last! We spent five week’s road tripping the state, plus Jess lived in Albuquerque for a period, and we have lots more information we’ll be sharing. Here are some resources to help you out:''The official''Visit Albuquerque''website, with loads of information on what to see and do''My guide to the''top things to do in Albuquerque''Jess’s epic guide to''attending the Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta''Something a bit different – our''experience having afternoon tea in Albuquerque''My''guide to the New Mexico Space Trail''Fodor’s Travel’s''online guide to Albuquerque''The''New Mexico Nomad''travel blog – a fantastic resource for all things New Mexico''And that sums up some of our favourite places to eat in Albuquerque! Of course, we couldn’t cover all the locations in the city, and we’re sure we’ve missed a few top spots. One thing is for sure though, Albuquerque has some fantastic dining options! If you’ve got a favourite that we missed – let us know in the comments below, and as always, thanks for reading!''Disclaimer – So you know,''Visit Albuquerque''hosted us at eight of the restaurants above, although we always covered our own gratuities and alcoholic beverages. Being hosted didn’t influence inclusion in the list – we’ve only listed our favourites! See more about our''code of ethics''for how we work with partners.''SHARE ON''I’m a professional travel photographer, and I also run an''online travel photography course'', and one of the most popular questions I’m asked by readers and students is what the best travel camera is.''With that in mind, I wanted to put together a definitive (and regularly updated) guide to what the best travel camera is, which will cover everything you need to know to help you choose the best travel camera, based on your needs and budget.''In this detailed post I’m going to cover my top picks for the best smartphone camera for travel, best compact camera for travel, best mirrorless camera for travel, and best DSLR camera for travel photography. I’m also going to go through in detail what you need to look for in a travel camera and why, so you can make the best choice for you.''These travel camera picks will suit a wide range of budgets, needs, and expertise levels. Now, let’s get started by looking at what you need to think about when picking the best travel camera.''Contents:''What To Consider When Picking A Travel Camera''Budget – How much do you have to spend on a travel camera?''Weight – How much are you willing to carry around?''Use – What are you going to be taking pictures of?''Extra features to look for in a Travel Camera''Photography Terminology To Know When Buying a Travel Camera''The Best Travel Camera in 2018''1. Best Smartphones for Photography''Why pick a Smartphone for Travel Photography?''What to Look For When Buying a Smartphone for Travel Photography''The Best Smartphone for Travel Photography''1. Honor 7X''2. HTC U11''3. Google Pixel 2''4. Samsung Galaxy S9''5. iPhone 8''2. Best Compact Camera for Travel Photography''Why pick a Compact Travel Camera for Travel Photography?''What to look for when buying a Compact Travel Camera for Travel Photography''The Best Compact Cameras for Travel Photography''1. Panasonic Lumix ZS50 / (TZ60 in UK)''2. Canon Powershot SX730''3. Canon Powershot G9 X Mark II''4. Sony RX100''5. Panasonic Lumix ZS100 (TZ100 in UK)''6. Sony RX100 V''7. GoPro Hero 6''3. Best Mirrorless Camera for Travel Photography''Why pick a Mirrorless Travel Camera for Travel Photography?''What to look for when buying a Mirrorless Travel Camera for Travel Photography''Best Mirrorless Camera for Travel Photography''1. Sony a6000''2. Fujifilm X-A5''3. Olympus OM-D E-M10 Mark III''4. Fujifilm X-T20''5. Panasonic Lumix GX9''5. Sony Alpha a7 II''4. Best DSLR Cameras for Travel Photography''Why pick a DSLR Travel Camera for Travel Photography?''What to look for when buying a DSLR Travel Camera for Travel Photography''Best DSLR Camera for Travel Photography''1. Nikon D3300''2. Canon Rebel SL2\xa0(EOS 200D in Europe)''3. Nikon D7500''4. Canon EOS 80D''5. Canon EOS 6D Mark II''Best Travel Camera Under $500?''1.\xa0Nikon D3300''2. Olympus OM-D EM-M10 II''3.\xa0Sony RX100''Further travel photography reading and resources''What To Consider When Picking A Travel Camera''Budget – How much do you have to spend on a travel camera?''This is an important one. Cameras vary wildly in price, from a couple of hundred dollars up to thousands of dollars. So you definitely need to think about how much you want to spend.''Also, this is a travel camera. Whilst you want to get the best shots, travel can expose you to risks, from loss to theft. Obviously, these are things that can be mitigated against with insurance, but it’s something to bear in mind when making an investment – the more pricey the camera, the higher the insurance premium.''Finally, don’t forget that the camera is only a part of the puzzle. You will also need things like memory cards, spare batteries, lenses – as well as possibly a tripod and filters. Your needs will vary, but don’t forget to include them in your overall budget – I’ve written a post on''travel photography accessories''to give you some pointers, as well as a guide to picking the''best lens for travel photography''.''Weight – How much are you willing to carry around?''This is a really important question. If you’re the kind of person who likes to travel light, then you’re not going to want a bulky DSLR. Having the best travel camera that sits in your hotel room while you’re out having fun isn’t going to be much use.''Even a mirrorless system might be too much for you if you want something that will truly fit in your pocket or purse, and your best bet is probably a smartphone or compact camera.''On the other hand, if image quality and low-light performance are more important to you than weight, and you’re happy carrying spare lenses, filters, and other accessories, then you’ll likely be looking at a mirrorless or DSLR system.''Remember, as a general rule of thumb, the bigger the camera, the more room it has for a larger sensor. A larger sensor means the camera can capture more light, which means you’ll get sharper, cleaner images even when shooting in darker situations.''Use – What are you going to be taking pictures of?''The type of photography you’re going to be doing makes a big different to the type of travel camera you will be buying. If your main goal is to take nice travel photos for your albums, social media, and to post to friends and family online, then any of the camera types will likely do the job. However, if you’re going to be doing a lot of action photography, or need the camera to be fully waterproof, then something like a GoPro is going to be the best option.''If you like astrophotography, you’re going to need a camera with a big sensor to let in plenty of light and you might want to invest in a DSLR. Conversely, if you just want a general purpose camera with plenty of flexibility for a variety of travel scenes, from food to landscapes to people, then something like a mirrorless system will most likely be best, offering the best performance for the weight.''Extra features to look for in a Travel Camera''A lot of cameras these days come with extra features that you may or may not care about. I’m talking about touchscreen interfaces, built-in GPS, WiFi, weather resistance, pivoting screens, and so on.''The main features you should be looking at in terms of actual image quality are the sensor size, aperture range, level of manual control, and, for camera’s without an interchangeable lens, the optical zoom. Beyond that, which features you are interested in depend on your needs.''For example, you may also want to take videos with your camera. Some cameras are much better at video than others – notably Panasonic’s range of Lumix camera’s are known for their video performance.''Personally, I love having a camera with GPS and WiFi capabilities so I can easily remember where my shots were taken, plus I can remote control my camera from my smartphone. On the other hand, a touchable, pivoting screen isn’t a deal breaker. What works for me might not work for you though, so think about which features are important to you when making a purchasing decision.''Photography Terminology To Know When Buying a Travel Camera''Like any subject, photography brings with it a raft of terminology – some of it is important to know about, other things are manufacturer buzzwords that don’t really make any difference to your photography. Here are the important terms to look for when buying a travel camera, and what they mean.''Aperture.''The aperture is the hole in the lens that lets light in. It’s measured in numbers, with an “f” preceding the number, for example, f/1.8, f/2.2. The smaller the number after the “f”, the bigger the hole, and the more light that gets in. Look for smaller numbers, which will let you get better pictures even when there is less light available, and also allow you to better control''depth of field''.''Optical zoom.''This represents the difference between the smallest and largest magnification that the camera’s lens can achieve. So a camera with a 10x optical zoom can make objects seem 10x bigger in the image compared to when the camera is zoomed out.''Digital zoom.''A totally pointless feature that some manufacturers add to their cameras. It’s basically a software zoom – the same effect you get if you zoom in on your PC or smartphone when you have an image. Avoid using it.''Focal length.''Focal length is the proper photography term for optical zoom, and is a standard across lenses and manufactures. Optical zoom is an easy to understand number that you will find in point and shoot cameras. Focal length, measured in mm, is the number you will find on cameras with interchangeable lenses. The bigger the focal length, the more magnification the lens offers.''EVF.''An electronic viewfinder. This means that the camera has a viewfinder, but rather than being a glass based version that shows the scene in front of you as your eye sees it, instead there’s a small electronic screen which shows what the camera sensor is seeing – the same as the display on the back of the camera. You generally only find these on high end mirrorless cameras.''Megapixels.''Megapixels just refers to the number of pixels the camera’s sensor has. Mega means million. So 12 megapixels is 12 million pixels, and would be an image 4000 pixels wide and 3000 pixels high. 4000 * 3000 = 12 million.''Thankfully, manufacturers are nearly over the megapixel war, which is a good thing, because as long as you have over about 12 megapixels, you’re good to go. In some cases, such as smartphones, less megapixels is actually better, as you’ll probably get better low-light performance as each pixel on the sensor might be bigger. But yes, unless you’re planning on printing out your images on billboard sized canvases, you can essentially ignore the megapixel marketing.''OIS / EIS.''These are image stabilisation technologies, either Optical Image Stabilisation (OIS) or Electronic Image Stabilisation (EIS). OIS is found in a number of camera and lens systems, and a small number of smartphones, and is a mechanical system that compensates for small movements of the camera system, such as your hand. EIS is generally only found in smartphones, and is a software solution for motion compensation. OIS generally achieves better results.''Sensor size.''The size of the sensor inside a camera is one of the most important specifications to be aware of. The bigger the sensor, the more light it can capture, and so the better it will perform in conditions where there is less light. Sensor sizes range from tiny, such as those found in smartphones, and generally increase in size as the size of the camera increases. Here’s a diagram to show different sensor sizes, and you can read more about different formats''here''.''Do be aware that manufactures can be a bit sneaky when it comes to describing sensor sizes, particularly in compact cameras. They might for example, talk about having a “1-inch” sensor. This refers to the type of sensor, rather than it’s physical size. So whilst a 1/2.3 inch sensor is smaller than a 1-inch sensor, neither sensor is actually close to 1/2.3 inch or 1 inch. See more on how physical''sensor sizes map to actual sensor sizes here''.''RAW.''RAW is a file format that more advanced camera’s use, allowing you to save the unmodified image data that the camera has captured, rather than the edited JPG version. This gives you much greater control over the final look of your images, with the downside that file sizes are much bigger, and you have to edit them on your computer in an image editing program before you can use them anywhere.''Many cameras give you the option to shoot in RAW, JPEG/JPG, or to shoot in both. We recommend shooting in both even if you plan only to use the JPG version for now – in the future as your photography skills develop, you’ll be pleased to have the option to go back and edit the original RAW files.''If you are interested in learning more about photography and understanding in detail all the terms above and how they affect your shots, check out my''travel photography course'', which has all the answers you need across 8 weeks of awesome lessons.''The Best Travel Camera in 2018''I’ve divided this list into the different types of camera for travel, with some information on what to look for in each category.''Then, each section has a series of the best travel camera recommendations ordered by price, from lowest price to highest price, which I will keep updated with the latest travel camera options.''This should give you everything you need to know to help you make a decision on which would be the best travel camera for you to buy, based on your budget, usage scenario and luggage space.''1. Best Smartphones for Photography''Why pick a Smartphone for Travel Photography?''If you care about portability, ease of use, and not having to carry another device around with you, then my advice is to get a smartphone with a decent camera, and just use that. The latest smartphones take excellent photos in a wide variety of situations, and you can share the images directly from the smartphone to your favourite social media platforms, plus have them automatically back up to the cloud as you go using something like the Google Photos app.''In addition, since a smartphone is a device that nearly all of us will be travelling with anyway, choosing one which takes good photos is a cost-effective way of buying a camera.''The main disadvantages are the lack of lens options, reduced manual controls, and generally poor performance in low-light due to the small sensor. But if you want something you’re always going to have on you, a smartphone is hard to beat.''Finally, I’d also add that’s its worth picking a smartphone with a good camera even if you plan on buying a standalone camera. It will serve as a good backup, and you are likely to always have it on you.''What to Look For When Buying a Smartphone for Travel Photography''Manufacturers are fairly inventive when it comes to squeezing tech into tiny smartphone bodies, but obviously there’s a limit to what can be achieved in such a small form factor.''Features to look out for include a wide aperture, which will let more light in, and let you capture shots in low light conditions. Some smartphone manufacturers talk about having bigger pixel sizes. This relates to the physical size of the pixels on the sensor, a number measured in µm, or micrometers. Larger pixel sizes are good as they are more light sensitive and help low light performance.''Speaking of pixels, be wary of high megapixel numbers. In my opinion, anything above 16MP is a warning sign that the manufacturer is trying to win you over with high numbers – you really want less megapixels, as each pixel can then be bigger to capture more light.''Other features to look out for are some form of stabilisation, either optical or electronic, which will let you get photos in lower light and compensate for your hand movement. Better smartphones will have more manual controls to give you more options for your photos. There are different types of focusing system, but I’ve never found a lot of variation between them. Waterproofing can be a benefit, meaning you can get photos in the rain or at the beach.''Also if you plan to travel internationally with your phone a lot, try to choose an unlocked phone so you can put a foreign SIM card in, and that works on multiple frequencies so you still get 3G and LTE/4G. and can still easily use it to call, text, and get online when travelling internationally.''Here’s an excellent resource''for finding out which phones work on which networks in which countries.''The Best Smartphone for Travel Photography''Here are five suggestions for current phones which I think are some of the best smartphones for travel photography and should definitely at least get you started in your search. Prices are for the unlocked version of the phones, you might be able to get a better deal through a carrier on a contract.''1.''Honor 7X''With a dual lens setup and a seriously affordable price, the Honor 7X is an excellent choice for those looking for a budget smartphone with a decent camera. It features an f/2.2 aperture, an 16MP primary lens and HDR support. It’s missing image stabilisation, but at this price, it’s a steal. ~''200USD.''2.''HTC U11''If you’re looking for a step up from the above phone but still want to stay on a reasonable budget, check out the HTC U11. This is also a single camera smartphone with a 12MP sensor, image stablisation, a large f/1.7 aperture as well as an excellent HDR mode. It also ranks very highly in the DxOMark tests for camera phones.''~350USD''3.''Google Pixel 2''A phone made by Google, the Pixel 2 is widely regarded as having one of the best smartphone cameras on the market today. With a 12.2MP sensor toting huge 1.4µm sized pixels and an f/1.8 lens, this is a great pick. There’s also OIS and the knowledge that being from Google, it’s going to be running the most up to date version of Android for a while.''~700USD.''4.''Samsung Galaxy S9''Samsung’s flagship Galaxy phones are known for their superior photography capabilities, and the Galaxy S9 is no exception. It is one of the first smartphone cameras to have a variable aperture, offering an f/2.4 – f/1.5 range, which is perfect for low light situations. Pair that with large 1.4µm pixels on a 12MP sensor and OIS – all packaged in a water resistant smartphone, it’s no wonder that it is usually found at the top of the pile when people review cameras for smartphones. ~''719 USD.''5.''iPhone 8''If you’re an Apple fan, you probably won’t even be considering the other phones in this list, and will be making a bee-line for the iPhone 8, despite it being the priciest option in the list. It might be expensive, but at least Apple makes phones with great cameras. The iPhone 8 offers a 12MP sensor with 1.22um sized pixels, OIS and an f/1.8 aperture. The more expensive''iPhone 8 Plus''adds an optical zoom, whilst the even more expensive''iPhone X''has even more features including a wider aperture and more advanced shooting modes. All great choices if you’re an Apple person.''~800 USD.''2. Best Compact Camera for Travel Photography''Why pick a Compact Travel Camera for Travel Photography?''A compact travel camera offers a number of advantages. First, they offer larger sensors than most smartphones, so image quality and performance is usually improved. They are pocketable, so easy to take with you. They also tend to be designed to be more user friendly (hence the nickname point-and-shoot cameras) and are generally much less expensive than mirrorless and DSLR camera systems. Many models offer manual controls, and having a separate device means you can keep on taking photos even if your smartphone battery is on the way out.''One of the biggest advantages though, and the reason to pick a compact travel camera over a smartphone, is the optical zoom. All the compact travel cameras we feature have an optical zoom (except the GoPros), letting you get shots of distant objects that you wouldn’t be able to get with a smartphone.''The main disadvantages are the smaller sensor sizes compared to a mirrorless or DSLR and the lack of interchangeable lenses.''What to look for when buying a Compact Travel Camera for Travel Photography''There are a variety of features that compact travel cameras offer for travel photography. Key features to look for are the optical zoom, and specifically, how much optical zoom the camera offers. Other features include the size of the sensor – the bigger the sensor, the better the performance – the maximum aperture, and whether or not there is some form of image stabilisation technology built in.''Any camera with a long optical zoom needs excellent image stabilisation, as the more you zoom in, the more exacerbated tiny movements become.''Other features to consider depending on your needs include GPS, WiFi and touchscreen capabilities. Some more advanced compact travel cameras also include manual modes, which can really help you get the most out of them, and some even shoot in RAW. Let’s take a look at our pick of the best compact travel cameras.''The Best Compact Cameras for Travel Photography''Here are seven suggestions for recent compact travel cameras which I think are some of the best options for travel photography:''1.''Panasonic Lumix ZS50''/ (TZ60 in UK)''Whilst this camera is a little older, it’s still no slouch, and pricing is great for it. With a 30x optical zoom, a 12MP 1/2.3 inch sensor and OIS, this camera puts out some great shots even in lower light conditions.''~280USD''2.''Canon Powershot SX730''With a 40x optical zoom, image stabilisation, and WiFi, the SX730 offers a lot for the price. At 1/2.3in, the sensor isn’t that big, so low-light performance and noise control are a bit of an issue, especially as the aperture only goes to f3.3, and at maximum zoom, is all the way down at f/6.9\xa0 Still, it’s one of the best optical zooms out there and the price is excellent.''$399USD''3.''Canon Powershot G9 X Mark II''Successor to our originally recommend G9 X, the Mark II features a faster processor, allowing for faster shooting rates than it’s predecessro. Compared to previous cameras in the list the G9X Mark II has a larger, 1-inch sensor type, helping you get better pictures in lower light. It has more manual controls, allows for RAW shooting, and an aperture that starts at f/2. The optical zoom isn’t too impressive at 3x, but you definitely get improved image quality from that larger sensor.''~450USD''4.''Sony RX100''Sony has an extensive range of RX100 cameras (see a comparison between them''here''), and this, the original version, was one of the first compact travel cameras to feature the large 1-inch type sensor, as well as full manual controls and RAW shooting. It also has a fast f/1.8 aperture and a 3x optical zoom. It’s a little long in the tooth now, but you can pick one up for a great price, hence the inclusion in this list.''~450USD''5.''Panasonic Lumix ZS100''(TZ100 in UK)''Panasonic’s 1-inch sensor camera model is no slouch, with an f/2.8 aperture lens and an impressive 10x optical zoom. It also has full manual controls, a touchscreen interface, EVF, OIS and RAW shooting. It’s a little more pricey, but that optical zoom is a definite bonus in the 1-inch sensor category.''~600USD''6.''Sony RX100 V''There’s a big jump in price to Sony’s latest RX100 model, the RX100 V, which is one of the best compact travel cameras money can buy. Whilst the base specs are similar in terms of aperture and that still relatively limited optical zoom, the RX100 V features incredibly fast autofocus, an EVF, and a tilting screen to tempt you.''~1000USD''7.''GoPro Hero 6''Worth a mention in this category is the GoPro Hero range. Whilst GoPro’s don’t offer optical zooms, they do excel at action photography. If you need something that’s going to survive water and action, then the GoPro line is the best option out there.''~400USD''3. Best Mirrorless Camera for Travel Photography''Why pick a Mirrorless Travel Camera for Travel Photography?''A mirrorless travel camera is a relatively new development in the travel camera space. They are similar to DSLR camera’s, however they do not have an internal mirror to reflect light from the lens to the optical viewfinder. This means that they can be smaller, lighter and more portable – ideal for travel photography.''They also have all the other benefits of a DSLR – larger sensors, manual controls, excellent image quality and interchangeable lenses.''In terms of disadvantages, they are of course larger and heavier than smartphones or compact travel cameras and are more expensive, especially when you factor in one or two good lenses. Compared to DSLR’s, they generally have poorer battery life, and less lens choice – although this latter is improving as mirrorless systems mature.''What to look for when buying a Mirrorless Travel Camera for Travel Photography''Mirrorless cameras come with different sensor sizes, from the micro 4/3 format up to full frame. All of these are larger than those you will find in compact travel cameras or smartphones, and again, the larger the sensor, the more light the camera can capture in any given situation.''Another key factor to consider is the lens selection. Different manufacturers offer different lens systems, so it’s worth investigating to be sure there are sufficient lens choices for the kind of photography you want to be doing. Also be aware that whilst most mirrorless cameras ship with a kit lens, you can also buy them without a kit lens and then buy a more suitable lens for your needs.''Other considerations include the screen type, if the camera has an EVF, WiFi, water resistance, focus system and so on.''Also be aware that all of the camera manufacturer’s below have a range of mirrorless options – I’ve done my best to highlight those that offer the best combination of price and features for travel photography.''Best Mirrorless Camera for Travel Photography''Based on a few years of experience shooting with a variety of different mirrorless camera systems, and feedback from fellow travel photographers, we’re put together our list of five of the best mirrorless travel cameras:''1.''Sony a6000''We’ve been recommending the Sony a6000 as the best budget mirrorless travel camera for a long time, and I believe it still fits that bill. With an APS-C sized sensor (the same as you find in most DSLR’s), fast autofocus, a tilting screen, EVF and a wide range of lenses, plus WiFi, this is an excellent bit of kit for the price. It is also usually available as''a bundle with two great lenses'', which will set you up for a long time to come.\xa0 Sony have released newer models, but as of writing we think this is still the best budget mirrorless camera.''~550USD (body only)''2.''Fujifilm X-A5''New for 2018, the Fujifilm X-A5 is Fujifilm’s entry level model. That said, it has many features of a pro level camera, and produces excellent images at a good price point. Considering the price point includes a well reviewed lens with optical image stabilisation, and this should be a strong contender if you’re looking for an entry-level feature rich mirrorless camera.''~600USD with lens.''3.''Olympus OM-D E-M10 Mark III''Olympus’s mirrorless cameras use the micro 4/3 sensor, which is a bit smaller than the APS-C size sensor found in the Sony or Fuji cameras. This doesn’t make a huge difference in my experience to image quality. The Olympus has an excellent in camera stabilisation system (Sony and Fuji only offer lens based stabilisation to date), an EVF, a (fixed) touchscreen and WiFi connectivity. There’s also a wide range of micro 4/3 lenses available.''~650USD (body only)''4.''Fujifilm X-T20''Fuji makes an excellent range of mirrorless camera’s and the X-T20 (successor to our previous recommendation, the X-T10) is one of the best value options. Featuring an APS-C sized sensor, excellent build quality and a reputation for taking superb photos. You also get an EVF, a tilting touch screen and WiFi.''~800USD (body only)''5.''Panasonic Lumix GX9''The GX9 is the 2018 version of our previous favourite Panasonic Mirrorless Camera, the 2015 GX8.''Like Olympus, Panasonic’s mirrorless cameras use the micro 4/3 sensor. Whilst this camera is a bit pricey, there are a number of advantages. To start with, Panasonic cameras are known for excellent video performance. The GX9 also has the advantages of a fully tilting touchscreen, 4K video, excellent sensor based optical stabilisation, a wide lens choice (most micro 4/3 lenses will work) and a weather sealed body. The latter is brilliant if you’re out and about in adverse weather and don’t want to worry to much about ruining your camera.''~999USD (includes 12-60mm lens)''5.''Sony Alpha a7 II''A bit of a price jump now, but I wanted to include a full frame option in this list. A full frame camera has a sensor that is approximately equivalent to a frame of 35mm film, and they generally offer the best image quality and low-light performance.''They are also the most expensive. Sony made waves when they introduced their mirrorless full-frame system, and they now have a variety of products at a range of prices. The a7 II in my mind represents the best value of the full frame mirrorless options, with in-body image stabilisation, a tilting LCD, WiFi and relatively fast autofocus. It’s all about that sensor though – if you want to go full frame with your mirrorless camera, look no further.''~1100USD''4. Best DSLR Cameras for Travel Photography''Why pick a DSLR Travel Camera for Travel Photography?''If travel photography is something you intend to pursue at a professional level, then in my opinion a DSLR is still the way to go. The lens selection for DSLR cameras is still unbeaten, the optical viewfinder means that battery life is superior, and image quality is generally fantastic.''In addition, if you have already been using a DSLR travel camera and have a selection of lenses, then upgrading to a new body from the same manufacturer makes sense as you don’t have to invest in new lenses. The learning curve will also be reduced as most menu options and terminology remains the same between models from the same manufacturer.''The main disadvantages of a DSLR are the weight and cost – the weight in particular, especially when you add in some high quality lenses, is a real issue for many users.''If this is your first travel camera purchase, then I suggest that a mirrorless camera is a better choice for most travel photography use. They offer all the control you need in a smaller, lighter package, with an ideal balance of portability and image quality.''What to look for when buying a DSLR Travel Camera for Travel Photography''DSLR’s tend to be the largest type of camera, so one thing that is important to look for is that the camera is comfortable in your hand. My suggestion is to visit a store and try the camera in hand, with a variety of lenses attached, to see how they perform before making a purchase. Canon and Nikon still rule the cameras in this category.''Features are fairly similar across most DSLR’s in terms of capability. They’ll either offer an APS-C sized sensor, or, more expensively, a full frame sensor.''Other features to look for include the ISO range, lens selection, weather resistance, GPS, WiFi, touch screen, autofocus system and number of control dials. More dials can be a good thing – letting you quickly set the camera up for different needs without having to dive into menu options.''Best DSLR Camera for Travel Photography''We personally travel with both mirrorless camera’s and DSLR’s – for our work as travel photographers we still love our full frame DSLR – the image quality and lens selection still make these a great choice for us. Based on our experiences, here are the top five DSLR travel camera’s available at the moment:''1.''Nikon D3300''The Nikon D3300 is the entry level Nikon to beat. Whilst there is a newer model of this camera, the D3400, I don’t feel it offers sufficient value for the price premium. It has a 24.4 APS-C sized sensor, reasonable performance and an excellent selection of lenses. To be honest, there’s not much between this and the Canon below, it really depends what works for you.''~350USD (body only)''2.''Canon Rebel SL2''(EOS 200D in Europe)''The Canon Rebel line is an excellent series of good value entry-level DSLR cameras (my first DSLR was a Rebel), and the SL2 is no exception. It’s one of the smaller SLR camera’s Canon has made, and offers great performance for an excellent price. Specs include a touchscreen, 24.2MP sensor, WiFi and compatibility with all of Canon’s lenses (and a great many third party lenses.).''~549USD (body only)''3.''Nikon D7500''Moving up into the “prosumer” category of DSLR camera’s, and Nikon’s version is the D7500. This is Nikon’s high end APS-C camera, with a 20.9MP sensor, fast autofocus, a weather sealed body, dual SD card slots and Wi-Fi. It also has a tilting 3.2″ touchscreen. If you’re looking to upgrade from an existing consumer focused Nikon to something a bit more professional from the Nikon range, this is a good choice.''~1000USD''4.''Canon EOS 80D''And now for Canon’s high end APS-C camera, a logical upgrade from the Rebel line. The EOS 80D features a 24.2MP sensor, a very sensitive autofocus system, weather-sealing, WiFi, a movable touchscreen and WiFi. A great upgrade for any Canon user.''~1100USD''5.''Canon EOS 6D Mark II''Finally, my favourite DSLR for travel photography – the EOS 6D Mark II. This is a full frame camera, offering excellent low-light performance from a 26.2MP sensor, weather sealing, as well as built-in GPS and WiFi. Compared to its predecessor, and our previous favourite travel camera the Canon EOS 6D, the Mark II adds\xa0a touchscreen which swivels. It’s solidly built, and well priced, especially considering it’s a full-frame camera. Just be aware that it’s only compatible with “EF” mount lenses – any “EF-S” mount lenses from other Canon bodies won’t work. If it’s a bit pricey, do consider the original 6D, which is still a fantastic travel camera and is very competitively priced nowadays.''~1700USD''Best Travel Camera Under $500?''As a bonus section – this is one of the most popular questions I’m asked when people ask me to help them choose the best travel camera, so I though a section to help those of you with a fixed budget would help.''My suggestion for the best travel camera under $500 is one of the following cameras:''1.''Nikon D3300''The Nikon D3300 is a formidable value digital SLR, and you can pick it up for well under $500, even with a lens. It also comes with the advantage that you get access to all the Nikon and Nikon compatible lenses, which is a huge choice. If you’re keen on an SLR, this is a great option at a fantastic price point. ~''400USD with a lens''2.''Olympus OM-D EM-M10 II''Whilst the Mark 3 version of this camera makes the list above, the Mark II is still an excellent camera, and in my opinion the best budget mirrorless camera choice. It’s also cheaper since the launch of the Mark 3, meaning you can pick it up with a lens and be right on budget!''~500USD''3.''Sony RX100''If size is the key factor in your purchasing decision, then this is the camera to get for under $500. With full manual controls and the ability to shoot in RAW, plus a 1-inch sensor and excellent image quality, this is far more than “just” a point and shoot. As mentioned in the compact camera section above, there are various iterations of this model available, and you can pick up one of the earlier versions for under $500.''~450USD''Further travel photography reading and resources''And that summarises my guide to the best travel camera for travel photography! Hopefully you found it useful. I’ll be keeping it up to date as new camera models come out and prices change. In the meantime, if you’re looking for more resources to help you make the most out of your travel photography, check out the following resources I’ve put together:''My''guide to picking the best lens for travel photography'', which will be useful if you have a camera with interchangeable lenses.''My always expanding series of''Photography Location Guides'', to help you get the best shot in locations around the world.''An overview of my''Travel Photography Gear'', in case you wondered what a professional photographer has in his bag''A''Beginners’ Guide to Improving your Travel Photos''My series of''Photography Tips'', which I am always expanding and updating with posts like this one''And, if you’re serious about improving your photography, I run an incredibly comprehensive''online travel photography course'', which will teach you everything you need to know about photography and allows you the chance to get personal feedback from me and ask me as many questions about photography as you wish. Check that out''here''.''And we’re done! Thanks for reading – if you’ve got any comments, feedback or suggestions, just let me know in the comments below.''SHARE ON''One of Jess’s dreams has always been to travel on the Orient Express on the overnight journey from London to Venice. And when the opportunity to do just that presented itself, well, obviously we had to take it!''Personally, other than the''Agatha Christie novel'', I have to admit to not being an expert on either the Orient Express or luxury train travel. I mean, you’re talking about a guy who''camped around Australia in a tent''living on canned food for a year.''But still, I was willing to make the effort and journey in five star luxury to see what that was like. Plus, we were holding our wedding ceremony in Venice, and this seemed to be the way to arrive! In today’s post, I want to share with you some of my thoughts of our experience riding the Venice Simplon Orient Express from London to Venice.''Our Orient Express Adventure Begins''Our adventure began in London, Victoria Station to be precise. It is from here that the train departs towards the coast, with its own special check-in area and waiting room.''A little history about the Orient Express to help orientate you, because it is a little confusing (if you want the full picture, you should read Jess’s''comprehensive Orient Express guide''). Started in 1883, the most famous route of the Orient Express is from Paris to Istanbul – the gateway to the Orient. However, many variations in the route occurred over the years as the company saw a rise and fall in fortune, with the network running through Europe from London to Istanbul and Athens.''In its original (and final) guises, the train wasn’t a luxury adventure – merely a way to get from western Europe to eastern Europe in relative speed and comfort, with sleeper cabins and so on.''Of course, most people (myself included), are familiar with the Orient Express for two reasons – it’s synonymy with luxury train travel, and the''famous novel''by Agatha Christie, which has the train running from Istanbul through to Paris. That version of the train had its heyday in the run up to the second world war, with fine dining, luxurious sleeping options and butler service. After the second world war, and particularly as Europe became divided, the Orient Express entered a long decline, and the original Orient Express service which started in 1883 finally stopped running in 2009.''So if the Orient Express stopped running in 2009, how is it still possible to travel to Venice from London on the Orient Express?''Well, in 1982, the Venice-Simplon Orient Express service was launched as a private venture, running from London to Venice. This was set up specifically as a high-end luxury travel experience, using restored carriages from the 1920s and 1930s, and operates today from March through to November. In addition, there is an annual service from London all the way through to Istanbul.''This is the Orient Express that we took, and that does its very best to revive the glory days of high end luxury European train travel – a time when royalty and dignitaries would ride the rails, when you’d have a piano bar and choice of dining options, and each carriage would have its own steward.''And that’s the adventure we began at London’s Victoria Station.''Of course, anyone who knows anything about geography is probably aware that there’s a bit of water between the UK and the rest of Europe. There is a train tunnel, but it’s only used by the Eurostar services – no vintage trains on this route! So the Orient Express adventure that we undertook actually took place in three phases, a luxury train from Victoria to Folkestone, a luxury bus that takes the Eurostar to Calais, and finally, a luxury train from Calais all the way to Venice.''Our first train was the British Pullman (check out Jess’s''detailed post on the British Pullman here''). Having checked in, we watched the train arrive, and then we boarded. Instantly, I had to forgot everything I knew about train travel. Large, comfortable armchairs greeted us at our two person table, beautifully set with a white tablecloth, fine silver-ware, glasses, flowers and a lamp. Our waiter showed us to our table, and we were able to peruse our brunch menu. It was all so exciting I almost forgot to look out the window.''When I did, London was starting to fade away, and the countryside of southern England was rolling by. At which point we were offered glasses of Bellini’s, and a fabulous brunch was served, so I went back to ignoring the outside, and thinking about how nice it would be if all trains would be like this.''With all the crumpets, smoked salmon, Bellinis and pastries, the journey just flew on by. We did take a bit of time to wander up and down the train, as each carriage was decorated differently, including the unbelievably ornate toilets, but we still ended up arriving at Folkestone well in advance of when I was ready to get out of my comfortable armchair. Ok, to be honest, I could probably stayed in that armchair forever.''Crossing the English Channel''The next part of our journey involved getting to the other side of the English Channel, which on our particular adventure involved boarding a luxury coach. The coaches have their own hostess who served us soft drinks, and we stayed on the coach all the way to Calais – the whole coach boarded the train, which was quite an impressive thing to watch. That said, we did spend a few hours in the process of getting off the train, loading onto the buses, driving to the port, heading through immigration, loading onto the channel train, crossing the channel and finally driving to our next train.''Whilst this part of the journey was unavoidable, and the coach was very comfortable, it was definitely the least exciting part of the trip, and there were some grumblings from fellow passengers about it. Still, it was just a few hours of the experience, and definitely better than a slow ferry ride across the English Channel!''Boarding the Venice Simplon Orient Express Continental train''Finally, in the late afternoon, we arrived at the Venice Simplon Orient Express Continental train. This is a beautiful blue, cream and gold train, decorated with VSOE livery, and is a joy to behold. As we arrived, the staff were all lined up outside, ready to welcome us on board, and we were given twenty minutes or so to get all the photos we wanted before we boarded. This being a once in a lifetime experience rather than a rush from A to B, touches like having plenty of time for photos at moments like this were much appreciated.''And then, after we’d taken all the photos we could manage, we boarded the train and were ushered to our carriage by Marco, our steward. Here we had a welcome kit consisting of bathroom products, and (more importantly) a half bottle of prosecco to start our adventure with. Marco showed us the various features of our cabin, like the washbasin, folding table and so on. It certainly wasn’t a huge space, but to have a whole space to ourselves on a train was definitely a luxury.''We pulled out of Calais, sipped on Prosecco, and watched the sun set. Then, it was time to get dressed for dinner – which obviously meant a full tuxedo for me and a lovely black dress for Jess.''How to spend an evening on the Orient Express''Dressed for dinner, we wandered along to the dining car. There are actually three different dining cars, all decorated differently, and if you’re clever (like Jess), you can experience a meal in two out of the three by, well, just asking. Like I said earlier, you should definitely''read her Orient Express post''for the details on stuff like that!''We had our first meal, dinner, in the Côte d’Azur car, where we were served some of the finest food I’ve ever had, with a four course menu including a blue lobster and caviar starter, a beef fillet main, a cheese course and a chocolate desert. Kind of hard to believe that this was put together on a train. The surroundings, with everyone dressed to the nines, were spectacular, and it was definitely one of the nicest “nights out” we’ve ever had.''In case you’re wondering, all the meals on the train are included if you stick to the fixed menu. You can go a la carte if you choose, for a supplement, and drinks are also additional. Given that we’d had Bellini’s and prosecco, we were feeling fine on the drinks front anyway – plus we popped along to the bar car after dinner to enjoy a cocktail and listen to a little piano music. This was a little bit crowded when we visited, so if you are keen on visiting (and getting a seat!) you’ll want to come outside of the peak hours around dining time.''After our visit to the bar car, the train stopped for a short while in Paris. At these stops you are free to wander outside the train\xa0 breifly, so we took advantage of that and took a few photos on the platform. After all, we were all dolled up in our evening wear, and the train was rather a stunning backdrop, so why not?''Sleeping on the Orient Express''Finally, it was back onto the train and into our room, which our steward had converted into it’s sleeping configuration. This takes the form of two bunks, one above the other. It’s definitely a fancy bunk setup, with lovely linen and so on, but yes, there’s no double bed option on this train!''We passed a relatively uneventful night, with the exception of being woken in the middle of the night by a lady banging on our door and insisting we let her in. She had the wrong cabin, and after Jess shouted at her to go away, she wandered off.''This was definitely not the fault of the Orient Express team, but even so, they offered us a bottle of complimentary champagne to make up for it. A few minutes of disturbed sleep for a lovely bottle of champagne? We had no problems accepting.''Otherwise, the night passed well. If you’re not used to sleeping on a train, with all the little movements and noises, then you might struggle to get a great rest. We both took a bit of time to adjust, but overall awoke refreshed and ready for a full day.''Our journey across Europe''The full day travelling across Europe on the Orient Express is one of the real highlights of the voyage. The train journeys through some of the most spectacular scenery, particularly as it passes through the Alps, and we were excited to watch it roll by as we enjoyed the luxury of the train.''That said, I had to be admit to being little disappointed to wake to grey skies. Still, there was lots to be excited about, even if the landscapes were cloud draped – starting out with breakfast, which was served in our room. This required our room to be converted back from the sleeping setup to the daytime setup, so Marco our steward came along to do this. Then, it was breakfast time – a delicious full continental breakfast with bread and pastries, fruit, juice and coffee. This was a lovely way to start the day.''After breakfast, we grabbed our cameras and set out to take some pictures of the scenery and the train. At the end of the each carriage I was able to lean out of the window and get some photos as the train rumbled through the scenery, which continued to be rather grey and moody.''I also took advantage of the on-board shop to pick up Jess a pair of earrings as a somewhat belated birthday present! There’s a good range of products on board, but if there’s something you really want, I’d advise heading to the shop early on in the journey as items do sometimes sell out.''At around 11am, the train entered a long tunnel, part of the process of crossing the alps. You can imagine my surprise (and excitement) when we emerged out of the other end of the tunnel into glorious sunshine and blue skies, with mountains all around us.''Of course, I had to go up and down the train again and lean out of the windows to get some more photos.''I was able to manage to drag myself away from all this photography fun when lunch swung round. This was a three course affair which we chose to have in the L’Oriental dining car, decorated with Chinese style laquer panels. Lunch was another gastronomic odyssey, featuring turbot fillet, foie gras stuffed quail and honey caramelized figs. Again, one of the best meals we’ve ever eaten anywhere – let alone on a train!''After lunch we continued to watch the beautiful scenery roll by – this is definitely one of the most beautiful train journeys in the world, and we relished every moment of it, only pausing in the afternoon to take in some afternoon tea. We weren’t admittedly hungry, but if someone’s offering you afternoon tea in your cabin on the Orient Express, with the afternoon light filtering across European scenery, you don’t generally turn it down.''Venice – the end of the line''Finally, all too soon, the sun started to set on our adventure on the Orient Express, and, about 36 hours after we had started, we pulled into Venice. Of course, our overall adventure wasn’t over, as we met friends and family in Venice for''our wedding ceremony'', and Venice being one of my favourite cities in the world, I wasn’t totally distraught – but I must say, both Jess and I were somewhat sad that the journey was over. And I suspect you can’t say that about many 36 hour train rides.''That just about sums up my experience riding the Venice-Simplon Orient Express. This isn’t a cheap journey by any means, and for most is a once in a lifetime experience. It is an incredible experience though, and I would urge you to take it if the opportunity arises. It’s a travel experience you’ll never forget, and it’s certainly a memory we will cherish forever.''If you want to know more about the practicalities of taking this journey, with information on everything from how to book through to luggage allowances, and, well, basically everything you could think of, then I highly recommend taking a look at Jess’s magnificently comprehensive''Venice Simplon Orient Express guide''as well as her detailed''detailed post on the British Pullman guide''. Those will answer pretty much every question you have. Enjoy!''Disclaimer: so you know, we were provided one complimentary passage and one discounted passage on our Orient Express journey from London to Venice by Belmond, and we covered all our other expenses ourselves. You can read more''on our ethics page''about how we accept work.''SHARE ON''Wintery cold places offer myriad opportunities for photography, from shooting beautiful snow covered landscapes to chasing the northern lights. If the light is right, you can get some truly fantastic winter shots. However, cold winter weather also offers unique challenges to photographers – and I’m not just talking about cold fingers!''In this post I want to share with you some of my top winter photography tips and ideas to help you prepare yourself and protect your camera when photographing in cold weather and wintery conditions. This advice is based on my experiences doing winter photography in various conditions all the way down to negative 40 in countries like Norway, Finland, Canada and Scotland.''You can actually damage your camera equipment (and yourself!) if you’re not properly prepared for winter photography, and some of these winter photography tips are particularly important for keeping your camera protected from both the snow, and the cold. I hope you find it useful!''Contents:''Cold Weather and Winter Photography Tips''1. Use A Sealable Plastic Bag''2. Take spare batteries (and keep them warm!)''3. Don’t freeze your nose to your camera''4. Wear good gloves''5. Use Heat Packs''6. Wear warm winter clothes too!''7. Use a good camera bag''8. Invest in a good tripod''9. Use the right camera settings for Winter Photography''10. Carry an air blower''More resources for levelling up your photography''Cold Weather and Winter Photography Tips''1. Use A Sealable Plastic Bag''Ok, so this might seem a bit weird. But this is one of the most important winter photography tips in this list, so I’ve put it first to ensure you properly protect your camera in winter from the cold.''If you’re using your camera in particularly cold weather, you’re going to want a bag (or bags) that you can fit your camera gear (i.e., camera body, lenses) in that has an airtight seal – my recommendation would be something like''a freezer bag''with one of those easy close systems.''The reason for this is that when you move from somewhere very cold to somewhere warmer, there is the risk that moisture will condense on or inside your equipment. Moisture does not play well with the internals of most cameras, and protecting your camera from it is important.''To stop this happening, before you head inside after your shoot, seal your camera equipment inside the freezer bag along with some of that cold winter air. You can remove the battery and memory card before putting it in the bag if you want so you can begin importing your photos and recharging your batteries. Then you can take your camera inside, leaving it inside the sealed bag, and it will warm a little more slowly with none of the moisture able to penetrate the bag.''You’ll want to leave your camera in the bag for at least a couple of hours to warm up before taking it out the bag – in the meantime you could be importing your photos to your computer, or just warming yourself up after your winter photography session!''2. Take spare batteries (and keep them warm!)''Cold weather kills batteries. It’s a known fact. The cold causes batteries to drain faster than normal inside the camera, and even when not in use, they’ll still lose their charge.''To mitigate against this, and to save yourself from running out of battery power at a key juncture, you’re going to want to carry spare batteries, and keep them in an inside pocket as close to your body as possible. Your body heat will help protect them from discharging and keep you shooting for longer. You should also keep your main batteries warm in this way until you need to use your camera.''If you can, I’d also recommend having your camera inside your coat and close to your body, but this isn’t always practical for more bulky equipment. However, if you’re using a smaller camera system, a point and shoot camera, or even a smartphone, then keeping it close and protected can help.''3. Don’t freeze your nose to your camera''A lot of cameras are made of metal, and when you drop down to seriously cold temperatures, metal can become a bit of a risk to our skin. In particular, when you hold your camera up to your eye to take a photo, your nose might touch up against the camera body, which can lead very quickly to frostbite, or even your nose being frozen to your camera!''To avoid freezing your nose, I’d suggest wrapping your face with material to protect it, like a scarf or balaclava, or wrapping the camera body with something to protect you. Alternatively, shoot from a tripod and use the camera’s screen rather than the viewfinder to compose the shot, and avoid the problem altogether.''4. Wear good gloves''One of the big challenges of cold weather photography is just trying to use the camera in those sub zero temperatures. Dials, buttons, filters – all these things that are easy to deal with when shooting in normal conditions, all become very challenging when we’re wrapped up to the max.''The right pair of gloves can be key in this situation. If it’s not insanely cold, fingerless gloves can be an option – allowing you the dexterity of your fingertips whilst keeping the rest of your hands warm. Otherwise, you’re going to have to be pulling those toasty warm gloves on and off to operate your camera.''There are''a variety of gloves''designed for winter photography and cold weather conditions, which vary in their approach, from''fingerless solutions''to''gloves with removable sections''. In my experience, really cold conditions tend to need bulkier glovers, so make sure you pick the pair that will suit the conditions you’ll be shooting in.''Sometimes, if it’s really cold, I’ll wear a''thin pair of fingerless gloves''under a thick pair of winter gloves, meaning at least I have some protection when playing with dials. You can also try a''silk glove liner''.''There’s another option to consider for keeping you hands warm, which is to:''5. Use Heat Packs''Chemical''heat packs''solve the problem of your hands (or feet) getting cold, and you not being able to warm them back up again. This is especially the case for your hands, which will be handling very cold camera equipment. A chemical heat pack can provide hours of warmth to your hands for a minimal cost, and are a sound investment – just pop them in your gloves (or hold them in your hands) for instant relief from the cold.''6. Wear warm winter clothes too!''This should be obvious, but sometimes obvious things needs stating. If you’re out in cold weather, you want to be wearing clothes designed for cold weather. The secret is layers –''thermal baselayers''to start, and then build up the layers until you finish with something that’s ideally water and windproof. Avoid cotton if you can, as if it gets wet from either rain or snow or if you are sweating you’ll get cold very quickly. Synthetic fleeces or wool are a better option.''Don’t forget a hat of course – I like a hat that covers my ears (any extremities are susceptible to frost bite), warm socks, a scarf, and those gloves I previously mentioned.''7. Use a good camera bag''This isn’t just a cold weather photography tip, but when you’re out in extreme conditions, a good camera bag is a must. It will protect your gear until you’re ready to use it. You want something that is purpose designed to be a camera bag, as it will have the necessary amount of padding to protect your gear.''You also want a bag that offers some level of protection against the elements. When it’s cold, this is usually snow, which will brush off, but a bag with a waterproof cover is a good investment nonetheless. You’ll also want to be sure it fits all your gear and anything else you usually take with you when out (heat warmers, snacks, drink etc..).''I’m proud to be a Vanguard ambassador, and love their range of bags. Currently my go-to bag is the excellent''Vanguard Alta Sky 49''. I can fit two camera bodies with lenses in, it has a side pocket for a travel tripod (or water bottle / flask of hot coffee), it has a water-proof cover, and it’s comfortable for all day wear even when loaded up.''8. Invest in a good tripod''I’m already a big proponent of using a tripod to help you improve your photography – in fact I wrote a post detailing''11 reasons you need a tripod''for awesome photographs.''This is no different for winter photography – especially if you’re out at night trying to capture the night skies or the elusive northern & southern lights. That low level of light is going to need you to use long exposures, and the only way to do that is by ensuring your camera is rock-steady – something you can’t do with your hands.''A good tripod is a worthy investment. There are plenty of options available, but I’d be remiss if I didn’t mention the excellent''VEO range from Vanguard''. They’ve been my go-to travel tripods for a number of years, and they offer a great balance between price, portability and functionality.''9. Use the right camera settings for Winter Photography''Snow makes for beautiful winter photography opportunities, but it can also wreak havoc on your camera’s exposure meter, resulting in images that are under-exposed, or darker than you would expect. This is because all the glare from the snow confuses your camera, causing it to read the light in the scene wrong.''If you are shooting snowy scenes, one of my top winter photography tips is to compensate by increasing your cameras exposure by around 1 stop – the exact amount will vary depending on the amount of snow and light.''When taking the shot, you’ll need to check how dark the image is by checking the preview on your cameras screen. If it looks too dark, you’ll need to compensate – you can do this with the exposure compensation feature of your camera, or by shooting in manual mode and setting everything up yourself.''Working with exposure compensation (and taking full control of your camera!) is something I cover in much more detail in my''travel photography course'', but in essence, you need to find the exposure compensation function on your camera, which usually looks like a “+/-“ button. It may also be accessible from inside your camera menu system.''Once you’ve found it, set it to “+1”. This means that the camera will allow twice as much light in versus not using exposure compensation, and should get your pictures looking brighter and more true to the scene as your eye sees it.''10. Carry an air blower''The last tip on this list is to help keep your camera free of snow. When you’re out photographing in cold weather, errant snowflakes might find their way to your camera’s lens – not ideal for your compositions! Thankfully, your camera will be cold so they won’t melt, and can be brushed off.''You don’t want to brush them off with your hands or a cloth though as the warmth could cause them to melt, or you might leave fingerprints on your lens. Instead, use a photography lens''air blower like this''to just blow them off the lens. Easy!''Well, those were some of my top tips for preparing yourself and your camera for cold weather photography. I hope you found them useful! Let’s take a quick look now at some:''More resources for levelling up your photography''This isn’t the only post I’ve written on photography! Here are some more resources to help you out with improving your photography:''My always expanding series of''Photography Location Guides'', to help you get the best shot in locations around the world.''An overview of my''Travel Photography Gear'', in case you wondered what a professional photographer has in his bag''A''Beginners’ Guide to Improving your Travel Photos''My series of''Photography Tips'', which I am always expanding and updating with posts like this one''And, if you’re serious about improving your photography, I run an incredibly comprehensive''online travel photography course'', which will teach you everything you need to know about photography. Check that out''here''.''And that’s if for today’s post on preparing for cold weather photography! Have anything you’d like to add or feedback to share? Let me know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Welcome back to our photo series depicting our epic Route 66 adventure. If you missed them, you’ll find the''photos from the previous states here''. In this post we’re heading through Oklahoma, home to everything from drive-in movie theatres to giant whales! Let’s get started.''A road trip involves a car, and since you have a car, why not take advantage of a classic drive-in movie experience. We had ours in Oklahoma, at the Winchester drive-in, the oldest drive-in movie theatre in Oklahoma, and one of seven surviving in the state. Drive-in’s are a wonderfully nostalgic way to enjoy a movie, plus you usually get to see two movies at a great price. Recommended!''Naturally Oklahoma has plenty of Route 66 themed murals.''And Route 66 themed nostalgia''And a giant round barn. Built in 1898, and the only round wooden barn surviving in Oklahoma. Find it in Arcadia.''There’s no shortage of classic motels either with that beautiful neon signage.''Not all the parts of Route 66 survived. This old road bridge was replaced by a more modern version capable of carrying today’s traffic volumes.''I have to admit to not knowing much about sports – any kind of sports. This guy was obviously a pretty decent baseball player though, given that his hometown built a statue to him. Find out why,''here''.''One of the big attractions of Route 66 in Missouri are the Meramec Caverns – a large underground cave system. For Route 66 buffs though, the real attraction are the barns advertising the caverns. Once there were hundreds of these barns all across roads in America, including Route 66. Not many survive, but you can still find a few if you keep a lookout!''Tulsa is famous for it’s oil, and Route 66 runs right through it. This image pretty much sums that up!''Oklahoma also has it’s fair share of classic Route 66 properties. This is the “Milk Bottle Grocery”, a 1930 building which operated as a grocery store for decades, and nowadays seems to vary with what it’s operating as. One thing that doesn’t seem to change is the giant milk bottle up top serving as advertising for an Oklahoma staple – Braum’s Ice Cream.''Another giant bottle, but this one is a modern Route 66 attraction. “Pops” restaurant opened in 2007, with walls decorated in soda bottles – all of which are available for purchase. No Route 66 attraction is complete without a giant “something”, in this case a 66ft tall four ton model of a soda bottle, complete with drinking straw. Definitely worth stopping for, and nice to see a modern business investing in the Route 66 dream.''Moving on, and of course Oklahoma has it’s fair share of old style gas pumps…''Giant flour mills…''Enormous concrete''totem poles''…''Signs to highlights along Route 66…''And towns that time forgot.''Many businesses still survive along the route.''Whilst many others do not.''Tulsa has this lovely tribute to Route 66 – a large statue of a car and it’s occupants tackling the route. Some of whom seem less impressed than others!''Just outside of Catoosa is the famous''Blue Whale attraction''. If it’s a hot day, a dip in the waters is recommended.''There are of course classic road bridges to peer at.''Some of which take traffic, other which do not.''The Route 66 marker appears on the route from time to time, to help you find your way.''And like every other state on Route 66, Oklahoma also has it’s own Route 66 museum!''Which of course, features a barbed wire collection.''And a giant sign! A handy way to end today’s photo essay. Now for a few tips to help you out if you’re planning your own Route 66 Adventure:''Tips for Planning your own Route 66 Adventure''If you’re planning your own Route 66 adventure, we’ve got a bit of reading for you!''First, be inspired by photos from all the states we visited, by checking our photos highlights from each Route 66 state:''California'',''Arizona'',''New Mexico'',''Texas'',''Oklahoma'',''Kansas'',''Missouri''&''Illinois''Next, check out Jess’s comprehensive guide to''planning a Route 66 trip''Then, take a look out our incredibly detailed''day by day Route 66 itinerary'', which covers all the sights you want to see, route tips, lodging options and places to eat.''If you’re new to driving in the US, check out my''tips for driving in the US''to get you started''Not sure how much it’s all going to cost? We’ve got you covered with our''guide to travel costs in the USA''Finally, take a look at''this book''– the best way in our opinion to successfully navigate the entire length of Route 66 as faithfully as you can. We followed it the whole way, and even met the author, and couldn’t have done without it!''Enjoy your Route 66 trip, and let us know which has been your favourite state so far in the comments below!''SHARE ON''We had the pleasure of road tripping for five weeks around New Mexico in 2016. It’s an absolutely fantastic state, with incredible landscapes, mind-bogglingly tasty food and somehow, very few visitors (or inhabitants!). It is one of Jess’s favourite states; she lived here for a year and grew to absolutely love it and wanted to return and explore it together.''New Mexico might be the fifth largest state in the country, but it ranks near the bottom in terms of population. Which means a lot of beautiful wilderness to explore and, more perfectly, road trip through.''We’re going to be writing quite a bit about this state in the coming months because we definitely feel more people should be visiting – and not just for the''annual balloon fiesta''(although that is pretty cool).''First though, lets talk about space. After all, every now and then some poor person stumbles upon this blog looking for answers to cosmic questions. Which, despite the title, I don’t exactly provide in spades. So in this post, maybe just once I’ll be on theme!''You see, if you like space, and anything to do with space (I’m a huge sci-fi fan), then New Mexico is the state to visit. Not only because of the Roswell landings, although, naturally, that’s a must-visit. New Mexico has got all kinds of space stuff going for it, so much so in fact that there’s a trail you can follow around the entire State, with notable space related stops all over the place.''Giant radio telescopes? Check. A real life spaceport? Check. New Mexico has it all! Let’s get cracking with some of my:''Highlights of the New Mexico Space Trail''If you look at the official website of the''New Mexico Space Trail'', you’ll find 52 locations dotted across the state that have a connection to man’s quest for space. 52! That’s a lot of space related fun. We’ve whittled the official space trail down to some of our highlights, plus added our own. In no particular order, our favourite space related activities in New Mexico were:''The New Mexico Museum of Space History, Alamogordo''If you want to get a good idea of man’s space exploration efforts, then the New Mexico Museum of Space History is the place to come for that. Set on a hillside above Alamogordo (with spectacular views across the city and valley to boot), this five storey building is absolutely jam packed with information about the history, science, technology and people involved in mankind’s space exploration efforts.''It’s also not just a museum, although that part of it will certainly take you plenty of time to explore, featuring everything from exhibits on early rocket technology through to a space shuttle landing simulator. It’s also home to the International Hall of Space Fame, the John P. Stapp Air & Space Park (a whole pile of space related machinery and equipment), the Daisy Decelerator Track and a planetarium / theatre.''At the last of those, we watched an excellent large screen production about man’s journey to space, which added to the overall knowledge. You can buy combo tickets when you arrive, and I’d definitely recommend taking in at least of of the shows in the theatre, either a planetarium screening or a theatre screening.''The Space Murals Museum, near Las Cruces''The Space Murals Museum is best known for its gigantic painted water tank sitting off the highway, adorned with a number of murals that tell the story of the US space program from the sixties to the eighties.''And that part of the attraction is certainly worth seeing, although, truth be told, there’s a lot more to the Space Murals museum than a gigantic painted water tank.''Essentially, the museum is an expansive private collection of all things space relatde that the owner Lou has been able to get his hands on over the years. There’s everything from discarded space station mockups to V2 rocket sections to left-over food from previous space trips. It’s probably still good, but I’m not sure I’d want to eat it.''It’s definitely a peculiar museum, but it’s well worth visiting – there are just so many oddities and knick knacks to look at. There’s also an excellent gift shop, where I bought some very well priced NASA commemorative stickers, and the inevitable freeze dried astronaut ice cream.''Very Large Array''You might not have visited the Very Large Array, but the odds are you will have seen it somehow – basically, whenever a film or TV show needs an impressive pile of satellite dishes (more accurately, radio telescope antennae), they tend to call upon the Very Large Array.''More formally known as the Karl G. Jansky Very Large Array, the most famous cameo the VLA has had was in the 1997 movie''Contact'', with Jodie Foster, but has also featured in a Terminator movie and a Bon Jovi music video, amongst many other things.''When you visit it, you’ll realise why. It’s a pretty staggering complex, featuring twenty-seven “antennae”, each of which has a dish diameter of 25 meters and weighs 209 tons. These are all positioned by railway tracks, and their position can be varied into one of four configurations – depending on the frequency that the telescopes are searching for.''The VLA, in case you were wondering, is a radio telescope, used for all sorts of things, mainly research and investigation into objects in space, from pulsars to black holes. It’s basically a telescope, but instead of looking at the visible light spectrum, it looks at the frequency we known as radio waves. These tend to be fairly weak, hence the requirement for a mind-bogglingly large bit of equipment.''Visiting the VLA does require a bit of a drive as it’s not exactly near anything – this was done on purpose to minimise interference from human activity. It’s definitely worth it though – it’s an incredible sight to see, and there’s a small museum, a documentary film (voiced by Jodie Foster!) and a walking tour of some of the key sights.''Spaceport America''A spaceport. Like an airport, but for space! You can bet I was super-excited to visit this vision of the future which is already operational in the high New Mexico desert.''Ok, so operational is a bit of a stretch. You can’t exactly come here and hop on a departing spacecraft to a nearby star system. Or, well, anywhere. There’s no handy departure board with far-flung galaxies listed. As yet, you are firmly grounded on Earth, and spaceships are not plying the runway.''But that doesn’t really matter. Spaceport America is a wonderful place to visit because it feels like a wonderfully optimistic place. It’s a vision of mankind’s potential future, one where travelling into space is as normal as travelling by plane. The folks who lead the tours are wonderfully enthusiastic and knowledgeable, bringing everyone up to date on latest developments in the very fast paced space industry.''We definitely enjoyed this visit, touring the key buildings, looking at the huge runway and learning all about the history, present and future of both Spaceport America, and Space travel in general. It definitely gave me hope that maybe one day I’ll be able to expand this blog to meet it’s namesake!''Spaceport America currently has to be visited as part of a tour. Tours depart from Truth or Consequences, and last around four hours – for full booking information, visit the''official booking site''.''The National Museum of Nuclear Science & History''If all this state road tripping seems like a bit much, and your trip generally revolves around visiting Albuquerque (maybe for the balloon fiesta?), don’t worry. You can still get your science on! Head to the''National Museum of Nuclear Science and History''.''This offers a detailed overview of everything nuclear, from the science of nuclear technology, to the people who made it happen. There are overlaps with Los Alamos (see further down the post), however, the nuclear science museum has a lot of unique material, including a number of nuclear related machinery, from a B-52 bomber to a nuclear submarine sail. There’s also an excellent walk through the history of nuclear technology, from its early beginnings, to use in conflict, to pioneering research in nuclear medicine.''My favourite part was wandering around outside amongst the huge planes that are parked up here. If you’re in Albuquerque, don’t miss this off your list of things to do (here are''20 more to add to your list''!).''Roswell''It’s impossible to talk about New Mexico and space without covering Roswell. Roswell is a name synonymous with aliens, famous around the world for the mysterious incident which happened in the fifties which allegedly involved a crashed alien spaceship.''The truth about this mystery is still somewhat unknown (ok, very unknown), but that hasn’t stopped Roswell from capitalising on the UFO phenomenon.''You can visit the UFO museum to learn more about the incident itself, with newspaper clippings, testimonials and, well, weirdness galore. Or you can just wander the town, where you’ll find all sorts of oddities, from themed post boxes to a full sized spaceship in the McDonald’s. Basically, it’s fun, and you’ll likely leave with a smile, and maybe a question. Which is a good result in my head.''Los Alamos National Laboratory''How about visiting a town that was once home to a population of thousands, but officially didn’t exist? Well, Los Alamos is the place to come. It was here during World War 2 that the research and development of the first nuclear weapons took place, culminating in the devices that were detonated in Japan.''Today, Los Alamos is still a cutting edge research facility, but now it’s actually on the map, and you are welcome to visit. The focal point of your visit should be the''Bradbury Science Museum''. This is where you can learn about the Manhattan project – everything from the science of atomic weapons through to the remarkable people who worked here, as well as a history of the development of the location itself.''Once you’re up to speed on that, take a walk around the town, with the help of the official''Los Alamos Historic Walking Tour Map''(we picked up a copy of this map at the Science Museum). You’ll find everything on this route from the home of Oppenheimer to ancestral Pueblo dwellings to a homesteader’s cabin – it’s basically a journey through time.''National Solar Observatory, Sunspot''Last, but not least, in my list of highlights from the New Mexico Space Trail is the National Solar Observatory, which sits up in the mountains of the Lincoln National Forest, about a thirty minute drive from the pretty alpine town of Cloudcroft.''Here, as the name suggests, scientists watch the earth’s nearest star – our sun! As well as gorgeous views thanks to its mountain top location, you can also visit the''Sunspot Visitor Centre and Museum'', and take a walk around the park where you’ll find lots of different telescopes and sun watching equipment. In the museum itself you’ll find a variety of exhibits where you can learn all about astronomy, telescopes and even the US Forest Service. A worthwhile visit.''Further Reading''That summarises some of our favourite space related activities in New Mexico. As you can see, there’s a lot of space-related fun you can have in New Mexico, as part of a trip around this wonderful state. Here are some resources to help you further plan your trip, both content we’ve created, and content we found useful.''My guide to''how much a trip in the USA costs''to help you plan out a budget.''If you’re in New Mexico, you’ll want to spend some time in Albuquerque. Here are''20 things to do there''!''And you’ve got to visit the Balloon Fiesta – here’s a guide to getting the most from''a trip to the Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta''.''My friend Lauren went to Roswell, and''this was what she found''.''Photo highlights of''Route 66 in New Mexico,''because that’s an epic road trip you might want to take. If do you, learn how to''plan your Route 66 trip here''.''The official''New Mexico Space Trail''website, plus the''Southern New Mexico Space Trail site''.''A''New Mexico guide book'', for even more ideas and information to aid in planning your trip''And that sums up my post on the highlights of the New Mexico Space Trail! Have you visited New Mexico or any of the attractions on this list? Share your experiences in the comments below!''So you know, we received complimentary media passes for our visit to Spaceport America and The National Museum of Nuclear Science & History, but covered all other entry costs for the other attractions in this article, as well as covering all our own travel expenses.''SHARE ON''We’ve been lucky enough to travel a fair bit in the United States, and one of the questions that we’re always asked is – how much does it cost to travel in the USA? Particularly on the kind of trips we do, which tend to be self-drive road trips like''Route 66''or across the''deep south of the USA''.''Well, today I’m going to see if I can help you figure out how much it will cost you to travel in the USA, so you can budget for your own trip accordingly.''A few things to keep in mind. In reality, this kind of question is much like asking “how long is a piece of string”, because, the answer really is – it depends. If you want to rock luxury hotels and fine dining, your budget is naturally going to be a little different to someone looking for budget eats and motel stays. In addition, prices vary depending on location, with major cities like San Francisco and New York always going to be more expensive options.''Thankfully, the USA has a wide range of options to suit most tastes, and is still a country that can be travelled enjoyably on a relatively low budget. In this post, I’ll be sharing some budget ranges to give you an idea of what to spend, plus some quick and easy ways to save money as you go.''This budgeting guide is going to focus more on a self-drive road trip as I believe that’s the best way to experience America. It gives you the flexibility to plan your own itinerary, stop when and where you want, and experience as much (or as litle!) as you want each day. If you’ve not driven in the USA before, don’t worry, I’ve put together''some tips for driving in the USA''.''Let’s look at each of the key areas where you’re likely to spend money on your trip in the USA, and see how the costs work out.''Contents:''How much does it cost to travel in the US?''1. Accommodation Costs for Travel in the USA''Price of Accommodation in the USA''Money Saving Tips for Accommodation in the USA''2. Transport Costs for Travel in the USA''Price of Car Rental in the USA''Money Saving Tips for Car Rental''3. Sight-seeing Costs when Travelling in the USA''Costs for Sight-Seeing in the USA''Money Saving Tips for Sight-Seeing''4. Food Costs in the USA''Price of Food in the USA''Money Saving Tips for Food in the USA''In Summary: How Much Does it Cost to Travel in the USA?''Final Money Saving Tip for Travelling in the USA!''Further reading''How much does it cost to travel in the US?''We have split this post into the main costs for travel in the USA, which are:''Accommodation''Transport''Sight-seeing''Food''For each section, we’re going to give you an overview of budget, mid-range and high end prices, following by some tips for how to save money on each category. Let’s get started.''1. Accommodation Costs for Travel in the USA''Accommodation is definitely going to be one of the main costs associated with your US trip, and not one you can easily avoid unless you buy a tent or rent a campervan – and even then you’ll likely have to pay campsite fees.''The good news is that the US has a range of accommodation options to meet pretty much every niche, from cosy B&B’s to budget motels to hostels to campsites to high end palaces of modern luxury.''Price of Accommodation in the USA''Budget'': You’re generally looking in the region of $40 – $80 per night for two people for a private room in a budget hotel or motel''Mid-range:''You can get very reasonable accommodation for $100 – $200 per night for two people for a private room''High-end:''The sky’s the limit, but $300+ is your starting point I’d suggest''Money Saving Tips for Accommodation in the USA''Use budget chains.''Many budget travellers turn to hostels when looking for cheap accommodation. This is definitely an option in the US, especially if you are travelling on your own, but in our experience travelling as a couple, the best value was found with low-cost hotels & motels – chains like Red Roof Inn or Motel 6. You’ll find these clustered around Interstate Exits, as well as on the outskirts of most towns and cities. It’s not going to be a glamorous experience, but in our experiences, you’ll usually get a bed, some form of breakfast, your own bathroom, and free parking.''Book online.''For the majority of our hotel and motel stays, we found the best prices online, usually''using booking.com''. In many cases, we have arrived at a property, asked for their rates, compared against those online, and then asked if they were willing to price match. In nearly every case, the desk clerk would just tell us to book via the online site. Savings could be substantial, so for the five minute inconvenience this was definitely worth it.''Look at casinos.''Another option to think about are casinos. Many of these offer relatively good value mid-range rooms in the hopes that you’ll spend big on the casino floor – if you can avoid that temptation then you might end up saving. They also usually have cheap dining & drinking options, again, in the hopes that you’ll spend your money gambiling.''Use alternative sites.''Finally, don’t forget to think outside the box. There’s a huge range of accommodation options available beyond the normal – check out websites like''AirBnB''to widen your scope of options and (potentially) reduce your costs. Don’t forget though, AirBnB isn’t the only game in town – check out my guide to''AirBnB alternatives''to flesh out your digital toolkit for booking the best value accommodation!''2. Transport Costs for Travel in the USA''A road trip in America is going to require a car. There are of course other ways to get around the US, including trains, buses and planes, but that’s for a different post. In this post I’m going to focus specifically on travelling by car. Again, for more tips on driving in the US, including car rental requirements and driving advice, check out my''tips for driving in the USA''post.''Also, bear in mind that car rental costs are significantly higher if you’re under 25, as the insurance premiums that rental companies charge are much higher under this age group.''Price of Car Rental in the USA''Budget'': $200 per week for a budget car that will comfortably fit two people and luggage''Mid-range:''$250 – $300 for a mid-range car that will easily fit four people and luggage''High-end:''$350 – $500 for a high end car such as a convertible, large SUV or luxury vehicle''Money Saving Tips for Car Rental''Don’t book for city use''. If you’re hiring a car, only hire it for the time period you need. If you’re flying in and out of a city, in most cases you’re unlikely to need the car until you leave the city, so don’t spend money you don’t need to on rental or overpriced city parking fees. Instead, save money by renting for the day you leave the city, and return on the day you get back to the city.''Take advantage of weekly rates.''Be aware that rates vary depending on if you are hiring by the day or by the week. You can score significant savings on longer term rentals when the weekly rates kick in, plus many car-hire companies appreciate longer term rentals and may give you a free upgrade to a roomier car. In our experience, we always book the smallest car and end up driving something which by European standards anyway would be a mid-range vehicle – plenty of room for the two of us and luggage!''Avoid airport surcharges''. This can be harder to do, but you should be aware that the convenience of picking a car up at an airport location often carries a hefty surcharge. Take a bit of time to compare rental fees for city locations and the airport locations, and if it’s easy enough to get from the airport to a city centre pick up, it may be worth the savings.''Avoid peak times.''This tip pretty much applies to every section in this guide. If you visit a location during a key event when demand is high, such as''New Orleans during Mardi Gras'', or''Albuquerque during the International Balloon Fiesta'', you will find that prices can be significantly higher across the board for everything from accommodation to car hire. Obviously, if you need to visit during these times, then go for it, but be aware that costs will be higher, and you will need to plan that into your budget accordingly. If you don’t want to attend these events, try to avoid visiting when they’re happening.''Avoid additional fees.''One way that car rental companies make a great income is by trying to get you to sign up to various additional services, including additional insurance and damage waiver fees. These are usually very expensive – sometimes even more so than the car rental itself! We definitely don’t suggest you skip out on necessary insurance, however, there are most cost effective ways of obtaining peace of mind. Many credit cards, for example, include this cover if you pay for the car rental using their service. There are also cost-effective third party insurance options. For more information, check out my''driving in the USA tips post''.''Avoid one-way trips.''If you’re doing a road trip, it is usually tempting to start in one location and finish in another. Unfortunately, car rental firms often levy a fee for one-way rentals, which can make this a costly idea. Obviously, in many cases you won’t be able to avoid this, but it’s worth bearing in mind, and also worth noting that many online price comparison sites fail to take this into account when providing quotes. We’ve found''Enterprise''to be among the best value when it came to low one-way fees.''Buy and sell back.''This certainly isn’t for everyone, but if you are travelling in the USA for a prolonged period of time (more than three months I’d suggest), then buying a car might be more cost effective than a long term rental, depending on factors like insurance. It’s definitely more hassle, and you will need both a US address for the registration documents and to purchase car insurance. When I travelled in New Zealand and in Australia, I bought and sold a car for both of those trips, which was a very worthwhile investment.''Shop for the cheapest gas.''That car you rent needs fuel to get it moving – the good news being fuel in the US is relatively cheap. Prices can vary a lot from gas station to gas station, so shop around for the cheapest deals. Generally, gas stations at Interstate exits are more expensive. Also, be aware that prices can vary wildly between states, so if you’re doing something like''Route 66'', where you cross a lot of states, check prices using a site or app like''GasBuddy''to see where you can save.''We also have a regularly updated page of''travel resources''that lists our favourite tools for finding the best prices on everything from flights to car rental to accommodation.''3. Sight-seeing Costs when Travelling in the USA''On to the fun stuff! Obviously, the kind of sight-seeing you choose to do will vary depending on your interest, but I’d guess you might be interested in attractions, museums, national parks and that sort of thing.''Costs for Sight-Seeing in the USA''Obviously this is up to you, but we’d suggest you budget in the region of $10 – $30 per person per day for sight-seeing costs. Here are some ways to save.''Money Saving Tips for Sight-Seeing''Get a City Pass.''If you’re planning on doing a lot of sight-seeing in one city, then see if you can find a city pass for that city. For example, the''CityPass company''covers a range of destinations, plus there’s the''Las Vegas''and''New Orleans passes''. These are usually very cost-effective ways of seeing a lot of attractions, and sometimes include public transport and skip the line access as well.''Buy a Parks Pass.''One of the best things about the USA are its incredible''National Parks''. These usually have an entry fee, however if you’re going to be visiting a number of parks, you can save by investing in Annual Pass. These represent excellent value for money, with one $80 fee covering you and up to three other people in your vehicle for entry into over 2,000 parks across the US for a year.''Find free days.''There are a lot of free museums and other attractions throughout the USA. What you might not know is that even the paid attractions often have “free entry” days, where you can visit for free. These can fall on a particular day of the month, or may line up with a national “free museum” day. Just use the internet to search for the city and attraction type you’re interested in to see if you can score free entry.''Book in advance.''This doesn’t always save you money, but it can save you time, and time is also important! Many popular attractions allow you to book in advance, skipping the long lines and letting you get straight in. You’re paying for your trip, so you might as well make the most out of the time you have!''Use concessions.''If you fit into a specific category such as age group, disability, military service or membership of an organisation, you may qualify for either a discount or even free entry at many locations. Just research in advance so you know what you’re entitled to.''4. Food Costs in the USA''Food! There’s so much choice in the USA, so basically whatever you’re into, and even if you’ve got allergies or intolerances, you’re probably going to be able to eat well wherever you go, and at a reasonable price.''Price of Food in the USA''Budget'': $5 – $10 per person per meal at a fast food restaurant, food truck or diner''Mid-range:''$15 – $25 per person per meal at a reasonable restaurant, gastropub''High-end:''$50+ per person per meal at a nice restaurant''Money Saving Tips for Food in the USA''Split portions.''Food potions in the USA tend to be very generous. So generous in fact, that when Jess and I eat out, we normally split a main (known as an entrée) between us, and it’s still more than enough food. Many restaurants will happily split a meal for you, or at least give you an extra plate. Sometimes there will be a “split charge”, but this should be clearly marked on the menu.''Get a box.''If you order too much food and can’t eat it all, don’t waste it! Nearly every restaurant will be happy for you to take your food with you – just ask for a box, and they’ll be happy to provide. In the UK, this is not a common practice, so can feel a bit weird, but I assure you, it’s very normal in the USA!''Cook your own food.''Definitely a great way to save on food costs is to cook your own food. Many AirBnB’s come with the basic cooking essentials like oil and spices, and since they’ll usually come with an equipped kitchen, you can definitely save by making your own meals from time to time!''Find the deals.''Even if you’re going to splurge, you can still save money by keeping an eye out for deals. Some restaurants do two-for-one deals, have happy hour prices at off-peak times, or offer daily specials. Take advantage of these to save money.''Don’t forget the fast-food options.''Sure, these might not be the healthiest of options, but if you’re in a pinch for a budget meal, or just can’t find anywhere else that’s open, fast-food restaurants like McDonald’s or Subway can be a cost-effective way to get a filling meal.''Skip the drinks.''One of the nicest things about eating in the USA is that you nearly always will be presented with glasses of water when you sit down. If you can, just stick to water, as it’s free! If you do want to drink, be aware that soft drinks and coffee often come with unlimited refills, so take advantage of that. If you’re happy with water though – stick to it, you can definitely save money by skimping on the drinks – particularly the fancy chain coffee options!''Don’t forget tax and tips.''Not a money saving tip – but something to definitely be aware of. If you’ve not travelled in the US before, you might get caught out by the fact that taxes aren’t generally included on the prices of items – instead they’re added when the bill is totalled. If you’re used to sales tax being included (such as in Europe), this might present a bit of bill shock! In addition, tipping is very normal in the USA for service, with tip amounts generally ranging from from 10 – 20%.''In Summary: How Much Does it Cost to Travel in the USA?''For two people travelling in the US, I’d estimate a cost per person as follows.''Budget:''$50 – $80''Mid-range:''$100 – $150''High-end:''$200 – $300 (and up!)''Don’t forget to add on the cost of getting to the USA as well, plus any visa fees you might have to pay (depending on your nationality).''I have to say, the USA is definitely one of our favourite countries to travel, and particularly, to road trip in. There’s so much to see and do, really something for everyone, plus it’s relatively safe and easy to travel in.''The other good news is that it’s not that expensive either, at least, if you don’t want it to be.''Final Money Saving Tip for Travelling in the USA!''One of the easiest ways to save money on a road trip in the USA, and anywhere really, is to travel as a group. Many of the costs are fixed, such as car hire, fuel and accommodation, and by having more of you, you can split the costs and reduce the per person price significantly.''A group of 2-4 people travelling together in one vehicle and sharing AirBnB accommodation is definitely more cost effective for a road trip than one person going it alone!''Further reading''We’ve put together a lot of content on''our travels in the USA,''plus we have some favourite go-to resources when we’re planning our adventures. Here’s the best of those resources to help you plan your own trip:''Our guide to''planning a Route 66 Trip'', as well as a comprehensive''two week Route 66 itinerary''An awesome''Deep South USA itinerary''A planning guide for a''Pacific Coast Highway Trip''Tips for Driving in the USA''A''Detailed California Road Trip Itinerary''Nomadic Matt’s How to Travel the World on $50 a Day''– a must read for any budget minded traveller!''Lonely Planet’s guide to the''Best Road Trips in the USA''– lots of inspiration here''And that sums up our post on the cost of travel in the USA! Hopefully you found it useful – as always, let us know your thoughts, tips and suggestions in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Jess and I both love visiting the stately homes in England. These imposing constructions were generally built to house the aristocratic families of the country, and tend to be rather grand affairs with formal rooms, impressive architecture and, depending on the whims of the owners, some form of landscaped garden.''These homes, which are generally in the country, can also be referred to as Country Houses or Country Homes, and they are where the gentry would retire to when not hanging out in the cities taking part in the social scene. Clearly, a tough life, but someone had to do it.''During the 20th century though, and for various reasons, many of Britain’s aristocratic families ended up short on funds and so weren’t able to keep these homes maintained. One of the ways around this was to open them up to the public (or sell them to a public body), which means that today a great many of England’s finest homes and palaces are open for touring.''Some of these are still privately owned, whilst others have been given to national organisations such as the National Trust and English Heritage for ongoing maintenance and upkeep.''In today’s post, I want to share with you ten of my favourite stately homes that you can visit in England. Note that this doesn’t include major Royal Palaces like Windsor or Hampton Court – that’s going to be a whole post of its own!''I’m also just sticking to England for this one. As you can imagine, there were hundreds to choose from across the country, but I feel that each of the ten options in this post is well deserving of its title as one of the:''Best Stately Homes in England to Visit''1. Blenheim Palace''Blenheim is the only property in Britain which carries the title “Palace”, but is not Royal. Instead, it’s the principal residence of the Dukes of Marlborough (the family still lives on site), and is both a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and one of the largest houses in England.''It’s also notable as being the birthplace of Sir Winston Churchill, and is the ancestral home of the Churchill family.''The house and grounds today are open to the public, and are a truly grand place to visit. You could easily spend a full day here, picnicking by the lake, enjoying the English Baroque architecture, touring the Winston Churchill exhibit (he also proposed to his wife on the grounds) as well as taking in the gloriously opulent state rooms and wandering the park and gardens which in their current form were designed by renowned landscape gardener Capability Brown.''It’s a good day trip from London, and could also be combined with a visit to nearby Oxford. Read more about our experiences''visiting Blenheim on a day trip from London here'', and''book your tickets in advance here''to save the queue.''2. Chatsworth House''Nestled in the Derbyshire Dales, near England’s Peak district, Chatsworth House has topped lists of the UK’s favourite country house numerous times. And it’s not hard to see why – the impressive building, surrounded by 105 acres of garden and 1,000 acres of park land is truly wonderful to behold. No wonder that 300,000 people come here every year for the garden alone!''Of course, there’s more to Chatsworth House than the garden, although with the fountains, rockeries and cascade feature, you could be forgiven for spending a whole day just in the garden.''The house itself has been home to the Cavendish family, also known as the Dukes of Devonshire, since 1549, and has been added to and extended throughout the years. The family do still live here, and of the 126 rooms, only around 20 or so are open to the public. Still, they are large, impressive and richly decorated, so a tour is well worth the entry fee.''Another notable feature of Chatsworth are the excellent dining options, with three on-site restaurants as well as two cafe’s. One of these restaurants, the Flying Childers, specialises in afternoon tea, and naturally we had to try that out. Served on Wedgwood, the afternoon tea was a sumptuous affair, and one of the best we’ve had in the UK.''If you’re looking to take your country house visit to the next level, an afternoon tea is definitely a good way to do so! For ticketing and further information, see the''official Chatsworth House''website. Hint – if you book online, you get free parking.''3. Highclere Castle''Fans of the TV series''Downton Abbey''will instantly recognise Highclere Castle because it stands in as the main house in the show. Whilst Downton Abbey itself is fictional, this is a striking building nonetheless, and well worth visiting, even if you’re not a fan of the show.''As it happens, Jess is a huge fan of the show, and so did the whole tour. I was quite impressed with the gardens and exterior of the property, so entertained myself wandering around and waiting for the clouds to clear and the people to move so I could get a nice photo.''In terms of the building and grounds, well, like all the properties so far, the gardens had Capability Brown’s involvement (he was a busy chap!), whilst the property itself dates from 1679. It’s the home of the Earl of Carnarvon (famous for the discovery of Tutankhamun’s tomb – there’s an Egyptian Exhibition to celebrate this), and is open through the summer, as well as on select dates throughout the year.''Whilst general admission tickets on the''official website''often sell out, we have been reliably informed that if you turn up at the property you are very unlikely to be turned away.''Don’t miss the café on site for delicious scones, or the Secret Garden. Highclere Castle is about an hour’s drive south of Oxford, or a couple of hours from London – you could visit as a day trip from either, and also include Stonehenge, if you were so inclined. Check out my''UK Itinerary post''for more ideas on trips around the UK.''4. Wentworth Woodhouse''If my list of stately homes was a family tree, Wentworth Woodhouse would probably be the crazy uncle that no-one talks about. It’s a property of mindboggling proportions, unbelievable in so many ways, and yet most people have never heard of it.''It’s also a bit of an odd one to include, largely because at the time of writing this post, I don’t know for how long it is going to be open to the public for. My advice to you is, if you can get to it, and it is open, to visit as soon as you can. Whilst the property is currently owned by a Trust, with government money being allocated for restoration, there always appears to be the risk that it might return to private ownership and be closed to the public.''If that happens, it would definitely be a tragedy, because this property is, as I mentioned, just bonkers. Some quick facts to blow your mind:''Wentworth Woodhouse is the largest private home in Europe. It has over 300 rooms (no-one actually knows how many), 23,000 square meters of floor space and the property alone has a footprint of 2.5 acres. It’s so big that some guests left breadcrumb trails to get back to their rooms after dining as otherwise the chances of getting to bed were slim. Oh, it also has the longest country house façade of any house in Europe (606 feet long), and is so big that the front and the back look like two completely different properties.''So why has no-one really heard of this place?''Well, unfortunately, the house, and in particular the original gardens, have suffered their share of troubles over the years. The property sat on a huge coal seam, and just after the second world war, the UK government turned the grounds into the UK’s largest open cast mine site, causing huge devastation to the formal gardens, as well as potentially resulting in subsidence issues under the property itself.''Over its lifetime, large portions of the property have been unoccupied, and as such, a lot of restoration work is required. This might be a slight understatement. The rooms are empty for the most part, and a tour is certainly a different experience to many of the other properties on this list. Still, I absolutely urge you to visit if you can, the vast scale of the property is just incredible to behold, and the people who work here are deeply passionate about Wentworth.''If you’re interested in learning more about the history of the family and house, Jess recommends the book “''Black Diamonds''”, which charts the rise and fall of the Fitzwilliam family, previous owners of the house. Jess has also written a''mind-bogglingly comprehensive post all about visiting Wentworth Woodhouse'', which you should definitely check out. Then,''book your tour on the official website''and get yourself along to this stunning property.''5. Chartwell House''Another property makes the list with a link to Winston Churchill. In fact, we’ve recently visited so many Churchill sites that Jess has written a whole post dedicated to''visiting Winston Churchill sites in England''.''In this case, Chartwell House was Churchill’s home, from when he and his wife Clementine purchased it in 1922, through to Sir Winston’s death in 1965, at which time Clementine presented it to the National Trust, who still own and look after the property today.''This is certainly not as grand or ostentatious a property as many of the others on this list. Whilst a property has been on the estate since the 16th century, the Churchill’s made so many changes upon their purchase that it’s essentially completely transformed. This is actually a good thing, because the 19th century version of the property was not favourably thought of.''The property is very much worth visiting, because it gives an impression of the home life of the man who was at the centre of a number of world events through the 20th century, who also happened to find time to win a Nobel Prize for literature, paint award winning landscapes, raise butterflies and build walls. So yes, definitely worth the visit. Note that Chartwell runs timed tours and it gets busy here, so we recommend arriving early in order to be in with a good chance of seeing the property close to your preferred time!''Like a number of other properties on this list, Chartwell House is a National Trust property, so it’s free to National Trust members and visitors with''a National Trust touring pass''. See more at the end of the post for ways to save money on entry to the properties on this list.''6. Osborne House''Ok, I promised no Royal Palaces or Castles, so this one is a bit of a cheat. This isn’t technically a palace or a castle, but is definitely associated with Royalty – it was Queen Victoria’s holiday home, and it can definitely be described as palatial – at least in size!''It can be found on the Isle of Wight, just off the south coast of England, and feels much like an Italian villa. It was purpose built in the 19th century for Queen Victoria and Prince Albert, and so reflects their style and tastes. It also had to be large enough to accommodate their extensive family, and there are parts of the grounds which were dedicated to the children’s use and education, including a miniature fort and vegetable gardens.''As you can imagine, it’s well worth exploring the house and the grounds (currently 354 acres) – in particular don’t miss the beach, which was for the private use of the Royal Family.''The house is now owned by English Heritage and open to the public, check the''official website for pricing and opening times''.''Osborne House is free to English Heritage members, those holding an''English Heritage Overseas Visitor Pass'', or you can pay a one-off ticket price. Again, see more at the end of the post for saving money on entry to the properties on this list.''If you are visiting the Isle of Wight, do also take a look at our guide to spending''two days on the Isle of Wight'', as well as Jess’s guide to''Queen Victoria sights on the Isle of Wight.''7. Newstead Abbey''In the heart of Nottinghamshire, Newstead Abbey is most famous for being the home of noted British poet Lord Byron. Originally though, as the name suggests, this was a religious building, home to a number of Augustinian monks. However, when Henry VIII decided to disband all the Catholic houses, including monasteries, the Abbey was handed over to the Byron family.''Lord Byron the poet inherited the property when it was badly in need of repair, and initially he lived in nearby Nottingham, using the grandly crumbling ruin as handy poetic inspiration. Later, he moved into the property and did attempt various restorative works, but these were generally of an artistic nature rather than anything usefully structural, and so the property continued to decline, until it was finally bought in 1818 by someone with sufficient funds to restore it to some of its original glory.''Finally, after passing to various people, it was gifted to the city of Nottingham, and today it is owned and maintained by Nottingham City Council, and can be toured both inside and outside.''It’s a fascinating property to look at, as part of it is an old abbey ruin, with the house built onto the side of it. There are wonderful gardens to explore, including an American Garden, a Japanese Garden and a walled garden.''The tour of the property naturally focuses on its most famous resident, but there are plenty of tales about the property and its other owners that will fascinate you. All in all, a very worthwhile half day visit.''8. Apsley House''I appreciate that pretty much every house in this list requires a bit of effort to get to – either you’re going to have to find your own transport, or you’re going to have to book a tour. With that in mind, and in particular for those of you just visiting London, I wanted to give you an option that’s right on your doorstep – Apsley House.''Ok, so it’s not exactly a grand stately home, or a country house at all, but it’s impressive nonetheless, and will give you an idea at least of the aristocratic lifestyle if you don’t have time to head out of London, or want to visit somewhere that isn’t a Royal Palace.''This is on Hyde Park Corner, so it’s right in the heart of London, just around the corner from Buckingham Palace. It’s the family home of the Dukes of Wellington, and is a spectacular example of an aristocratic town house.''The house is still occupied by the Dukes of Wellington, however most of it is now open to the public and serves as a museum, primarily to the first Duke of Wellington, who famously defeated Napoleon at the Battle of Waterloo, and is widely regarded as one of the greatest British military commanders in history.''Apsley House today houses a superb art collection, much of which was acquired as the spoils of war, as well as gifts from admirers around the world, which include paintings, sculptures, silver, porcelain and more. There’s an excellent audio guide which will take you around the house, which we definitely recommend.''Apsley House is operated by''English Heritage''. In terms of entry fees, it’s free to English Heritage members, those holding an''English Heritage Overseas Visitor Pass''or you can pay a one-off ticket price. It’s also included on the''excellent London Pass''– if you are planning on seeing a number of sights in London, then we can definitely recommend picking one of those up for your visit. Read Jess’s''full review of the London Pass''to see if it will save you money on your trip.''9. Baddesley Clinton''Baddesley Clinton is the only moated property on this list, which in my book, warrants its entry alone. Technically a manor house, Baddesley Clinton dates from the 13th century, and was the property of the Ferrer family for 12 generations before passing to the National Trust.''The house has seen its fair share of history, with particular note being the role it played during the Catholic persecutions of the 16th century. In particular, there are three “priest holes” in the property, where priests could hide to avoid capture.''There are also lovely gardens to explore and the property has notably beautiful stained glass windows. It’s definitely a little different to some of the other properties on this list, hence the inclusion.''Again, as a National Trust property, Baddesley Clinton is free to National Trust members and visitors with''a National Trust touring pass''. See more at the end of the post for saving money on entry to the properties on this list.''10. Attingham Park''Last, but by no means least on my ten favourite stately homes to visit in England is''Attingham Park''. This 18th century mansion and estate is the fourth most visited National Trust property in the UK, and when you visit you’ll quickly understand why.''Built in 1785, the building is imposing and impressive, with a huge main façade and two single storey wings jutting out from either side. The interior is equally grand and well maintained, with a marked difference between the “upstairs” and “downstairs” lifestyles on show.''When we visited we took a behind the scenes tour of the new picture gallery roof. This might not seem that exciting, but given the original was designed by John Nash (architect of Buckingham Palace, along with a great number of buildings of Regency London) using radical design technologies for the time, this turned out to be quite fascinating.''We also learnt about the history of the owners and occupants of the property – stories that involved romance, loss, ruin and restoration. So basically something for everyone!''Again, there’s enough here to do for at least half a day of exploring, and there’s an excellent café on site in the stable block. This is also a National Trust property – you know the drill by now in terms of how the pricing works.''Map of the Stately Homes in England''The houses I’ve chosen are all around England, so I don’t expect you to be able to visit them all in one trip. I have two posts with suggested UK itineraries, and some of these houses could easily be added to either of those. You can see the''two week UK itinerary here'', and the''one week UK itinerary here''.''As a guide though,''here’s a map''showing all the locations of the Stately Homes in this post for quick reference.''Money Saving Tips for Visiting Stately Homes in England''Many of the houses in this list are privately owned, and so have their own entry fees. Usually, it’s worth checking online at their official websites to see if they are running any offers – such as the free parking at Chatsworth if you book online.''A number of the other properties are part of national organisations such as the National Trust or English Heritage. In those cases, if you are planning on visiting a number of properties operated by these organisations and you live in the UK, then you may be better off purchasing an annual membership instead of paying individual prices. You only need to visit a few properties in each case to make up the cost of membership.''If you’re only visiting the UK for a shorter trip there are specific passes for visitors for both the National Trust and English Heritage, which represent great value for money for visitors.''For the National Trust''you can pick up''a National Trust touring pass''. This is valid for 7 or 14 days, and gives you access to every National Trust property in the UK.''For English Heritage'', you can get an''English Heritage Overseas Visitor Pass''. This is valid for 9 or 16 days, and gives you access to every English Heritage property in the UK.''In addition, some overseas organisations have reciprocal arrangements with the National Trust and English Heritage – meaning if you are a member of an overseas organisation you may have free entry already. You can see on their websites both the reciprocal arrangements and a full list of covered attractions. See those on the National Trust website''here'', and English Heritage''here''.''Finally, as already mentioned in the post, if you’re visiting London, then you can save a good pile of money by investing in a''London Pass''for your stay, which gives you access to a good many London attractions.''Further Reading''We’ve written a number of posts and guides to travel in the UK that you might find useful for planning a trip. We also have a number of books and online resources that you might find helpful, both related to Stately Homes, and general travel in the UK. Here they are:''We have guides to many of the cities and sights in the UK for you to bookmark, including:''A''Two Week UK itinerary''& A''One Week UK Itinerary''A''Two Day London Itinerary'', as well as a''Six Day London Itinerary''The''Best Photography Locations in London''Tips on Buying and Using the London Pass''Planning an''Oxford day trip from London''The''Highlights of Oxford''Visiting''Blenheim Palace and the Cotswolds''A''Guide to Touring the Scottish Borders''In terms of reading related to Stately Homes, you might enjoy:''Black Diamonds''– the tale of Wentworth Woodhouse''England’s Thousand Best Houses''– this should give you plenty of ideas for more places to visit!''If you want a physical (or digital!) book to accompany your travels, then Amazon have a great selection. We recommend the''Rick Steves England book'', & the''Lonely Planet Guide''to get you started.''And that finishes up my post on some of my favourite Stately Homes to visit in England! Got a favourite you’d like to share, or any questions about the post? Let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''In the late summer of 2016 we decided to take a road trip around New Mexico for five weeks. Jess had lived in Albuquerque for a year, and we’d also passed through during our Route 66 adventure, but neither of us had really explored the state much, and we wanted to change that.''Obviously, we had to spend a few days exploring Albuquerque, New Mexico’s largest city – not least for the''Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta''. It turned out, there are a lot of things to do in Albuquerque, and most of it has nothing at all to do with Breaking Bad! Without further ado, here are our favourite things to to in this beautiful New Mexico city.''Contents:''Things To Do In Albuquerque''Where to Stay in Albuquerque''How to Get Around Albuquerque''Further Reading for What to Do in Albuquerque''Things To Do In Albuquerque''1. Ride the Sandia Peak Tramway''Anyone who has read this blog for a while will know that when I visit a new city or town, one thing I love to do is quickly get high above it, get some gorgeous views and orient myself to my surroundings.''Well, Albuquerque certainly sated my love. The''Sandia Peak Tramway'', which runs to the top of Sandia Peak, is the world’s longest tramway, and at the top there’s an observation deck which, at 10,378 feet above sea level, certainly gave me quite a view!''From this location we could see the entirety of Albuquerque below us, as well as quite a lot more – on a clear day the view encompasses 11,000 square miles! Certainly a great way to get a feel for Albuquerque and her surrounds.''As well as the tramway and observation platform, there are hiking trails along the ridgeway, and we did a half hour version of one of these, up to Kiwanis Cabin, for even more extensive views.''We can also recommend coming up here for the sunset – it’s definitely one of the best places in the area to watch it!''2. Go to the Balloon Fiesta & Balloon Museum''I’ve already waxed lyrical on the blog about the annual Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta. Bottom line, if you have the chance, you should go. For more compelling reasons, see my''photo essay'', and for all your Balloon Fiesta planning needs and details, see Jess’s extensive guide on''planning a trip to the Balloon Fiesta''.''Of course, the Balloon Fiesta does only happen over a short period, and for the rest of the year you might think you have to miss out on ballooning goodness. Nothing could be further from the truth! Ok, so you might not get quite the experience of watching 600 balloons float into the sky together, but the''Albuquerque Balloon Museum''is definitely the next best thing.''Filled with pretty much everything you could ever want to know about ballooning, from its early beginnings to the modern day sport, we really enjoyed our visit to the balloon museum. A highlight for me was definitely the balloon simulator, although I have to admit I didn’t exactly cover myself in glory – running out of fuel and crashing in short order! It turns out flying a balloon might be harder than it looks.''3. Wander the Old Town''A part of Albuquerque that has to be visited is the historic''Old Town Centre''. Founded in 1706, and home to the oldest building in the city (the San Felipe de Neri Church, dating from 1793), today the historic old town is a hub of shops, restaurants, and museums, housed in beautiful old adobe buildings.''There’s a lot to see and do here (over 100 shops, galleries and restaurants!), so you’ll want to allocate a good amount of time to be sure you get to see everything you want. Our advice would be not to miss the''Rattlesnake Museum'', the''Candy Lady’s''store, and the beautiful photos at the''Albuquerque Photographers Gallery''.''4. Sample all the Craft Beer''Who knew Albuquerque had such a thriving beer scene? Well, I didn’t although Jess did. I quickly learnt all about it.''You could actually spend a lot of time exploring all the craft beer locations and sampling the beers, but some of our highlights that we can definitely recommend for a beer or two were:''Marble Brewery''– Founded in 2008, Marble Brewery is one of the oldest and largest craft breweries in Albuquerque. They’ve won multiple awards for their beers, and their new rooftop bar on top of their brewery pub is a great place to hang out and sample their brews.''Red Door Brewing Company''– Started in 2014 and already with a second city location under their belt, the Red Door Brewing company is obviously not planning on slowing down any time soon. They offer a variety of delicious beers, with the coffee porter a particular favourite!''Rio Bravo Brewing Company''– One of the newest breweries in Albuquerque, you’ll find this brewery and pub a little way north of downtown, on 2nd St NW. The venue is pretty funky, with lots of big TV’s, plenty of seating around an enormous bar, plus bar games to play.''5. Eat at the Golden Crown Panaderia''We had an incredible time eating in Albuquerque. New Mexican cuisine is fantastic, so much so in fact that I’m going to have to write a rare food based post just to cover it! In this post though, there were a couple of more unusual food options that I did want to mention.''First of these is the''Golden Crown Panaderia''. This is, as far as we could tell, the only New Mexican bakery out there, and they are remarkably good at what they do, which is creating delicious baked goods. As soon as you walk in you are treated to a complimentary biscochito (New Mexico’s state cookie!), after which you have to make a decision from a whole range of incredible goodies. Don’t miss the green chile bread!''If you have a chance, we’d also recommend having a chat with owners Chris and Pratt Morales, the father / son team behind the bakery, if they happen to be around. We had the luck to sit down with them and chat for a while about their lives, their passion for baking, and how lucky they feel to be able to have such a wonderful property and product. Pratt has been baking for over thirty years, and his experience and love of the trade shines through in his words and, of course, in the baking! Not to be missed.''6. See the State Fair''A State Fair in the USA is a big deal, and while we were in Albuquerque we were lucky enough that the''New Mexico State Fair''was in full swing! Usually running for ten day in September, if you have the chance to attend, we’d definitely recommend that you do so.''You’ll find everything from fairground rides through to animal displays, art exhibits and of course, plenty to spend your money on. It’s a fun atmosphere, and if you’re from overseas like me, is a definite cultural experience!''7. Hang out at the Albuquerque Zoo''Part of the Albuquerque Biopark, which includes a number of attractions, the''Albuquerque Zoo''is a 64 acre park which is home to exotic animals from all over the world. We really enjoyed wandering the different exhibits – Jess obviously loved the big cats – and we were impressed by how well put together all the habitats were.''It’s a good way to see a large variety of wildlife in a short period of time, covering everything from apes to zebra. Just don’t do what we did, lose track of time and nearly get locked in – the gates are closed at 5pm sharp!''8. Drink Afternoon Tea''When Jess said that Albuquerque was one of her favourite places to take afternoon tea, I had to be doubtful. I mean, I’m British, so obviously somewhere in England should be near the top of the list. But no, apparently, despite our extensive afternoon tea research across the world, including in''London'',''Paris'',''San Francisco'', and''Vietnam'', it turns out that Albuquerque is a good place to go for a truly wonderful afternoon tea experience.''The exact location is the''St. James tearoom'', a truly luxury tea experience, where for a couple of hours Jess and I were whisked away from our every day cares and into a private nook, where we experienced a fantastic''Orient Express''themed meal (themes change regularly) accompanied of course by piles of tea.''Jess has''written about our St. James tearoom experience'', in a post which is jam-packed with information and photos from our trip there. Suffice to say, if you like afternoon tea, or are just after a unique experience in Albuquerque, this is a good one to go for!''9. Wander the Rio Grande Nature Centre''If you’re into wildife, and particularly birds, then a visit to the''Rio Grande Nature Centre''State Park should be at the top of your list. I’m not necessarily a huge bird watcher (sorry Mum!), but even I was mesmerised by the humming birds that we saw at the feeder!''There are trails you can walk, right up to the edge of the Rio Grande river itself, and the centre is informative, with staff on hand to give advice and tips on what you’re likely to see and where. For a bit of nature in the heart of the city, this should make your list.''10. Attend a Festival''I had no idea before I visited, but Albuquerque is a bit nuts about festivals. While we were there, we attended a whole range of festivals, including the Mountain West Brew Fest (beer and wine), the New Mexico Wine & Jazz Festival, the Rio Grande Arts & Crafts Festival and of course, the Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta!''Whenever you visit Albuquerque you are fairly likely to find some kind of festival going on. Check out the''official city events page''for information.''11. Seek Out The Public Art''Something else that surprised me about Albuquerque was quite how much public art there is on display. This ranges from giant wall murals to statues, and basically it’s hard to walk for more than five minutes in downtown Albuquerque without finding something.''If you want to be a bit more structured in your wanderings, you can grab the ABQ Public Art App from''Google Play''which will lead you to all the public art installations across the city. And it’s free. Hurrah!''12. Visit the Dinosaurs at the New Mexico Museum of Natural History''Turns out there is A LOT to do in Albuquerque, and these were just my favourite things! We did even more than fits on this list. Another highlight for us was definitely the New Mexico Museum of Natural History, which tackles all things, well, Natural History. Which, of course, means dinosaurs.''New Mexico is actually a dinosaur treasure trove, with multiple fossil finds from all around the state. So it makes sense that the Natural History museum has some excellent dinosaur exhibits. It’s more than just dinosaurs though. We went on a journey through a volcano, experienced time travel, and learnt about the cosmos.''We also enjoyed chatting to the staff, who were supremely knowledgeable as well as entertaining. Definitely a museum to visit.''13. Feel Cultured at The Albuquerque Museum''Near the Natural History museum is The Albuquerque Museum, which focuses on the history, art, and culture of Albuquerque. I do have to admit to not always being a museum person, but I did really enjoy both of these museums.''In particular, the Route 66 exhibit that was going on at the museum was very interesting, as were the sections that focused on the history of New Mexico, from it’s native American routes, through to the Spanish settlers. These weren’t always uplifting tales to read, but the information was well presented and I appreciated the learning opportunity!''14. Get hands on at Explora!''If you like your locations of learning to be of the interactive variety, then you’re going to go mad for''Explora''! This is, as far as I can best describe it, an adults science adventure playground (ok, it’s great for kids too!), where you’re encouraged to do everything from fly model planes to create giant soap bubbles.''We visited when they were having an adults evening, which basically meant they had wine and beer as well as a number of demonstrations, as well as a number of other activities including a disco. There’s nothing quite like having a beer, listening to some music, and trying to create the biggest soap bubble you can.''15. Learn about Native American Culture at the Indian Pueblo Cultural Centre''There are 19 Pueblos in New Mexico. If you’re not sure what that means, well, a pueblo is basically a Native American community which has it’s own culture, tradition and art, and it’s usually based around a specific location – these aren’t nomadic tribes.''Some of these pueblos are open for visiting, including the Taos Pueblo and the Acoma Sky City Pueblo – two experiences we also recommend. However, if you’re in Albuquerque, you can get a great introduction to the Pueblo cultures (and food!) by visiting the''Indian Pueblo Cultural Centre''.''Here there is an excellent exhibit on the history of the Pueblo people, from their early beginnings and culture, through to their encounters, subjugation, revolutions and somewhat uneasy co-habitation with European settlers.''The site is also home to a restaurant which is going to make it into my food post, but, as a spoiler, you need to visit here for breakfast, and in particular, try the blue corn pancakes, which are unbelievably good.''16. Watch a Sunset on A Rooftop Bar''Whilst Sandia Peak is a great place to watch the sunset from, it’s notably lacking in having a wide-ranging selection of cocktails. It’s also a bit of a trek from downtown. For these reasons, we can recommend heading to the Apothecary Lounge at the''Hotel Parq Central''.''Formerly a psychiatric hospital, the Lounge has taken on board some of the themes of the hospital for it’s furnishings and beverages. Most impressive though is the view – Albuquerque is not a city with a lot of high buildings, so even being a few floors above ground can result in a panoramic viewpoint.''This is a great place to watch the sunset, and we’d recommend trying the green chile margarita for something a little different!''17. Reminisce about a Route 66 Adventure''In 2015, Jess and I drove the entirety of''Route 66'', which just happens to pass right through downtown Albuquerque. In fact, because Route 66 changed route a few times over its lifetime, Albuquerque happens to be the only place where you can stand on the intersection of Route 66 and Route 66, which is pretty cool!''That’s not all of course. There are a number of Route 66 attractions in Albuquerque, the majority of the food variety. One of our highlights was the Dog House Drive In, a hotdog spot which has been serving up staples like hot dogs smothered in chilli for over sixty years. It’s also worth checking out the Route 66 Diner. See more of our''Route 66 experiences in New Mexico right here''.''18. Eat at the Food Trucks''Another food option I have to mention. Food trucks have become a big deal across the US (and the world!), and Albuquerque is no exception to this rule. A good place to start is the Civic Plaza on a Tuesday, where some of the cities best food trucks congregate to offer you a range of delicious lunchtime dining options.''You’ll find everything from BBQ to frozen yogurt, and you can eat by the fountain, or in the shade. Something for everyone, and at a great price too!''19. Drink Pinon Coffee''Locally roasted in Albuquerque, Pinon coffee is a New Mexico classic. It’s a bit of an acquired tasted, because it’s flavoured with the Pinon Nut, an edible pine nut which has been a part of the staple diet in this part of the world for a very long time.''It adds a distinct flavour to the coffee which can be a bit of an acquired taste, but I absolutely loved it, and it’s definitely something I miss about Albuquerque and New Mexico!''20. Eat Something With Green Chile''New Mexico has what could best be described as an obsession with the Chile – so much so that it is the state vegetable! It comes in a variety of styles, with the most common being the red or green chile sauce that you can add to pretty much everything you eat in New Mexico – even at McDonald’s. In the Fall season, the green chiles are roasted, and the streets come alive with the smell of delicious roasting chiles.''My favourite way to eat it chile has to be on top of a cheeseburger in the form of the famous Green Chile Cheeseburger! You’ll find plenty of places serving these up all around Albuquerque and New Mexico (there’s even a''Green Chile Cheeseburger Trail'') – just make sure you try it somehow.''Where to Stay in Albuquerque''There’s no shortage of places to stay in Albuquerque, so for most of the year you shouldn’t have any problem finding somewhere to suit your budget. The only exception to this rule is if you visit during the Balloon Fiesta, when accommodation becomes much more expensive, and harder to find.''For tips on finding accommodation during the Balloon Fiesta, check out Jess’s''comprehensive guide to the Albuquerque Balloon Fiesta''.''Otherwise, our go-to option for accommodation when we travel is\xa0Booking.com. They have an extensive selection of properties, which range from hotels to hostels and even apartments. Many have no-fee cancellation policies, and often run discounts and special offers. Check out their''Albuquerque listings here''!''How to Get Around Albuquerque''You have a number of options for getting around Albuquerque. Our recommended way is to drive yourself – the attractions can be a bit spread out, and I have to admit, cities in the US tend to be biased somewhat towards people who drive!''If you need a rental car, We usually recommend and use''Enterprise Car Rental''when we’re traveling in the USA, we find they have some of the best prices, particularly on weekly rentals, and a great choice of locations. We also find they’re really competitive for the type of one-way trips that we often do.''Of course, there’s a bus service in Albuquerque, which you can use to get around the city. You can find details on pricing, tickets and timetables on the''official website''.''Further Reading for What to Do in Albuquerque''Well, that seemed like quite a lot to get you started, and we’ve shared some of our favourite things to do in Albuquerque in this post. Obviously there is a lot more to do in both Albuquerque and New Mexico than I have covered above. With that in mind, here are some resources to help you plan your trip:''Our guide to the''best places to eat in Albuquerque''If you’re visiting for the Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta, check our our detailed guide to''visiting Albuquerque for the Balloon Fiesta'', as well as our''photo essay from the Balloon Fiesta''While you’re in the area, you might want to visit Santa Fe, in which case check out our''guide to things to do in Santa Fe''The official''Visit Albuquerque''website, which has information on what’s going on year round, as well as tips and advice on things to do, places to eat, and accommodation.''For more on Route 66, which passes through Albuquerque, see our guide to''planning a Route 66 trip'', as well as our detailed''Route 66 itinerary''.''The''New Mexico Nomad''travel blog – a fantastic resource for all things New Mexico''The Moon Spotlight''pocket guide to Albuquerque''This guide to''30 Walking Trails in Albuquerque''That should certainly prepare you for your trip! And that just about sums up our favourite things to to in Albuquerque. Stay tuned for lots more New Mexico content over the coming months as we share our adventures from our five week visit!''Disclaimer: We visited Albuquerque with some support from Visit Albuquerque, who covered some meals, some attraction entry fees and our hire car. We covered our own accommodation and other expenses. All opinions remain our own – as always, you can check out our''code of ethics''for more information on who we work with.''SHARE ON''Our recent visit to Canada was two-fold – first, we visited the city of Edmonton, ate lots of food and took in a number of sights, and came up with a guide for''things to do in Edmonton''. And that was all a lot of fun.''I have to admit though that the part of the trip I was most excited about was our trip to Jasper National Park for the annual''Dark Sky Festival.''This should be fairly obvious – as a passionate landscape photographer, heading to somewhere as famously picturesque as Jasper was definitely going to excite me!''Of course, you might not have heard of the Dark Sky Festival. Don’t worry, I’m going to bring you up to speed on our experience, so you can figure out if this is something you might enjoy. Spoiler alert – most likely!''What is the Jasper Dark Sky Festival?''Held annually over two weekends in October since 2011 in the town of Jasper, Alberta, the Jasper Dark Sky Festival came about to celebrate the fact that the National Park of Jasper is a Dark Sky Preserve – meaning that you get incredible views of the night sky here, with limited light pollution. In fact, the town of Jasper itself has special street lighting installed, to minimise light pollution and maximise your celestial viewing experience.''Every year, the festival hosts events that aim to inspire and encourage people to get out and take a look up at the many marvels in the night sky above us, plus learn a little bit more about the universe around us through speakers, talks, and other events.''Obviously, with the name of my blog, we couldn’t turn down the invitiation to attend! Here were our highlights, to give you an idea of what to expect.''Highlights of the Jasper Dark Sky Festival''Rocket launches at the Big Bang Expo''One of the things about the Dark Sky Festival is that obviously it’s all about the night sky. So you might think there’s less to do during the day, what with it being light and everything.''As it turns out, while there is definitely more nighttime things to do there is also plenty to do during the day, even if the focus is on the night sky. A lot of the activity during the day focuses on Centennial Park in the centre of Jasper, a ten minute walk from the train station. Here there were science exhibits, folks with giant telescopes, and options for getting your hands dirty – we had a lot of fun playing with the self-made angry birds style catapult, as well as the static electricity generator (not the scientific term, I stress!).''However, the biggest draw by far was the option to make (and launch!) your own homemade rocket. This was a very popular option, particularly with families. Throughout the weekend we saw people making their own rockets with kits that you could purchase and then put together under the supervision of people who knew what they were doing.''Then, of course, the big event was the actual rocket launching. As well as the smaller rockets that members of the public could make and launch, there were also larger rocket launches going on. Watching the rockets launch was definitely a highlight for me, and I could tell the families were having a lot of fun too!''George Takei''One of the most exciting parts of the Jasper Dark Sky Festival are the high quality of speakers that they line up for their evening talks. Over the two weekends of the festival in 2016, the headline speakers were Bill Nye, of Bill Nye the Science Guy fame, and George Takei, most notably famous for his role in Star Trek of course, but also a leading activist for various causes.''The weekend we were at the Dark Sky Festival we were able to see George Takei give his evening talk. This was a packed event, and turned out to be very interesting. George spoke about his fascinating life, both as an actor on Star Trek of course, but largely about his various activism passions, from his early days when his family was incarcerated for being Japanese-American during the second world war, through to his efforts on LGBT issues.''His talk was very well received, with people around me actually in tears for some of it. Moving stuff to be sure, and one we definitely enjoyed.''Space talks''The other main evening talk that we attended was titled Space Talks. Featuring four incredible panellists, this was a very science oriented talk that tackled big questions around artificial intelligence, our quest for life in the universe, and our efforts at expanding our civilisation beyond our home planet. After short presentations from each member, the panel took a very large number of questions from the audience as well which was fantastic!''Again, this had a stellar line up of contributors.''Bobak Ferdowsi,''the Mohawk toting NASA system engineer who helped land the Curiosity rover on Mars.''Nadia Drake'', a science journalist, National Geographic contributor and also the daughter of the man who came up with the famous''Drake Equation''.''Ross Lockwood'', one of the few people who has an idea what living on another planet might actually be like, after he took part in the 120 day long Mars Analog study. And finally, the panel was hosted by''Alan Nursall'', head of Edmonton’s Telus World of Science and host of a science show on the Discovery Channel Canada.''The talk was fascinating, accessible to all, and definitely something I’d recommend.''Beyond the Stars at Lake Annette''All this talk of dark skies, and we’ve not even looked into the sky yet! Hopefully this proves that there’s no shortage of things to do at the Jasper Dark Sky Festival.''Still, a key part of the event is obviously getting out and looking up into the night sky, and the focal location for this was at Lake Annette, a few miles outside of Jasper town centre. This event started just after the George Takei talk ended, and there were free shuttle buses to get to the lake (see more on my tips for getting around below).''At the lake itself, low powered lighting installations lit the way to different areas of the lake shore, with everything from a camp fire sing along through to a series of high powered telescopes that folk could peer through to get a closer up look at objects of note in the night sky. We headed for the lake shore, where a number of photographers had set up shot, in order to get some shots of the beautiful milky way over the Canadian Rockies.''There was even a live-stream of the night sky onto the''Jasper facebook page'', which was pretty cool! This event was free, and definitely the most hands-on night sky focused of the events we went to. If you were only to do one event of the Jasper Dark Sky Festival, this would probably be my top pick.''The Jasper Planetarium''We were lucky during our visit to Jasper in that the weather was clear for the evenings we were watching the skies, and we had fantastic views. That isn’t always the case, but, there is a way whereby you can stargaze in Jasper whatever the weather outside or time of day.''That way is the''Jasper Planetarium'', a 35 person inflatable dome that will take you on a tour of Jasper National Park’s 11,000km dark sky preserve, all from the comfort of a chair. This is actually something you can experience year round in Jasper – just''book online''– and is a relaxing and informative way to get to know the sky a little better. We definitely enjoyed our experience, and can recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about the skies above!''Star gazing in central Jasper''The last event we attended at the Jasper Dark Sky Festival was another star-gazing event like the trip out to Lake Annette, however this was held on the lawn just outside the Jasper Visitor Centre. Here, astronomers set up their telescopes, and members of the public could use them to inspect celestial objects. This was a nice way to end our festival!''What Else Did We Get Up To In Jasper During the Dark Sky Festival?''Despite being in Jasper for the Dark Sky Festival, we also found a bit of time to get out and about on our own. Here’s what we did.''Hiking to Old Fort Point''I was really keen to get out into the Jasper National Park during our time in Jasper. Despite a packed itinerary, we did manage a short hike, up a section of the Old Fort Point trail, just a couple of miles from the town of Jasper itself.''Here we were afforded stunning views of the surrounding landscape, plus we were lucky enough to run into some Bighorn sheep, which was pretty cool.''Learning about beer at Jasper Brewery''Since 2005 the''Jasper Brewing Co''has been brewing up beer for visitors and residents alike, and was in fact the first brewery in Canada to be situated in a National Park.''It’s still going strong today, and you can visit and take a tour of the brewery (as we did, including a sample of their excellent winter ale), plus just hang out and drink / eat at their on-site brewpub.''Enjoyed Lunch at the Lodge''The luxury''Fairmont Jasper Park Lodge''(check prices''here''), situated a few miles outside the town centre, has a stunning location by the shore of Lac Beauvert in 700 acres of beautiful mountain scenery.''The view from the dining room has to be seen to be believed, so naturally, we had lunch here. This was definitely a good idea – the food was delicious, and the cocktail selection wasn’t half bad either!''Took in the Art''If you’re staying at, eating at, or just vaguely near the Fairmont Jasper Park lodge, then I’d urge you to pop in to the''Mountain Galleries Art Gallery'', which is downstairs in the main lodge building, as we did. Here you’ll find a stunning selection of art from a wide variety of artists – in fact, the Mountain Galleries is one of the largest commercial galleries in Western Canada (they also locations in Banff and Whistler).''With a focus on supporting and promoting Canadian artists, you’ll find work in a wide variety of styles and materials. I was particularly taken by the work of artist Shannon Ford, who blends natural minerals and gemstone powders into her art pieces, to create really stunning works. Like this bear.''If you don’t quite have the time to get out to Jasper Lodge, then there’s also a small art exhibition space in the Jasper library, right in the heart of downtown, which is worth a visit too.''Visited Pyramid Lake''On our very last evening in Jasper, we decided that since we’d enjoyed the Lake Annette experience so much, that we would take advantage of the clear skies to head out to another nearby Lake – Lake Pyramid, for a bit of star gazing. This was about a 15 minute drive out of town, but well worth it – the beautifully still lake reflected the stars wonderfully, and it was lovely to get a different view of the night sky, with a few less people around than at the Lake Annette event.''Rode the SkyTram''Being keen on the landscapes, and having a bit of spare time one afternoon, we decided that we should take the opportunity to ride the''Jasper SkyTram''. This seven minute ride ascends to a height of over 2,000 metres in the Canadian Rockies, and offers spectacular views over the town of Jasper and the surrounding scenery – both on the ride itself, and from the top.''At the top we spent a while playing in the snow (you can also hike up to the top, but we opted to have a coffee instead) and soaking in those views, before heading back down. Definitely a trip we’d recommend if you want some awesome views!''What to know about attending the Jasper Dark Sky Festival''Based on our visit to the Jasper Dark Sky Festival, we thought we’d share some quick tips for your visit.''Where’s the best place to get information on the Dark Sky Festival?''The best place to get information on the festival is from''the official website'', which will have event information, scheduling and ticketing information. Also take a look at the Jasper Tourism blog under the''Dark Sky Category''for event announcements leading up to the event.''Another good place to keep an eye on for up to date event information during and in the lead-up to the event is the''Tourism Jasper Twitter account''.''Is the Dark Sky Festival free?''Many of the events at the festival are free, including the Beyond the Stars event at Lake Annette, the Big Bang Expo at Centennial Park and the Inflatable Planetarium Shows hosted at various locations, to name a few. Other activities, like building your own rocket, and attending the evening talks, come with a fee.''Tickets can be purchased for individual shows, or you can get combo tickets that cover a number of events.''What’s the best way to get around during the festival?''Jasper itself is not a very big town, so it’s quite easy to just walk from place to place in downtown. However, for heading out to places like the Jasper Lodge or Lake Annette, you’re going to want to think about transport. One option is to drive yourself, although parking at Lake Annette during the Beyond the Stars event was somewhat chaotic.''There are free shuttles, however the volume of people wanting to take these didn’t quite match up with the number of seats, which resulted in quite a large line of people waiting for an hour or more to get out to the Lake, in fairly cold conditions. So our advice if you want to use the shuttle service would be to join the queue early!''The other way to get around town is by taxi. We used the''Mountain Express Taxi''firm a number of times during our stay in Jasper, and they were always fast to arrive, courteous and good value.''Where should I stay during the festival?''Jasper has''a lot of accommodation options''– being a popular destination year round means you won’t be short on options. We stayed at the''Mount Robson Inn''which was a little way south of downtown, but still a walkable distance, and our room included a free hot breakfast (bacon is always a winner).''Other than that, there’s something to suit pretty much every budget, from value to high end. Take a look at''prices for accommodation here'', to get a great deal for your trip.''What Should I Bring To the Jasper Dark Sky Festival?''This being mountain territory, the weather can be very changeable. We experienced everything from rain to sunshine in our four day stay, and temperatures were generally only a few degrees above freezing. So you’ll definitely want to bring appropriate clothing – layers are the key, and a hat, gloves and scarf are definitely recommended!''We’d also suggest a flashlight or ideally a''headlamp like this'', although if you don’t want to bother people or lose your night vision, we recommend getting a piece of red film to put over it (or a''headlamp with a built in night mode like this'').''Other than warm clothing and a light, you might want binoculars to see the sky better, waterproof clothing in case the weather turns poor, a tripod for your camera (read''why you need a tripod for your camera here''), good waterproof walking or hiking shoes, and maybe some snacks. Because snacks are always important.''And that just about sums up our Jasper Dark Sky Festival experience! Have you ever been to a Dark Sky Festival, or heard of this one? Let us know your thoughts in the comments below!''Disclaimer: We were hosted in Jasper by Jasper Tourism, who covered our meals, access to events, accommodation and most of our expenses. All opinions remain our own – check out our''code of ethics''for how we choose how to work with!''SHARE ON''I recently wrote a post about''the best ways to get around London''. That’s all well and good, but it’s missing a key component – the most cost effective way to actually pay for transport in London.''You’d think this would be a fairly obvious answer, but unfortunately it’s a little bit more complicated than you might imagine. Fear not though, this post will guide you through the options and help you decide which payment option is best for using London’s public transport system!''First, there are three ways that you can pay for the majority of public transport in London. These are cash, the London Oyster Card, and a contactless enabled credit / debit card. Let’s look quickly at these three options, and then figure out which is right for you.''Payment Options for Travel in London: Cash, Contactless and Oyster''Cash –''Cash is by far the worst way to pay for transport in London, and should be avoided in pretty much all cases, with the exception of taxis (although these accept contactless and credit cards too). Usually, cash fares are much higher than the other payment options, plus some services, like the bus, don’t even accept cash any more. Basically, don’t use cash to pay directly for your ticket in London if you avoid it!''Oyster Card –''The Oyster card is a London-wide rechargeable card, designed to be re-used, and accepted on pretty much every form of London transport. There are a number of versions of this card, however for the purposes of this post we’re going to focus on the standard blue Oyster card that you can purchase in London from most train and tube stations.''For more on the different kinds of Oyster card, including the benefits of''buying a visitor Oyster card in advance'', and detailed information on how to actually use an Oyster card for travel in London, read this''detailed post on using the London Oyster card''.''Contactless –''The most recent payment option for travel in London is a bank issued credit or debit card which has been enabled for contactless transactions. This means that the card has a chip in it which can be read wirelessly when held near a contactless enabled reader. As well as being able to use these cards for normal transactions, you can also use contactless cards to pay for travel in London. These can be used instead of buying tickets with cash or using an Oyster card.''So those are the three options. In this post we’re going to focus on the Oyster Card and Contactless Cards, to see which one is best for you when paying for travel in London. Given the high cost of buying tickets with cash, and the fact that cash isn’t even accepted on a few transport options, means that we’re going to ignore cash as a payment option in this post, and advise you to do so also.''Contactless vs Oyster Cards for London Travel''Contactless – Which public transport supports it in London?''Currently contactless can be used to pay for travel on the following public transport options in London: bus, tube, tram, DLR, London Overground, TfL Rail, Emirates Air Line, River Bus, and the majority of National Rail services inside London.''You can also pay for all black taxis using contactless, assuming the fare is less than the contactless threshold of £30. Note that black taxis are separate to other forms of public transport in London and are billed separately – they don’t fall inside travel cards, caps, or other payment schemes.''Basically, anywhere you can already use an Oyster card, you can use a contactless card – just look for the yellow Oyster card reader and don’t forget to touch in (and out, if necessary) to pay for your journey – see more''here''for details of how to use the different public transport options in London.''Advantages of Contactless''It’s already on a card you own:''if you already have a supported contactless credit card, using this for your travel is more convenient than getting a separate Oyster card, which you have to pay a deposit on and keep topped up.''Weekly capping on fares:''Unlike Oyster, Contactless supports weekly capping. Whilst both Oyster and Contactless support daily capping (meaning you won’t ever pay more for your travel than if you had purchased a one day travel card), only contactless supports the Monday – Sunday weekly cap.''For an example, if all your travel is within zones 1 and 2, the''current weekly cap''is £32.40. This weekly cap is calculated for travel from Monday through to Sunday, meaning it works best if your travel starts on a Monday. For comparison, the daily cap in zones 1 and 2 is £6.50. Over seven days, that works out to £45.50 – meaning contactless could save you as much as £13.10 just in zones one and two.''Doesn’t need to be charged up:''One of the main problems with Oyster is that it’s a preload system, so you need to have credit on the card in order to use it. You can set it up to automatically reload itself, but if you’re a visitor to London this extra hassle might not be worth it. Instead, you’ll find yourself queuing at reload stations at tube stops, and if you’re at a bus stop with no credit you’re going to be out of luck as most of them don’t have reload points. Contactless cards are linked to your bank account, so as long as you have credit, you’ll always be good to go.''You can use a mobile payment system such as''Android Pay''or''Apple Pay'':''If your smartphone supports a contactless payment system, then you don’t even need to carry a contactless card – you can just link your contactless card to your smartphone payment system, and pay with that. One less thing to carry!''Disadvantages of Contactless''Doesn’t support all foreign issued cards:''You shouldn’t have a problem using UK issued contactless enabled cards on Visa, Mastercard, Maestro and American Express to pay for your travel on London transport. Unfortunately, this isn’t true for foreign issued contactless cards, as standards appear to differ. Currently, all American Express contactless cards should work fine. Then, some foreign issued Mastercard, Maestro and Visa cards will work, and some won’t. There’s no definitive list – it’s a case of try it and see!''Foreign transaction fees:''If you are using a foreign issued card, even if it is supported by the Oyster contactless system, you need to check to see if it incurs foreign transaction fees. Contactless payments are in GBP, so if your card issuer charges you transaction fees for foreign currency transactions, then these costs could outweigh the savings of contactless. Check with your card provider before you travel to see if this is the case.''Concessions can’t be added:''A big disadvantage of contactless is that the system currently doesn’t support concessions, such as those for seniors, students, and children. If, for example, you’re a visitor to London travelling with children under the age of 16, you will want to use Oyster cards or travelcards in order to get free travel for children under 11, and discounted travel for children ages 11-15. This is not possible on contactless. See more about how this works when travelling with children''here'', and more on available concessions''here''.''Oyster – Which public transport supports it in London?''Oyster works on all the same public transport options in London as contactless, namely, bus, tube, tram, DLR, London Overground, TfL Rail, Emirates Air Line, River Bus, and the majority of National Rail services inside London. Note that you cannot use your Oyster card to pay for a black taxi in London.''Advantages of Oyster''It works and support is available.''As noted not all contactless cards work with the system but the Oyster card should always work. If there are problems, you can get support or get your credit refunded if your card is''registered on the TfL website''.''Easier to keep track of spending:''Because you have to load your Oyster card, it’s easier to keep an eye on how much you are spending on London transport and you can set a limit much easier.That said, I don’t think this makes a great difference to your average person as you will likely have to travel anyway, but it’s something to keep in mind if you like to restrict your spend on public transport.''Supports travelcards:''One of the main advantages of the Oyster card is that it supports travelcards. These are fixed payment pre-paid options, where you pay a certain amount for unlimited travel inside specific London zones for a weekly, monthly or annual price.''With weekly fare capping on contactless, this has become less of an advantage, because the price of a seven day travelcard on Oyster is the same as the weekly cap on contactless. However, a seven day Oyster travel card is valid for seven days from when you activate it, regardless of which day of the week it is, whereas contactless capping is fixed for Monday – Sunday.''If you are in London for seven days starting anytime outside of that Monday – Sunday period, and will be travelling enough to make the travel card worth it, then it will be better value than a contactless card.''Supports concessions:''As discussed above, if you are travelling with children, or are a London resident who qualifies for one of the discounts and concessions available to adults (see''here for full list),''you will want to use the Oyster card that matches your concession in order to get the best deal on transport in London.''Disadvantages of Oyster''You have to pay a deposit:''When you first get an Oyster card, you have to pay a £5 deposit. This is refundable if you don’t need the card anymore, although we suspect many people forget about this, or just hang onto the card forever, meaning there’s a tangible £5 cost associated with using it.''It has to be recharged:''One of the main downsides of Oyster is that it’s a pay as you go card that needs to have credit on it use it. This is fine if much of your travel is by tube as the majority of tube stations have machines that you can top-up on, but if you travel by bus a lot (often the most cost effective way to get around London), you’ll have to go out of your way to find a charge point, as most bus stops don’t have them.''No support for weekly capping:''Oyster cards support daily caps on travel, but they don’t support weekly caps, which contactless cards do.''Can’t be used on taxis:''This isn’t really a big deal, but it’s worth bearing in mind that you can’t use your Oyster card on taxis. To be honest, the higher fares associated with taxi rides mean we’d suggest avoiding using a taxi unless you really want a direct trip from point A to point B, however, we’ve added it for completion!''Should You Use Oyster or Contactless to Pay for Public Transport in London?''First, if you are visiting London and don’t have a contactless payment card, I wouldn’t worry too much about trying to get one just for the trip to London – the Oyster system will suit you just fine. If you would like to pick up an Oyster card in advance, you can do so from''this link''.''Now, for those who has a contactless card that works to pay for public transport in London. In the majority of cases, if you have a contactless enabled credit card supported by the London transport network, then you should use it to pay for travel in London. It’s the easiest and most convenient way to pay, is supported on every form of transport, and in most cases is either cheaper or the same price as using an Oyster card.''The main times you should NOT use your contactless card are:''If your card is not UK issued and your card issuer charges you fees for overseas transactions that make it more costly than Oyster''If you are''eligible for a concession'', such as when you are travelling with children under 16, or if you are a senior citizen resident in London''If you are buying a weekly 7 day travelcard for travel exclusively outside Zone 1 (unlikely as a visitor to London)''If you are buying a weekly 7 day travelcard, and you will travel enough to hit the daily cap on at least five out of those seven days and your trip is for a week long period that isn’t from a Monday – Sunday.''If you are buying a monthly travelcard for travel in London – this is not possible on contactless and there is no monthly capping''There are no doubt some more situations where an Oyster card or travelcard might be cheaper than contactless. Usually, figuring this out will require you to do a bit of math and have a detailed understanding of your exact travel plans, which might take more time than is worth the small saving!''As a visitor, we believe that in the majority of cases if you already have a contactless card you are going to find that it is both cheaper and easier to use contactless for your London travel, outside of the five points listed above. If one of those does apply, you can get an Oyster card''here''before you visit.''Our advice therefore, is to use your contactless card for London travel if the five points above don’t apply to you. It’s easy and convenient, you don’t need to worry about recharging it, and you benefit from daily and weekly caps for travel, meaning it will likely be cheaper than the other options in nearly every case faced by most visitors to London.''Two tips for using your card''First, once you have picked your payment method, be that contactless, Oyster or a smartphone payment system – make sure you stick to it, and only swipe that payment method on the reader! If you hold two payment methods near the terminal, it will randomly pick one of them, meaning you could be double charged if you don’t touch out with the same card.''Second, we highly recommend you''register your payment method online with TfL''. This has multiple benefits, including being able to keep track of your spending, and in the case of an Oyster card, you can reclaim and funds on it if you lose it!''Further Reading''We have plenty of further reading to help you plan your trip to London, both content we’ve created based on our experiences, and third party content we think you’ll find useful.''Our detailed''guide to public transport in London''The official''TfL website'', which will give you information on tickets, routes and any updates to services in the forms of delays or cancellations''Jess’s detailed''guide to the London pass'', which will help you decide if this is a good way for you to save money on your London sight-seeing. The London Pass has a package option to include a Oyster Card and currently also includes Hop-on, Hop-off bus passes, which can be a great transport option.''My guides for''London must do’s in one day,''as well as a''detailed two day London itinerary''. If you have longer in London, we also have a detailed''six day London itinerary''Harry Potter fans will want to check out our guide to the key''Harry Potter filming locations in London''Jess’s guide to''a 1-day walking tour of the highlights of London''.''The''Eyewitness Travel Guide to London'', which has all sorts of information within, including more itineraries and ideas for your trip''Rick Steve’s London 2016''guide, the #1 bestseller on Amazon for UK travel guides, and always an excellent source of relevant information''And that sums up our post on the best way to pay for public transport in London! As always, if you’ve got any comments or thoughts, let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''This year we took a trip to New Mexico, where we spend five weeks exploring this truly wonderful state. Lots of posts on this topic coming soon!''In the meantime though, I wanted to share our experiences visiting probably the most famous annual event to take place in New Mexico – the''Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta''. This is the largest balloon event of its kind in the world, and it plays host to around 600 hot air balloons, who fill the skies over Albuquerque for almost two weeks!''It’s billed as the most photographed event on earth, and the largest event in the USA. Obviously – we had to visit!''This post is going to be a photo essay of our experiences visiting the event. For lots of advice, tips, and everything you else you might need to visit, check out Jess’s incredibly''comprehensive post on visiting the Albuquerque Balloon Fiesta''!''We attended over two days of the first weekend, and we had a backup day of the Wednesday as well. Jess covers all this in her post, but for the best experience you really want to visit on one of the days when there is a mass ascension – i.e. all the balloons on the field launch.''The days start early, as balloons tend to launch around sunrise!''The first event of the day is the dawn patrol, where a number of balloons go up to give an indication of wind directions. This happens just before the sun comes up, and is a wonderful sight, as the balloons all glow.''The dawn patrol balloon float around for a while as the sun starts to rise.''And yes, you get some pretty stunning sunrises in New Mexico!''When the flag balloon goes up, the National Anthem is played over the PA system.''Once the green flag is given after the dawn patrol, it’s launch time! We were amazed how close you were allowed to get the balloons – you can just walk right amongst them!''There’s nothing quite like being on the field as 600 balloons launch into the air around you.''We met the pilot of this balloon when we visited the White Sands National Monument, and we helped out. It was lovely to reconnect at the Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta!''This was probably Jess’s favourite balloon.''This was my favourite balloon!''Although these guys came close second.''There are loads of “shape” balloons! These are really fun to spot.''There was also this guy, who seems to have forgotten his basket. Plastered across the back of his tank were the words “Experimental”. He’s definitely braver than me.''Of course, watching the fiesta from the ground is amazing, but even more amazing still is being able to get a ride in one of the balloons during a mass ascension. I’ve ballooned before, but we’ve never experienced anything like this!''Yep, the view from the air is tough to beat.''Looking back at Balloon Fiesta park as we took off.''After all the fun is over in the morning, there’s generally a bit of a break in activities through the middle of the day as balloon crews go pick up their balloons, and then usually either have an afternoon rest, or a gathering in the field. The fun isn’t over though, as they have an evening Balloon Glow!''This is where all the balloons are inflated, but not actually launched. As it gets darker, the balloons “glow” as the pilots fire off their burners.''This is done in a co-ordinated fashion, and looks very cool in action. Again, we loved being in the heart of the action and being able to get so close to all the balloons!''After the glow, there’s also an evening firework display, which was one of the best fireworks displays we’ve seen.''Finally, you don’t have to actually attend the festival fields (although we highly recommend you do!) in order to see the balloons. As soon as they launch, the skies over Albuquerque become filled with balloons, which you can see from all over the city!''It’s quite an amazing sight!''And that wraps up my photo essay on the Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta. Don’t forget – find answers to all your questions about''attending the Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta right here'', plus for inspiration on visiting Albuquerque, see our guide to the top''things to do in Albuquerque'', and''where to eat in Albuquerque''.''SHARE ON''Somehow, in all my wanders, I’d not made it to Canada. This was a particularly nagging omission in my mind, largely because I’m a passionate landscape photographer, and, well, Canada has some pretty epic landscapes.''Thankfully, the nice folks at''Explore Edmonton''&''Tourism Jasper''thought to invite Jess and I over to have a little explore. We spent eight days in Canada in total, partly in the city of Edmonton, and then in Jasper National Park for the Dark Sky Festival. The Dark Sky Festival I’ll be covering in an upcoming post.''In this post, I’m going to share our Edmonton experiences, in the form of a series of suggestions to inform your visit. First though:''Where’s Edmonton?''Edmonton is the capital of Alberta, one of Canada’s provinces. Alberta is the second province along from the west, bordering British Columbia to the west and Saskatchewan to the east. South, you’ll find the US states of Washington and Montana.''Edmonton is relatively central in Alberta, with Jasper / Banff national parks around a four hour drive away. Alberta’s other major city, Calgary, is about three hours drive directly south.''So that’s the geography sorted. Edmonton itself is a city sitting on a beautiful river valley, with the city on both sides of the river. With a population of over 800,000 it’s a fairly sizeable city, meaning there’s a lot to do, whatever time of the year you visit. So, without further ado, let’s look at:''What To Do In Edmonton''See an Oilers Game''This is the first thing I’ve got on the list because this was literally the first thing we did in Edmonton after landing and checking in to our hotel. We walked to''Rogers Place'', and watched the Oilers defeat the Carolina Hurricanes.''If none of that means anything to you, don’t worry, I’m not exactly a huge sports follower. The Oilers are the Edmonton Ice Hockey team (I learnt to just call it Hockey in Canada or people looked at me oddly), and they have just had a brand new stadium built in the middle of downtown, called Rogers Place. This is part of a larger development project in downtown Edmonton, which is going to be bringing also sorts of new properties to the city, from hotels to shops. Definitely a case of watch this space.''Rogers Place is a very awesome place to watch sports (as well as music events and so on), and they have an absolutely gigantic TV screen. Hockey is a fast, fun and physical game to watch, and it’s hard not to get caught up in the excitement when watching the home team winning. I’d definitely suggest learning a few of the rules before you go if you’re not familiar with it, but otherwise, grab yourself a couple of beers, some food, and enjoy!''Take in the Art and Cakes on 124th Street''Edmonton has a thriving art scene. It also has a wonderful culinary scene. If you want to combine the two, with a particular focus on baked good, head to 124th street. Here you’ll find two things – a series of excellent art galleries, and the Duchess Bake Shop.''We started our wander with some strength building pastries at the Duchess Bake Shop, who have an extensive selection of baked goods, as well as macaroons, tea and coffee.''Then, we visited a series of art galleries, including the must-visit''Bear Claw Gallery''and the''Peter Robertson Gallery''.''The former hosts a wide range of First Nations art, including Native and Inuit art pieces. I particularly loved the giant carved whalebone piece.''The Peter Robertson Gallery hosts a number of different artists. When we were there they had an incredible installation by leading Canadian artist''Steve Driscoll''. This involved actually flooding the gallery to create gorgeous reflections of the art pieces. To get up close and personal, we were issued with rubber boots. We really enjoyed this exhibition, although the owner of the gallery did say it was quite a lot of work to install!''There are plenty of other galleries and shops to explore along 124th Street. One we’d definitely recommend popping into is the''Barking Buffalo'', a coffee shop / fashion store, founded by three friends, who design and create all the items on sale, which you can peruse whilst enjoying a drink.''Go on a Segway Tour''Time for something a little active. But only a little. A Segway tour through the beautiful river valley area of Edmonton with''River Valley Adventure Co''!''If you’ve never tried a Segway before, it’s a lot of fun, and easy to pick up. Plus, the River Valley folks are very safety conscious, and do a full training session before you head into the real world, to be sure you’re fully equipped for action.''Situated in the''largest urban park''in Canada, there’s no shortage of trails for you to explore by Segway, and our trip took us along the beautiful Saskatchewan River, with gorgeous views of the city skyline. The tour lasted just over an hour, although a good part of that was dedicated to the training.''Jess and I had both ridden Segway’s before, so we got through the training quite quickly, but usually it’s around half an hour of training. The good news is that once you’ve done the training, you get a “Segway driver’s license”, which means you can book additional tours with River Valley Adventure Co that don’t include the training portion, meaning more exploring time! We didn’t have time for one of those, but we did learn that River Valley also operate tours of Edmonton’s downtown area, which sounded like fun.''Peruse Old Strathcona''Remember when I said that Edmonton has a river running through it? Well, south of the river is the historic district of Old Strathcona. This was once a separate city to Edmonton, but the two merged in 1912. It’s now a designated Provincial Heritage Area, a status that reflects the many historic buildings that can be found here.''The focus of Old Strathcona is 82nd Street, also known as Whyte Avenue, running from 99th to 109th streets, and a few blocks surrounding. Here, you’ll find buildings that are over a hundred years old, as well as plenty of quirky shops and excellent eateries. More on eating in Edmonton towards the end of the post.''Some of the shops that we most enjoyed visitng were the''Wee Book Inn'', a lovely used bookstore that had pretty much every genre of book you can imagine at very reasonable prices,''BlackByrd Music,''where we perused vinyl records even though we have no way to play them,''David’s Tea'', because, frankly, Jess is obsessed with tea, and the''Old Strathcona Antiques Mall'', which has pretty much everything you can imagine, from vintage star wars collectibles to gaming consoles, and everything in between.''This was just scratching the surface of what’s on offer – you could easily spend a day in Old Strathcona, eating, shopping and peering at the wall murals. More on those shortly. First though:''Take in the Mall''When you’re in Edmonton, it’s kind of inevitable that people will ask you if you’ve visited “the Mall”. And what they’ll be referring to is the''West Edmonton Mall''. This is the largest shopping mall in North America, and until 2004, held the title of the world’s largest mall. Somehow, since then, 9 bigger malls have been built around the world. Progress eh.''Anyway, a visit to the West Edmonton Mall is essentially a must for a trip to Edmonton, even if, like me, you’re not a huge fan of shopping. That’s because there’s way more to do here than just shop (although if you want to shop, there are over 800 stores to choose from).''There’s Galaxyland, the world’s second largest indoor amusement park, which features 24 rides. We went on a number of these, including the Mindbender, which is the world’s largest indoor triple loop roller coaster, which was a heck of a ride. There are rides to suit all kinds, including of course, Jess’s favourite, the carousel.''Then there’s World Waterpark, the world’s second largest indoor waterpark. which features both the worlds largest indoor wave pool, and a 15 slides ranging from beginner to extreme. We tried a variety of these, and I can confirm that the extreme rides definitely are that! Definitely a fun way to spend an afternoon.''There’s also a sea life exhibit (with sea lions!), a replica of the Santa Maria, an ice rink and a UV dragon themed mini-golf park. We played the latter which was a lot of fun. Jess won.''The mall itself is a few miles west of Edmonton city centre, but there is a hotel on site (the''Fantasyland hotel''), which you can stay at if you’re keen on enjoying all the facilities on offer. We imagine this would be particularly good for families wanting to take advantage of all the mall has to offer.''Check out the Street Art''Back into Edmonton, and something we noticed when wandering the streets was the high quality of street art on offer. This can be found in locations all over the city – just keep your eyes open for examples like this:''or this:''Visit the Muttart Conservatory''Slightly oddly, just across the river from downtown Edmonton are four large glass pyramids, surrounded by the greenery of the North Saskatchewan river valley. These are the home of the Muttart Conservatory, a botanical garden which hosts four different biomes (hence the four pyramids), featuring plant species from around the world.''Three of the biomes are permanent displays, featuring a temperate zone, an arid zone and a tropical zone. We loved the warmth and lushness of the tropical zone, as well as the cacti on display in the arid zone! The fourth pyramid features a rotating display – when we visited it was a Tuscany themed exhibit, but this changes often.''There’s also a decent cafe on site at the Muttart Conservatory, where we enjoyed coffee and some food. Definitely worth adding to your Edmonton adventure!''Take a tour of the Alberta Legislature Building''Edmonton is the capital of Alberta, which means that it has the main buildings of government. The most impressive of these buildings, and the seat of political power in Alberta, is the 1913''Alberta Legislative Building'', an impressive Beaux Arts style construction which was popular in Northern America at the time.''The building, which features granite, sandstone, and interiors of marble, mahogany and oak, is both impressive to behold and to visit. More impressively, you can take an entirely free tour and learn all about both the history of the building, the political processes in Alberta, and the people who work here.''It’s an interesting tour that lasts around forty-five minutes, and you get to visit all the key parts of the property, learning as you go. Check the''official website''for tour hours and information. You’ll find the nearest public parking on 107th street.''Watch the Sunset''If you’ve been reading this blog for any period of time you’ll probably be aware that my main focus is photography, and I’m a sucker for a good sunset. So obviously I wanted to try and catch a great sunset whilst in town! I asked a local friend for a good location, and she suggested I visit Ada Boulevard, to the east of the city centre, from where we’d be able to get a great view of the city skyline from a vantage point over the river.''She wasn’t wrong. As you can see from the photos, I think this location worked out pretty well! Unfortunately, the weather didn’t really work in our favour, so we weren’t able to try out any other recommended spots.''Visit the Art Gallery''Even if you’re not an art buff, it’s worth swinging by the''Art Gallery of Alberta''anyway to take in the building itself, which was redesigned in 2010, and now looks rather funky.''Of course, you should pop inside too, to take in some of the 6,000 works on display that cover historical and contemporary arts pieces from both Canadian and international artists. We particularly enjoyed the David Altmejd piece titled The Vessel, and the Touch Lab, where you can actually touch and interact with the art.''Jess especially enjoyed the “Beauty’s Awakening” exhibit, which featured drawings by pre-Raphaelite, and the opportunity to try out our own hand at portrait drawing. I think we’ll stick to photography though.''Visit the Schools Museum''A bit of a oddball for us, in that we just noticed it as we were walking by and decided to pop in, the''Edmonton Public Schools Archives and Museum''is definitely worth a few minutes of your time. This free museum has a fascinating exhibit on the history of the public schools system in Edmonton from it’s early beginning up to the more present day, covering things like curriculums, classroom designs, and how world events like wars and disease impacted daily school life.''It’s housed in the oldest brick school in Alberta, so has a serious air of authenticity, and the mock-up classrooms are particularly interesting.''Visit Elk Island''If you have a vehicle during your time in Edmonton, then we very much recommend taking the time to take a trip out to''Elk Island National Park''. This large expanse of wilderness, around an hour east of the city, is Canada’s largest fully enclosed national park, and is one of the best places near Edmonton to see a whole range of wildlife, including bison.''The park offers a number of driving routes and walking trails. We visited on a grey, misty day, and did not have high hopes for seeing much of anything. We drove the “Bison Loop”, and only saw mist, which further dampened our optimism.''But then, we spotted a herd of bison in the distance, and after a little more driving, came across a whole clump of them chilling out by the road, almost close enough to touch. Then we saw a coyote, which was also very cool. Finally, we hopped out of the car and took a short walk at some of the lakes, although, I’ll be honest, the weather defeated us somewhat!''Still, we were thrilled with our wildlife spotting, and would definitely recommend heading out to Elk Island National Park if you get the chance. There are also various activities in the park available – just check in advance on the''official website''for scheduling and booking information.''Eat All The Food''Last but not least – you definitely need to check out the food scene in Edmonton. We had so many suggestions for amazing places to try that we were pretty overwhelmed, but we can definitely recommend that you visit the following locations at the very least:''MEAT''–''Found in Old Strathcona, as the name suggests, this restaurant has a heavy focus on meat. Specifically, BBQ’d meat, which you can order by the pound or half pound and then just ravenously consume. Or, you can cheat like we did, and order it in pre-made sandwich form. They smoke all their own meat, and they create their own BBQ sauces, and the results are pretty epic. Oh, the garlic fries here were some of the best potato based things I’ve ever eaten. Don’t skip them.''Next Act Pub''–''Right next door to MEAT (we did explore further afield, I promise), the Next Act Pub is a seriously popular venue, serving up a wide selection of great beers as well as some classic pub grub – think wings and burgers. They also feature some of the offerings from the MEAT smokery next door, so if you want to get your meaty fix in a more pub like environment, this is the spot to come.''Mercer Tavern''–''Directly over the road from Rogers Place, the Mercer Tavern is famous for its chicken, but serves up a wide variety of pub style food, along of course with lots of beer options. It’s a great spot to fill up before catching the game, with a nice atmosphere.''Woodwork Edmonton''–''Of course, Edmonton isn’t just pubs and meat. Although, I’d be fine with that. There are plenty of more formal restaurant options, one of our favourites being Woodwork, which offers both hand crafted cocktails and a more formal dining choice. It’s still a fairly relaxed location, but if you want something more restaurant and less pub, then this is a good option.''Where to Stay in Edmonton''There’s a''lot of choice''when it comes to Edmonton accommodation, from hostels and motels to mid-range chains and luxury options!''We stayed in two different hotels in Edmonton, one in the downtown area, and one old Old Strathcona. Both were good choices, allowing us to explore different parts of the city.''Our first hotel was the''Chateau Lacombe''. This is a large circular tower, which happens to also be home to Edmonton’s only revolving restaurant (we didn’t eat here on this visit, but it’s on the list for next time!). We had a lovely suite with gorgeous views across the city skyline, and really appreciated how easy it was to walk to the downtown highlights, from Roger’s Place to the River Valley park. If you’re interested in staying here,''check prices here''.''The second hotel was stayed at was the''Meterra Hotel''. This was located on Whyte Avenue in the heard of Old Strathcona, and was the perfect location for exploring the south side of the city.''We had a standard double room here, and very much appreciated both the included breakfast, as well as the afternoon complimentary cheese and wine tasting – something all hotels should have, we concluded. Check''prices for the Hotel Meterra, here''.''When To Visit Edmonton''Edmonton has a fairly varied climate. To someone like me, coming from the UK, the extremes of temperature between summer and winter were quite a surprise. There’s no “bad” time to visit Edmonton, although of course it depends what you’re looking for.''In summer, days are long and often hot, and there are''lots of festivals''to keep you entertained. In Winter, you can''ski in the city centre.''The main thing is to figure out what the climate is likely to be doing when you visit, and pack your clothes accordingly!''Getting Around Edmonton''Edmonton is a fairly easy city to get around, with an extensive public transit network that includes buses and trains. You can also take Taxis, and the city is of course covered with Uber as well. We had a hire car during our stay, which made getting around a lot easier – but just be aware that parking in the city centre generally isn’t free, and most city centre hotels charge in the region of $18 CAD per night for parking.''And that pretty much sums up our time in Edmonton! Have you visited Edmonton, or are you from Edmonton? Anything you’d add to our to-do list? Let us know in the comments below!''Disclosure: We were hosted on our eight day trip to Canada by Explore Edmonton and Tourism Jasper who covered our accommodation, flights, car rental and activities, as well as covering additional expenses. Our ability to eat and explore and share our opinions remain our own – check out our''code of ethics''here for how we choose who to work with.''SHARE ON''Exploring the USA by road is definitely one of the best ways to experience everything this incredible country has to offer. From''exploring a state like California'', to taking a classic road trip like''Route 66'', or just thoroughly exploring a section of the''Pacific Coast Highway''– hitting the open road in the US is a thoroughly rewarding experience.''It’s by far our favourite way to explore the country, and we’ve done thousands of miles of driving in the US, including''Route 66'', the Oregon Trail, and the''Deep South''.''I personally also love driving in the US. It’s a really car friendly country, with big, well maintained roads, clear signage, and no shortage of places to visit.''That said, coming from the UK, there are definitely a few things I’ve had to learn in order to have the best driving experience as a Brit in the US. Luckily I have an American wife who is used to driving in the US to help me (e.g, yell) when I am doing something wrong!''In today’s post, I’m going to share what I’ve learnt from numerous driving experiences in the US, generally from the perspective of a UK driver, but these tips should come in handy for anyone who is driving in America for the first time, or just wants a reminder of what driving in the US is like.''Let’s get started with my:''Tips for Driving in the USA''State Laws''One of the first things to be aware of with the USA is that there are generally two types of law – federal laws, which apply to the whole country, and state laws, which vary depending on the state you are in.''The majority of traffic laws are set at a state level, which means that they vary depending on the state you are in – things like speed limits, age limits and drink or drug driving laws.''Some things are country wide of course. All traffic for example drives on the right (with the exception of the US Virgin Islands), you need a driving license to drive, and there are speed limits on all roads, although these vary by state.''Age Limits''The age at which you are legally allowed to drive alone on a full driving license in the US varies by state, but falls between 16 and 18 years of age. Here’s a''full list of legal driving ages by state''.''As a visitor, you will generally find that most car hire companies will require you to be over 21 to rent a car, and there is usually a surcharge for renting a car if you are under 25. See more below on this subject in the car rental section.''Basic Rules''As with every country, there are some basic rules for driving that you need to observe. These are:''Drive on the right hand side of the road (except in the US Virgin Islands!)''Observe all posted speed limits.''Don’t drive if you are over the legal blood alcohol limit, in all states this is a blood alcohol concentration at or above 0.08 percent. Penalties''vary by state'', but basically, you don’t want to do it.''You must stop at all STOP signs (see below for more information on STOP signs).''You must stop for stopped school buses with flashing lights and a stop sign (more below on school buses).''At least the driver and front seat passenger must wear a seat-belt – see below for more on seat belts.''Traffic Lights''Like nearly every country in the world, the US uses traffic lights to control traffic. Lights can be red, yellow or green. These colors mean:''Red – stop. As you would imagine, red means stop, and must stop at a red traffic light. There will be a line on the road marking where you should stop if you are the first car to arrive at the light – otherwise you just stop in line behind other waiting traffic. Note that in some situations you are allowed to proceed after stopping, even on a red light – see “turning on a red traffic light” below.''Yellow – you must come to a stop at the stop line. If you are moving too quickly to safely stop, for example you are about to cross the stop line and the light turns from green to yellow as you approach, you may proceed, however if you can safely stop it is advisable to do so and not try to “beat the light”.''Green – proceed. The light goes from red directly to green, at which point you may continue. If a light is green as you approach it, you may continue to travel, although be aware that if it changes to yellow you are required to stop unless it is unsafe to do so.''Speed Limits''Speed limits vary by road and state, so there’s no one-size fits all answer here. Speed limits are in miles per hour, and some roads have posted minimum speed limits as well as maximum speed limits that you have to obey. Limits vary from 15mph all the way up to 85mph on one rural road in Texas.''The best advice is to follow all posted speed limit signs, and learn what the usual limits are for different road types and locations in the state or states you are driving in. For a full breakdown of speed limits by state,''look at this list''.''Hiring a Vehicle''If you have a full valid license from your home country, then you can hire a vehicle in the USA, although there are some restrictions to be aware of.''In the majority of states, there is no legal requirement for a hire company to rent you a car, and they are at their discretion as to who they rent to.''Nearly all hire car companies have minimum age restrictions and will charge a fee if you are under a certain age – the majority of companies charge extra if you are under 25, and most will not rent to you if you are under 21. In addition, if you are under 25 you might find that you aren’t able to hire the more high-end car models. There is usually no upper age limit, however if you are over 70 it is worth confirming that this won’t be a problem.''To hire a vehicle, you will usually need to use a credit card to pay for it, and many companies will place a hold on your card for a fixed amount, to cover them in the event of accidents. Our tip would be to find a credit card that includes liability cover and accident cover for car rental, so you can avoid the very high fees that rental car companies charge for this service. Alternatively, if that’s not an option, you can take out third party insurance which offers the same type of cover at a fraction of the cost – read more about that''here''.''You may also have car rental insurance attached to your own car insurance policy at home so check that as well to see if it would cover a rental car in the U.S. Note that if you do have full coverage via your credit card or own insurance policy, you have to decline coverage by the rental car agency to be able to use your insurance in most cases. Be clear in how you are covered and where!''You will also need a full and valid drivers license. Some rental car companies will require this to be in English, so if your license is not issued in English, you may need either an International Drivers Permit or a certified translation of your original license, both of which you will need to obtain prior to leaving your home country. If your license is not in English, we’d recommend getting the International Drivers Permit even if it is not required as it will also be helpful if you get pulled over or there are any other issues while driving.''Personally, I rented a car using a French drivers license in the USA and the hire companies I used generally did not need to see an English translation, however, check the rental conditions beforehand to be sure. For more on the IDP, see''here''.''If you are looking to hire a vehicle, we recommend that you''take a look at Priceline to compare car hire deals''across 17 different providers, including the biggest names in the business, to get a great deal for your trip.''We have also often used and can recommend''Enterprise'', we generally find that they come up with the best deals when we’re looking to hire a car – especially for one way trips – in the USA.''Road Types''The US has a number of road types. These, in our experience, can be broadly categorised as follows:''Interstate Roads''As the name suggests, an Interstate is a road that runs across states. These can be compared to Motorways in the UK, or the autobahns in Germany. They are usually at least two lanes, and they have on and off ramps rather than stop signs or traffic lights.''Interstates keep the same number regardless of state – Interstate 40 for example, runs through eight states, and is called Interstate 40 in all of them.''Maximum speeds on the Interstate vary by state, from 60 mph through to 80 mph. Speed limits are clearly posted and should be obeyed.''State Roads''A State Road is specific to a state. State Road 54 in one State is going to be a different road to a State road in a another state.''State roads vary from dual-carriageway styles through to single lane highways, and as they pass through towns, cities and villages, the speed limit can vary from as low as 20 mph up to 75 mph. As always, check local state regulation and obey posted speed limits.''County Roads''A county road is any road that is maintained by the local county authority, rather than the state or federal system. County roads are usually smaller, slower roads, and they have a “C” or “CR” designation, followed by a number.''They do vary in size and quality, from freeway sized right through to unpaved roads, depending on the area, traffic, and local county budget. Again, as they vary hugely in quality and size, speed limits on County Roads also vary tremendously.''Stop Signs''Stop signs were a source of much confusion as I got to grips with driving in the US. Not so much the stopping, which is obvious, but the way that at road intersections, the STOP signs are used to dictate traffic priority.''It seems easy in principle. If two road intersect, there are four “entrances” and four “exits” to the intersection. In the UK, this would be handled with either a traffic light or a roundabout. In the US, the way it works is that if multiple vehicles arrive at the STOP intersection, priority is given to the first vehicle that arrives.''This is only the case if it’s an “all way” STOP, i.e., all the entrances to the intersection have a STOP sign. Sometimes, this is not the case, meaning you have to give way to all through traffic.Sometimes this can be tricky to tell, and you have to look carefully to see what kind of STOP intersection.''In the majority of cases, the STOP sign will be clearly marked to say it is an all way (e.g., 4-way) STOP, or if cross-traffic does not stop.''If it is a busy four (or even five!) way STOP, it can initially be a little tricky to keep track of who arrived when, but with a bit of practice you get the hang of it. If in doubt, wait a bit.''One last thing to be aware of is if you arrive at the same time as another vehicle or vehicles. In this case, the vehicle on the left has to give way to the vehicle on the right. In all cases, I’d advise being cautious, and pulling out slowly just in case, even if you are sure you have right of way!''Turning On Traffic Lights''One of the more unusual, but quite logical when you get used to it, rules in the US, is that you are allowed to turn right on a red traffic light, unless there is a sign specifically telling you not to.''Sometimes there will be a right turn only lane, which you must use to turn if it is there. If the light is red, you must behave as if it is a STOP sign – approach the stop line with your turn signal on, stop, check for traffic, and if it is clear, you may turn right – giving way to any pedestrians who have the right away.''This is the sort of rule that can really catch out new drivers in the US, as it generally goes against everything you will have learnt in your home country, with a red light meaning not to go. However, it is important that you remember and adhere to it, as on a busy turn, if you forget to go, the traffic behind you might become quite irate that you are not following the rules of the road!''Passing Other Vehicles''Passing another vehicle works much the same as in other countries around the world. You are allowed to pass on a normal road if there is a broken line (yellow or white) down the middle of the road and it is safe to do so.''On multi-lane highways, slower traffic should stay on the right, and faster traffic should pass on the left. You should generally only use the fast lanes for passing, and otherwise always keep right.''In my experience, especially on the wider highways (10 and 12 lanes wide), the rules become a little less clear. In some states, on highways with more than two lanes on each side, you are legally allowed to pass on either the left or the right side. This means that if you are not driving in the far right lane, you have to be aware that faster traffic could pass you on either side.''In my further experience, I’ve observed drivers passing on both side even when there are only two lanes in either direction. My advice is to try to only pass on the left if possible, unless you are absolutely sure it is legal to pass on both sides in the state you are in.''Here’s an overview''of which state has which law regarding passing on the right.''Interstate Exit Numbers''Here’s a tip that flummoxed me for a while coming from the UK. In the UK, exit numbers on the motorways are sequential, so Exit 2 follows Exit 1, and so on.''In the USA, Interstate exit numbers are based on the number of miles you have travelled along the Interstate. If you pass exit 280 for example, and the next exit is ten miles along, it will be exit 290.''This makes quite a lot of sense, and helps you see how far the next exit is easily, but did confuse me for a while as I was expecting sequential numbers and figured I was just missing exits! It was quite the revelation when Jess pointed this out to me after weeks of driving in the U.S.''Buying Petrol / Gas''The great majority of cars in the US, especially rental cars, use unleaded petroleum fuel, and this is usually referred to as “unleaded gas” or just “gas”. Diesel is available, but is generally reserved for trucks or larger vehicles, so most fuel pumps in commercial gas stations don’t have it as standard. Be sure to check before you leave the rental car agency to know what kind of fuel your car takes''(unleaded or diesel) and be sure to note if it requires a certain type of unleaded, for instance some may be designed for premium unleaded petrol with an octane rating of 97 or higher.''Buying fuel is, in most cases, a fairly straight forward process. Nearly every machine has a credit card/debit card reader, and you just pre-authorise the card, fill up the tank, and your card is billed. Fuel stations like this often provide fuel 24 hours a day although the office will close.There’s no need to go inside and see the attendant unless you want to pay in cash, or you wish to pay with your card inside. If that’s the case, you have to specify an amount up front with the attendant, pay that amount, and then you can fill up.If you have over-estimated the amount you need, then you can get change for cash payments by returning inside, or it will be re-credited to your credit card.''It is generally easiest to just use the credit card payment option at the pump. However, even if you have a credit card, you may be required to enter a zip code at the pump (the one attached to your credit card billing address) and this generally won’t work if you have a foreign address so you may need to use cash in these cases.''Do be aware that petrol prices vary wildly from state to state, and if you are driving across multiple states, you might want to check to be sure it’s not worth crossing a state line to get cheaper gas. An website''like this''can definitely help you save money, also available in app form.''Drink driving''As previously mentioned, the legal limit for blood alcohol content is 0.08% in the USA. Unfortunately, there is no fixed amount of drink that gets you to that limit to help you, because there are a huge number of factors on an individual basis, from weight and height to metabolic rate and gender – even to what you’ve eaten that day.''Basically, it’s way easier not to drink at all rather than run the risk of being caught for driving while over the limit. In many states, if you’ve been drinking at all, even if you’re under the BAC limit you can still be charged if the officer feels you are impaired. You can also be charged in many states if you have passengers under 21 for any amount of BAC.''Insurance''The majority of states in the USA require car insurance. There are two main types of insurance: liability insurance and collision / damage insurance.''Liability insurance covers other people and their property if you have an accident – so if you drive into someone else, then the insurance will pay for the damage. Collision / damage insurance covers you for damage to your vehicle.''The insurance that nearly every state requires you to have is liability insurance, with collision / damage insurance generally being optional.''Here’s an overview''of the levels of insurance you will require per state to get you started, as well as further explanations of required coverages. If you are driving a rental car, it is best practice to have both types of insurance as damage costs can be astronomical!''School Buses''Here’s another one that caught me off guard the first time I visited the USA – the rules around school buses are remarkably strict. You’ll easily recognise most school buses from their bright yellow paint, with most of them clearly marked as such.''What you might not have known is that when a school bus is in the process of picking up or dropping off passengers, all vehicle traffic must come to a stop. When the bus is stopped, big “STOP” signs will pop out of it (on most buses), and it will flash red lights. At this point, all traffic, including oncoming traffic (unless there is a a separated roadway), must stop and wait for the bus to complete its operation and move on.''These rule can vary slightly by state, with different guidelines on how far from the bus you must stop as well as other details – the best option is to check the rules per state.''Here’s an overview''to get you started.''Mobile Phone Use''This should be pretty obvious – don’t use your mobile phone when driving! It’s incredibly distracting and dangerous, and really isn’t worth it. Also tickets can be very expensive.''Of course, the legal landscape is a little different to my opinion. Some states don’t allow any hand-held cell phone use when driving, others forbid texting and internet use, whilst permitting phone use, other have no restrictions at all.''Here’s a full run down state by state''of all the laws – I expect this to update as more studies come out demonstrating the dangers of driving and mobile phone use.''Driving with Children''If you’re driving with children in the USA, then you’re going to have to be aware of even more rules. Yay! Let’s take a look at these:''Safety Belts & Car Seats.''Nearly all the states have specific laws regarding child constraints, which vary depending on the size of your child. In most states, you will need to be using either a child safety seat, a booster seat, or an adult sized seatbelt for your child, depending on your child’s weight. Some states also regulate the positioning of the car seat or booster seat, such as it has to be in the back seat or should be forward or rear facing. Here’s a full breakdown of the''legal requirements by state''.''Smoking in the car.''It is''not generally illegal''to smoke in a car with a minor present in the USA, although some states have either implemented or are testing such a ban. For a list of these locations,''check here''. However, note that many rental car agencies in the U.S. do not allow smoking in their cars or charge a mandatory cleaning fee for smoking.''What To Do If You Get Stopped By The Police''In a worst case scenario, you will commit a traffic violation and be stopped by the police. You can be stopped for a variety of reasons, including driving over the posted speed limit through to dangerous driving and lights on your vehicle not working.''If you are being signalled to pull over by a police vehicle, which will usually be fairly obvious as it’ll be right behind you with flashing lights, you should pull over as soon as it is safe to do so.''When your vehicle comes to a stop, you should remain in the vehicle, with your hands on the wheel and your seatbelt fastened. You should open your driver side window and if it is dark, turn on the vehicle’s interior lights. Do not get out of your vehicle or unfasten your seatbelt. Remain seated and wait for the the officer.''I have to admit that I was stopped once in the US for going over the posted speed limit. In my defence, we had just arrived in Yosemite National Park, the scenery was stunning, and the speed crept over the limit as we coasted downhill without me paying attention to it.''Unfortunately, the park ranger behind me was paying attention to my speed, so he pulled me over very quickly. Jess was not hugely impressed with me either.''When we stopped, the ranger came up to the car and asked if he knew why he had stopped me. To be honest, the best response in this instance is to say that you don’t know, because otherwise you’re incriminating yourself. Since I wasn’t that clever, I asked if I had been going too fast.''This was affirmed, and I was then asked various questions, including providing my driver’s license, vehicle registration and ID (as I am foreign I was obviously driving in the USA with a foreign license). I was also asked if I had been drinking or had taken any drugs, and if there were any weapons in the car. The answer was truthfully no to all these.''Thankfully, in my case, the ranger chatted cordially with me about why I might have been going too fast, and my confession of being distracted by the scenery on the downward slope was enough to get me out of a ticket. Note that since we were on a U.S. federal property, fines and violation penalties are often a lot higher, which is also the case for construction zones. I was very lucky!''You might not be so lucky, in which case, your best option is to remain polite, and if you feel the ticket was unfair, you can contest it in traffic court later. If you know you were in violation, you can just pay it and move on so you don’t end up with a record.''Finally, for lots more information on how to behave when pulled over in a vehicle, your rights, and what to do if you are for some reason arrested, take a''look at this article''.''Further Reading and Information on Driving in the USA''Whew! Well, that was a lot of words to hopefully help you get started. Of course, I can’t cover everything in just one post, so here are some helpful resources to get you on your way:''The US Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) has a comprehensive list of road rules, traffic signs and signals and more, on a per state basis, available''here''.''The US government has a''page''specifically on driving tips for visitors.''You’re also going to want somewhere to drive! Here’s some inspiration to help you:''We have a guide to a''USA Deep South Road trip itinerary'', which includes''New Orleans'',''Baton Rouge''and''Savannah''We have a''two week California road trip itinerary'', as well as a''guide to driving the Pacific Coast highway''And of course, we have a''full guide to Route 66'', as well as''photos from every state along the route''and a''detailed route 66 itinerary for two weeks''We have lots more content on the USA as well – check out the''USA section''of the site for more resources.''Finally, if you want a book to read, check out''this guide to 300 of the best Scenic Highways and Byways in the United States''for some inspiration.''Please note that this blog post is for guidance only and should not be taken as any form of legal advice. Check local state and federal laws before driving in the USA to be sure you are safe and legal.''SHARE ON''This summer, we had the pleasure of being invited on a number of tours with a Scottish based tour operator –''Rabbie’s Trail Burners''. Given that we’d recently moved to base ourselves in Scotland, taking these tours seemed like a handy way to get to know our new home a little better, and let someone else do the heavy lifting for a change in terms of the planning, driving, and itinerary management.''All we would have to do was sit back, soak up the scenery, and decide where to eat each evening. I have to say, that was a good proposition, and one we were happy to take up.''We started our Rabbie’s adventures with three one-day tours, a''Whisky Tasting Tour of the Highlands''plus two different''one-day tours of the Scottish Border region''. The day trip tours from Edinburgh are great for those looking for a tour outside Edinburgh but don’t have time for a multi-day trip.''These were all excellent tours, but I have to admit that I was most looking forward to the''five day Highland Explorer tour'', which headed far up into the beautiful Scottish highlands, with two days to be spent on the Isle of Skye.''This was Jess’s first visit into the far north west of Scotland, and my first visit to Skye – billed as one of the most photogenic places on earth. So you can probably understand my excitement. Did the tour live up to expectation? Read on and find out!''Contents:''A Five Day Highland Tour Itinerary With Rabbie’s''Day 1 – Waterfalls and Lochs''Day 2 – Beaches, Castles and Landscapes''Day 3 – Castles, Coos and Passes''Day 4 – Skye: Mythic Landscapes and Faerie Folk''Day 5 – Forests, Glens and Forts''Is A Five Day Highlands Rabbie’s Tour For You?''Who’s Going To Be On A Rabbie’s Tour?''What’s Included On A Rabbie’s Tour?''What You’ll Need To Bring''Final Thoughts''Further reading for your Scottish Adventure''A Five Day Highland Tour Itinerary With Rabbie’s''I’m going to give you a run down of our tour, the key highlights from each day, and finish off with some advice as to whether or not this tour is something you might want to do. Starting with:''Day 1 – Waterfalls and Lochs''Our five day highland tour kicked off in Edinburgh, with a 9am departure from Rabbie’s centrally located office. Here, a mulitude of tours depart (there’s even a live departure board!), and you can grab a coffee or something to eat to get you going after you’ve checked in.''Once we were checked in, we walked the two minutes up the street to find our bus, where we were introduced to our driver and guide, Ross. Ross was to be with us on the whole trip, keeping us entertained and informed, whilst hunting out all the best spots for photography and sight-seeing.''Our first day had us heading up to Ullapool, which is a fair distance from Edinburgh, and this meant we were due to spend a good deal of time on the bus. A quick note on the bus, since we spent a while on it!''Our tour was fully booked, meaning fifteen people, but the bus (a new Mercedez Benz) was very comfortable and had plenty of space for all of us. I was particularly impressed by the fact that all the seats came with high-speed USB charging ports, meaning our phones never ran out of power, and we were able to keep our''Instagram accounts''updated as we went. Always a plus.''There was a bit of shelf space above all the seats for small bags, coats or umbrellas, and we had plenty of leg room. We also had reading lights above our seats (not that we needed them!), the bus had comfortable air conditioning, and there were also individual speakers above each seat that could be turned on and off. Our luggage was stored beneath the bus in a locked storage area.''On the bus, Ross gave us a quick overview of our route, and what we would be seeing that day, as well as an expectation of an arrival time in the early evening into Ullapool. He also pointed out places of interest and spectacular scenery along the way. Highlights of the day were:''The Village of Dunkeld''The first stop on our trip was about an hour and a half out of Edinburgh, at the pretty village of Dunkeld in Perthshire. The highlight here is without doubt the magnificent Dunkeld Cathedral, which we made a beeline for upon getting out of the vehicle, on a route that took us through some gorgeous giant trees.''Part of Dunkeld Cathedral is in ruins, whilst part of it still serves as the parish church, and it’s fascinating to see how the styles of architecture has changed since the structure was started in the 12th century. Yep, this is a pretty old church.''After wandering the church for a bit, we headed back to the bus via the village itself, availed of the bathroom break opportunity, and continued on. I’d say we stopped for roughly half an hour, which seemed to be enough for everyone to see what they wanted to see.''The Falls of Bruar''Another ninety minutes of driving, and it was time for lunch. We stopped off at the popular roadside rest stop “''House of Bruar''”, which is both a restaurant and a shopping outlet for a variety of Scottish clothing and gifts. We took advantage of this location to stock up on a couple of gifts for Jess’s family and if you’re on this trip we can recommend taking advantage of the wide selection of items available here – it is one of two of the major shopping stops on the tour.''Of course, it wasn’t all about the shopping. We had lunch here, and also partook of the short walk to the Falls of Bruar. These are around a half mile walk from the main buildings, following an easy path along the river, and this walk is very much worth doing – try to avoid spending all your time shopping if you can! There’s an additional walk to another waterfall if you’ve got the time (grab a sandwich and start hiking!), but we were happy with just the walk to the first falls, where there was a cute stone bridge and plenty of vantage opportunities.''Then, you guessed it, back in the bus for the third leg of our trip!''Carrbridge''Another hour or so of driving brought us to the small village of Carrbridge, where we had a quick stop to use the toilets and grab a drink, plus take in the rather pretty arch of the old stone bridge across the river Carr. You can probably see where the town got it’s name from.''This was just a quick stop, but we still got a few photos to keep us going.''Loch Ness''Ah, Loch Ness. Probably the first place on the list so far that you’ve recognised. Unless you’re a Scotland expert that is. Anyway, I’m sure you’re familiar with the myth of the beast who lives in the Loch – the famous Loch Ness monster affectionately known as Nessie.''By volume, Loch Ness is the largest loch, or lake, in Britain. It has more fresh water in it than all the lakes of England and Wales combined, and due to all the peat in the surrounding lands, is also spectacularly murky. Which means that Nessie has lots of space to hide, and lots of gunk to hide in. Which probably explains why no-one has, as yet, provided any real evidence that she exists.''Still, despite the low chance of spotting Nessie, we very much enjoyed our visit to Loch Ness, which happened to be on one of the warmest days of the year. This meant that there were people actually swimming in the lake, as well as sunning themselves on the beach. We opted to just have a walk along the shore and admire the creations of the''resident Loch Ness''monster hunter, who has been keeping a watchful eye on the Loch since 1991.''Ullapool''Finishing up with Loch Ness, it was back into the bus for the last couple of hours of driving, up to Ullapool, which was to be our base for the next two nights. This was definitely a full day of driving, but there were enough stops to make it interesting, and the gorgeous scenery certainly helped – not to mention Ross’s occasional commentary and musical selection.''Finally we arrived into Ullapool at around six pm, where we journeyed around the small town dropping folks off at their hotels. Note that Rabbie’s doesn’t include hotel costs in the base costs on the tour, but you can specify a quality of hotel (from luxury hotel to hostel) and they’ll book it for you. More on this at the end of the post. We had opted to stay in B&B’s throughout, and so it was that we found ourselves checking in to the''Riverside B&B'', about a five minute walk from the town centre.''Ross had given us some options for dining out, and we chose the Ceilidh Place – one of the finer dining options in Ullapool. We had an excellent dinner, and then popped out to watch the sunset over the harbour before returning for an early night – ready for another full day!''Day 2 – Beaches, Castles and Landscapes''Our second day started with a full Scottish breakfast, which is about the best way to set yourself up for a day of Highland exploring. Bacon, black pudding, fried egg, toast – what more could you want? I’m hungry just thinking about it.''Following breakfast we had a pickup time of 8.45 and we popped around all the hotels to get everyone on board before setting out on the days adventure. This was to be a day with a lot more exploring out of the bus and less driving – a stark contrast to the mileage of the previous day.''Ross was particularly excited about our day. The weather was gorgeous, and we could tell he was passionate about this region of Scotland, the north western highlands. Our day went as follows:''Ardmair Beach''A few minutes drive from Ullapool, and we stopped to take a walk on the beautiful Ardmair Beach, which set the scene for the day. This was to be a day of gentle walks and stunning scenery, with short bus rides in between.''Ross guided us along the stretch of pebble beach, Jess and I found some things to photograph, and the group reconvened at the bus, full of fresh Scottish air and excited about what the rest of the day had in store. Which, it turned out, was quite a bit!''Back on the bus, we headed along to Achilitibuie, with stops along the way to take in the incredible landscapes. A highlight was definitely the photo stop for''Stac Pollaidh'', where I grabbed a photo of Ross in his kilt.''Achiltibuie Area''I mentioned near the start of the post that Jess hadn’t been to this part of Scotland before, but didn’t fill you in on my experiences here. Well, way back in the 1980’s, my family holidayed up in this part of the world, specifically in the village of Achiltibuie. Not a village name you want to try to pronounce after a couple of beers.''I was excited to revisit, but mostly so I could tell my mum about it – if I’m honest, my memories of that trip largely involved being left outside a pub in the rain so my parents could enjoy a beverage. Licensing laws around children being allowed in pubs being apparently quite strict in the Scotland of the eighties.''Anyway, that memory was washed away by our visit to Achiltibuie on a glorious sunny day. We took in a local croft, stopped for a cup of tea, and took some photos of sheep, boats, and giant balls on a pebbly beach.''Then, it was on to our lunch stop, but not before stopping a couple more times to take photos of more incredible highland scenery.''Lunch was at a small cafe near Inverkirkaig, where options ranged from paninis to soups. After lunch we had the opportunity to take a stroll, which Jess and I did, finishing up on Inverkirkaig beach, where Ross picked us up, before heading on to our next stop:''Achmelvich Beach''I have seen photos of Scotland’s beaches in summer, and have usually had a “I can’t believe that’s Scotland” reaction.''It turns out that Scotland has gorgeous white sandy beaches and turquoise waters. When the sun is out, you could be mistaken for thinking you’ve teleported to the Caribbean.''Of course, all you have to do to shatter the illusion is dip your toe in the water. It’s not exactly Caribbean warm, although plenty of people were enjoying the waters. Instead of enjoying the waters with them, we opted to wander the two beautiful coves, take lots of pictures and generally just relax for the ninety minutes that we had at the beach. Definitely a highlight of the day.''Ardvreck Castle''Finally, our relaxing beach time came to an end and it was time to return to the vehicle, and set off towards our first castle of the trip!''Ardvreck Castle''is a ruined 16th century castle, which sits on a rock outcrop on the shore of Loch Assynt. It was built by Clan MacLeod, but was destroyed when invaded by Clan MacKenzie in 1672. They built a manor house nearby, but that too was destroyed, in mysterious circumstances, meaning that there are now two impressive piles of ruined home on the shores of Loch Assynt.''We had about half an hour to explore, and we wasted no time in getting to the rocky outcrop of Ardveck Castle. Due to high rains in the previous weeks, the Loch was high, necessitating some knee high wading through the waters to actually reach the property. This was definitely worth it though, as the ruins of the castle against the backdrop of the highlands were wonderful to behold.''Finally, it was back to the bus, where barring one scenic reststop, it was the end of our day. We had an evening meal from a food truck serving up delicious local sea food, before hitting our bed again.''Day 3 – Castles, Coos and Passes''Day three was to be another day with a bit of driving, but again, we were to be touring some of Scotland’s most stunning locations, and the day was due to end on Skye. So obviously that was exciting. We loaded up with a full Scottish breakfast, before checking out and loading ourselves onto the bus for another full day of adventuring.''Lochs''This was a beautifully still day, which meant one thing – stopping to take pictures of magnificently still lochs! It had become apparent to me by this point that Ross was a talented and keen photographer as well as being an excellent driver/guide, which meant that we had some truly epic photo opportunities on our trip.''We stopped at Loch Broom, Loch a’ Chroisg and Loch Clair – the latter of which was a definite highlight! I’ll let the pictures do the talking.''I think you’ll agree, Scotland with a bit of sunshine is pretty special.''All Loch’d up, and we headed on for a morning coffee break, stopping on the shores of Loch Torridon at The Torridon Inn. This is a relaxed cafe / pub for refreshments with a nice-looking hotel next door. We had a coffee, and explored the grounds a little, before we set off on the fantastically scenic Applecross coastal road – a windingly scenic highway around the edge of the Applecross peninsula.''It was here that we encountered two things. First, the first grey weather on our trip, which lasted all of around an hour. Second:''A Highland Coo!''Yes, another iconic Scottish sight, the hairy Highland Cow, or Coo, as the locals call it. This wonderfully hirsute beast is near the top of sights for many visitors to Scotland, and so we were thrilled to find such a fine looking animal just sitting by the side of the road.''Despite the fog, which, to be honest, just lent a bit of atmosphere to the experience, we all piled out of the bus and went to say hello.''Despite their horned appearance, Highland Coo’s are generally well mannered and approachable, although you should maintain a respectful distance, refrain from trying to touch them, and don’t come between them and their calves as they can be aggressive if provoked. We were able to get fairly close for some lovely photos, which was a wonderful experience. Then, we headed on, to our lunchtime stop at the''Potting Shed Cafe & Restaurant'', near the town of Applecross.''Here we had a rather delicious meal of locally sourced food, before setting off on one of Scotland’s most spectacular mountain roads – the Bealach na Ba (Pass of the Cattle). This road is one of the highest in Britain, reaching 2,053 ft, and it offered us our first glimpses of Skye, across the sea to the west.''Skye itself was cloud draped, but her mountain tops were poking above the clouds, so it was quite an impressive sight. Then, we wound down the hill to our last big stop of the day, the most visted attraction in the Highlands, and definitely one of the most photographed in Scotland:''Eilean Donan Castle''Sitting on the junction of three lochs, and built upon a rocky promontory which can only be accessed by a stone bridge, Eilean Donan is definitely one of the most photogenic castles in Scotland.''It’s also probably the busiest of all the visitor attractions in the highlands, and the day we visited was no exception. Ross actually suggested that due to the volume of visitors, we might prefer to skip going inside the castle and instead to just take photos of it from the shore, but we opted to go inside and experience it. Most of our group decided to go in and tour on their own but a few decided to just spend time in the gift shop and check out the closest town.''Eilean Donan is actually a bit of a strange castle, as the original was entirely destroyed in the 18th century by the British Royal Navy in retribution for the role it played housing Jacobite revolutionaries. For two hundred years the castle lay in ruins, before being entirely rebuilt in the early 20th century to it’s former design – the main change being the stone bridge across which you access the castle today.''The castle was definitely crowded, but worth the visit nonetheless, although the best photos of it are definitely to be had from the shore.''Finally, our castle time concluded, and we took the short drive north and headed across the bridge to the last stop on our day, the magical:''Isle of Skye''Skye is actually quite a big island, and it was around an hour’s drive from where we drove onto the island to the small village where we were to be based for the next couple of nights. Naturally, Ross updated us with the key geological features, notably the Black and Red Cuillins, which we stopped briefly to photograph.''Finally, we arrived at''our B&B'', which was around a twenty minute walk from the town centre, and after dropping our bags off, Ross gave us a lift into town where we had a lovely evening meal at the''Antlers Bar & Grill''(I particularly enjoyed the seafood platter!), part of the''Portree Hotel'', before walking home to bed.''Day 4 – Skye: Mythic Landscapes and Faerie Folk''Our fourth day was entirely set aside for exploring the Isle of Skye, but first, of course, we had to get started with a full Scottish breakfast. The breakfast is usually my favourite part of staying at a B&B, and the Feochan B&B didn’t disappoint. Jess opted for lighter options.''Fully equipped for the day, we set off, with our first stop being:''Loch Fada and the Old Man of Storr''The Old Man of Storr is one of the more recognisable sights on Skye, a finger of rock that juts out of the surrounding landscape. The actual walk up to the Old Man of Storr would have taken more time than we had, so we stopped by beautiful Loch Fada to soak up the view and get some gorgeous reflections of the Old Man of Storr while we were at it.''Conveniently, Loch Fada also had some boats parked in it, which only added to the view!''Some time, and many photographs later, we hopped back into the bus for the first waterfall of the trip, the spectacular:''Mealt Falls''Mealt Falls are fed from nearby Mealt Loch, with their key feature being that they plunge off the side of the sea cliffs and down to the waiting sea, some fifty plus meters below. With the backdrop of the Kilt Rock, these are a stunning sight on any day, and we were particularly lucky to have fine weather when we visited, which gave the water below a wonderful greenish tinge.''We enjoyed the view for a time, before taking a short ride on the bus along to the town of Staffin, where we stopped for a coffee at the''Columba 1400 cafe''. As well as offering lovely views, this is a social enterprise and charity, where the funds raised go towards helping young people through tough times.''The Quirang''The next stop on our trip was another well known spot on Skye – the Quirang. Formed as part of a series of huge landslips from the Trotternish peninsula, the Quirang is home to a series of stunning landscape formations, including The Needle and The Table.''The vistas from the top of the Quirang are unbelievable, and the half hour or so that we had to explore slipped away all too quickly.''The Faerie Glen''From the Quirang we carried on to the other side of the Trotternish Peninsula, to visit a curious geographic region known as the Faerie Glen. This is a place rife with fokelore and legend – Ross warned us to avoid invitations to a night of partying from the faeries, as whilst we would likely have a wonderful time, we might emerge to a world very different to that which we had left!''Sadly, we had no such encounters (I was all for a time travelling night of partying), but we did still enjoy the climb up to the top of the rock formation known as the Faerie Castle, the views of the strange hills, and the overall weird atmosphere of the place. So much so, that we were almost sad to leave and head back to Portree for our lunch stop!''Lunch was at our leisure – Ross gave us some options, but Jess and I went off piste and decided to go for an Indian. Which was actually excellent, and definitely recommendable. Following lunch, we had a bit of time to explore Portree and its shops and harbor, after which we headed to another part of Skye, to try another Scottish classic.''Talisker''You basically can’t come to Scotland and not try Whisky, and what better place to have a sample than at Skye’s most famous (and only) distillery: Talisker. Founded in 1831 on the south shore of Loch Harport, the Talisker Distillery is a popular tourist attraction – and for good reason!''Here you can learn about the history of the Talisker brand, including the various hardships the distillery has gone through, most notably it’s total destruction by fire in 1960, an event which was said to have set the Loch itself aflame with whisky.''Today there is less flaming whisky, and more tasting whisky, and we partook of a wee dram whilst learning all about the history of Talisker. Definitely a good call by a couple of our fellow travellers who suggested a visit here! We also had the option to stay in Portree and relax, go on a boat ride, or hike, but most people chose to come along for the whisky tour.''The Faerie Pools''After our visit to Talisker, it became apparent that the weather was really closing in. Whilst the afternoon tour was optional, everyone had opted to come along, and we started to experience weather that was perhaps a bit more typical of the Isle of Skye. Rain and fog descended, and our afternoon trip to the stunning Faerie Pools was attempted, but the weather wasn’t really good enough to make the walk worth it.''Ross drove us further, and we did take in some more sights, including a blustery and wet walk on a beach, followed by a blustery and wet quick viewing of Dunvegan Castle, before we decided to head back to Portree, have a bite to eat, and get an early night. Jess and I had dinner at''The Granary'', which was a really excellent meal, and really finished off our last night on Skye in fine style!''Day 5 – Forests, Glens and Forts''Our last day of the tour was also another big drive, all the way back from the Isle of Skye down to Edinburgh. We were going to be taking a very different route with different scenery and highlights on the way back, so it was still a day to look forward to – after I’d eaten my full Scottish breakfast of course!''Loading up, we headed south and away from Skye – with a quick stop on the way to grab an image of some stunning reflections on Loch Ainort. Ross was always on the lookout for excellent photo opportunities, and this was one we couldn’t miss!''Then, we were off Skye, and we headed back to Eilean Donan castle to get some additional photos. We couldn’t complain about Eilean Donan photo opportunities!''Ross, then took the time to get a nice group photo of all of us, before we turned our noses south, and headed to our first new stop of the day, the:''Commando Memorial''The Commando Memorial, near the foot of Ben Nevis mountain (the UK’s highest mountain), is Scotland’s most famous war memorial, and is dedicated to the Commando’s who trained all around this area and fought in World War 2. Officially unveiled by the Queen Mother in 1952, the memorial depicts three Commando’s in full dress, cast in bronze, gazing south to Ben Nevis.''If you’re not familiar with them, the Commando’s were an elite unit of men, formed during the second world war, with the goal of carrying out raids in German occupied Europe. During the war, 25,000 men passed through the nearby Commando training facility of Achnacarry. Their first test, an eight mile march in full gear from the train station to the training camp, passed right by the location of the memorial. Any man who failed to complete the hike in sixty minutes was returned to their unit. As you can imagine, the training only got harder from then on!''Today, the memorial is used for major memorial services, including the D-Day landings and Remembrance Day ceremonies. It’s also a very popular tourist spot – both for the memorial itself, and the views it offers over the surrounding landscapes. Well worth our stop!''Spean Bridge''From the Commando Memorial it was a short drive down to nearby Spean Bridge, where we stopped at the Spean Bridge Woolen Mill. This was the other main opportunity on the trip for shopping, and we had around a 40 minute stop here – plenty of time to peruse everything on offer, from whisky to tweed clothing.''The best part of the stop was the whisky tasting, with three types of whisky out for trial – definitely worth the stop in itself, despite it being fairly early in the day still. We also bought a couple of warm hats, one for me, one as a gift for Jess’s father. We certainly appreciated the opportunity to get in a bit of gift shopping as the trip was coming to a close.''Fort William''The largest town in the Highlands, Fort William was a logical stop for lunch. It’s also a very picturesque location, surrounded by towering mountains and on the shore of Loch Linnhe. With the fine weather we were having Jess wanted to have a picnic, so grabbed some sandwiches and headed to the ruins of the old Fort itself.''Then, it was on to the free West Highland Museum, where we entertained ourselves learning about Jacobite revolutionaries and the region’s history. This is definitely worth a stop if you are in Fort William and the museum staff were lovely. At the train station waiting for our bus, we saw the steam locomotive “The Jacobite”, most famous for starring as the Hogwarts Express in the Harry Potter movies. Finally, we were back onto the bus for our last afternoon of driving.''Glencoe''Time was against us, so we had a very short amount of time in one of Scotland’s most stunning highland valleys – Glencoe. I wasn’t too bothered about this as I spent a few days''photographing the landscapes of Glencoe''in 2015, but I did feel that the trip could have benefited from a few more scenic stops in Glencoe for the benefit of the other passengers.''Still, Glencoe is a super popular stopping point, especially in August, and most of the parking areas were absolutely stuffed, so maybe it wasn’t so bad after all!''From Glencoe we wound our way down to the town of Callander, where we stopped for a coffee and a stretch of the legs. We also had a brief stop at Doune Castle, not officially on the tour, but as it’s the main filming location for one of the Monty Python movies, was worth a few minutes of our time for the photo opportunities. Finally, we drove back into Edinburgh, arriving at around 7pm, where we said our thank you’s and farewell’s to Ross, and headed home via public bus. Phew. What an adventure!''Now, let’s go through some thoughts on our trip and maybe you’ll be able to make up your mind if this is something for you!''Is A Five Day Highlands Rabbie’s Tour For You?''First, this tour covers a lot of ground, as you can see from our itinerary. The days are definitely packed, although for the most part we didn’t feel too rushed, and were able to see everything we wanted. Of course, there’s always the feeling that you could have more time at some locations, but that’s the nature of it.''The nicest thing about a tour like this is that everything is handled for you. Driving in the UK (on the wrong side of the road for many people!), can be a bit of a challenge for visitors, so letting someone else handle all the driving is a definite positive if you’re nervous about hiring a car.''The other thing we appreciated was how timely the tour was. This was a combination of Ross’s excellent time keeping, and the fact that 95% of the time, everyone made it back to the bus at the specified departure time. This made for a very well run tour, and gave us the opportunity to sneak in a few extra short stops here and there.''Of course, there are downsides to an organised tour, in that there’s less flexibility, and you can’t stop wherever and whenever you want. Ross did his best to accommodate requests, but broadly the itinerary was fairly fixed, and time was not infinite. If you’re more of a self-drive kind of traveller, then of course this tour might not be right for you.''This is also definitely not a party kind of tour. The days are quite long, and you’re left to your own devices in the evenings. Of course, you can go out and party wildly, but generally the folks on the trip that we were on were more interested in enjoying themselves in the daytime and resting up in the evenings. We chose to generally head off and do our own thing during free time and evenings,\xa0 but some of the participants had group dinners together or met up for walks or drinks. So you can definitely spend as little or as much time as you like with others. Just note that the group is spread out among 3-5 lodging places at night.''Overall, we can definitely recommend this tour for anyone looking for a small group tour that takes in a good many of the highlights of the Scottish Highlands. It’s well priced, the bus is comfortable, it all runs smoothly, and this is an incredible part of the world to visit.''Who’s Going To Be On A Rabbie’s Tour?''There was a wide range of travellers on our trip, from young couples, through to single older folks, and even a family. Three of the tour participants were traveling on their own and the rest were in a couple or family group. Nationalities included Germany, Canada, United States, UK, and China, and speaking to Ross he indicated that they get a wide mix of folks from all over the world. Many had taken a Rabbie’s Tour before (always a good sign), and everyone was friendly and easy to get along with.''Another great thing about booking this tour is that it is guaranteed to leave even if you are the only person signed up! While rare, Ross told us that he once did a Highland tour with just one person. So you don’t need to worry about booking a Rabbie’s tour and it being cancelled due to not enough participants.''What’s Included On A Rabbie’s Tour?''The tour includes the driver/guide services and all bus transportation. Accommodation, meals, and entry fees to attractions are not included unless otherwise noted in the itinerary.''Rabbie’s can book your accommodation for you (this is our recommended approach as it makes things a lot easier and they often get a discounted rate on rooms). This means that you can adjust the price of your trip to suit your budget, with options ranging from hostels through to fairly nice three and four star hotels.''As mentioned, we stayed in some nice B&B’s, which were in the midrange of the price, running to around £50 – £70 a night for the two of us, including breakfast.''Beyond that, you’ll also need to bring spending money for gifts and incidentals. Guides also greatly appreciate a tip at the end of the trip if you enjoyed it!''What You’ll Need To Bring''Scotland is known for having unpredictable weather, whatever the time of year. We lucked out with mostly warm and sunny days – Ross said that his trip the previous week was just grey and cloudy the whole way round, with pouring rain – in August!''So you basically need to be prepared for a wide range of temperatures and weather conditions depending on when you are traveling – everything from 25C / 80F + down to freezing in Winter. Layers are the answer, so you can dress up or down accordingly. A waterproof jacket would also be a recommendation.''Beyond that, I’d suggest comfortable shoes – you don’t need full on hiking boots, but comfortable hiking trainers that offer some water resistance would be suggested.''If you’re travelling in the summer months, then suncream and insect repellent are must-have’s. In our case, Ross had insect repellent we could borrow, but we’d suggest bringing your own anyway as his supply was limited. The midges (little mosquito like insects) can be particularly bad in certain areas.''Beyond that, you’re going to need spending money, charging cables, your camera – basically everything you’d need for any trip. For ideas on what to pack, check out''my ultimate travel packing list''to be sure you don’t miss anything.''Final Thoughts''We really enjoyed our five day trip with Rabbie’s Trail Burner up into the Highlands of Scotland. It was well planned, our driver/guide Ross was friendly, courteous and professional (and knew all the photo spots!), and we saw some fantastic scenery. The accommodation was good, the food was excellent, and overall, we can definitely recommend this trip to anyone looking to get a great Scottish experience at a reasonable price.''If you’re interested, you can book this trip''here'', and find out more about all the tours Rabbie’s offers right''here''.''Further reading for your Scottish Adventure''We’ve got lots of resources to help you plan your trip to the UK, from posts we’ve written ourselves to third party content we’re happy to recommend. Here it is:''If you’re planning a longer trip covering more of the UK, check out our detailed''one week''and''two week UK itineraries''.''We also have guides to many of the cities, sights and driving routes in the UK for you to bookmark, including:''Our guide to''avoiding the crowds on the Isle of Skye''A guide to driving Scotland’s epic''North Coast 500'', as well as''accommodation options on the North Coast 500''A two day Edinburgh itinerary''&''21 Highlights in Edinburgh''Edinburgh: Getting off the beaten path''A Two Day Glasgow and Loch Lomond itinerary''A guide to''10 of the best Stately Homes in England'', to give you some ideas as you plan your itinerary''For London, we have some detailed itineraries to help you plan your visit. These include a''1 Day London Itinerary'', a''Two Day London itinerary''and a''six day London itinerary''The top Harry Potter sites in London''The''Best Photography Locations in London''Tips on Buying and Using the London Pass''Eight Things to Do in Kensington''The''Highlights of Oxford''Visiting''Blenheim Palace and the Cotswolds''20 Things To Do in Dublin''A''Guide to Touring the Scottish Borders''If you’re interested in getting better photos when you travel, take a look at my''online photography course'', where I’ll teach you everything you need to know about getting better photos – whatever camera you have!''If you want a physical (or digital!) book to accompany your travels, then Amazon do a good line in''UK Travel Guides'', and there is naturally a''Lonely Planet''and a''Rough Guide''to the UK available.''Disclaimer: Our trip with Rabbie’s was provided complimentary to us, and they also covered our accommodation, meals and entry to attractions. All opinions remain our own, check out our''code of ethics''for how we decide who to work with.''SHARE ON''Everyone has a tale of smartphone woe, right? We’ve all had that moment where we need to get something key done on our smartphone, and for whatever reason – battery life, poor camera, just generally being unresponsive – we’ve not been able to do what we want.''The folks over at Mediatek (they provide the hardware that powers many of today’s smartphones!) understand this pain, and they got in touch with me to ask me to share my own story of smartphone woe. Being a photographer, obviously I wanted to talk about when using a smartphone has let me down in the photography department, so we put together the following fun video story about a shoot in the Scottish Highlands. Check that out here:''Of course, you’ve probably got your own tale of smartphone woe to share – maybe you were navigating somewhere with your phone and your battery died, or you just couldn’t capture the shot you wanted. Well, Mediatek want to hear from you, and they’re giving you the chance to win a trip to New York, plus weekly prizes of a new XPERIA XA smartphone!''To Enter:''All you have to do is head on over to the''fastcharging.rocks''website, and share your own tale of smartphone woe. The best entries each week will win an XPERIA XA smartphone, with the grand prize being that trip to New York. Good luck!''So you know: we were compensated for our time taking part in this campaign and sharing it with you. As always, we adhere to our''code of ethics''when taking part in any campaign like this!''SHARE ON''If I asked you to name the festivals that Edinburgh is known for, I suspect you’d probably tell me all about the comedy-focused Fringe Festival. Which is a pretty great festival, with hundreds of venues popping up all over the city and serving up some of the world’s best comedy and drama, ranging from brand new acts to internationally recognised names.''What you might not know is that during August, Edinburgh plays host to no less than five festivals, many of which run in parallel to each other. This is in addition to the six other festivals that run through the course of the year, bringing the total number of festivals that the cities Festivals team manages to a rather staggering eleven.''It’s no wonder that Edinburgh bills itself as the''Festival City''– a title that it is certainly deserving of!''We’ve already attended the incredible''New Year’s Festival that is Hogmanay'', and the science themed''Edinburgh International Science Festival'', which takes places around April. So we were really excited to see what the city would be like during the August month of festivals.''We attended all five of the that take place during the month of August, and in today’s post I want to give you a run down of each of the festivals that happens in August which should hopefully give you some ideas for which festivals you might be most interested in.''We even managed to see an event from each of the five different festivals in one day, which is possible if you were looking to really get the most out of your visit to Edinburgh – and''Jess has written all about that here''. For now though, here’s an overview of:''Edinburgh’s August Festivals''1. Edinburgh Art Festival''Kicking off the list of Edinburgh’s August festivals, which I’ve ordered based on start date, is the''Edinburgh Art Festival'', which starts in late July and runs through to the end of August.''This is a fantastic festival for art lovers, which showcases all kinds of visual art, with numerous exhibitions covering art that ranges from historical to contemporary, as well as specially commissioned pieces from both new and established Scottish art. Venues range from well established locations through to pop up sites, with the majority of exhibits being free to enter.''Essentially, the whole city appears to come alive with art installations. We found art under train bridges, inside monuments and churches, on stairways, and of course, inside some of Edinburgh’s more well known galleries and public spaces. Basically, at some point, even if you’re not trying, you’re likely to come across a piece of art, but we definitely recommend''checking out the official website''to be sure you don’t miss anything that might particularly interest you.''Some of our favourite sights included the Dazzle Ship at Leith harbour, the “Drama in Time” under Calton Road Bridge, and the “Fountain of Youth” at the Edinburgh Museum, but we saw numerous pieces all around the city, and really enjoyed them all.''2. Edinburgh International Festival''The''Edinburgh International Festival''was the first of the Edinburgh festivals. It launched just after the second world war, in 1947, with the aim to provide a platform for the flowering of the human spirit.''It’s a celebration of the more traditional performing arts, with theatre, opera music and dance shows taking place in six major venues and a number of smaller venues across the city. We attended a number of performances, with a highlight definitely being the “Deep Time” event, an incredible sound and light show that was physically projected onto the side of Edinburgh Castle, and which took us on a journey through 350 million years of Edinburgh history.''We also attended a couple of theatre performances at some stunning venues, including the critically acclaimed Glass Menagerie, which Jess in particular enjoyed very much.''Basically, if you’re looking for world class artistry of the more traditional variety, then the Edinburgh International Festival should definitely be at the top of your list. It runs for the majority of August, and you can purchase tickets for the various shows''online''.''3. Edinburgh Festival Fringe''The''Edinburgh Festival Fringe'', also just known as the “Fringe”, or “Edinburgh Fringe”, is arguably the most famous of all the Edinburgh Festivals. It’s unique in that it’s an open-access festival, which means that basically anyone who wants to put on a show can do so – all you have to do is find a venue willing to host you, and come up with a show to put on!''The Fringe started at the same time as the International Festival, in 1947, when a number of uninvited production companies hosted performances at alternative venues throughout the city, in parallel to the official International Festival. The theory was that a lot of people were going to be coming to Edinburgh for the International Festival, so why not capitalise on that?''Nowadays the Festival Fringe has grown to a scale that eclipses the other festivals in the city, as well as other festivals of it’s kind around the world. There are literally thousands of shows that take place during the Fringe festival, at hundreds of venues throughout the city, and millions of people come to Edinburgh for the event. Venues range from bars, pubs and clubs, to buses, trucks – and even the back of a motorbike!''There are free shows, pay what you want shows, and set price ticketed events, and you can catch everything from performance art to comedy to circus shows. The quality runs the whole gamut from world-class through to, well, you can probably imagine.\xa0 It’s all part of the experience though – often the best stories from the Fringe are of the worst shows!''The Edinburgh Festival Fringe is the largest event of it’s kind in the world, so figuring out which show you want to watch can definitely be a challenge, given the enormity of choice on offer. My advice would be to check the''official website'', pick up a copy of the official festival programme (also available as a PDF), to keep an eye on social media for what folks are enjoying, and to just roam the Royal Mile.''During August Edinburgh is alive with posters and people handing out flyers for their shows, and we attended one of our favourite shows of the festival, a story of a Leprosy Clinic in the southern USA, titled''Bend in the River'', from a random encounter with the writer on the Royal Mile.''We also saw some excellent comedy, had a magnificent dinner at the pop up Dram&Smoke restaurant, plus we enjoyed a variety of other shows during the Festival Fringe, and it was an experience that we enjoyed immensely.''4. The Royal Edinburgh Military Tattoo''The''Royal Edinburgh Military Tattoo''has nothing to do with the art of skin painting, and everything to do with showcasing the music, dance and precision of performers from around the world, with a particular focus of course on military bands. This being Scotland, pipes and drummers feature heavily, but there are musical instruments and performances of all types – we saw everything from a youth motorcycle team to a New Zealand pipe band.''The Tattoo is one of the most watched of all the Edinburgh festivals, with around 100 million people tuning in to watch it on TV, but nothing beats seeing the spectacle in person, particularly with the fantastic projection system that is newly upgraded this year, and the end of show fireworks. Tickets can be''purchased online'', or in person in Edinburgh at the box office. There’s a show every night for much of August, but it’s definitely worth purchasing in advance to be sure you get the date that you want as many sell out.''We loved watching this show. The performances were fantastic, the music a mix of classic and modern, and the ceremony and co-ordination of all the performers was world class. A highlight was of course the Lone Piper playing on the walls of Edinburgh Castle, which made the hairs on the back of my neck stand up. I was also of course hugely impressed by the New Zealand contribution, which featured a projected dragon and the Lord of the Rings theme music – given that I spent a year''traipsing around New Zealand''in search of''Lord of the Rings filming locations'', that was always going to get a thumbs up from me!''The performance usually lasts between 90 minutes and 2 hours, with pre-allocated seating, and has never been cancelled due to the weather, so make sure you prepare yourself in terms of clothing as it can get a bit cool in the evenings in Edinburgh – even in August (more on the weather in my tips sections below). Otherwise, this is definitely a show you will never forget, and is well worth your time to attend.''5. Edinburgh International Book Festival''Time to slow the pace down a bit. All this laughter, music and performance can really tire you out, so why not find a nice quiet spot and take yourself on a literary voyage? And that’s just the thing you can do at''Edinburgh’s International Book Festival''.''With over 750 events, focused in the beautiful Charlotte Square Gardens of Edinburgh’s New Town, this is a book lover’s paradise. There are book signings by authors, who range from the obscure to the world famous, debates, presentations, and of course, the opportunity to just pull up a chair and read the latest from your favourite author.''Entry to the festival itself is free, and there are some free activities, particularly for children. Many of the events are ticketed though (and they do sell out, so book in advance!), with our highlight events being a talk by acclaimed historical novelist Philippa Gregory, and futurist writer Richard Watson. We also just loved walking around, seeing all the books, and enjoying the sunshine in Charlotte Square gardens. Definitely one to pop into during your time in Edinburgh.''Tips for Attending the Edinburgh Festivals in August''Having gone through the five major August festivals, I now want to go through just a few tips to help you get the most from your festivals experience in Edinburgh.''First, and this should be quite obvious from the post, just remember that you don’t need to limit yourself to just one festival when you’re visiting Edinburgh during August! Many people focus on the Fringe, but there are five other festivals going on throughout the month, and I would definitely recommend taking the time to check out some of those during your visit.''My next tip would be to plan for the weather to be, well, variable. Scotland is relatively far north, and whilst you do get sunny and warm days in August, these are by no means guaranteed, and temperatures can vary from 10C – 30C (50F – 86F). It can also rain pretty much anytime, and if you’re attending a night time performance of the Tattoo in particular, which is in a fairly exposed spot, you need to be prepared for most eventualities. My suggestion would be to dress in layers, carry a small umbrella or poncho, and just roll with whatever Scotland decides to throw at you.''My third tip would be to leave yourself plenty of time to get from venue to venue. Central Edinburgh is very walkable, so getting around on foot is going to be your best option, but be aware that the crowds of people can make this process a little slower than you might otherwise imagine. If you learn some of the city shortcuts, and in particular the closes that run off the Royal Mile, you can save yourself some time, and if possible, try to avoid the congested areas''My last tip is around accommodation. Edinburgh gets seriously busy in August, and hotel occupancy can be as high as 97%, with rates much higher than the rest of the year. In fact, finding accommodation can be such a challenge, that it’s worth breaking it out into it’s own section. So, here’s a guide on:''How to Find Accommodation during the Edinburgh Festivals''If you’re looking for a specific kind of hotel or room type, then you definitely need to book as far in advance as possible, because rooms sell out a long time in advance for the August festival season. If you’re more flexible, then you will have more choice, but you definitely need to plan in advance nonetheless.''The good news is that there are plenty of''options for accommodation''in August. A good many of Edinburgh’s residents actually leave the city, and put their properties up on sites like''AirBnB''(up to $100 off your trip if you sign up for''AirBnB with this link''!) for the month. That’s one excellent way to find accommodation. If you’re not having luck with AirBnB, then check out my''guide to AirBnB alternatives''.''Another idea is to get a place a little outside the city centre. There are a number of satellite towns around Edinburgh with a 30 – 45 minutes public transport connection, where you might find better value options. The public transport network in Edinburgh is excellent, and night buses often run into the early hours, so that is definitely an option if you’re looking to save money and don’t mind a bit of a “commute”.''There’s also a dedicated Expedia website to help you find accommodation during the Edinburgh Festivals, which runs in partnership with the Edinburgh Festival team. Known as''FestivalFindr'', this tool lets you pick the festival you’re interested in attending, and then helps you find accommodation to suit. And there’s everything on offer, from vacant student halls to hostels, B&B’s and upmarket properties. Definitely worth checking out.''Otherwise, I’d suggest the usual suspects for accommodation booking, which are as follows:''Our''favourite way''to find the''best deals on accommodation''is with Booking.com. In our experience, they have the best range of properties and the most competitive prices. Check out their''listings for Edinburgh here''.''If you prefer an apartment, then as mentioned above, we definitely recommend''AirBnB''. We’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get up to''a $100 discount''if you sign up with''this link.''(Discount varies by currency and if you choose to host at some point).''Just make sure that you plan in advance, and prepare to pay more than you normally would for the August period.''Further Reading for your Edinburgh Trip''Looking for more inspiration to help you get the most out of your trip to Edinburgh? Here are some posts and other reading material that you might find useful!''A post on''how to spend two days in Edinburgh''A run down on why you need to attend''Hogmanay, the world’s best New Year’s Party''An overview of''12 Edinburgh Experiences''that you might not have thought of''If you’re a Harry Potter fan, you’ve got to check out Jess’s''Guide to the Best Edinburgh Harry Potter locations''A''guide to the Scottish Borders'', in case you decide to head out of town for a bit''Jess has put together a''guide to 21 of Edinburgh’s top attractions''Finally, if you’re looking for a guide to Edinburgh, Amazon has some great options, including the''Lonely Planet Pocket Edinburgh guide'', and the''Time Out Edinburgh guide''And that just about sums up our guide to Edinburgh’s August Festivals! Which of these festivals would you most like to visit, and which had you heard of? Let us know in the comments below!''So you know, Festivals Edinburgh helped us with the logistics and planning of our August Festivals experience, including providing some transport, meals and event entry, in return for us sharing our experiences. All opinions are our own, take a look at our''code of ethics''for more on who we work with and what that means.''SHARE ON''From''New Mexico'', our 2000+ mile''Route 66 adventure''continued on into Texas, the fourth state on our trip, where Route 66 covers just under 200 miles.''We had much better weather here than in New Mexico, with (mostly!) wide open blue skies to accompany us on our journey. Here are some of our favourite photos from our Route 66 journey across the Lone Star State!''A definite highlight of Route 66 in Texas, if a slightly odd one, is the Cadillac Ranch, not far outside Amarillo. This is a public art project, installed in 1974, featuring a series of old Cadillac cars buried face down in the mud to create what look a bit like a line of standing stones. Except they’re Cadillacs. The exhibit is interactive, in that visitors are encouraged to add to the paintwork with their own designs, which plenty of people were doing. Unfortunately, this does mean it’s surrounded by old paint cans.''Still, worth a visit – it’s quite a surreal sight!''If you’re not into Cadillacs, you just follow Route 66 a little further East, and you’ll come to the VW ranch – a similar but somewhat less visited (and somewhat more overgrown!) installation, which is essentially the same thing but with VW Beetle’s instead of Cadillacs. So whatever floats your boat really.''Looking for something with a little more religious significance than some painted cars? Well, the town of Broom in Texas has you covered. As well as a famously leaning water tower, this tiny town is also home to a 19 storey high cross, which is one of the largest in the western hemisphere.''The cross is surrounded by life sized statues depicting the stations of the cross, and overall is an interesting place to visit even if just to marvel at the sheer scale of the construction.''Of course, Texas doesn’t escape the Route 66 “Cars” connection. This old Dodge had hundreds of scribbles on it from travellers taking their Route 66 adventure – all you need is something to write on inscribe with, and you too could have your own inscription!''Route 66 has to have a halfway point, and this was it, with LA being 1139 miles in one direction, and Chicago 1139 miles in the other. There’s a cafe and a line in the road to mark this point, although naturally its exact location is disputed, what with the many reroutes and versions of Route 66 over the years.''Everything in Texas is bigger. It’s just a fact. As you drive along Route 66, giant signs start to appear the closer you get to Texas, advertising a 72oz steak, which just happens to be free. This is available at the Big Texas Steak House, a Route 66 staple. The sign does point out a couple of terms and conditions – for the steak to be free, you have to eat it all, and you have to do so inside an hour, without any help.''We asked our waitress if many people achieved this, and she said that no, most people did not. But many people certainly tried! We decided that a 20oz steak between the two of would probably suffice, and it did, with spare to take on our trip with us!''It was very good, as Jess’s smile attests!''It’s not a Route 66 post without a run down of some old gas stations! Some, like the Phillips 66 station pictured above, have been lovingly restored to their former glory…''…others have been turned into museums…''.and others have been ravaged by time, with the coming of the interstate killing them off entirely.''And on that note, we’ll wrap up this post. Still to come the last four states on our epic Route 66 adventure, including Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma and Illinois. Lots more photos to share with you guys!''Tips for Planning your own Route 66 Adventure''If you’re planning your own Route 66 adventure, we’ve got a bit of reading for you!''First, be inspired by photos from all the states we visited, by checking our photos highlights from each Route 66 state:''California'',''Arizona'',''New Mexico'',''Texas'',''Oklahoma'',''Kansas'',''Missouri''&''Illinois''Next, check out Jess’s comprehensive guide to''planning a Route 66 trip''Then, take a look out our incredibly detailed''day by day Route 66 itinerary'', which covers all the sights you want to see, route tips, lodging options and places to eat.''If you’re new to driving in the US, check out my''tips for driving in the US''to get you started''Not sure how much it’s all going to cost? We’ve got you covered with our''guide to travel costs in the USA''Finally, take a look at''this book''– the best way in our opinion to successfully navigate the entire length of Route 66 as faithfully as you can. We followed it the whole way, and even met the author, and couldn’t have done without it!''SHARE ON''The United States is pretty much the perfect country to road trip in, with great roads, cheap gas and hundreds of gorgeous destinations to choose from. It’s no wonder that a California road trip is on many visitors to-do lists!''We’ve taken a number of fantastic US road trips, including''Route 66'', the''Pacific Coast Highway'', the Oregon Trail and a route through the''Deep South'', and have never failed to have a fantastic time.''One of our favourite states to explore though has to be California. With a mix of an excellent climate, some of the best National Parks in the country, and world famous cities to explore, you’re never going to run short of things to do in California.''With this in mind, I wanted to put together a classic two week California road trip itinerary, taking in some of the best that the sunshine state has to offer. I did a trip almost exactly the same as this a few years back, so I know that it’s a good one.''Two weeks is also a good amount of time for a trip like this, although you could of course extend it by a few days if you wanted to see a bit more, or wanted to go a bit slower.''Contents:''California Road Trip Itinerary''1. San Francisco – 3 Days''2. Pacific Coast Highway – 2 Days''3. Santa Monica, LA – 2 Days''4. Joshua Tree National Park – 1 Day''5. Death Valley National Park – 1 Day''6. Mammoth Lakes – 1 Day''7. Yosemite National Park – 3 Days''California Road Trip Itinerary Map''When to Take a California Road Trip''Where to Stay in California''How to Get Around California''Further Reading and Resources for a California Road Trip''California Road Trip Itinerary''1. San Francisco – 3 Days''We’re going to start with San Francisco. It’s home to the second largest airport in California, so there are plenty of opportunities for getting here for both domestic and international travellers.''It’s also an excellent city to base yourself for your first three days. If you’re arriving internationally, you’re going to want a few days to adjust to the time zone difference before hopping into a car, so I’m going to recommend spending three nights in San Francisco, and picking up your hire car as you leave – you won’t want (or need!) a car while you’re in the city.''You won’t be short on things to do in San Francisco, and in fact, might feel a little overwhelmed by all the choices! Our suggestions would be to take in the Golden Gate bridge (hire a bike to get here easily), explore Chinatown,''pop across to Alcatraz'', revel in the tourist trap that is Fisherman’s Wharf, don’t miss''golden gate park'', head to the top of Nob Hill for cocktails at The Mark, hop on a cable car and, if you still have time, take a stroll at Lands End.''To get yourself oriented, we can also recommend taking a''walking tour with the excellent SFNative''folks, they know the city backwards and their''pints and politics walking tour''in particular is fantastic. Finally, if you’re looking for some great photo opportunities, check out our guide to the''best photography locations in San Francisco''.''Accommodation wise, there are plenty of options in San Francisco. We’ve stayed at and are happy to recommend the''Hotel Rex'', which was perfectly located within walking distance of everything we wanted to see, offering a good balance of comfort and price. See more''options for hotels in San Francisco''here.''2. Pacific Coast Highway – 2 Days''The drive down the section of the Pacific Coast Highway from San Francisco to Los Angeles is definitely one of the best road trips in the world. Even''National Geographic agree''. So it’s really a no-brainer that this would be your first destination after you pick up your hire car and head out of the city.''There are numerous highlights along the way, from cute seaside towns to gorgeous wilderness areas. Don’t miss''Santa Cruz'',''Monterey'', Big Sur and the''Julia Pfeffer Burns State Park''(camp here if you can!). The latter is particularly famous for the waterfall that cascades onto the beach, a gorgeous photo opportunity.''From Big Sur head further south and take in highlights like the''seals at Cambria'', tasty food at San Luis Obispo, the gorgeous Pismo beach, and more. For loads more information on this stretch of highway to help you plan the perfect route, check out this super detailed guide to''planning a Pacific Coast Highway trip''.''There are plenty of accommodation options all the way down this stretch of highway, from campsites and B&B’s to luxury hotels – it all depends on your budget and what you’re aiming for.''3. Santa Monica, LA – 2 Days''Los Angeles can be a big, confusing place, particularly after your trip down the Pacific Coast Highway. That’s why I suggest you head to Santa Monica and make that your LA base. On the coast, and technically a separate city (it’s kind of hard to tell as LA and its surrounds are part of a fairly vast urban sprawl), you’ll have access to the wonderful beach and pier, as well as nearby Venice, most famous for its beach and people watching opportunities.''Again, there’s no shortage of things to do in LA. If you’re interested in film, you can visit the Hollywood sign, walk the''Hollywood walk of fame''or''go on a tour of the backlot at Universal Studios''.''Art lovers will find their thrills at the''Getty Center'', which also offers gorgeous panoramic views of the surrounding city. Other highlights include Sunset Boulevard, and of course, you can hop on one of those tours of the stars homes if you’re so inclined. LA also has plentiful accommodation options to suit all budget – check out''listings here for inspiration''.''If you’re not excited about Los Angeles, you could also choose to skip it and head down the coast to San Diego, a more laid back (and easily navigable!) experience. For more reading on San Diego, check out this awesome''San Diego guide''.''4. Joshua Tree National Park – 1 Day''Time to head out of the city, and the remainder of this itinerary is going to focus on exploring some of California’s unbelievable wilderness areas and National Parks. We’re going to start this off with a trip to the''Joshua Tree National Park'', home to those iconic shaped trees that the park is named for.''It’s a wonderful place, the meeting point of two deserts, and offers good opportunities for camping, hiking and star-gazing. The best way to experience the park is to camp overnight in one of it’s''many campgrounds''(you should definitely reserve a spot well in advance if this is your plan), otherwise, there are various lodging opportunities outside the park if you’re not big into camping.''You should also be aware that there is very limited water availability in the park (and no hookups for RV’s), so make sure you bring plenty of water and food – this is a remote desert environment after all!''5. Death Valley National Park – 1 Day''Moving on from one desert environment to another desert environment – and the largest national park in the contiguous United States. Death Valley (the name was given by gold rush travellers who nearly perished here) is the hottest and driest place in North America, and has recorded the hottest ambient air temperature in the world.''So, overall, a hot place.''Other than making you want to crank up the AC then, what does Death Valley offer? Well, there’s that sense of remoteness. The vast, unforgiving wilderness. The knowledge that you’d probably die fairly quickly if you happen to wander off and get lost (don’t wander off and get lost folks).''Truth be told, there’s plenty to do here. You can visit Badwater Basin, the lowest point in the entire North America, which actually sits 86 metres below sea level. Then there are sand dunes, salt flats, craters, colourful canyons and hiking opportunities galore.''Just be aware that this is a seriously inhospitable, and, in the summer months, unbearably hot, destination, so''plan and pack accordingly''. If you’re looking for more ideas on spending a day in Death Valley, check out''this excellent post''.''6. Mammoth Lakes – 1 Day''From Death Valley we’re going to head further north, up to''Mammoth Lakes''. This drive is quite incredible, along the Sierra Nevada mountains, and the scenery (and temperatures) will change dramatically as you ascend into this gorgeous part of the world.''Mammoth Lakes are an adventure lovers playground. You can go hiking, camping, cycling, rock climbing, horseback riding, fishing – the list goes on! There’s also''a ghost town'', craft beer companies, shopping opportunities – basically, pretty much everything you could imagine.''Whilst you’re here, you should also take the opportunity to visit''Lake Mono''. Now a state nature reserve, Lake Mono is a million year old lake notable for the “tufa” towers, calcium carbonate structures that stand above the lake like strange modern art installations. Definitely worth a visit, and particularly photogenic at sunrise and sunset.''7. Yosemite National Park – 3 Days''Finally on our awesome California road trip, I’m going to suggest you spend three days exploring Yosemite National Park before heading back to San Francisco to return your hire vehicle and head home.''Yosemite is without doubt one of my favourite places in the entire United States. It’s a wonder of nature, a photographer’s paradise, and somewhere I dare anyone to visit without falling instantly in love.''There’s a lot to see and do here, which is why I’m going to suggest taking three days to get the most out of your visit. This will let you see all the highlights, as well as go for some longer hikes (or drives), and not feel too rushed.''I’ve got a full guide to''photographing my favourite parts of Yosemite'', but in brief, don’t miss Yosemite Falls, the hike up to Nevada and Vernal Falls, the drive (or hike) to Glacier Point, Tunnel View, Valley View and Bridalveil Falls. If you love longer, more challenging day hikes, then''Half Dome is a seriously challenging walk''(permit required), as is the walk''up to the top of Yosemite Falls''.''Yosemite National Park has a''wide range of accommodation options'', from''bring your own camping''through to''luxury hotels''. Be aware that spots book up fast, particularly in summer months and at weekends, so book well in advance to avoid disappointment.''California Road Trip Itinerary Map''We’ve put together a map of the our suggested California road trip itinerary, which you can see below, and also on Google Maps''here''. Note that depending on the time of year, access to Yosemite can be restricted due to snow, so you have to take the longer way round.''In addition, part of the Pacific Coast Highway remain closed due to damage caused by landslides. This post and map will be updated when they re-open.''When to Take a California Road Trip''California is a fairly good year round destination, but there are a few things to be aware of when planning your trip. In the Winter months, places like Yosemite can become accessible particularly from the east side, due to snow, as you can see in the map above.''The main road in to Yosemite is the Tioga Road, and this is usually closed from November through to May or even June. In addition, parts of the park, including Glacier Point road, are often closed for a similar timeframe.''If this happens to you, you’ll have to take a serious detour to get in based on this itinerary. A better option might be to embrace the snow, and head up to Lake Tahoe for some fantastic skiing opportunities. Or, you can head east, out to Nevada and the pleasure city of Las Vegas.''In summertime, the heat can be quite intense, in particular in places like Death Valley, where in the summer months temperatures can exceed 100F, and it’s not recommended to spend much time outside.''Where to Stay in California''California has a''serious range of accommodation options''to meet pretty much every budget, although larger cities and busier months do tend to increase the prices. We’d always recommend booking in advance for your trip if possible – in particular for national park campsites and hotels, and to get the best deals on city centre hotels.''For two people travelling together, you’re looking at a budget range of $60 – $150 per night for comfortable private en-suite accommodation, although you can obviously spend far more than that!''Our preferred option for hotel booking is booking.com, as they usually have the best prices, regularly run deals, and many properties offer good last minute cancellation policies. See their''listings for California'',''San Francisco''and''Los Angeles''to get you started.''For more ideas, take a look at our''travel resources page''for helpful hints and tips on getting the best deal on accommodation when you travel.''How to Get Around California''This is a road trip, so obviously you’re going to want a hire a car! We nearly always''hire cars for our US road trips through Enterprise''. We generally find they have the most competitive prices and widest choice of locations, plus if you’re thinking of a one way trip they have reasonable fees for doing that.''Drivers with foreign licenses are allowed to drive, if your license is in a language other than English then you would be best with either an international drivers license, or a certified translation.''Further Reading and Resources for a California Road Trip''California is a very popular destination, so there’s no shortage of research material to help you plan your trip! Here are some of my favourite resources:''I’ve written a guide featuring some of my''top tips for driving in the USA''to help get you going on the road!''Wondering how much a California road trip will cost? Check out out''guide to how much it costs to travel in the USA''to help you plan your trip budget.''Jess has a guide to''driving the Pacific Coast Highway'', which will give you lots of ideas for that section of the road''Route 66 ends in California, so check out our''guide to planning a route 66 trip'', as well as our detailed''Route 66 itinerary''Fodor’s''Guide to California'', which also includes details on a number of fantastic road trips''The''Lonely Planet California Guide'', which is great for finding things to do, places to eat and places to stay''A''US road atlas'', because sometimes you don’t want to rely on GPS!''If you’re planning on hiring an RV or camping, this''guide to free and super cheap campgrounds''will quickly pay for itself''The official''Visit California''page, which will give you more advice on what to see and when to visit''This series of''California blog posts''from fellow bloggers at''yTravelBlog''My''guide to Shasta Cascade and Redding'', if you decide to head to northern California''Getting online when travelling in a foreign country can be daunting – check out our''guide to getting online when travelling''to help you figure out the best options for your trip''And if you’re looking for inspiration for the rest of the USA, check out our''USA section'', which includes a''Deep south itinerary'', tips for''New Orleans during Mardi Gras''– and lots more!''And that sums up my perfect two week California road trip itinerary! If you’ve got any comments, suggestions or additions, do pop them in the comments below. Plus, if you liked this post, do check out the''rest of my itinerary series'', which will help you plan the perfect trips all around the world!''SHARE ON''So you’ve decided to visit London! Fantastic idea, it’s an excellent city, with enough activities to keep you busy for however long you choose to stay.\xa0Today though, I’m not going to give you advice on what to see in London. Instead, I’m going to share with you my advice for how to get around London. London is a city with an absolutely fantastic public transport network, but the plethora of choice can be a bit overwhelming for the first time visitor.''This information on getting around London comes from my experience living in London for 2 years, my subsequent visits as a tourist, and some online research (there are so many options!).''In this guide, I’m going to share with you the various options you have for getting around London, from the tube, to taxis, to the bicycle! Let’s get started.''Contents:''How To Get Around London''1. Underground – “The Tube”''2. Overground''3. DLR (Docklands Light Railway)''4. Rail Services''5. Bus''6. Tram''7. Emirates Air Line''8. River Boat''9. Taxis''10. Bicycles''11. Walking''Which is the best way to get around London?''Further Reading for Visiting London''How To Get Around London''London is divided into nine fare zones, with zones 1 & 2 being central London, and then increasing in number the further outside the city you get. Heathrow Airport for example is in Zone 6. The below transport options will cover all the zones. Transport in London is operated is by''TfL'', which stands for “Transport for London”. TfL are the government body responsible for all aspects of the transport system in London, from roads to rails and ticketing to maintenance.''There are a number of ways to pay for transport inside London, including buying an individual ticket, using a contactless card,''using an Oyster card'', purchasing a travelcard, or purchasing a visitor Oyster card along with your''London Pass''.''I have written a whole post on the''best way to pay for transport in London'', which you can read, as a summary though, currently in most cases if you have a contactless card that works in the UK then this is the best way to go, followed by the Oyster card.''1. Underground – “The Tube”''The London Underground, or “Tube” as its nicknamed, is the oldest underground metro network in the world, with parts operating since 1863. Today, the London Underground carries over a billion passengers a year, across 270 stations and 250 miles of track. Interestingly, less than 50% of the track is actually underground, despite the name.''In the majority of London, you will usually find that there is an underground stop within easy walking distance, and a train arriving within 10 minutes or less. Because the underground doesn’t have to worry about traffic and streets, it is one of the most efficient ways to get around, and usually the best choice.''For the most part, services operate from 5am through to midnight, and as of August 2016, there will be a 24 hour service offered on some lines as well. You can check times and plan your journey''here''.''Tube stations are easily recognisable with the distinctive London Underground logo, a red circle with the text “Underground” featured in a blue box. The Underground operates in fare zones 1 – 6, which cover London in expanding concentric circles, with zone 1 in the centre and zone 6 at the outside. Generally, the more zones you cross on your journey, the more expensive it will be. Most tube stations have a barrier for entry and exit, and you can purchase tickets from machines or ticket offices at the station.''As a tip, if you’re a visitor to London, try to avoid the Underground during rush hour on weekdays as it gets very crowded with commuters. As a rule, this is between 7:30am and 9:30am in the morning, and 5:00pm and 7:00pm in the evening from Monday through Friday.''Also, the tube is the most cost effective way to get from Heathrow Airport\xa0 to central London, with a direct link from all the Heathrow terminals to the centre of London. See more on''getting to central London from London’s airports here''.''2. Overground''The''Overground''is similar to the Underground, except it’s above ground. I know – a lot of the Underground is also above ground. That’s just how it is. The Overground is a lot newer than the Underground though, created in 2007, and helps to fill in a number of coverage gaps that the Underground has.''In terms of pricing, the Overground has the same fare pricing as Underground, and follows the same zone-based rules.''In most cases, you also don’t need to touch in and out if you’re using Oyster or contactless payment when switching from Overground to Underground services as they fall inside the same fare zone, although there are some stations where this is required.''The Overground logo is very similar to the Underground logo, except the circle is orange, and of course the title is different.''3. DLR (Docklands Light Railway)''Oh, London. So many transport options, and we’re only on number three! The''Docklands Light Railway'', or DLR as most people call it, is an automated rail system that specifically covers the docklands area of London, which is the area directly east and south east of central London. The main difference between this train system and the those above is that the DLR is fully automated, which means no drivers.''The DLR links London City Airport to the rest of the tube network, and you will likely find yourself using it if you are taking trips around east and south east London. For instance it is the best way to get to the''ExCeL'', which hosts a number of large trade shows and events.''In terms of fares, the DLR is the same as the Overground and Underground, part of the overall London fare zone, and in fact some tube stations also contain DLR stations.''If you’re using an Oyster or contactless payment you don’t need to touch in and out when switching from tube to DLR, but you should be aware that many DLR stations do not have barriers, so you mustn’t forget to touch in and out (or have a valid ticket) at the start and end of your journey in order to ensure you pay the correct fare.''4. Rail Services''Yes, I’ve already discussed three rail-like services, but, just in case that wasn’t enough, London also has actual railways too, both suburban rail that links central London to its suburbs, and fast trains that link London to the rest of the country (and the world). There are also direct rail links to London’s three major airports, namely Heathrow, Gatwick and Stanstead.''In the majority of cases, trains in and out of London are separate from the Transport for London system, so for example you can’t use your Oyster card on most national rail services, and would have to buy a separate fare.''There are some exceptions, with all suburban trains in zones 1-9 for example, and to select destinations, covered. Trains to Gatwick, including the Gatwick Express, are also covered by the Oyster system – you can see more about''what’s covered here''.''5. Bus''If you asked someone what the most used form of public transport in London was, they might guess Underground. And, with over a billion users a year, that’s not a bad guess. It would be wrong though, because the number of journeys taken on''London buses''is over two billion a year.''This is likely because there are just so many bus routes in London, serving a huge area – you can basically get anywhere in London by bus. Bus fares are also cheaper, at a fixed price of £1.50 for a single journey for Oyster users, regardless of distance.''To use the public buses in London, all you have to do is touch your Oyster or contactless card on the big yellow card reader when you board the bus – there’s no need to do it when you get off the bus as fares are fixed. There are also many bus services that operate round the clock, meaning you can still get home after a night out on public transport in many instances.''Buses are generally a little slower than rail services because they have to contend with traffic, which in London is pretty terrible most of the time. However, an advantage is that normally there are no steps involved and no lengthy walks around the Underground system.''6. Tram''In south London, and specifically from Wimbledon, through to Croydon and Beckenham, there’s a tram service, known as''London Tramlink''. The tram has four lines and 17 miles of track, so this definitely isn’t a huge network, but it’s a well used one in the region.''The tram works the same as the bus in terms of payment – it’s a fixed fee per journey, and you just have to touch-in with your Oyster card or contactless card when you board to validate your ticket. You do not need to touch out when you disembark.''7. Emirates Air Line''Now, for something a little bit different. Did you know that London has a''cable car service''? It’s the only urban cable car in the UK, and it’s there to get you across the River Thames, from Greenwich to the Royal Victoria Dock.''As well as being a handy way to get to the ExCeL exhibition centre and the''O2 Arena''from the south side of the river, it also offers panoramic views of this part of the city as you cross.''The Air Line is part of the TfL system, so you can pay with your Oyster card or contactless card. There are only two stations, one at each end, so it’s also one of the easiest modes of public transport to navigate in London!''8. River Boat''London has a big old river running through it, so it makes sense that this waterway is also used as a public transport system. And so it is, with''Thames Clippers''operating a service under license from TfL. There are four “routes”, starting all the way to the west of the city in Putney, and going as far as Woolwich in the east. Essentially this gets you from one end of London to the other.''On board the Thames Clipper in London.''It’s a fun, scenic way to travel and tends to be a little less busy that many of the other routes. It is used by commuters though, so rush hours can be a little busier. As with other TfL services, the easiest way to pay is by Contactless card or by Oyster card, touching in and out as you board and disembark.''Alternatively you can buy tickets online and print them out, or you can buy tickets in person at the pier. The last option is the most expensive – contactless, Oyster and online ticket purchases are the most cost-effective.''Note that Thames Clipper is a little more expensive than services like the tube or buses, but the point to point service and relatively fast speed, plus the views of London from the river, can make it worth it.''9. Taxis''London definitely has some iconic modes of transport, from the famous red bus through to the tube. But perhaps most famous of all is the black cab.''With a history dating back to 1662, London’s Hackey Carriages have been carrying people around the city for over 350 years, with drivers having to learn the infamous “Knowledge” – basically a detailed map of London meaning they can navigate the city efficiently, without relying on maps or technology.''Taking a black cab in London is definitely an experience. All you have to do is flag one down by waving at them (the taxi light will be illuminated if it is available), and the driver will stop to pick you up.''Black taxis are certainly more expensive than any of the other forms of transport regulated by TfL, but for the convenience of getting from one part of the city to another, they sometimes can’t be beaten, and if you’re travelling in a group they can work out to be fairly cost effective.''Note that taxis don’t accept Oyster cards, so fares need to be paid by cash or credit card. Fares are paid on completion of the journey, and are set based on distance and time using the meter in the cab.''10. Bicycles''In 2010 London rolled out a new public transport option – the bicycle! There are public cycle points all around the city, and with the increase in cycle lanes, these are becoming a popular way to take short trips.''Hiring a bicycle is relatively easy – it costs £2 for a day of access to the system, after which every ride of 30 minutes or less is free, with each additional 30 minute segment costing 30 minutes. So you could actually ride the city for just £2, just ensuring you check in each bike within 30 minutes.''To use the cycle hire system you just need a credit or debit card. Because of the need to guard against theft, the system doesn’t accept Oyster cards. You pay your £2 activation fee by card, and then you can access bicycles at points all across the city – there are literally hundreds of them to choose from.''Find out more about the London cycle system''here''.''11. Walking''Not exactly a public transport option, but don’t discount walking as a way to get around London! Many visitors don’t realise that many parts of London are very pedestrian friendly, and in fact in central London you can get to most of the attractions just by walking.''As a rule of thumb, if somewhere is less than two tube stops away, it’s likely going to be quicker to walk (although worth checking on a map to be sure there’s not an inconvenient river in the way!). Walking is by far the cheapest way to travel around London, and a personal favourite of ours.''Which is the best way to get around London?''There’s no really easy way to answer this question. If you’re getting around the majority of central London, the Underground will likely be the most convenient. It’s fast, regular, and doesn’t have to contend with traffic.''For parts of London that aren’t served by the Underground, DLR or Overground services, then the bus is the next most convenient option. There are services all over the city, often running through the night.''If you don’t mind a bit of exercising, then either cycling or walking are both great ways to get around.''If you want to try something a bit different, then the Emirates Air Line or the Thames Clippers will provide that. The former is certainly excellent for one specific route, and the latter can be a good way to get across London, with water views to boot – although in my mind it’s more of a one-off experience than something to regularly use as a visitor.''Further Reading for Visiting London''We have plenty of further reading to help you plan your trip to London, both content we’ve created based on our experiences, and third party content we think you’ll find useful.''The official''TfL website'', which will give you information on tickets, routes and any updates to services in the forms of delays or cancellations''If you’re coming into London by air, check out our detailed guide to''getting into central London from the airport'', which covers all six of London’s airports.''Jess’s detailed''guide to the London pass'', which will help you decide if this is a good way for you to save money on your London sight-seeing. The London Pass has a package option to include a Oyster Card and currently also includes Hop-on, Hop-off bus passes, which can be a great transport option.''Our detailed itineraries for''one day in London''as well as''two days in London''and''six days in London''Harry Potter fans will want to check out our guide to the key''Harry Potter filming locations in London''Jess’s guide to''1-day walking tour of the highlights of London''.''The''Eyewitness Travel Guide to London'', which has all sorts of information within, including more itineraries and ideas for your trip''Rick Steve’s London 2016''guide, the #1 bestseller on Amazon for UK travel guides, and always an excellent source of relevant information''And that’s it for out guide to public transport options in London! What’s your favourite way to get around in London? Any tips to share? Pop them in our comments below!''SHARE ON''Edinburgh is definitely one of our favourite cities in the UK. And there is a lot to do here, so much so that we’ve already penned a detailed post on''how to spend two days in Edinburgh''.''But, as with any city, there’s a lot more to do than one blog post can cover, with attractions and activities seemingly around every corner – plenty to fill many days of sight seeing.''In today’s post we want to go over some of our favourite ways to spend some time in Edinburgh, beyond the obvious highlights like the Castle, Arthur’s Seat and the Whisky tasting. The best bit? Many of these experiences are free, or very low cost. So your wallet will be happy too.''Without further ado, let’s take a look at some of our favourite:''Off the beaten path things to do in Edinburgh''1. The Museum of Edinburgh''We’re going to start this post with a number of museums. Scotland is not always known for having the best weather, so having a great collection of museums that you can drop into should the weather turn inclement is always handy.''Not that bad weather should be your only reason for visiting these museums, which are all excellent! First on the list is the Edinburgh Museum. Set in a bright yellow building on the Royal Mile, we were particularly impressed by the Foundation Edinburgh Exhibition, a fantastic short video which takes you through the history of the city from it’s earliest beginnings in prehistoric times, right up to the modern day. This was a brilliant way to get up to speed with the history of Edinburgh.''Then of course there’s the museum itself, spread over a number of floors in a series of buildings, the oldest of which dates from the 16th century. On display are all sorts of items relating to the history, art, notable people and culture of Edinburgh as well as changing exhibitions such as the Foundation film that I mentioned above. Definitely worth a couple of hours of your time – and entry is free!''2. The Writers Museum''The second museum that is worth a visit is the''Writers Museum''. This is just off the Royal Mile and focuses on the lives of three of Scotland’s most famous writers – Robert Burns, Sir Walter Scott and Robert Louis Stevenson.''A bit of context for you. Edinburgh was the world’s first UNESCO''City of Literature'', and these three chaps had a great deal to do with it. Edinburgh is also home to the world’s only train station named for a book – Waverley was the first novel by Sir Walter Scott.''Suffice to say, a museum dedicated to these three greats of Scottish literature seems only appropriate. Different parts of the building are allocated to each of them, with information about their lives and writings, as well as objects and artefacts from the writers themselves. A must for anyone with even a vague interest in writing. Also – it’s free!''3. The People’s Story Museum''On a roll with the free museums here! Edinburgh really does have an excellent selection of free museums. One that is also worth a visit is the''People’s Story Museum'', which is basically just over the road from the Museum of Edinburgh.''This free museum, housed in the 15th century Canongate Tollbooth building, focuses on the lives of the people of Edinburgh, from the 18th century to the present day. Displays give insights into the lives of all sorts of Edinburgh’s inhabitants and their belongings, and there’s also a former jail which you can take a peek at.''4. Gladstone’s Land''Moving back up the Royal Mile towards the Castle, and we find ourselves at the National Trust for Scotland’s''Gladstone’s Land''property.''One thing that people often don’t realise about Edinburgh is that in the 17th century it was home to some of the tallest residential buildings in the world – essentially the first skyscrapers were built in Edinburgh. This was a result of the city walls restricting the size of the city, which meant that to accommodate the burgeoning population, properties had to be built upwards.''Unfortunately, engineering and materials didn’t quite meet the requirements, and a number of these early “skyscrapers” came tumbling down, with associated loss of life. In addition, they were overcrowded and unsanitary. Still, if you wanted to be protected by the city walls, this was the place to live.''One of the best preserved examples of these buildings that you can visit today in Edinburgh is Gladstone’s land. Here you can visit six rooms across two levels, and learn a little about how it might have been to live in one of these high rise tenements. There are some well informed staff on site to help answer any question, and we particularly enjoyed the tasting room, where we got to try some old fashioned coffee and oatcakes!''Entry is free if you’re a National Trust for England or Scotland member, otherwise you can''find the latest prices here''.''As an addition to this, since you’re in the area and learning about living conditions, you might also want to visit''Real Mary Kings Close''. This is actually one of the most popular attractions in Edinburgh, so was a bit of an obvious addition (I don’t expect you to have missed this one!), but just in case, here you’ll be able to go underneath Edinburgh to one of the old streets that used to run down from the Royal Mile, and learn about the lives of people who in 17th century Edinburgh, battling plague, filth covered streets, and generally dire living conditions!''5. Gin and Tonic''On to something a little less grim. In the last few years, Edinburgh has seen a surge of interest in small, hand crafted beverages. One of the most famous of these is Pickering’s Gin, the first exclusive gin distillery to be created in Edinburgh for over 150 years.''The distillery is located at the wonderful Summerhall, which also houses an excellent pub, a beer brewery, all sorts of spaces (many of which are used for the various''Edinburgh Festivals'') and a café.''We took a''tour of the distillery'', something anyone can do by appointment, and learnt all about how gin is made, what goes into it, and, most importantly, we sampled various gins. We also had a Pickerings and Tonic in the Royal Dick, the Summerhall pub, which has a direct line from the distilleries gin tank through to the bar! It doesn’t get much fresher than that.''If you want more of a cocktail experience with your gin, Pickering’s also have you covered. Head to''One Square'', the restaurant and bar attached to Edinburgh’s Sheraton hotel, and enjoy an exclusive Pickering’s creation, One Square Gin, either with a tonic, or as part of one of their many cocktail and martini options.''6. Stand Comedy Club''Edinburgh is world famous for comedy, not least because it is home to the''Edinburgh Festival Fringe'', the world’s largest arts festival of which comedy takes centre stage.''The good news is that you don’t have to be in Edinburgh during the Fringe Festival to experience great comedy. You can just head to the''Stand Comedy Club'', and experience fantastic comedy whilst having a few drinks. What’s not to love?''Even better, if you’re on a budget, you’re still in luck. On Monday nights in Edinburgh, the Stand hosts their “Red Raw” event, where beginner comics come to try their hand, whilst big names sometimes drop in to test out new material. We witnessed this first hand as we happened to be attending on a Monday, and we saw ten acts over the course of the evening, some of which were, well, not great, but the majority of which were excellent.''We we even saw Frankie Boyle, one of Scotland’s most well known comics, turn up and practice some of his Fringe material. Not bad for £2!''One tip if you’re heading to the Stand – get there early. It’s a small venue, and there’s only so much seating, so if you want a good spot and don’t want to be standing, you need to be in the queue before the doors open. We turned up just after the doors opened, and only just managed to get a seat, so keep that in mind!''7. Go Inside Nelson’s Monument on Calton Hill''Climbing up Calton Hill should definitely be on every visitor’s''Edinburgh to-do list''. And I’ve been up plenty of times, as I think it offers one of the best views of Edinburgh available in the city, with minimal effort required.''But, despite having been up it many times, one thing I’ve never done is climb''Nelson’s Monument'', which sits on top of the hill. So on our recent Edinburgh adventure, we did just that. It turns out that Nelson’s Monument is more than just a tower with a pretty view. It’s also home to a small museum, where you can learn about the history of the building, which was, as the name suggest, erected to honor Admiral Lord Nelson.''Over its lifetime, the building has served a number of purposes, many with a suitably naval theme, including being used as a signalling tower for ships in the harbor, and as a means to indicate the accurate time. Even today, the time ball atop the tour drops at 1pm, in sychronisation with the One O’Clock gun that fires from Edinburgh castle. In times before GPS and other accurate timekeeping and navigation aids, these two devices were critical for Edinburgh’s ships to ascertain the correct time for their navigational timekeeping.''There’s a small fee to enter the museum, which is well worth it, and the tower is accessed by 143 steps. It’s a bit of a climb, but the views are very much worth it!''8. City Arts Centre''Back to museums quickly. Edinburgh’s City Arts Centre, right in the heart of the city by Edinburgh Waverley train station, is one of the best places in the city to see Scottish art.''Exhibitions here are always changing – when we visited we saw a gallery dedicated to art created on paper – but the six floors cover the old, the new, and everything in between. There’s a café to refresh you should it all get too much and entry is also free. Worth popping in.''If you’re into art, you should also definitely check out the''Scottish National Gallery'', on the Mound, and the quite fantastic''National Museum of Scotland'', which covers all sorts of Scottish focused collections, including art.''9. Window Shopping''I’m not going to lie, I’m not a massive fan of shopping. Still, I don’t mind a bit of a wander around some shops with Jess (as long as there’s a coffee thrown in somewhere), and Edinburgh has some fantastic locations for shopping if that’s what you’re into.''A couple of places to bring to your attention that you might not be aware of. First, the very recently opened “''The Arches''” series of shops. These shops are built into the arches that support the road above, which is a pretty neat use of space, and there are some really funky little stores here to explore. Including''a coffee shop'', of course, which also has some quite magnificent donuts.''The other shopping area you should check out is in the area of Stockbridge, about a twenty minute walk from Edinburgh city centre (or a quick bus ride). As well as an unbelievable collection of coffee shops, Stockbridge also has a gourmet cheese vendor and numerous vintage clothing shops. Head to St. Stephen street for some of the highlights.''10. Edinburgh Larder''All of this exploration has probably made you a little hungry, so you’re going to want to eat. Edinburgh has become a real foodie paradise, with plenty of excellent choices at all budgets. My recommendation for a truly excellent lunch based on some of our experiences so far would be the''Edinburgh Larder.''We had a delicious, excellent value lunch at the Edinburgh Larder. Food is locally sourced, fresh, and delicious, with some great value menu options. Definitely a highlight for us of our culinary adventures in Edinburgh.''If you would like more recommendations for eating in Edinburgh, we also had absolutely fantastic meals at''Wedgwood the Restaurant'',''The Printing Press'',''La Garrigue''and the''Tower Restaurant'', which Jess will be talking about over on her blog. You won’t go wrong with any of these options though!''11. Botanic Gardens''Into the home run with your list of extra Edinburgh activities! This one is perfect if you’re looking for a bit of nature – you can’t go wrong with''Edinburgh’s Botanic Garden''. Open every day except Christmas and New Year, and with free admission (the glasshouses do have a small, and very much worth paying,''entry fee''), these gardens have a history dating back to 1670!''There’s plenty to see and do here, with 70 acres to explore, and over 273,000 plants to see, which represent over 13,000 species. If the city is getting a bit much, they offer a wonderful escape, with spots for relaxation and enjoyment of nature.''12. Walk along the Water of Leith''Last on my list of activities in Edinburgh that you might not have thought to do is to take a walk along the Water of Leith, specifically between the beautiful villages of Stockbridge and Dean Village. You’ll find it hard to believe you’re still in Edinburgh as you wander along this lush green path by the quiet water of the Leith.''This section of the Water of Leith walkway is not too long – less than a mile – but is very peaceful and worth doing. If you feel like going a bit further, the whole walkway runs for just over twelve miles, and finishes up in the port town of Leith itself – also worth a visit. Don’t miss Dean village though, this cute little village (now officially a part of Edinburgh), set down in a steep valley, is truly picturesque, and worth a bit of your time to explore.''Well, that about sums up some of our favourite activities in Edinburgh that you might have missed! Now, let’s take a look at where we stayed when we visited Edinburgh.''Where we stayed in Edinburgh''We stayed at the fantastic Howard Hotel in Edinburgh for 2 nights. This property, created from three Georgian townhouses, was about a 10 – 15 minute walk from Princes Street (or a 5 minute taxi ride), and offered a luxurious, quiet stay in wonderful elegance. Unfortunately, as of 2018, this property is now closed.''Fear not though, there are plenty of options for Edinburgh accommodation to suit all budgets – check out all the''Edinburgh listings on booking.com''for inspiration.''Further Reading for your Edinburgh Trip''As you’d expect, we’ve written a lot of content about visiting Edinburgh and the UK in general, plus we have other resources we think you’ll find helpful. Here they are:''Want to see more of Edinburgh? Check out my guide to''spending two days in Edinburgh!''If you’re a Harry Potter fan, you’ve got to check out Jess’s''Guide to the Best Edinburgh Harry Potter locations''If you were thinking of taking a trip around the UK and want to include Edinburgh as part of that itinerary, we have both a''one week itinerary of the UK''and a''two week itinerary of the UK''for you.''Heading out of the capital? How about a trip to''the Scottish Borders''or a''tour of some Whisky distilleries''?''And finally, if you want a guidebook to bring along with you, check out the''Lonely Planet Pocket Edinburgh Guide''or the''Rick Steves Snapshot Edinburgh Guide''.''And that sums up our guide to getting off the beaten path in Edinburgh! If you’ve got any ideas of your own to add to the list, do pop them in the comments below!''So you know – our three days in Edinburgh were in partnership with''This Is Edinburgh'', who asked us if we’d be up for exploring this magnificent city. They covered our attraction entry fees, meals and accommodation. All opinions remain our own. Check out our''code of ethics''for more on how we choose who to work with, and what that means.''SHARE ON''We recently had the pleasure of being invited on a number of tours around Scotland with''Rabbie’s Trail Burners'', departing from Edinburgh. If you’re not familiar with Rabbie’s, they’re a Scottish tour company who offer small group tours (maximum 16 people) across the UK and Ireland.''They started in 1993, and were Scotland’s first five star tour company. Today they offer all sorts of tours, from day trips to multi-day experiences. We did three tours with them over the course of a week – two tours of the Scottish Borders (which Jess has written about''here''), and one tour''focused on Malt Whisky''. You can probably guess which of the these 3 tours was my top choice!''Our Experience on the Whisky Tasting Tour of Scotland with Rabbie’s''Rabbie’s tours start bright and early, with the majority of the departures leaving between 8.30am and 9.30am from the Rabbie’s Tours Edinburgh location. This is easy to find, near Calton Hill on Waterloo Place, a couple of minutes walk from Edinburgh Waverley train station.''The office is also handily a cafe, so if you get there early as we did, you can grab a coffee and a bite to eat before your tour starts. It can get a bit crowded in here, so people also hang around outside. You just need to arrive fifteen minutes before your departure time to check in.''Once we were checked in and properly caffeinated, we headed to our bus. These line up a little further along the street, a couple of minutes walk away, and when you check in you are given the name of your tour guide/driver so you can easily find your bus. Each bus also has the tour written on the window, so they’re easy to find.''The buses are comfortable Mercedes Benz mini-coaches, that seat up to 16 people, which is the maximum tour size. Do be aware that many of the tours are fully booked, so there won’t likely be spare seats. We found the seats at the very front offered the best views.''Once we were all on board our driver Mike introduced himself, and then we set off. The tour guides double as drivers so they provide commentary while driving and also help guide you once off the bus. Our itinerary included two whisky tastings, as well as a lunch stop at Loch Lomond. One of the nice things about the Rabbie’s tours is that the drivers do have some flexibility in where they go and what they stop at, so you might find yourself seeing something unexpected. Here’s how our day went:''Stop 1 – Glance at Stirling Castle''We drove out of Edinburgh to a slightly damp start – even in July the weather in Scotland can be variable, so it’s always a good idea to bring either an umbrella or a lightweight raincoat!''Our driver shared with us some of the highlights of what we were seeing as we left the city, and we also drove past the fantastic''Kelpies statues'', the largest equine statues in the world. There wasn’t unfortunately time on the tour to stop here, but if you do get a chance, they’re well worth visiting.''The first stop on our tour was at a lovely photo spot near Stirling Castle. This provided two excellent subjects for photography – the castle itself, of course, perched high above us on a rocky promontory, and some Highland Cows, those gorgeous hairy cows that basically scream “Scotland” right at you.''Naturally, we took a pile of photos, before hopping back into the bus, and heading to our first distillery.''Stop 2 – Glengoyne Distillery''The first distillery we visited was the''Glengoyne Distillery''. This was about a 30 minute drive from Stirling, and they’ve been making whisky here for almost 200 years. The distillery is situated in stunning green surroundings, and they believe themselves to be the most beautiful distillery in Scotland.''It’s hard to argue with that statement, even if this was the first Scottish whisky distillery I’ve ever visited. More research might be required, in the name of science of course.''Some other facts to keep you going – the Glengoyne Distillery doesn’t use any peat to dry their grains, so there’s no smoky taste to their drinks. They also use 100% renewable energy to power the site, and they use the slowest whisky stills in Scotland.''So that’s some facts. You’re probably wondering what the end result is like. Patience, we’re getting there.''The tour with Rabbie’s that we took had two options. The basic option was £8, which included a full tour of the distillery as well as a tasting of a 12 year old Glengoyne whisky. For £10, you could add on an additional tasting, of an 18 year old Glengoyne. Obviously, I went for the £10 option – £2 for an 18 year old single malt is a no-brainer if you’re a whisky fan like me. Even if it was before midday.''The tour started, rather pleasingly, with the first whisky tasting, which was accompanied by a short film showing the history of Glengoyne. Following the film we had a few minutes to finish off our whiskies, before we were led on a guided tour of the distillery, and the various processes were explained to us about how Glengoyne produce their whisky. I particularly loved the copper stills, although was a little disappointed that we weren’t allowed to take any interior photographs on the tour itself.''Finally, we ended up in the shop, where we had our tasting of the 18 year old whisky. This was without doubt my favourite of all the whiskies we drank that day. Even though Glengoyne whisky isn’t smoky at all (my preferred style of whisky), I loved how smooth it was. Even Jess pronounced it to be ok, and she’s definitely not a whisky drinker!''We didn’t end up buying any of the whiskies on offer, but had we chosen to do so, our tour would have entitled us to five pounds off any purchase, which was a nice touch.''Stop 3 – Loch Lomond''After our whisky tasting experience it was back in the bus and a drive to Loch Lomond, where there was a scheduled lunch stop. On the way our driver played us a bit of relaxing Scottish music to set the scene, as we drove through lovely green landscapes.''Lunch was in a small village called Balmaha by the side of Loch Lomond, where we had a couple of options – a pub lunch at the Oak Tree Inn, or sandwiches and coffee at the next door café. We were quite hungry, so went for the pub lunch option, as did the majority of the group. This was good, although the pub was very busy so service was a little slow.''After our lunch our driver guide led us on a short walk along the side of the loch and up to a viewpoint which had some great views of the landscape around us. Then, it was back to the bus, and onwards to:''Stop 4 – Deanston Distillery / Doune Castle''Our second and final distillery on the tour was''Deanston Distillery''. This is also wonderfully situated, with a river flowing by. It was also a noticeably larger affair than Glengoyne, housed in a large, industrial style building that looked nothing like a whisky distillery in my mind.''We learnt on the tour that the reason that the building didn’t look like a whisky distillery was because it was actually originally a cotton mill, dating from 1785, which had been repurposed into a whiskey distillery in the 1960’s, following the decline of the UK cotton industry.''Today, Deanston produces a great quantity of whisky – measured in the millions of litres. However, only a percentage of this is created as single malt – a good part of it is used to create blended whiskies by third party brands.''There are some interesting facts about Deanston. It has it’s own hydroelectric plant, which supplies all of its electricity and then some – the rest is fed into the UK’s National Grid. It also has Scotland’s largest open topped mash tun, and was one of the first Scottish distilleries to produce organic whisky.''I was also delighted to be able to take photos throughout the tour, from steaming stills to vaults full of aging barrels.''Finally, we returned to the shop, where we had our whisky tasting. As with Glengoyne, there was the option to have one whisky for £8 or two whiskies for £10, plus the entry fee gave us £5 off any whisky purchase.''Again, I went for the two whisky option, although in this case the second whisky was a younger, less smooth option, so whilst it was interesting for the variety, I felt that the Glengoyne 18 year old option presented greater value for money. I also personally preferred being able to stretch my whisky tasting, having one at the start of the tour and one at the end of the tour, rather than two glasses in a row, but that’s just me.''The sharp eyed amongst you will have noticed that the heading of this section is Deanston Distillery and Doune Castle. On our tour, our driver recognised that not everyone was crazy about whisky, so instead of touring Deanston, he presented the alternative option of visiting Doune Castle, a 14th century medieval castle a few minutes drive away. Most tour members were eager to do a second whisky tasting, but two of the tour members decided to go to the castle.''Jess was really keen to do this, so whilst I toured the distillery, bravely sampling single malts, Jess took a tour of this gorgeous castle, which is notably famous for starring in many scenes of the''Monty Python and the Holy Grail''movie, and it was also used as Winterfell in the Game of Thrones pilot and most recently in the hit TV series Outlander.''Jess reported back that this was very much worth visiting with a good audioguide, so splitting up for this part of the tour ended up working very well for both of us.''Stop 5 – Forth Bridge.''Leaving Glengoyne, we headed back to Edinburgh. Our tour wasn’t over though. Our driver spotted an opportunity for one last short stop on our way back into the city, taking us down to the picturesque village of Queensferry for a photo opportunity of the''Forth Rail Bridge''.''This UNESCO listed bridge is a marvel of Victorian engineering, spanning 2.5km over the Firth of Forth, and still responsible for carrying over 200 trains a day. When it was built, it was the longest single cantilever bridge in the world, and since then has only been surpassed by one other bridge of this design.''Anyway, the main thing is that it’s a pretty impressive looking red structure, which is well worth taking a photo or two of, and it was the perfect way to wrap up our day of whisky tasting with Rabbie’s!''What’s Included on the Rabbie’s Whisky Tasting Tour?''The Rabbie’s Whisky Tasting Tour includes your transport all day, as well as the tour guide who is also the driver. The guides with Rabbies were, in our experience, very knowledgeable and also entertaining, and we learnt a lot about Scottish history and culture as we drove along.''You have to cover your own whisky tasting costs (starting from £8 per tour) as well as lunch and any driver gratuity you choose to add.''This flexibility means that if you’re really into whisky you can opt to pay a little more and have more than one tasting. If you’re not so into whisky (like Jess), you can just enjoy the tour. You may also have the opportunity (depending on time, etc.), as she did, to opt out of the second distillery visit to see a nearby attraction as she did with the castle.''Do I Have To Like Whisky?''This being a whisky tasting tour, it would make sense to have at least someone in your party who enjoys whisky, as all the tours come with at least one shot of the stuff. Jess isn’t a big fan of whisky, so she generally took a sip and let me finish the rest of her glass, which worked out well for me. She enjoys learning about new things so the tour itself and getting to see the landscapes was enough.''That said, the tour is about more than the actual tasting of whisky. Whisky is an integral part of Scottish heritage and culture, which is interesting to learn about, and this tour takes in some gorgeous properties and landscapes. Plus, in our case, Jess was able to visit a castle rather than the second distillery, so there was the option to have less of a whisky focus.''Is the Rabbie’s Whisky Tasting Tour for you?''If you like Whisky, then most definitely. It’s great to have someone else behind the wheel, handling all the logistics, and letting you focus on enjoying the day. Given how strict Scotland’s drink driving rules are these days, this is most likely the easiest way to enjoy a whisky tasting tour without fear of breaking the law (or trying to designate a driver!).''Of course, as I mentioned, you don’t *have* to love whisky to still enjoy this tour – there’s plenty more included to keep you entertained, most notably the stop at Loch Lomond, which is very beautiful.''However, if a focus on whisky distilleries is too much, then you might be interested in''Rabbie’s Highland Lochs, Glens and Whisky Day tour'', which stops at one whisky distillery, and has more focus on sight-seeing. Or, you can go whisky nuts, and embark on either a''three''or''four day whisky tour''!''And that just about sums up our experiences on the''Rabbie’s Whisky Tasting Tour.''We had a lot of fun, and would definitely recommend this tour to anyone visiting Edinburgh (get more''ideas for your time visiting Edinburgh here'') who wants to get out into the countryside, drink some fantastic Scotch whiskies, learn a bit about Scottish history, and take in some Scottish landscapes. If you’re interested in this, or any other Rabbie’s tour, take a''look at their website for full pricing and availability''.''So you know:''our Whisky tasting tour was provided to us complimentary of Rabbie’s Trail Burners, who covered our tour and''entry fees to the attractions we visited.''We’d like to thank Rabbie’s for the opportunity to drink whisky, and of course, to let you know that all our opinions remain our own. For more information on who we choose to work with, and what that means, you can read our''code of ethics''.''SHARE ON''I’ve travelled extensively in Thailand, and it’s easily one of my favourite countries in Asia – the friendly people, the excellent food, the relaxed vibe all make for a fantastic country to travel in. I’ve written''a great deal on Thailand already'', but haven’t put together a suggested Thailand itinerary post, as I’ve done for other many other countries like''Sri Lanka'', the''UK''and''New Zealand''.''Time to change that! Here’s everything you need to know for the perfect 2 weeks in Thailand, including information on getting around, the food, cultural considerations, budget, where to stay in Thailand –\xa0 and lots more! Enjoy, and pop any questions in the comments at the end. Let’s get started.''Contents:''2 Week Thailand Itinerary Summary''2 Weeks in Thailand: A Detailed Thailand Itinerary''1. Bangkok – 3 Days''2. Kanchanaburi – 3 Days''3. Ayutthaya –\xa0 2 Days''4. Khao Sok – 2 Days''5. Beaches somewhere – 4 Days''2 Week Thailand Itinerary Map''Locations to consider adding to your Thailand Itinerary''Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai and Pai''Buriram''Sukhothai''Similan Islands''Songkhla''How Much Does it Cost to Travel in Thailand?''Why Should You Visit Thailand?''When Should You Visit Thailand?''How To Get Around Thailand''What to Eat in Thailand''Where to Stay in Thailand''Other Practicalities for Travelling in Thailand''Cultural considerations''Internet Access''Power Outlets''Vaccinations and Health''Avoiding common scams''Further Reading and Information for your Thailand Itinerary Planning''2 Week Thailand Itinerary Summary''Let’s have a quick overview of our suggested Thailand itinerary for quick reference before we get into the post:''Bangkok – 3 Days''Kanchanaburi – 3 Days''Ayutthaya – 2 Days''Khao Sok – 2 Days''Beaches in the south – 4 Days''Now, on with the detailed Thailand itinerary for your two week trip. As well as the above locations, there are also a number of additional suggestions to help with planning your perfect Thailand itinerary!''2 Weeks in Thailand: A Detailed Thailand Itinerary''1. Bangkok – 3 Days''Bangkok is one of those cities that seem to divide opinion. Personally,''I love it''. It’s vibrant, chaotic, and a feast for the senses. It’s a heck of an introduction to the country though, so prepare yourself. And, if you’re coming from somewhere a bit cooler, give yourself time to adjust to the humidity and heat, and be aware of the''signs of dehydration''.''So, what to do in Bangkok? Well, lots! At the top of your list should be''Wat Phra Kaeo and the Grand Palace''. This is the number one sight in Bangkok, and for good reason. The walled compound contains both these sights, with the 19th century Grand Palace a fascinating mix of Western and Thai styles. Wat Phra Kaeo, which houses the Emerald Buddha, is generally regarded as the most important Buddhist temple in the country.''My favourite sight in Bangkok though is''Wat Arun''. Particularly beautiful at sunset, this temple consists of a huge prang, or tower, which soars to nearly 300ft in height – a part of which you can climb (although the stairs are fairly steep and terrifying!). It’s covered in porcelain and seashells, and is quite beautiful to behold.''There are many more temples in Bangkok, so you won’t be short of temples and Buddha statues. Some notable highlights include''Wat Pho''(the temple of the reclining Buddha) and''Wat Saket''(wonderfully situated on a mountain above the old city).''And, of course, there’s more to Bangkok than temples. Bangkok has fantastic nightlife and shopping, with some of the''best rooftop bars in Thailand''. I’m also a huge fan of the street food, which is plentiful, cheap, and generally safe to eat. If you’re want some tips on staying healthy when eating street food, check out this excellent guide to''eating street food without getting sick''from my friend Jodi.''Another attraction in Bangkok is the floating market – which is basically a street market without the streets, held in the canals and rivers of the city, with vendors plying their wares from their boats. Many of these markets have become tourist traps now rather than a place that locals go to do their shopping, but there are still some worth visiting. There’s an excellent list here to''some of the floating markets worth visiting in Bangkok''.''Other than that, my advice for Bangkok is to spend some time getting acclimatised, meeting people, wandering the streets, checking out the street vendors, and immersing yourself in the vibrant chaos that is this city.''One last tip for Bangkok – taxis are generally reliable and widely available, as well as cost effective. You need to insist on the meter being put on before you get in though, and don’t be upset if they drive off – just wait for another taxi to turn up. Finally, be aware of the classic cheap tuk-tuk scam – it IS too good to be true, I assure you. You can read more about avoiding the common Thailand scams at the end of the post.''Finally, Bangkok has a lot of accommodation options – check out''listings for Bangkok on booking.com here''.''2. Kanchanaburi – 3 Days''From Bangkok, my next recommended destination is''Kanchanaburi''. Whilst the name of the town might not instantly ring any bells, the river it sits on probably will, it’s the River Kwai, famous for its bridge, the story of which was''turned into a film''.''It was here during the second world war that thousands of allied prisoners of war were held by the Japanese and forced to construct a railway that was to link Thailand with Burma. This included the construction of the bridge and 415km of railway. The construction of the railway was very costly in terms of civilian life, both of Asian civilian labourers and Allied civil wars, with estimates of over 90,000 civilians and nearly 13,000 POW’s losing their lives.''Today there are a number of museums dedicated to the story of the railway, with the best in my opinion being the JEATH war museum, located in downtown Kanchanaburi, a few kilometres from the bridge itself. There are also the war cemeteries, home to the many who lost their lives here. Finally, you can also walk across the bridge itself, and take a ride on the death railway itself.''You might be wondering why I’ve scheduled three days in Kanchanaburi. Well, this was actually one of my favourite parts of Thailand, and one that is often overlooked – folks pop here for the Death Railway, but then don’t explore the other attractions. I’ve written a whole post to''visiting Kanchanaburi'', but in brief, make sure you take a day trip to the spectacular Erawan Falls, hit up the night market, visit the giant tree and visit a temple inside a cave.''I’d also recommend staying at a guest house on the river. The sunsets are gorgeous, and as long as you’re not visiting over a weekend or other festival, it can be a very peaceful and relaxing experience.''We stayed at the River Guesthouse (''here on Google Maps'') which was quiet, a short walk from the train station, and a bargain. We can’t find a website or a way to book this property online (we just turned up), although a phone number is listed on the Google Maps entry that you can try. It is quite “rustic” and definitely a budget option, but we enjoyed it.''There are''plenty of options in Kanchanaburi''though, just check out the reviews to see what kind of vibe a place has before committing.''The best way to get to Kanchanaburi is by rail from Bangkok, it takes around three hours. The train departs from Thonburi station in Bangkok, which is a bit out of the way in the west of the city, but it’s an easy taxi ride. There are only a couple of trains a day, so do check the timetable before heading out.''3. Ayutthaya –\xa0 2 Days''From Kanchanaburi I’d suggest heading to one of Thailand’s old capital cities. There are two main options to choose from, Ayutthaya and Sukhothai, and on a shorter trip like this, I think picking just one of these two will suffice.''They are slightly different in style – Ayutthaya consists of a series of temples and structures which exist inside today’s city, which is still vibrant and bustling. Sukhothai is more of a preserved city complex, with the old city remains standing around 12km from where the new city is.''Ayutthaya is also closer to Bangkok, being only an hour or so north, so it’s a little easier to get to, with frequent buses and trains. Sukhothai is a seven hour bus ride from Bangkok, so requires a bit more effort. That’s why, for this itinerary, I’m recommending Ayutthaya.''There is a lot to see in Ayutthaya. At a time, this was the largest city in the world, with over a million inhabitants, and despite the city being burnt to the ground by the Burmese in the 18th century, a lot has survived.''Again, I have a whole post on the''highlights of Ayutthaya'', which should give you plenty of ideas for your visit as well as tips on accommodation and getting around. As a quick summary though, be sure to visit Wat Phra Mahathat, Wat Phra Si Sanphet, Wat Chaiwattaranaram and Wat Buddhaisawan.''For your accommodation in Ayutthaya,''see listings on booking.com here''.''4. Khao Sok – 2 Days''Now it’s time to head south, to one of my favourite spots in Thailand – Khao Sok National Park. This place is, for some reason, not well visited, but it is truly unlike anywhere else I visited in the country.''Set up in 1980, the park consists of a large man made lake, surrounded by Thailand’s largest virgin rainforest. This forest is home to all sorts of creatures, from elephant to bear – although sighting them in the wild is quite the challenge! It’s also famously home to the Raffelsia Kerrii, one of the largest flowers in the world, which can have flowers up to a meter in diameter! They also smell absolutely terrible in order to attract flies, which carry the pollen. Sighting one of these flowers is a definite highlight of a visit, although as they only flower for a week or so, you have to be fairly lucky.''My highlight of Khao Sok National Park though was the visit to the lakehouse. At time of writing, there are around 16 properties to choose from, all of which offer roughly the same sort of thing – a series of floating bungalows on the gorgeous Cheow Lan lake, where you’ll be surrounded by limestone karsts and beautiful jungles, with the lake being the perfect temperature for a swim.''I’d say that Cheow Lan lake should be the number one priority for any visitor to Thailand, that’s how much I enjoyed it there. To visit, you need to book in advance as you need to get a boat to the lakehouse. We stayed at''Smiley’s Lakehouse''which offered reasonable accommodation including en-suite facilities. There are''quite a few lake house options''to choose from depending on your budget, so take a look and see what works for you.''We also stayed in the jungle, at''Smiley’s Bungalows'', who arranged the lake house and transfers. Here we went trekking in the jungle, learnt all about leeches, and relaxed. Also, when at Smiley’s Bungalows, do try the Jungle Massaman curry – it’s excellent!''Getting to Khao Sok can be a bit tricky – the train line can get very busy so you definitely need to book in advance. Many guest houses will pick you up from the nearest station (Surat Thani). There are also minibuses here from various locations around Thailand, and both a bus and plane service from Bangkok. Read more on the options from around Thailand''here'', and be sure to book in advance for whichever option you choose.''You can read more about my thoughts on visiting both the''Cheow Lan Lake in Khao Sok National Park''and''Khao Sok jungle'', and for even more reading, check out this post from another travel blogger on''how awesome she thought Khao Sok''was.''5. Beaches somewhere – 4 Days''Ok, from Khao Sok it’s time to hit up the gorgeous beaches of Thailand for your last four days. Where you go next is really up to the sort of style of beach you’re looking for. If you’re into resorts, people, and partying, then hop on the four hour minibus down to Phuket and go nuts.''Or, for a quieter experience, head to Thai Mueang, about an hour north of Phuket, where the beaches are generally silent and the guesthouses quiet.''You could also head further down the coast, either to somewhere like Krabi or Ko Lanta, or head even further down to Trang, which is more popular with Thai tourists and offers gorgeous beaches, easy access to quieter islands and fantastic sunsets. Read more about''my Trang experiences here.''As you can see, plenty of options, and something to suit everyone!''2 Week Thailand Itinerary Map''Here’s a map of the destinations visited for reference, which you can see on Google Maps''here.''Locations to consider adding to your Thailand Itinerary''There is a lot to do and see in Thailand, even if most folks do seem to gravitate towards Phuket and surrounds. Not that there’s anything wrong with this – Thailand has fantastic beaches and gorgeous weather – but there is a lot more to the country than many see.''In case the above Thailand itinerary doesn’t check all your boxes, or you were looking for a longer itinerary (or you just want to try and pack more in!), here are some more of my favourite Thailand destinations for you to think about adding to your itinerary.''Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai and Pai''If you’re looking for less of a beach experience and more mountains, forests and temples, then head north to Thailand’s hill country. Here you’ll find the town of Chiang Mai, where many foreigners base themselves long term thanks to the nice climate, sizeable community, fast internet and low cost of living. There’s a fantastic night market here, arguably''the best smoothie cart in the world'', a gorgeous temple on the hill, and if you like national parks,''Doi Inthanon''isn’t far away.''Head even further north and you’ll find Pai. This is a gorgeous little mountain town that''many a traveller has fallen deeply in love with''.''Finally, right near the top of the country is Chiang Rai, inside the infamous golden triangle. Chiang Rai is particularly noteworthy – as well as for''the opium trade''– for two temples: the''White Temple of Chiang Rai'', and''the Black Temple of Chiang Rai''. These are two different but entirely epic temples / art installations, both of which are very much worth the journey north alone.''Buriram''This one is going to take you to the East of Thailand, where far fewer visitors head. It’s worth the effort though, because this part of Thailand is quite different, with more influence from the Khmer empire, meaning the temples here have more in common with places like Angkor Wat than the rest of Thailand. In fact,''Phanom Rung'', my favourite of all the temples in Thailand, was built by the Khmer empire before they built Angkor Wat.''There’s more to do than visit a temple on a volcano though. There’s the lotus pond enclosed Prasat Muang Tam, the silk weaving village of Amphoe Na Pho and the Lower Northeastern Cultural Centre, where you can learn all about the history of the region.''You can read more about visiting this part of Thailand in my post on''Buriram'', plus you should read about''Khao Yai National Park'', which is in a similar direction and is one of the better places in Thailand to see elephant in the wild.''Sukhothai''As I mentioned earlier, Sukhothai is one of Thailand’s ancient capital cities, and a UNESCO world heritage site. The old city is separate from the new city, and you can wander the ruins and explore the temples, trying to imagine what it must have been like in its heyday.''The complex is large, so you can easily spend at least a day here, and as it’s quite a way north of Bangkok (7 hours by train), is worth adding to your itinerary only if you’re already heading to somewhere like Chiang Mai – it makes a handy stopping point on the way.''Sukhothai is particularly popular during the Loi Krathong festival, when thousands of people come to see the city in all its splendour. We visited during Loi Krathong, so check out the post on''visiting Sukhothai during Loi Krathong''for more information.''Similan Islands''Thailand is famous for its islands, and rightly so, with an overwhelming collection of paradise like palm fringed options to choose from.''So, to say that the Similan Islands are arguably some of the best islands that Thailand has to offer is high praise indeed. Rated as one of the best dive sites in the world, the real draw here is the snorkelling and diving. The water has unbelievable visibility, is lovely and warm, and there’s a plethora of marine life to see.''You can also stay on the islands, which is what we did, meaning you can experience them when they are a little quieter and the day trippers have left. Or, you can do a live aboard option on a boat, which tends to be more suited to divers. Read a fellow bloggers experience of''diving the Similar Islands here'', and check out my thoughts on our''two day Similan Islands visit here'', which includes tips on getting there, where to stay, and approximate costs.''Songkhla''Last but not least in my list of options to consider is the city of Songkhla. This was my favourite of all the cities we visited in Thailand, despite it not being that well known to tourists. It’s on the south east coastline of Thailand, around 1000km from Bangkok, and has strong Malay and Chinese influences.''It has gorgeous beaches, a free tram tour of the town, giant statues of a mouse and a cat, an excellent night market and a really laid back vibe. If you’re looking for somewhere a bit different, away from the well trodden path, then Songkhla is definitely worth a visit. You can read in detail my experiences and''advice for visiting Songkhla in this post''.''How Much Does it Cost to Travel in Thailand?''Thailand really is a country where you can spend as much or as little as you like. It’s not the cheapest of the countries in the region, but it certainly isn’t expensive by any stretch of the imagination. You can get a private room in the region of $5 – $10 per day, food shouldn’t cost more than $1 – $3 a meal, and then you’ve got transportation, water, sight-seeing and beer (around $1 – $2 a beer generally).''Of course, you can go crazy and spend a lot more, and if you’re on a tighter timetable, you might find yourself flying rather than using slower buses, but overall, Thailand can easily be achieved on a budget of $30 – $50 per day. I could go on, but my friend Matt has put together an incredibly detailed guide to''budgeting for Thailand'', which you should definitely read.''Why Should You Visit Thailand?''Thailand is a fantastic country to visit, particularly if this is your first trip to Asia. It’s an easy country to travel in, with friendly and welcoming people. It’s also relatively easy on the wallet – perhaps not as cheap as other parts of Asia, but certainly very much in the budget category.''In terms of sight-seeing, Thailand has attractions to suit all manner of tastes. There’s everything from''jungles''and''lake houses'', through to''snorkelling opportunities'',''extinct volcanoes,''wild elephants'',''mountainous national parks'',''war memorials'',''incredible temples'', and of course,''unbelievable beaches and islands''.''And I’ve not even mentioned the food!''The other thing about Thailand is that despite it being a very popular destination, the majority of tourists tend to visit a small number of hotspots, like Krabi, Phuket, and a few of the islands. This means that you can still visit Thailand and not feel overwhelmed by visitors if you pick your locations wisely. I’ll be going through a host of options in this post to give you ideas for your trip, but first:''When Should You Visit Thailand?''Whilst Thailand can be visited year round, there are times of year where the climate is more pleasant than others.''Thailand has a tropical climate, with a wet season and a dry season. The dry season is between November and March. Temperatures will be pleasant at this time of year, and it won’t rain so much. The rainy season is April through October, with the hottest part of the year between March and May, when the rain can make rural areas more inaccessible, and the temperatures can be hot and humid.''If you’re travelling more on a budget, then be aware the prices will be higher in the November – March time as this is the most popular time to visit, and prices will be a little lower in the off-season.''How To Get Around Thailand''There are a number of options for getting around Thailand. I predominantly travelled on''long distance buses'', which are very reasonable priced and often end up being faster than the train. These go from major transport hubs in cities and towns around the country, and usually run to a schedule.''There are also minibuses. These can be faster than the scheduled buses, but can also be more cramped, so I’d suggest using these for shorter journeys. Do be careful when at transport hubs as the minivan companies keep an eye out for tourists looking lost and will try to “help” you by selling you a ticket on their service rather than the long distance bus you were looking for.''This happened to me on the way north from Trang to Phuket, and whilst I didn’t pay any more, and I suspect it was quicker, the journey wasn’t very comfortable. If you want to take a long distance bus, go to a ticket counter at a bus station to be sure!''Trains also run throughout the country, with the overnight trains up to Chiang Mai, and down the east coast to Hat Yai and beyond being particularly popular. Trains are generally reliable and good value, with various classes available – check out this''excellent guide to train travel in Thailand''for more information.''You can also fly around Thailand, which is particularly suitable if you’re on a tight timetable and want to see as much as possible with minimal travel downtime. It’s obviously the more expensive option, but if your time is important, is definitely going to get you places quicker. Options include AirAsia, Bangkok Airways, Nok Air, Thai Airways and Thai Smile. You can''check and compare prices on flights in Thailand here''.''If you’re looking to plan your travel around Thailand, I’ve found that the planning tool''Rome2Rio''does a great job of comparing all the options available to give you ideas of times and costs.''What to Eat in Thailand''Ok, to be honest, this would be a whole post in itself. Thai food is seriously amazing, and varies wildly across the country. In my experience, the further south I went, the spicier the food became, with the Yellow curry in the far south being eye wateringly hot.''Some highlights of Thai cuisine include Pad Thai, Khao Soi (unique to the north), green, red and yellow curries, som thai and my absolute favourite, Mango Sticky Rice. In reality though, it’s hard to go wrong, pretty much all Thai food is fantastic.''Here’s a bit more reading to give you some more ideas (I told you the food of Thailand would be a post in itself!).''Nomadic Matt’s Guide to the''Best Thai Food You Can Eat''Migrationology’s guide to''100 Thai Dishes to Eat in Bangkok''The BBC Good Food guide to the''Top 10 Dishes in Thailand''Awesomewave’s''23 Weird and Wonderful Foods to Eat in Thailand''Those should give you some ideas of what lies ahead!''Where to Stay in Thailand''Thailand has accommodation options to suit everyone, from swish luxury hotels through to backpacker hostels – and everything in between. Prices vary depending on the popularity of the location, with Bangkok generally being more expensive than the rest of the country. You can start your''property search here''.''In Bangkok, we enjoyed the private rooms and atmosphere at the Lub D hostels, and tried out both their''Siam Square''and''Silom''locations. These aren’t the cheapest options in Bangkok, but they are both excellent. Across the rest of the country we stayed in everything from''river houses''to''resorts'', to homestays to''more upmarket properties''. Generally, prices were excellent, and the quality was high.''If you’re looking for accommodation in Thailand, you will have plenty of choice, whatever your budget. Here are our tips for getting the best prices:''We usually use booking.com when travelling to get the best deals – they have a wide range of listings and usually have great prices. You can see''listings for Thailand here''.''If you prefer an apartment, then we recommend''AirBnB''. We’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get up to''a $100 discount''if you sign up with''this link.''(Discount varies by currency and if you choose to host at some point).''If you can’t find what you want on AirBnB, or you want some new options to try out, we have some great alternatives. We suggest trying''VRBO'',''Flipkey''or''HomeAway''.For more ideas, check out our post for the''best alternatives to AirBnB''.''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''Plenty of ways to save money right there. Now, let’s look at some:''Other Practicalities for Travelling in Thailand''Cultural considerations''Thailand is not a particularly tough country to travel in, and the people are very friendly, but there are a few cultural considerations to bear in mind.''Firstly, feet are considered very dirty, and you should never put your feet up on something, move objects with your feet, or touch anyone with your feet.''On the flip side, the head is considered the most sacred part of someone’s body, so touching someone’s head is also not considered polite.''Speaking of bodies, Thai people are generally quite modest. If you visit a beach popular with Thai people, it’s not unusual to see them swimming in jeans and a t-shirt – western swimwear is considered fairly immodest, and going topless or nude is definitely frowned upon.''The Royal family is almost a taboo subject in Thailand, as insulting the King or the family of the King is a reason to be jailed. Overall I found it was best not to bring up the royal family at all. In addition, as with icons of the Buddha, imagery of the King is also to be treated with respect. Don’t forget that the Thai currency has images of the King on it, so you have to treat it with care as well.''In terms of handling situations when things go wrong, it is considered seriously impolite to cause a Thai person to lose face, and aggressiveness is not welcomed. So if you have any problems, you need to try to stay calm and polite throughout – this will likely get you a much more positive result.''I’ve only ever experienced one incident of a Thai person losing their cool, and that nearly ended quite badly. You can read''all about that experience here''. Overall though, we had a fantastic time in Thailand, found the people friendly and welcoming, and didn’t have any negative experiences. For more do’s and don’t in Thailand, check out''this excellent article''.''Internet Access''Thailand has ubiquitous internet access, with good WiFi hotspots available throughout the country, usually at blazing fast speeds. There’s also excellent 3G and 4G coverage across the country, with pay as you go SIM cards available for very reasonable prices.''To get an idea of what’s available, take a look at this page, which lists all the''pay as you go options for Thailand'', with a focus on data prices.''Power Outlets''Thailand uses a 220v system, so if you are travelling from the US you need to be sure your devices support this standard. Most chargers these days automatically switch voltages and you don’t need to buy new chargers, just check it’s rated for 220v on the label.''Socket wise, Thailand confusingly has two types of socket, one with round holes that matches most European style plugs, and a two pin flat plug that will match a US two pin plug.''Your best best is to pick up a''universal travel adaptor''and a''power strip'', thus ensuring you don’t have any power issues.''Vaccinations and Health''Thailand is a generally safe country to travel in, but there are a few vaccination requirements you should be aware of. The majority of tourist illnesses in Thailand tend to be from contaminated water, so it’s generally wise to only drink bottled or sterilized water, and to avoid salad and ice cubes (either of which may have been washed or made with tap water).''Rabies is present in Thailand, although mostly only in remote areas. It exists in bats and dogs, and Thailand has no shortage of street dogs. Check out our guide to''keeping safe around street dogs in Thailand'', but generally, you should have no reason to be vaccinated against rabies unless you’re travelling or working in a high risk area.''Malaria and other insect borne diseases like Zika and Dengue Fever also exist in Thailand. The best way to avoid getting these diseases is to use bug spray, and to cover up at dusk and dawn when mosquitoes are likely to be present. You should also consult with a doctor as to whether or not your trip will warrant taking anti-malarials.''For more health advice on Thailand, including a run down of the vaccinations you should require, take a look at the''UK’s health service guidance'', and the''US CDC guidance''. And finally, don’t trust a blog post as the definitive guide for your health advice – go to a qualified medical practitioner and get them to advise you!''Avoiding common scams''Like''every country in the world'', Thailand has a few common tourist scams to watch our for. These aren’t particularly complicated, and are mostly in Bangkok or other major tourist destinations.''The two most popular scams are the tuk tuk scam and the closed temple scam.''The tuk-tuk scam will involve a tuk tuk driver offering to take you anywhere you want to go for a mind bogglingly low price, say 20 baht. After you get in, you’ll find yourself being taken on a tour of all sorts of second-rate temples, jewellery shops, tour companies, clothing shops and so on, where various sales tactics will be used to try and sell you generally overpriced and poor quality goods and services.''In a worst case scenario, you’ll find yourself left far away from where you started, with a challenging route home, and a day of your time wasted. This is an easy one to avoid – just don’t take a tuk tuk offering you some incredible deal!''The other regular trick attempted on tourists is for someone to stand outside of a perfectly open temple or other attraction, and tell tourists that it’s closed. Conveniently, the person will know another temple, a short tuk-tuk ride away, that is open! Once on the tuk tuk, you’ll find yourself taking a familiar sounding tour of various jewellery shops, clothing shops.. well, you’ve heard this all before. Yes, attractions close, but be sure it’s actually closed by going to the entrance before believing the helpful local.''For more on a scam like this, how it works and what to look out for read this fellow bloggers account of''being scammed in Thailand'', which should give you all the information you need to stay safe.''Overall though, Thailand is a very safe country to travel in, and despite my best efforts, I''was never scammed''. Just apply some common sense, and remember, if it seems too good to be true, it probably is.''Further Reading and Information for your Thailand Itinerary Planning''There’s a wealth of information on visiting Thailand available on the web and in book form. Here are some good starting points:''Our comprehensive series of''posts on Travelling in Thailand''This''awesome budgeting guide''from Nomadic Matt''The''Travelfish Guide'', where you’ll also find excellent forums with users ready to help with your questions''The''WikiVoyage Thailand''guide, with detailed information on travelling all around Thailand''The BBC Language guide to''Key Thai Phrases''The always excellent''Lonely Planet Guide to Thailand''National Geographic’s Thailand Guide''The''Rough Guide to Thailand''And that just about sums up my guide to visiting Thailand for two weeks, as well as everything you might need to know to make the best of your trip! If you’ve got any thoughts on feedback on this post, or ideas for where you’d recommend, do pop them in the comments below!''SHARE ON''We were in Sri Lanka recently for a brief trip where I was talking at the''PTBA''TBC Asia conference. We did want to spend a bit of time exploring, particularly as Jess hadn’t visited before, but we only had four full days to tour, so had to be pretty focused on what we wanted to see.''As a tea lover, Jess was keen to visit a tea plantation – Sri Lanka being world famous for its tea production. I was particularly interested in wildlife spotting, and in particular, heading south to Yala to see leopards, something I had failed to do on my previous two trips to the country.''With this very specific set of requirements, and only four days to play with, we got in touch with''Jetwing Eco Holidays'', who happen to specialise in custom built itineraries. They said that yes, our itinerary was entirely possible – with the warning that it would involve a fair bit of driving, as the tea plantation area isn’t that close to the leopard area.''We decided we were fine with this as it meant we were going to be able to see everything we wanted, with the added bonus that all our transport was also going to be handled. So all we had to do was relax and enjoy ourselves. Win!''In today’s post I’m going to go over what our four day trip looked like, some of our highlights, to give you an idea as to whether or not this sort of trip might work for your visit to Sri Lanka.''Sri Lanka Tour Day 1 & 2 – Colombo to Tea Trails''Our adventure started in Colombo, the largest city in Sri Lanka. This is where the airport is located, so is pretty much where every traveller will start their Sri Lanka journey. We were picked up from our Colombo hotel by our driver, Nawfer, who was with us for our whole trip, in a minibus that sat around 8 – 10 people. So plenty of room for the two of us and our baggage – with lots of room to spare! The seats also reclined an incredible amount if we wanted to sleep – something we took advantage of on our last day when we headed back up to the airport.''I’m getting ahead of myself. Back to the start.''Our first day consisted of a fair amount of driving. Whilst distances in Sri Lanka tend not to be great, the roads for the most part are also not great, so it takes a while to get around. Getting from Colombo up to the tea plantation where we were staying was around a 4 – 5 hour drive. Nawfer was a great driver, Sri Lankan traffic can be a scary experience if you’re not used to it, but we never felt anything but safe in his hands.''On our journey we were able to stop if we saw something scenic that we wanted to photograph – one of the definite advantages to not being on a group tour was this flexibility. So we stopped to take pictures of an elephant having a bath in a river we crossed, as well as some waterfalls and, as we ascended into hill country, shots of mountains and tea plantations.''We also stopped for lunch on the way up at a lovely little restaurant by the river, where we had excellent fried rice and delicious fresh juices. One of my favourite things about Sri Lanka is the abundance of fruit, and the fact that there are so many excellent fresh juices to drink!''Finally, after a good long drive, we arrived at our home for the next couple of nights – the exquisite''Ceylon Tea Trails''property. This is the world’s first tea bungalow resort, and is made up of five restored colonial era tea bungalows. There are 26 rooms in total, but the bungalows are spread out around Castlereigh Resevoir, and each is really a self-contained property, with around 4 – 6 rooms available.''`''We stayed at the''Tientsin Bungalow''for two nights. This was a six bedroom property, which also featured a pool, billiards room, veranda, tennis court and croquet lawn. We stayed in the Brebham Luxury Room, which was just gorgeous, featuring a lovely huge bed, as well as a massive bathtub – the latter making Jess very happy indeed.''Being a fully inclusive property, everything during our stay was included. That meant all our food and drinks, which also included copious amounts of tea! We arrived just in time for a full afternoon tea, and also to discover that we were the only guests that night – this being the off season for this part of Sri Lanka due to it being the rainy season. Thankfully, the weather was fairly co-operative during our time there, with just a few rain showers in the afternoons.''Tea Trails was a really fabulous experience. The staff were friendly and attentive, and catered to our every need. Each day the chef would discuss with us the menu to be sure that we were getting what we wanted, and if we had any requests at all they would do their best to cater to them. We are pretty easy as guests I like to think, but I was keen to have mangoes for breakfast, and that was arranged for us.''Jess has done a full''review of our two day Tea Trails experience'', which covers all the bungalows that we visited (you can opt to have meals in different bungalows if you want a change of scenery), as well as more detail on our tea factory tour. You should definitely check that out if you want to know more.''Suffice to say that if you’re visiting Sri Lanka and want to experience true luxury in magnificent surroundings, you can’t go wrong with Tea Trails. Plus, you can even fly here if you’re not into the car ride, as the lake handily doubles as an airport for the local seaplane service!''During our Tea Trails stay, everything was handled by Tea Trails themselves, including transport between the bungalows. So we didn’t need the services of our driver and we didn’t see him during our stay. Our second day was spent enjoying the Tea Trails service, eating delicious food, and taking the aforementioned tour of the fully operational tea factory.''Again, Jess covers all this in her super-detailed post. Let’s forward on to our third day, where we sadly had to bid farewell to our fantastic Tea Trails team, all that delicious food and tea, and start our journey south.''Sri Lanka Tour Day 3 – The Road to Yala''Our third day was another long day of driving. Our target was the far south of Sri Lanka,''Yala National Park'', and the''Jetwing Tented Camp''.''The drive was incredibly scenic, winding over the tea covered hillsides of this part of Sri Lanka. As before, we were free to request stops whenever we saw something photogenic, something which happened a lot, with wonderful sights around seemingly every corner.''We stopped in the town of Bandarawela, one of the larger towns in hill country, for a cup of tea at around 11am. Very civilised. Then, it was on to a lunch stop at a restaurant with one of the finest views I’ve ever had to accompany fried rice, followed by a pause at Rawana Falls, a gorgeous 25 metre high waterfall which is one of the widest in the country.''A few photos later, and our journey continued. Our trip felt a bit more structured on this day, with more impressive stops scheduled than on our first day. My advice for a tour like this is to be sure that if there’s anything you really want to see, to make that clear up front.''A highlight of the day was definitely Buduruvagala, an ancient Buddhist temple, which features seven Buddha statues carved into a huge rock face. The largest of these is 16 metres in height, making it the largest standing Buddha statue in Sri Lanka.''Getting to Buduravagala was also a bit of fun. The main road was out, and the alternative route was unsuitable for our van. So we took a tuk-tuk instead, manned by an enterprising young chap who had clearly figured out a good way to capitalise on a broken bridge. It was only a 15 minute ride or so each way, and a lot of fun!''After Buduravagala, we continued on for the last section of our trip, stopping only a couple more times for some photos, once of some roadside monkeys, and then to take some pictures of a temple. And then we arrived at our camp, just before sunset, ready for dinner.''Jetwing Yala''offers a couple of types of accommodation. There’s a traditional hotel, with the sort of rooms you would expect from a good hotel. Beds, walls, floors, en-suite facilities, a TV – that sort of thing.''Then, there’s the tented camp. I’ve never actually stayed in a tented camp, although Jess has experience''staying in them in Africa'', and we decided this would be more of an adventure.''Of course, a luxury tented camp is a little different to my previous camping experience, particularly my year''living in a tent in Australia''. To start with, there’s a proper, giant bed. And a wardrobe. And a fridge. And power. And an en-suite bathroom. It’s basically a gorgeous room that happens to be made out of canvas.''Oh, we had our own butler as well, the lovely Thilanka, who not only made fantastic towel animals on our bed, accompanied by scented petals, but also chauffeured us to and from our tented accommodation. This wasn’t just for fun – at night there is the risk of running into wildlife, so a golf cart is a safer mode of transport.''We definitely loved our tent. But we couldn’t spend too much time loving it, as we had to both get dinner and an early night, as our morning safari was starting at 5.30am.''Dinner was buffet style, with a good mix of Sri Lanka specialties and more European style dishes. We had the option of dining inside or under the spectacular night sky with the sound of the sea – no prizes for guessing which option we went with!''And then it was to bed, and an early wake up call for our fourth day.''Sri Lanka Tour Day 4 – Safari in Yala National Park''With our alarm going just after five, we had time to make coffee in our room (no day is ever going to go well without coffee), before our butler arrived to chauffer us to our waiting safari jeep, which was parked outside the hotel reception. Our safari was a private trip, so it was just Jess and I, our Jetwing driver, Nawfer, and the jeep driver.''The jeep was much like most safari jeeps, with six comfortable seats in the back of a flatbed pickup, and a roof (to stop leopards falling on our heads), but no windows or anything like that to obstruct the view. The seats all had excellent views, so we had plenty of choice in terms of where we sat.''From our hotel we drove to the Yala National Park entrance. The park opens at around 6am, and there’s usually a queue of jeeps waiting to get in. There aren’t any accommodation options in the park itself, but Jetwing Yala was only about a five minute drive from the entrance gate, so it wasn’t very far. Our driver paid the entry fee, and when the gates opened, we were in!''Now, the big draw of Yala, and the whole reason I was visiting, was of course to see a leopard. Yala National Park has one of the highest density of leopards in the world, with around 25 leopards believed to be in the part of Yala that is open to the public. So, in theory, this is one of the best places in the world to see leopards.''That isn’t of course a guarantee. Leopards are wild animals, and do whatever they want. So we just had to hope. Would we see a leopard? I very much hoped so.''There are of course far more animals in Yala than leopards. There are over 215 bird species, and we saw a huge crested serpent eagle only a few minutes after entering the park. If you’re into bird watching, Yala is kind of a dream come true.''There are also plenty of mammals, 44 species in fact, with notable highlights being (other than the leopard!) the elephants, Sri Lanka sloth bear, wild water buffalo and red slender loris. The loris being nocturnal, we weren’t optimistic, but we were hoping for the others.''To put you out of your state of leopard suspense, I am delighted to say that we did see leopard in Yala. In fact, within our first hour we came across a leopard stalking a herd of deer. He was lying in wait for them to come closer, which they did, and then in a controlled explosion of dust, he made his move.''Unfortunately for him, he failed to get his timing exactly right, so the herd of deer made their escape, and he slunk back into the forest shadows without his breakfast.''With the leopard sighting in the bag, we could really relax and enjoy the rest of our safari. We’d brought packed breakfasts with us, so we paused by the beach for a short while to enjoy these, and then carried on. We saw all sorts of animals, from elephant to crocodile, wild water buffalo, and countless bird species – as well as two more leopards! Suffice to say, a fantastic morning.''By 11am it was starting to get hot, so we headed back to the hotel. We did have the choice to do an all day safari, or to take two safaris, one morning and one afternoon, and we opted for the later, thinking it might be nice to take a break at the hotel for a while.''This was an excellent idea. Safari’ing is dusty, thirsty work, so a swim in the hotel pool along with a bite to eat and a refreshing iced coffee was just the ticket. Then we were able to relax for a little while before starting our afternoon safari at around 2.30pm.''Having seen three leopards (I wouldn’t have minded seeing more of course!), our driver turned his attention to finding a sloth bear. This is a small bear species with long claws and a mouth designed to suck up a lot of insects at once – their primary diet. Despite the name, they’re not related to sloths, nor are they particularly slow, but they are able to hang upside down like sloths, which may explain the name a bit.''We were lucky enough to see two sloth bears. Once, we had an encounter all to ourselves, with a sloth bear crossing the road in front of us. The second time there were multiple vehicles, and the sloth bear walked right past our seats – close enough to touch had I leant out!''This was a wonderful way to wrap up a superb day of safari in a beautiful country.Yala is a truly wonderful national park to take a safari in, and I’d say it’s an absolute must if you visit Sri Lanka. We saw plenty more animals that I’ve not mentioned here, and we could have happily gone back for more days if we’d had the time.''As it was, that was our last day! We had a super early start the next morning, as Nawfer drove us all the way back to Colombo in order to get our plane home, and wave farewell to Sri Lanka – likely not for the last time! Now, let’s talk about some practicalities.''How do You Plan A Short Tour in Sri Lanka?''Whilst it is of course possible to do a trip like this on your own, we found that using''Jetwing Eco Holidays''was a wonderful way to take the hassle of planning out of the equation, as well as give us more flexibility and freedom to do exactly what we wanted. The whole trip was customised to precisely our requirements, and having the same driver throughout was also just right for us.''The benefits definitely made the trip for us, particularly having the vehicle to ourselves, meaning we could stop whenever and wherever we wanted, based on our interests.''Jetwing Eco Holidays offer a fully tailored experience, or they have a number of''preset tour itineraries''that you can pick from. Overall, we can definitely recommend Jetwing Eco Holidays to anyone looking to do a custom, tailor made Sri Lanka tour.''Further Reading on Sri Lanka''If you’ve got more time to play with in Sri Lanka, or just want a bit more information on visiting, check out my''two week Sri Lanka itinerary''. That is stuffed full of practical advice and tips for your trip, plus has a detailed two week itinerary to help you plan your visit.''And that sums up our four day Sri Lanka tour! Definitely not enough time to explore all that this magnificent country has to offer, but we were thrilled by what we were able to see. Have you been to Sri Lanka? What would you recommend for a four day tour? Let us know in the comments below!''So you know: our Sri Lanka tour was provided to us complimentary of Jetwing Eco, who covered the majority of our meals, as well as our transport and applicable entry fees. Our time at Ceylon Tea Trails was courtesy of Tea Trails themselves. We’d like to thank both of these firms for a wonderful trip, and of course, to let you know that all our opinions remain our own. For more information on who we choose to work with, and what that means, you can read our''code of ethics''.''SHARE ON''Jess and I recently visited Colorado, which was my first visit to this wonderfully mountainous part of the US. We were primarily there to attend a travel influencers conference, but we tacked on a few days to do a bit of sight-seeing, starting off in the capital of Denver, where I watched my first ever baseball game, after which we headed out to explore some of those incredible mountains.''The obvious place to head from Colorado to explore the Rockies was of course the National Park named for them – the''Rocky Mountain National Park''. Home to 72 peaks higher than 12,000ft, and set in over 400 square miles of wilderness, this park seemed like the logical place for us to spend a couple of days exploring.''You can’t actually stay in the park though (unless you’re camping), so many travellers, us included, choose to stay in the nearby town of Estes Park. This is just a few miles from the Rocky Mountain National Park entrance, and has shops, hotels and restaurants, as well as a few attractions of it’s own, most notably the''Stanley Hotel''where we stayed.''This grand hotel was where Stephen King stayed in 1974 and had the inspiration for “The Shining” novel – today it’s a very popular place to both visit and stay, and Jess has done a full write up of our experience''staying at the Stanley''.''Now, I’m going to talk in more detail about our highlights from our two days in Rocky Mountain National Park and Estes Park, starting with a day in Rocky Mountain National Park.''Two Days in Rocky Mountain National Park and Estes Park''Rocky Mountain National Park is a big place, with over 350 miles of trails. It’s also quite a busy park, especially in summer – in 2015 it was the third most visited park in the USA. So if you don’t have much time, it makes sense to have a plan for what you want to see.''If you’re coming in from Estes Park, as we were, a great place to start is the''Beaver Meadows Visitor Center'', which is just outside the park.\xa0 Here the friendly and knowledgeable park rangers can give you plenty of advice on weather conditions, hiking trails – and even the best spots to photograph sunrise and sunset! From here, it’s a short drive to the park entrance where you’ll pay your visitor fee.''Depending on the time of year and the weather, the first thing I suggest you do is to drive:''1. Trail Ridge Road''This 48 mile long road is the highest continuous paved road in the United States, with a maximum elevation of 12,183ft – well above the treeline! It has multiple scenic spots where you can stop, park safely and enjoy the view, and the drive itself is just spectacular.''It’s open between May and October, although conditions can cause it to be closed temporarily even in those times. We recommend doing the first 18 miles or so of the road at least, from where it starts just inside the park up to just beyond the Alpine Visitor Centre. You’ll find incredible views along this stretch, and you’ll be stopping more than you might think!''Some of the best places to safely stop along the route are below. These are in order from entering the park at the Beaver Meadows Entrance Station, and all have well marked parking areas.''I’ve put photos from each in order below, to give you some idea of what to expect. We didn’t have the best weather for our Trail Ridge Road drive, experiencing everything from sunshine to lightning, thunder and snow in our two hour adventure, but the views were definitely still worth it!''Many Parks Curve Overlook''The first stopping point as you come up Trail Ridge Road, you’ll find the main parking point for Many Parks Curve Overlook a little way past the curve itself (it’s well marked). Then you leave your car and walk a couple of minutes to the viewpoint. From here you get sweeping panoramic views across much of the south and eastern parts park, all the way back to Estes Park town and up to the mountains, including a view of Longs Peak.''You’re also still well inside the tree line, so the photos are nice and green. This would be a great spot for sunrise photos across the park, if you have the time and the road is open.''From here you can also sneak a nice view of the Alluvial fan, pictured above. More on that shortly.''Rainbow Curve Overlook''Four miles further up from Many Curves overlook, you’ll gain another 1000ft or so in elevation. Time to stop at Rainbow Curve, which gives you a great view in a slightly different direction to Many Parks Curve, out towards the northern part of the park, as well as across Sheep Lakes and to the east.''Again, some lovely photography opportunities from up here, including back down along the section of Trail Ridge Road you’ve been travelling on:''Forest canyon Overlook''Back on the road, and it’s just shy of three miles to the next stop, Forest Canyon Overlook. In this section of the drive you’ll ascend above the tree line, and the views will really open up.''At just shy of 12,000ft, Forest Canyon overlook is really high, and you’re going to feel on top of the world when you get here. When we visited in late May, there was still lots of snow up here (and the temperature was hovering around freezing), but the views were still excellent, despite the clouds.''From Forest Canyon overlook you get a great view down into Forest Canyon, as well as various mountain peaks, including Mount Ida, on the continental divide.''Lava Cliffs Overlook''Another four miles of driving, and passing through some truly otherworldly scenery, including a pullout at Iceberg Pass (the sideways blizzard we were driving through at this point precluded us from stopping), and you’ll arrive at the large Lava Cliffs parking area.''Here you’ll get a view of this large wall of solidified volcanic ash, left here around 25 million years ago from a nearby volcanic eruption.''This is also near the highest point of the Trail Ridge road, with the summit just a few hundred yards from the Lava Cliffs viewpoint.''Gore Range Overlook''A mile from Lava Cliffs Overlook, passing the Trail Ridge Summit, and you arrive at Gore Range Overlook. This is one of the best places to get a view of the west of the park, with spectacular views of the Gore Range mountains, which run for sixty miles.''As you can see, we had somewhat variable weather, but the views made stopping worth it nonetheless!''From Gore Range, the next stop is actually the Alpine Visitor Centre, but I’m going to suggest you overshoot that by a few hundred yards and stop at the last lookout point on this suggested route, at:''Medicine Bow Overlook''Beyond this point on the road, the elevation drops, and you head down to the town of Grand Lake. The drive is also lovely, with good opportunities for hiking along the way, so of course, if you have time to continue, then head on.''However, if you’re on a limited timetable, this is a great half way point to stop, giving you time to see more of the rest of the park.''Take in the views down into the valley from Medicine Bow Overlook, and then turn around for a well deserved coffee break at the:''Alpine Visitor Centre''Originally built in 1936 (and with various renovations over the years), the Alpine Visitor Centre (open seasonably) is well worth a visit as part of your Rocky Mountain National Park experience. There’s an informative museum, large gift shop, café, and wonderfully panoramic views. There are also restrooms and staff on hand to answer any questions you might have.''Refreshed, it’s time to head back down the Trail Ridge Road (feel free to stop at the viewpoints again, the weather and light change quickly here!).''Depending on your timing, you may have a bit more time to spare. My suggestion would be to head to a couple of attractions that are just off the Trail Ridge Road.''At the start of Trail Ridge Road there’s a turning down Fall River Road, which will take you to a couple of worthwhile sights. There’s also a viewpoint on the way down the Fall River Road, a little way before west horseshoe park, that is worth stopping at, for views like this:''2. Alluvial Fan''As you descend down Fall River Road, and pass the West Horseshoe Park lookout, you’ll come to a turning on the left for the Old Fall River Road. This is a steep and winding one way road that was the first route up to the high country when it opened in 1920.''It has very limited opening due to weather conditions, but if you want an alternative route up to the high country and are confident in your dirt road driving abilities, this can be a fun way up to the top of the mountains – with the return journey back down Trail River Road.''However, for the purposes of this guide, we’re not going to go all the way up Old Fall River Road – instead we’re just going to drive along it a few hundred yards on the paved section, to the parking area for the Alluvial Fan.''From this parking area it’s a short, relatively easy hike to Roaring River, where you can see the Alluvial Fan. This is what remains of the devastation caused when''Lawn Lake Dam failed''in 1982, releasing 30 million cubic feet of water down Roaring River valley, which truly earned its name that day. When the water reached Horseshoe Park, it spread out, and left behind the alluvial fan of debris that can be seen today.''3. Sheep Lakes''Back to the Fall River Road, and it’s just another few hundred yards to the Sheep Lakes Information Station. From here you have about the best chance in the park to see the''Rocky Mountain Bighorn Sheep'', a truly impressive sheep species that is notable for its agility, as well as having enormous horns. Be sure to keep your distance from the sheep and any other animals here, they are wild animals and this is their home!''The reason you are likely to see them in this area is because they come down here to graze, and eat the soil from “Sheep Lake”, which is high in nutrients.''Unfortunately, we didn’t see any of these animals on our stop, but we did enjoy the views of Horseshoe Park and the other animals grazing down here. For the best times to see these sheep, visit between 9am and 3pm in the summer months. And don’t despair if you don’t see them, the views are still excellent up and down the valley!''4. Bear Lake''Another part of the park that is well worth visiting is the section accessible along Bear Lake Road. The turnoff to Bear Lake Road is very close to the Beaver Meadows Entrance Station, so is an easy trip in from Estes Park. Bear Lake Road itself is just over 9 winding miles long, with plenty to see and do along the way.''One of the most popular and easily accessible sights is Bear Lake itself, located right at the end of the road. It’s just a couple of hundred yards from the car park to the lake itself, which is very beautiful, and there are a number of trails that start at this point if you feel like a bit of a hike.''Or, you can just circumnavigate the lake itself.''My suggestion would be to do the mile hike up to one of the most photogenic spots in the park:''5. Dream Lake''In summer, the hike up to Dream Lake is relatively easy, although you do gain a fair bit of elevation. In the winter months, the area is snow covered, so is likely to require snow shoes.''The hike is just lovely though, with fantastic views across the park, and on the way you pass Nymph lake, which is also very pretty.''Dream Lake and Bear Lake are particularly nice at sunset, although it was a little cloudy when I visited. Still, I made the most from my trip, and loved having the place to myself. The views on the hike back down were also fantastic – definitely one of the highlights of our visit to Rocky Mountain National Park.''6. Alberta Falls''The other highlight of my exploration along Bear Falls Road was the hike I took up to Alberta Falls. This is about a 2 mile roundtrip hike, which starts at the Glacier Gorge Trailhead, about a mile or so before the Bear Lake parking area.''This hike is a very popular one, and for good reason – Alberta Falls is a magnificent 30 foot waterfall that is well worth the walk up to see. The hike itself isn’t too difficult, although there is a bit of uphill. Still, I think you’ll agree the views were worth it!''7. Moraine Park Discovery Centre''Finally, and the last spot I’m going to recommend you visit in this post (although there’s plenty more to see and do in this park, including lots more fantastic backcountry hiking!), is to visit the Moraine Park Discovery Centre, and take a short drive down Moraine Park Road.''The discovery centre is on Bear Lake Road, just a few hundred yards after you start driving on it after entering the park. As well as a small gift shop, there’s a very informative centre where you can learn more about the geology, flora, fauna, and history of the park. Definitely worth half an hour of your time!''From the visitor centre carpark, there’s a nice view across the valley (this spot was recommended by a ranger as a good bet for sunset, although we didn’t have the weather to test that out). If you have time, then I suggest taking a short drive along Moraine Park Road, opposite the visitor centre.''This has a number of pullouts, from where you can get even more wonderful views of the Rocky Mountains, as well as the wildlife and wildflowers in this area.''Now, that’s probably enough about Rocky Mountain National Park! Let’s quickly take a look at Estes Park and some of the other things you might want to consider visiting in the area.''8. Estes Park Town''Jess is going to be doing a more detailed run down over on her blog about Estes Park, but in the meantime, you should know that this is definitely a town worth visiting. With more taffy shops than anywhere I’ve ever visited (seriously, what is with all the taffy shops?), if you’ve got a sweet tooth, you’re going to be in heaven.''There are also plenty of eateries, craft shops, and even an insanely well stocked outdoor beer garden. Basically, this little town has a whole lot going for it, so make sure you allocate some time in your schedule when you visit the area to explore a little.''If you want to learn about the history of the town, Estes Park Museum has you covered. Alternatively, you can walk the high street trying to figure out which is the best taffy store in town!''9. Lily Lake''Heading out of Estes Park, and there’s lots of beautiful scenery in this area that you can enjoy without heading into Rocky Mountain National Park.''One suggestion I have for you if you want a nice scenic drive is Highway 7 heading south out of town. This winds out of town offering gorgeous views of the surrounding mountains, plus has a number of stopping points where you can just take in the view, or embark on a hike.''A good spot for both of these activities is Lily Lake, about seven miles south of Estes Park. This is a very photogenic location, which also offers good hiking.''10.Chapel on the Rock''A few more miles along Highway 7, and you’ll come to another photogenic spot – the Chapel on the Rock. The surrounding landscape was damaged during landslides in 2013, but it is still worth a visit as it’s a picturesque little chapel.''When to Visit Rocky Mountain National Park''Ok, that sums up some of our favourite sights from our trip to Rocky Mountain National Park and Estes Park! Let’s talk about when you should visit.''First – Rocky Mountain National Park is open year round, 24 hours a day. So no worries there. However, if you want to drive Trail Ridge Road, you need to visit from around the end of May to early October. July through September are the busiest time of year, so my recommendation to avoid the crowds and still get good weather, plus plenty of light for activities, would be June.''Where to Stay in Rocky Mountain National Park and Estes Park''There are no lodging options in Rocky Mountain National Park, unless you have a tent or RV, in which case there are a number of campgrounds, including backcountry campgrounds (permit required).''If you’re not into camping, your best option is to stay at nearby Estes Park, which has a''good number of lodging options''.''We stayed at the''Stanley Hotel'', the most famous of all the lodging options in Estes Park, and the place that originally put this location on the map. Once the summer residence of the Stanley Family, it’s been open since 1909, and is today a major tourist attraction in its own right – not least because Stephen King stayed here once, and got his inspiration for horror novel''The Shining''during his stay.''Jess has done''a full run down of this hotel over on her blog'', but suffice to say, it’s a wonderful place to stay, with excellent views over the surrounding mountains. We also had breakfast and an evening meal here, as well as drinks in the bar, and were not disappointed.''Otherwise, there are plenty of options for accommodations in the area. Check out the''full listings on booking.com for Estes Park''. We usually find they have the best deals when we travel.''Getting Around Rocky Mountain National Park''We had a rental car for our trip, which made everything easy in terms of getting around. We picked up the hire car from Denver airport, which has a number of rental options available.''There is also a free shuttle service that operates between Estes Park and Rocky Mountain National Park, which runs all the way to Bear Lake, so if you are visiting Bear Lake or the attractions in that direction, that is a great option – particularly if you visit in the summer months, when parking can be at a premium.''However, the shuttle doesn’t run over the Trail Ridge Road, so having your own transport to take in that spectacular route is definitely something you should consider.''Further Information About Rocky Mountain National Park''That pretty much sums up this post on visiting Rocky Mountain National Park in Colorado. If you’re interested in learning more, here are some helpful resources to help you plan your trip:''The official''Rocky Mountain National Park''website''The official website of''Estes Park''The US National Parks service website for''Rocky Mountain National Park''A blog dedicated to''Rocky Mountain National Park''A site dedicated to''Hiking Trails in Rocky Mountain National Park''A''Hiking Guide to Rocky Mountain National Park''A Guide to the''Best of Rocky Mountain National Park,''written by a former ranger''And that’s it! Have you visited Rocky Mountain National Park? Have anything you’d like to share? Let us know in the comments below!''So you know: we worked in partnership with Visit Estes Park on our trip to the Rocky Mountain National Park, and they covered our park entry fees. The Stanley Hotel also covered our two nights of accommodation in the hotel, plus breakfast and dinner. All other expenses, including car hire, additional meals etc, we covered ourselves. If you’re interested in learning how we choose companies to work with, check out our''code of ethics''.''SHARE ON''If you’ve ever dreamed of experiencing Mardi Gras in New Orleans, you’re in the right place. In today’s post I’m going to share with you our experience of spending Mardi Gras in New Orleans, including tips on things you can do in New Orleans during Mardi Gras, when Mardi Gras takes place, tips on finding accommodation during Mardi Gras, and more!''We experienced Mardi Gras in New Orleans as part of a''road trip through the Deep South of the USA''. That adventure started in''Charleston'', South Carolina, and we went through four states, ultimately ending up in New Orleans for Mardi Gras.''Along the way we stopped in''Savannah'', Birmingham,''Baton Rouge'', and many more locations along the route – including a great many of the''River Road Plantations''.''You can check out all the posts from our''southern USA road trip here''– more are on the way as I fill in more of the blanks.''In this post I’m going to share with your our experience of being in New Orleans during Mardi Gras – a time when the whole city goes a little bit wild! This certainly had its upsides, as I’ve personally never experienced a US city hosting a huge carnival, so that was quite the experience. It also had its downsides, which I’ll go into a little later in the post.''We spent about a week in New Orleans when we visited, and as well as watching various parades and events, we did as much sight-seeing as we could.''Contents:''What is Mardi Gras?''When is Mardi Gras in New Orleans?''How Long Does Mardi Gras Last in New Orleans?''What Can You See in New Orleans During Mardi Gras?''Save Money in New Orleans''Why You Should Visit New Orleans During Mardi Gras''Disadvantages of Visiting New Orleans During Mardi Gras''How to Find Accommodation During Mardi Gras in New Orleans''Further Reading for your New Orleans Mardi Gras Experience''What is Mardi Gras?''Mardi Gras is a French term, which literally translates into “Fat Tuesday”. It’s based on a religious event, and falls on the Tuesday before''Lent''begins in the Christian Calendar, also known as Shrove Tuesday. The Wednesday is known as''Ash Wednesday'', which is the first day of fasting in the run up to''Easter'', 46 days later.''In order to prepare for all those days of fasting, many people would traditionally eat a lot of fatty food in the run up to Lent, and particularly on the last day – hence “Fat Tuesday”. Obvious really.''In many parts of the world, Mardi Gras has grown into a celebration in its own right, with carnival celebrations happening all over the world. Most famous of these is Mardi Gras in New Orleans, and the Rio Carnival in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, where hundreds of thousands of people descend on the cities in question to have a good time and take part in the festivities.''The US custom of celebrating Mardi Gras started in Mobile, Alabama in 1703 by a Frenchman. Mobile still holds Mardi Gras celebrations throughout the year (and has an excellent''Mardi Gras museum''), but New Orleans has definitely eclipsed Mobile as the US capital of Mardi Gras now.''When is Mardi Gras in New Orleans?''Because Mardi Gras is linked to a religious date, which is in turn linked to cycles of the Moon, the date changes every year. The biggest parades in New Orleans happen on Mardi Gras day, which is the Tuesday before Lent begins, 47 days before Easter. This date can fall anywhere from the 3rd February through to 10th March.''The next five years of Mardi Gras dates are:''Mardi Gras in 2018 is 13th February''Mardi Gras in 2019 is 5th March''Mardi Gras in 2020 is 25th February''Mardi Gras in 2021 is 1st March''Mardi Gras in 2025 is 21st February''The main Mardi Gras parades happen on the Tuesday itself, with a good many other parades in the week leading up to Mardi Gras day itself.''There’s also a tradition of celebrating on the Monday, which has come to be known as Lundi Gras. If you are planning on visiting New Orleans specifically for Mardi Gras, we’d suggest coming for the six days leading up to Mardi Gras to give yourself plenty of time for sight-seeing as well as parade watching.''How Long Does Mardi Gras Last in New Orleans?''Officially, Mardi Gras starts on the 6th of January, and runs until Fat Tuesday. In New Orleans, the majority of Mardi Gras celebrations are held in the two weeks leading up to Fat Tuesday itself.''The biggest parades tend to happen over the weekend before Fat Tuesday, and on Fat Tuesday itself, so if you don’t have a lot of time, we’d suggest that would be the best time to go.''What Can You See in New Orleans During Mardi Gras?''Despite New Orleans being focused almost entirely on Mardi Gras, we found it was still possible to do a lot of sight-seeing in the city and surrounds. Just be aware many of the downtown roads are closed off for the parades at various times throughout the week or so leading up the event so driving and parking can be very challenging.''It’s just worth bearing in mind, In New Orleans anyway, that the day of Mardi Gras itself is a holiday, so not everything will be open. Although we’d advise putting that day aside to enjoy the festivities anyway!''Here’s everything we got up to in New Orleans, to give you some ideas of what is possible:''1. Drink Coffee at Cafe du Monde''Easily the most famous Cafe in New Orleans,''Cafe du Monde''is known for it’s beignets (a type of doughnut) and chicory blended coffee (this can be a bit of an acquired taste!). It’s famous for people watching and is incredibly popular, which means you’re likely going to be queuing.''Whenever we wandered by, regardless of time of day or night, it always seemed busy (it’s open 24 hours a day!). If you just want to try the famous coffee and beignets, you can queue for the takeout line which is often quicker than waiting for a table.''2. Jackson Square''Just near Cafe du Monde is Jackson Square, a historic park which sits in the French Quarter. The French Quarter is generally regarded as one of the prettiest parts of New Orleans, home to all those lovely houses with balconies which are so representative of New Orleans.''Jackson Square has been at the centre of public life in New Orleans for hundreds of years, and is still frequented by painters, musicians, and street performers of all ilk. It’s historically important too – it was in Jackson Square that the French handed over New Orleans as part of the''Louisiana purchase''in 1803 – a historic land sale that saw the US pretty much double in size overnight.''The centre of the Square is a lovely park, whilst the square itself is surrounded on three sides by historic buildings, including the Cabildo – the original Spanish City Hall. There’s definitely a lot to see here, and we loved wandering around, people watching, sipping on our Cafe Du Monde coffee, and taking in the street performers!''3. Eat Beignets At Cafe Beignet''So I already mentioned Beignets. The reason we didn’t eat Beignets at Cafe Du Monde was that we were saving ourselves for the Beignets at''Cafe Beignet''. The theory being that if a place has named itself after it’s main food offering, it should be a reliable place to eat them.''This turned out to be a good bet. The breakfast at Cafe Beignet was absolutely magnificent, and there were plenty of options to choose from as well as those delicious, powered sugar covered Beignets. If you’re in New Orleans, you need to eat Beignets, and this is a great place to do just that.''4. Visit Mardi Gras World''Mardi Gras is an essential part of life in New Orleans, and the best way to learn about it in the city is at''Mardi Gras World''.''Operated by Blaine Kern studios, this is a living workshop where the massive floats that make up Mardi Gras are created, and many of them are also stored. Although, as we learnt, the company has a total of 16 warehouses around the city to store all the Mardi Gras paraphernalia, which should go some way to giving you some idea of the scale of this event!''Mardi Gras World is a fascinating place to visit, where you can see new floats coming to life, and learn all about the traditions and customs of Mardi Gras via a guided tour that includes a video and some King Cake.''We learnt a lot, including the fact that everyone who rides on the Mardi Gras floats has to pretty much purchase all their own throws (the beads etc. that are liberally distributed from the floats to the crowds), and that floats can cost upwards of $50,000 to create!''The one downside of visiting Mardi Gras World during Mardi Gras itself is that many of the floats won’t actually be in the warehouse – they’ll be out either parading, or being prepared to parade. When we visited, the majority of floats were out.''This wasn’t a problem though, as we saw them in their full glory on the streets of New Orleans, and were still able to appreciate the workshops, as well as some sneak peeks of the following years designs. If you’re in New Orleans and want to learn a bit about Mardi Gras, we definitely recommend heading to Mardi Gras World.''Note, Mardi Gras world is about a mile or so from Canal Street, but there’s a free shuttle service. Just call the Mardi Gras World shuttle service (number on their''website''), and they’ll come pick you up.''5. Take a Cemetery Tour of New Orleans''Ok, so this one is a bit weird, but hey, that’s New Orleans. One of the top tourist attractions in the city of New Orleans are the cemeteries.''You might be wondering why.''Well, the answer is that New Orleans is built on a swamp. This makes the traditional practice of burying people in the ground a bit tricky, as all that decomposing body stuff isn’t really something you want leaking into your groundwater. The cities solution? Above ground graves. These graves are like little houses of their own, into which citizens are placed on their death.''Usually, a grave will hold multiple bodies, and the heat means they actually work a little like ovens, accelerating the decomposition process, and meaning more space for the dead in each individual grave.''It’s a bit ghoulish, but it is unique to New Orleans, so a tour is an essential part of any visit. We did''a walking tour''of St Louis Cemetery #1, most famous of all the New Orleans cemeteries, with''Historic New Orleans Tours''.''The tour covered both the cemeteries, and also touched on some of the Voodoo culture of New Orleans – with infamous Voodoo Queen of New Orleans''Marie Laveau''buried in the cemetery we visited.''The tour was a lot of fun, and we learnt a great deal about burial in New Orleans. We also visited some notable graves, including that of actor Nicolas Cage (not dead at time of writing, but clearly a man who likes to plan ahead!), civil rights activity Homer Plessy, and of course, Marie Laveau.''Note – in order to visit the St Louis Cemetery #1 you have to be on a tour with a guide who is specifically licensed to visit the cemeteries. We saw people being turned away who had unlicensed guides, so the policy is quite strict – we definitely recommend going with an official tour company like Historic New Orleans Tours.''6. Take a Swamp Tour''Speaking of swamps, another popular activity in New Orleans is to take a Swamp Tour, so naturally we signed up to do this, taking a''Swamp Tour with Cajun Encounters''.''This did involve a bit of a drive out of the city. Cajun Encounters offers a tour with pickup, or you can drive yourself out and save a bit of money. There’s no public transport to the swamp that we could figure out.''The swamp tour was a lot of fun, although as we were visiting in February, it wasn’t the ideal temperature to see the main attraction, which are the alligators, as they were mostly buried in mud waiting for the temperatures to improve. We did see a baby alligator though, which was pretty cool, as well as some other Florida wildlife including a racoon and wild pigs.''7. Explore Bourbon Street''Back in New Orleans, one of the more famous streets in the French Quarter is Bourbon Street, so naturally we had to explore this.''This is where one of the Mardi Gras myths has to be dispelled. Prior to visiting Mardi Gras, I wasn’t entirely sure what to expect, but I imagined a fairly adult environment, with beads being bargained for clothes and revellers all over town.''The reality was a little different. The main parades are a family friendly environment throughout the day and into the night (although there was plenty of liquor being consumed!), and there are more than enough beads coming off the floats that you don’t need to give up your clothing for them.''Mardi Gras is also held relatively early in the year, and despite what you might think about Louisiana, it can get pretty cold here in February. Most people therefore are wrapped up fairly warm, even if the sun is out.''If you are looking for a more raucous Mardi Gras experience though, Bourbon Street is a good place to start. In the old days of Mardi Gras, the main parades used to run through the French Quarter, but this has become impractical due to fire and safety regulations.''That’s not to say there are no Mardi Gras celebrations in the French Quarter though! Bars are stuffed full of patrons knocking back exotic looking drinks, and folks throw beads down from the balconies which line the streets. People wear all kind of fun outfits, some of which are definitely skimpier than others. And there are still floats, but they’re being pushed by people rather than drawn by tractors.''The epicentre of the French Quarter Mardi Gras celebrations is Bourbon Street, which is definitely a very pretty street in the French Quarter, and worth exploring anyway, even when it isn’t jam packed with people who have beads raining down on their heads. But it’s also here where you can get a more adult oriented Mardi Gras experience, complete with street partying throughout the night. At least, until midnight on Mardi Gras Tuesday itself, when the party ends!''8. Longue Vue House''If you’re looking for something a little different to do in New Orleans, and love historic properties as much as Jess does, then a visit to''Longue Vue House and Gardens''should definitely be near the top of your list.''This is a really interesting house to visit, largely because it was built to the vision of one couple, who had the whole house designed around their specific requirements.''Philanthropists Edith and Edgar Stern had the home built in 1939 to replace their previous home in the same location, which no longer met their needs.''Open now for guided tours, the home features three beautiful floors and a variety of features that would have been ground breaking in the day. The gardens are also well worth exploring, and it’s a nice break from the city centre madness of New Orleans during Mardi Gras!''Getting here from the city centre is a little tricky. We ended up taking public transport, which gave us the opportunity to take the lovely old New Orleans tram, but did also require a twenty minute walk to the house from the tram stop.''If that’s too much,''grab an Uber'', or take a look at the options on the''Longue Vue house website''for additional transport ideas, as well as opening information and pricing.''9. Steamboat River Cruise''Our last night in New Orleans was pretty special, as we took a Steamboat Cruise on the mighty Mississippi River, aboard the''Steamboat Natchez''– the only steam powered river cruise operating out of New Orleans, and one of only two steam powered sternwheel boats on the entire Mississippi River.''This was a wonderful way to spend a couple of hours, as the boat cruised down the river, and we enjoyed live jazz and a full three course meal, accompanied by drinks.''The views from the river of the city by night were quite special, and it was a fantastic way to end our New Orleans adventure, and in fact, our whole''Deep South Road Trip''.''10. Eat King Cake''Ok, onto serious topics. When you’re in New Orleans for Mardi Gras, you basically have to eat King Cake. This is a brioche style dough covered in sugar, with the twist being that there’s a figurine of a baby inside. The theory goes that whoever finds the baby in their slice of cake, has to throw the next party.''Whatever the obligations, King Cake is good, it’s colorful, and it’s definitely worth getting your hands on a slice when you’re in town.''11. Go To Mardi Gras!''This one should be obvious – we went to New Orleans during Mardi Gras, so naturally we took in a few parades! There are a great many parades that run in the weeks running up to Mardi Gras, winding their way on various routes through the city.''Each parade is operated by a “Krewe”, and will be made up of a great many floats – up to forty five floats in a single Krewe in fact, with some of those being double floats.''There are over thirty Krewe’s that parade through New Orleans during Mardi Gras, and seeing them all would like be quite the effort. So, aim for the highlights, with the Krewes of Rex, Endymion, Zulu and Bacchus being particularly noteworthy.''All the information on the parade times and routes can be found on the official''New Orleans Mardi Gras website'', plus you can''download apps''for your smartphone to get live updates on parade locations which is very useful when you’re standing and waiting for them to start rolling by!''In terms of watching a parade, the routes are very long, and we found that the further from Canal Street we went, the better chances we had in terms of getting a good spot.''The most popular parades will be very busy, but if you just want to get some fun throws, head along to a middle of the day parade, and you’ll find yourself quickly weighed down by more beads than you’ll know what to do with!''There are also a number of side events that occur throughout Mardi Gras. Two highlights for us were the Lundi Gras celebrations, which featured live music and evening fireworks, and the Bacchus Bash street party, which took place on the Sunday before Mardi Gras Tuesday, the same day as the Bacchus parade took place, and also featured live music throughout the day.''Save Money in New Orleans''If you’re visiting New Orleans during Mardi Gras, you’ll have noticed that many things are quite expensive! One way to save money, if you plan on doing some sight-seeing, is to invest in a''New Orleans Pass''.''This gets you into over 25 New Orleans attractions and tours, as well as some of the plantations on the river road, and swamp tours. Definitely a good way to save a bit of money during Mardi Gras if you think you’ll use it.''Why You Should Visit New Orleans During Mardi Gras''Mardi Gras is a fantastic experience. People really get into the spirit, with awesome costumes in the crowd, and a real party atmosphere pervades the city. And that’s not even mentioning the floats, which are truly mobile works of art. You can also still see a lot in New Orleans, as we did.''Disadvantages of Visiting New Orleans During Mardi Gras''There are two main disadvantages to visiting New Orleans during Mardi Gras. First, it’s going to be super busy. If you’re not into large crowds of people, streets being closed off and all the things that go along with a city partying for a couple of weeks, this might not be for you.''The other disadvantage is price, and in particular accommodation. A lot of people come to New Orleans for Mardi Gras, and this pushes accommodation prices through the roof. We paid around $1,000 for a weeks AirBnB accommodation during Mardi Gras, which was an incredible bargain – even if it was much higher than you would normally have to pay.''I wouldn’t let these two things put you off experiencing Mardi Gras in New Orleans, or coming to New Orleans during Mardi Gras. Just be prepared for the experience!''How to Find Accommodation During Mardi Gras in New Orleans''I’m not going to lie, finding accommodation in New Orleans during Mardi Gras can be a challenge. Mardi Gras is a seriously popular time of year to visit New Orleans, meaning prices are going to be high, and availability will be low.''On sites like''AirBnB'', you’ll see prices double or triple, and even then, there won’t be much availability. Your best option is to book as far in advance as possible, or be prepared to put up with properties that are a little distance from the center.''We ended up staying in an AirBnB on the other side of the river, in the historic “Old Algiers” part of town. This was a ten minute ferry ride across the river into the heart of downtown, so not too much hassle, and was a very quiet neighbourhood, so we were able to escape the hustle of the main Mardi Gras parties when we wanted to.''If you aren’t having much luck with AirBnB, I’ve compiled a series of''AirBnB alternatives''that you should take a look at to give you more options.''Otherwise, check the usual suspects for their New Orleans listings:''booking.com'',''Hotelscombined''and''Tripadvisor'', and see what you come up with. Book as soon as you find a reasonable deal as they sell out quickly, and good luck!''Further Reading for your New Orleans Mardi Gras Experience''We’ve written a number of guides on travel in the USA and beyond, and we have some other resources you might find useful. In no particular order:''Our trip to New Orleans was part of a larger trip – check out our suggested itinerary for a''Deep South road trip''If you’re planning on visiting any of the plantations along the river road, check out our comprehensive guide to the''River Road Plantations of Louisiana''We’ve written a guide to''how much it costs to travel in the USA''If you’re planning on taking a road trip and are new to driving in the USA, this post will give you some''Tips for Driving in the USA''As well as New Orleans, we’ve also written guides to other cities in the Deep South, including''Savannah'',''Baton Rouge''and''Charleston''This is my South''– a travel blog focused on what to see and do in this part of the world''Lonely Planet’s guide to''Louisiana and the Deep South''Our guide to the best''Airbnb Alternatives'', to help you get the best lodging, whatever your budget''And that’s the end of this post on Visiting New Orleans During Mardi Gras! If you’re looking for further reading on things to do in this part of the world, check out Jess’s incredible''guide to the River Road plantations''that she has put together, which should give you some more tips on sight-seeing!''So you know, we had support from the New Orleans CVB for our trip, who covered our Swamp Tour, Cemetery Tour, Mardi Gras World entrance fee, Steamboat Cruise, Longue Vue House Entry and Cafe Beignet Brunch. All other expenses on the trip, including accommodation, other meals, car rental and public transport, we covered ourselves. For more information on who we choose to work with and our transparency policy, check out our''code of ethics''.''SHARE ON''I’m not going to lie, we love''AirBnB''. It’s a wonderful way to find accommodation all around the world in lodgings that range from quirky to palatial, from budget to princely. If you’re new to the world of peer to peer accommodation, take a look at''Jess’s post about AirBnB'', which will answer all your questions.''The thing is, AirBnB has become a bit popular of late. There’s plenty of choice, but prices have definitely started to creep up. At busy times, properties can book out a long time in advance. In some cases, it’s also become quite the industry, losing the personal touch as landlords cash in, meaning the only human interaction you get is when you get your keys at the beginning of your stay.''With this in mind, I thought a handy guide to some of the best AirBnB alternatives would be helpful. AirBnB is definitely not the only accommodation game in town – here are some of our favourite sites like AirBnB to get you started, which includes a couple of curveballs you might not have expected!''AirBnB Alternatives''1.''VRBO''First up in my list of AirBnB alternatives is''VRBO'', or Vacation Rentals by Owner. Whilst perhaps not as well known as AirBnB, these guys have over a million properties on their books and have been operating since 1996, a full 12 years longer than AirBnB.''The VRBO model is a little different though, as they only rent out vacation properties. This means it’s not a hosted experience, and generally works best for families or groups of four or more looking for a slightly longer stay – although there are certainly many properties suited to couples. Originally, VRBO didn’t charge guests a service / booking fee, passing this to the host instead, but they changed that in 2016, adding a booking fee to bookings.''Otherwise, the products are fairly similar. AirBnB offers a slightly slicker user experience, but it is much more popular. If you can’t find what you’re looking for on AirBnB, then definitely give''VRBO''a try.''If you’re a property owner''VRBO have two different models – either you can pay an annual fee, or you can list for free and pay a fee per booking. Sign up as an owner on VRBO''here''.''2.''Booking.com''Like I said, a couple of curveballs. Remember when people stayed in hotels, and someone would come to make your bed and clean your room? Sure, we love apartments, but every now and then, you just want a hotel. And the best place generally, we’ve found, for getting a great deal in any hotel anywhere in the world, tends to be''booking.com''.''But, what you might not have realised, is that Booking.com also do''homes and apartments''. So if you’re already a fan of the site and want to keep using it for your apartment booking, you can.''They are normally our go-to choice for hotel bookings when we travel – we find they have a great choice, the site is easy to use, and the prices are usually the best. So definitely worth trying for your apartment hunt too!''For property owners,''it’s free to list on Booking.com, with a fee applied per booking. You can sign up as an owner using''this link''.''3.''HomeAway''HomeAway''is the parent company to VRBO, so as you would imagine, there is a great deal of overlap on their listings. There are some differences though, as HomeAway does have a bit more inventory on their books, particularly smaller apartments, meaning you get more options if you’re travelling solo or as a couple.''Whilst there is some overlap between Homeaway, VRBO and AirBnB, it’s not as much as you might think. In 2014, only 6% of HomeAway properties were also listed on AirBnB. That number has no doubt increased by now, but the bottom line is that if you restrict yourself to AirBnB, you are missing out on a lot of great properties!''For property owners'', like VRBO HomeAway has two models – an annual subscription where you pay no booking fees, and a free listing option where you pay per booking. You can''sign up for HomeAway as a property owner here''.''4.''Flipkey''Flipkey''is owned by TripAdvisor, so even if you’ve not heard of FlipKey itself, you can rest assured that this is no fly by night setup. Like the majority of AIrBnB alternatives, it has fewer listing (300,000 rentals across 11,000 cities). That said, Flipkey doesn’t offer shared rooms – it’s private rooms or whole properties only.''Flipkey also has a nifty search feature where you can search for properties that meet certain criteria such as pet-friendly properties, waterfront properties, properties with a mountain view and so on, which is pretty neat if that’s what you’re after.''If you’re a property owner'', it’s also free to''list your property on FlipKey'', which will put your property in the TripAdvisor search engine, searchable across all their sites. Property owners can register''here''.''5.''Homestay''For me,''Homestay''is what AirBnB was supposed to be. It’s a genuinely hosted experience, meaning you always stay in a hosts home. This means you get a genuine, local experience, with the feeling of living with a local. We’ve used Homestay in locations around the world, including''Paris'',''Savannah''and''London'', and have always had a wonderful experience.''It is worth mentioning that there are a few downsides to Homestay – the main one being availability. Whilst they have properties in over 150 countries, they don’t have the choice of somewhere like AirBnB (although the same can be said for nearly every AirBnB alternative on this list!).''For example, we tried to find accommodation in New Orleans on our recent trip there, and there were hundreds of locations on AirBnB, and less than ten on Homestay.''Of course, the number of properties available is always growing, and there are a great many listed on Homestay that you just won’t find anywhere else, like this place we''stayed at in London''. So if you want a truly hosted experience, this is definitely the place to start your search. In addition, all Homestay properties include breakfast, which is a serious win in my book.''If you’re a property owner,''it’s free to list on Homestay. Do bear in mind that Homestay is a hosted experience, so is by definition a bit more hands on. If that sounds good to you, don’t miss out on up to $100 credit if you sign up as an owner using''this link''.''6.''Wimdu''If you’re focusing on cities, particularly in Europe, then''Wimdu''is a great option. More popular with European travellers, Wimdu currently offers 300,000 properties in 100 countries worldwide, meaning you have plenty of choice. Prices are also very competitive and the website offers everything you need including reviews on the properties.''We did a full review of our experience with Wimdu a few years back, you can''read that here''. If you’re travelling in European cities it’s definitely worth checking out, although there is a lot of overlap between Wimdu and AirBnB so keep that in mind.''For property owners,''it’s free to list on Wimdu, with a fee applied per booking. You can sign up as an owner using''this link''.''7.''Go With Oh''Definitely more of a niche site,''Go With Oh''primarily offer city apartments in 24 cities across Europe (although they list hostels and hotels as well).''The selection is definitely smaller compared to most of the other sites on this list, but this carries the benefit that the Go With Oh team can be more on the ball when it comes to quality control – every property they list is actually visited in person by a Go With Oh team member.''Go With Oh also don’t charge any booking fees or commission, and have a lowest price guarantee, so if you find the same property cheaper elsewhere online, they’ll refund you double the difference for apartments. If you’re travelling to one of the cities in Europe that they are in, you should definitely check them out.''For property owners,''Go With Oh is free to list, although of course you need to be in one of the cities they work in. You can sign up as an owner using''this link''.''8.''OneFineStay''OneFineStay''is quite like AirBnB, but at the high end of the property scale. Like $1,000+ a night kind of high end. Whilst the homes are owned by people, they are never a hosted experience, so you can experience some truly luxury properties all to yourself.''As I said, these places aren’t cheap, and OneFineStay only offers properties in five cities at time of writing: London, Los Angeles, New York, Paris and Rome. Still, if you know what you want and budget isn’t something that troubles you, OneFineStay could be just the ticket to a wonderful property in one of those cities.''For property owners,''OneFineStay is quite selective, with many apartments not making their strict requirements. Fees are also quite high to reflect the fact that this a fully managed service. You can apply to list your apartment on OneFineStay with''this link''.''9.''House Sitting''Paying to stay somewhere is all well and good, but what if you could live all around the world, entirely for free? Sounds impossible? Well, it isn’t, thanks to the concept of house sitting.''The way this works is that people who own houses occasionally want to leave them and go on trips. These can be for any length of time from a few days to weeks or even months. Rather than their houses sitting empty, they offer them up to people to stay in, usually entirely for free, in return for looking after the property, tending the garden, and generally keeping in in order. In many cases, they will also have pets that they want looking after – putting a pet into a boarding house for a prolonged preiod of time can be expensive, so house sitting is a win-win situation.''There are lots of house sitting options out there – one of the biggest and most popular communities to join is''TrustedHousesitters''. There is a fee to join, but once you’re in, you’ll have a world of choice when it comes to free accommodation around the world! Pretty cool.''For property owners,''there a yearly subscription to list your house, with a fee applied per booking. You can sign up as an owner using''this link''.''For property owners,''there’s an annual subscription required to list your home, and you have to be a member of the TrustedHouseSitter community. Sign up as member using''this link''.''10.''RentalsCombined''With over 600,000 properties on their books across 114 countries,''RentalsCombined''is a huge player in the vacation rentals market, and as they aren’t part of another network, are definitely worth checking out when you want more options. They focus on professionally managed properties rather than individually let out properties, and are great for both business and leisure travel. There’s also no booking fee, which is nice! See their listings''here''.''For property owners,''you will be matched up with a property management company, and pay fees per booking. Find out more and sign up at''this link''.''11. Our favourite AirBnb Alternative?''Of all the above, the first place we usually go to when planning a trip is''booking.com''. We have found that they have the best choice of properties, the search engine is easy to use, you can filter by all sorts of categories and property features.''The fact that they cover apartments, hostels and hotels, as well as a number of other lodging options, means we nearly always find what we’re looking for at a good price. Definitely worth checking out.''Well, that about wraps up our guide to some of the best AirBnB alternatives.''As I’ve mentioned, we are still big fans of AirBnb and use it regularly – in fact, Jess has a''whole post on AirBnB''on her site, which you should definitely check out. She also has a list of even more''sites like AirBnB''if the above weren’t enough!''If you’re still to take the AirBnB plunge,''this link''will net you up to $100 off your first stay. And if you want some advice on finding the perfect apartment on any of these sites, check out''this guide from Nomadic Matt''. Enjoy!''SHARE ON''Jess and I are huge fans of London. I do have to admit though that it was a city that took me a while to get, and it was only after I lived there for a couple of years that I really had an appreciation for it.''There’s just so much to see and do, from some of England’s loveliest city parks through to thousand year old castles and churches. And that’s before I’ve even thought about all the culture on offer, from museums to musicals, theatre shows, live music and fine dining.''I think it’s fair to say that two years still wasn’t enough to see everything the UK’s capital has to offer. Which is a good thing, because it means that every time we return to London, we find something new to do!''In today’s post, I’m going to share with you everything that I would recommend to the first time visitor looking for a great two day London itinerary. This is not going to be a list of hidden gems, even though London has plenty of those. This is a list of all the places you’re going to want to visit on your first time to London – the iconic sights that you’ve seen in postcards and films – plus a couple of curve-balls you might not have thought of, but may be worth your time to visit.''I’ve also grouped these in a logical order in terms of visiting, so as to maximise your sight-seeing over your two days in London.''London is a big place with a lot to see and do, so you’re not going to be able to get everywhere, and I don’t want you to be spending all your time on public transport – the goal here is give you an itinerary whereby you can see as much as possible with minimal downtime for transport between sights. In fact, you might be pleasantly surprised to find out just how walkable London is on this two day itinerary! Let’s get started!''Contents:''A 2 Day London Itinerary''1. Tower of London''2. Tower Bridge Exhibition''3. HMS Belfast''4. The Shard''5. Houses of Parliament''6. Westminster Abbey''7. Churchill War Rooms''8. Kensington Palace''9. Royal Albert Hall''10. V&A Museum''11. Buckingham Palace''2 Day London Itinerary Map''How to Save Money on Your London Itinerary Sight-Seeing''Getting Around London''Where to Stay in London''Further Reading For Your 2 Days In London''A 2 Day London Itinerary''Day One''1. Tower of London''What better place to start your Two Day London itinerary than with a visit to the''Tower of London,''home to the English Crown Jewels and the site of numerous key historical events, including the execution of all sorts of people who were deemed inappropriate by whoever was in charge at the time.''These days there’s less blood running on the grass, but you will still find plenty to do, from popping in to see the monarch’s crown through to exploring the White Castle at the centre of the keep. My advice for getting the most out of your visit is to arrive as soon as the Tower opens, which is around 9am, and beating the crowds to the crown jewels. You’re likely going to want to spend at least an hour here, if not two – there is a lot to see (and photograph!) here.''Entry is ticketed, but it’s''included in the London Pass''. See opening times and prices''here''.''2. Tower Bridge Exhibition''On from the Tower of London, you’re going to find yourself right next to Tower Bridge, the most iconic of all the London bridges. If you want to learn more about the bridge and not just take some classic photos, then you should visit the''Tower Bridge Exhibition''.''Here you can learn about the history of the bridge, including how it was built and how the lifting mechanism works to allow ships through. More excitingly, you can walk the glass floor walkway, a 42 meter high walkway that will definitely test any fear of heights you may have!''There’s an entry fee, and you can see''opening times and prices here''. Included on the London Pass.''3. HMS Belfast''After you’ve crossed tower bridge, you might consider visiting''HMS Belfast'', which is permanently moored on the Thames a short walk from Tower Bridge on the south bank. This historic warship, operated today by Imperial War Museums, will definitely be of interest to military buffs, or anyone with even a slight interest in boats.''Launched just before the outbreak of World War 2, this Royal Navy Light Cruiser saw action in both World War 2 and the Korean War, before being decommissioned in 1963.''Since 1971 she’s been a popular London tourist attraction, and you can spend a good deal of time learning all about operational life on board a warship, as well as the history of HMS Belfast specifically. Definitely a worthwhile part of your visit.''Entry is ticketed, see''opening times and prices here''. Included on the London Pass.''4. The Shard''For a truly spectacular view of London, you’re going to want to head up London’s tallest building, the Shard. This 95 storey skyscraper was opened in\xa0 2012, with the viewing deck opened in 2013.''From the top you get incredible views of the majority of London, up and down the Thames. There are two floors from which you can take pictures, and this is one of my recommended''photography locations in London''.''Entry is ticketed and ideally should be booked in advance. You can see''opening times and prices here''. As of 2018, this is also included on the London Pass.''5. Houses of Parliament''From HMS Belfast, my suggestion is that you head to London Bridge Tube station and take the Jubilee line to Westminster tube, two stops away. This is a 12 minute journey, and the only public transport you’re going to need to take during the day.''Alternatively, if you want a nice walk, or are interested in some of the optional extras I go into below, then you should walk along the lovely south bank of the Thames. This is one of my favourite walks in London, and if you have the time (around 45 minutes without stops), is well worth it.''Another option is to take the river boat – this is going to be a little more expensive than the tube, but is a unique way to''get around London'', and it will take you straight to Westminster Pier.''Either way, you’re going to find yourself by the Houses of Parliament, official known as the Palace of Westminster. This is the seat of government in England, home to the House of Commons and the House of Lords, and is where the politics in England takes place.''Whilst it is possible to''go inside and take a tour'', I’d suggest just taking photos from the outside of this beautiful building, particularly of the Elizabeth Tower, home to Big Ben, and then heading on to:''6. Westminster Abbey''Westminster Abbey is definitely one of the UK’s most impressive churches. It’s here that key events in the life of the British Royal Family take place including Royal Weddings (16 to date) and Coronations (the majority of British rulers since 1066!).''Westminster Abbey is also one of the most desirable burial sites in the UK, with countless famous figures from British history buried here, including Isaac Newton, Charles Darwin, Chaucer, and multiple British royals, prime ministers and more.''Even if you’re not interested in the Royal family or the buried dead though, you can’t help but be impressed by this gorgeous gothic style building. Again, there is plenty to see and do here (and the line to get in can take a little while), so plan at least an hour or two to fully appreciate the property.''There’s a fee to get in Westminster Abbey. See''prices and opening hours here''. Included on the London Pass.''7. Churchill War Rooms''Last on our list for the day (see below for some optional extras if you want to fit more in!) are the''Churchill War Rooms''. Set below the heart of the government buildings in London, this huge underground bunker is where Winston Churchill directed the majority of the war effort during World War 2.''This maze of rooms is now open as a tourist attraction, and is a really fascinating place to explore, covering both the life and times of Churchill, as well as providing insight into the rooms themselves, and the people who spent so many years of their lives working away in secrecy underneath London during the war years.''An excellent audio guide is included as part of the tour, and again, you can easily spend a couple of hours here soaking everything in. When you’re done, you’ll emerge blinking into the light, where you might want to take a stroll around St. James Park, or head through Whitehall to see the home of the British Prime Minster at No. 10 Downing Street, before finishing up at Trafalgar Square, where you’ve got full access to all the shows in the West End – an excellent way to spend the evening ahead!''The Churchill War Rooms are very popular, so we advise booking in advance or using a London Pass, which has''free entry to the War Rooms''and access to the pre-booked ticket queue, which is a lot faster. You can see''prices and opening times here''.''Optional Extras On Your Route:''I appreciate that you might not be totally in to some of the ideas I’ve floated above, or be a super-quick sight-seer. Fear not, London has more for you! Along the south bank (always worth a wander), you can stop in at Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre, the Tate Modern Art Gallery, and even quickly cross the Millennium bridge for a visit to St. Paul’s Cathedral.''If you like walking tours, we can also recommend the company Take Walks, who are behind the popular walking tour company Walks of Italy. They have expanded their portfolio, and now have a number of walks in London, including''London in a Day''& a''Royal London walking tour''that includes the changing of the guard.''Day Two''8. Kensington Palace''On your second day in London you’re going to head a little to the West, and take in some of the sights in this area, starting with''Kensington Palace''. Inextricably linked with Queen Victoria, who was born here, Kensington Palace is a Royal Residence, and has been since the 17th century. Today it’s occupied by both Princes William and Harry, and whilst you can’t visit the private Royal Residence, you can tour the State Rooms.''These have actually been open to the public for a long time, in a practice started by Queen Victoria in 1899, and today Kensington Palace is one of the most popular of the Royal Palaces for visitors.''There are a series of four themed routes through the palace, covering different aspects of the history of the palace, and all four are worth doing.''Then, when you’re done, there’s an excellent café where you can have a hot drink and a sandwich, before embarking on the rest of your day’s adventures.''There’s a fee for entry, and you can see''opening times and prices here''. Free for holders of the''London Pass''.''9. Royal Albert Hall''From Kensington Palace, it’s a lovely walk through Kensington Gardens to the Royal Albert Hall. This was opened by Queen Victoria in 1871, and is named in memory of her husband Albert, who had died six years earlier.''Purpose built as an entertainment space, today the hall is most famous for hosting the annual Proms – an eight week long series of classical music concerts and events. It also hosts all sorts of other events, from film screenings to tennis, so there’s always something going on.''Even if there isn’t anything going on though, it’s worth a visit, with''hour long guided tours''available, where you’ll be able to visit that gorgeous auditorium, the Queen’s private suites, as well as learn a bit about the architecture and history of performances at the venue, which are now in excess of 150,000 since it opened. Pretty impressive stuff.''Tours carry a fee, and you should book in advance to avoid disappointment. You can see''tour times and prices here''. Free for holders of the London Pass, but we still advise booking in advance.''10. V&A Museum''Keeping with the Queen Victoria theme, your next stop is one of our favourite museums in London – the Victoria and Albert Museum, usually known as the V&A.''Free to visit (although there are usually special exhibitions for a fee), this is the world’s largest museum of decorative arts and design, with over two million objects in the collection spanning 5,000 years of human existence. As you might imagine, that’s quite a lot to take in, and you could likely spend multiple days here exploring all the artefacts on offer.''Entry is free, except to special exhibits. See''opening times here''.''11. Buckingham Palace''Moving on from the V&A, and the last stop on the tour is Buckingham Palace. Depending on the time of year you visit, you have a number of options for visiting Buckingham Palace. Personally, I’d advise going in the afternoon, after you’ve visited all the above, and to finish off your day. You’ll avoid the crowds associated with the changing of the guard ceremony, and have an overall far more pleasant experience.''I do know however that lots of people do wish do experience the''Changing of the Guard''ceremony, so if that’s you, you’ll need to juggle the above itinerary a little as the ceremony takes place over 45 minutes in the middle of the day.''Finally, in the summer months, you can actually tour parts of Buckingham Palace. These tours last around two hours, and operate quite late into the evenings, so you could definitely do this at the end of the day. If this is something you want to do you definitely need to book in advance to ensure you get a ticket.''Optional Extras On Your Route:''Again, there is loads more to see and do in this area, really depending on what you’re interested in. Harrods, the world famous shopping experience, is a brief walk from the V&A museum. You could also really go museum crazy, and drop in at either the Natural History Museum or Science Museum, both of which are free.''If you’re into pageantry, just round the corner from Buckingham Palace, and officially part of the grounds, the Royal Mews is a fascinating place to visit, and much less popular than its exhibits deserve. Finally, if you’re into afternoon tea, you can experience a''fashionable take on the high tea experience at the Berkeley''.''2 Day London Itinerary Map''To help you visualise all the above we’ve put together a map so you can see where all the sights are and plan your accommodation and public transport appropriately. You can see this''on Google maps here''.''How to Save Money on Your London Itinerary Sight-Seeing''Whilst London does have many excellent free museums and sights, a good many of the sights in the list above are not free to enter. In fact, if you add up all the prices for just the main attractions on the list, without any optional extras, you’re looking at over £150 in entry fees alone!''Thankfully, there is a way to save on sight-seeing, as well as take advantage of skip the line access, plus get free entry to loads more attractions should you end up having a bit more time to spare.''The''London Pass''is the answer. For your two day trip, you can pick up a''two day London pass''which will get you free access to all the main attractions on the list above (plus lots more!), for only £94, saving you over £50. It’s basically a no-brainer if you ask me. It even includes a''Hop on Hop off bus tour of London''!''Check out''all the attractions that the London Pass''gives you free access to, and then order yours''here''.''We’ve used them on multiple trips to London, and just love how easy they are to use. They’re available in a variety of lengths to suit any stay, plus you can pre-order an Oyster travel card to accompany your London Card if you’re interested in that convenience.''For more information and an overview of the savings for various lengths of trips and sights that the London Pass offers, check out the''full post on the London Pass''that Jess put together on her blog.''Bonus tip: Hop on Hop off Bus tour & River Cruise''If you do invest in a London Pass, then you could take advantage of a couple of travel options it comes with. The first of these is a''hop-on, hop off bus tour'': with the London Pass you can use one of these for a day. They operate throughout the year, and are always a nice way to see a number of sights and learn about them.''Then there’s the''Thames River Cruise''. You get twenty four hour access to this service with a London Pass, with four stops available along the river. I’d recommend this as the transport option on Day 1, between Tower Bridge and Westminster, meaning you can skip the tube and get some lovely views of London from the River Thames.''Given that these two items usually cost almost £40 together, and are included on the London Pass, to me this is just another excellent example of the value for money that the London Pass offers the London visitor.''Getting Around London''London is really easy to get around, with an excellent public transport network. It’s also wonderfully walkable, as hopefully my itinerary makes clear.''For public transport, you definitely need to''invest in an Oyster Card''. Available both''online''and from most tube stations, this prepaid card is the most cost-effective way to get around in London, offering fares that are significantly cheaper compared to buying individual tickets with cash.''You just have to load it up, and then tap in and out as you go through tube stops. It also works on London buses and river boats. Note that if you have a contactless bank card, this might end up better value – check out my post''comparing Oyster and contactless''to figure out which is best for you.''For more information on getting around London, check out my detailed''Guide To Transportation Options in London''.''Where to Stay in London''Accommodation wise, London has a wide range of options, ranging from hostels, through to self catered apartments and seriously upscale hotels. There’s something to suit every budget, with en-suite double rooms starting from around $80 a night.''For this itinerary, we’d advise staying somewhere fairly central so you can get around easily. We’d suggest staying somewhere in the region between Kensington in the west and Canary Wharf in the east.''For examples of properties at different price points that are centrally located, here are some options:''The Walrus Bar and Hostel''– A well reviewed centrally located hostel''The Z hotel in Shoreditch''– excellent value in a lively and popular part of London with great dining options''The''Nadler Victoria Hotel''– a well reviewed and centrally located hotel offering excellent value for money''The Savoy''– true luxury as close to the city centre as you can get!''Generally when searching for somewhere to stay our first choice is booking.com. They’re easy to use, usually have the best prices, and have everything from''hotels''to''hostels'', guest-houses and even''apartments''.''Try them for London and see!''If you prefer an apartment, then we recommend''AirBnB''. We’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get up to''a $100 discount''if you sign up with''this link.''(Discount varies by currency and if you choose to host at some point).''If you can’t find what you want on AirBnB, or you want some new options to try out,\xa0we wrote a whole post on the''best alternatives to AirBnB''which you should check out!''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''Further Reading For Your 2 Days In London''If you’re looking for more inspiration for your London trip, here are some resources to help you out:''Our detailed guide to''what to pack for London'', to help you prepare for your trip to London.''Tips on finding the''best Photography Locations in London''that I put together''If you’re short on time, or just really want to focus on the highlights, check out my''1 Day London itinerary'', and if you’re here for longer or just want some more ideas for you visit, check out our detailed''six day London itinerary''For the Harry Potter fans amongst you, take a look at our guide to finding''Harry Potter in London''8 Things to Do in Kensington'', London, in case you wanted to focus more on a specific region of the city''If you enjoy military museums, take a look at our guide to''London’s Best Military Museums and Memorials''Tips on''spending Two Weeks in the UK'', should you want to have London as the start of a bigger adventure''For budget planning, see our guide to''how much it costs to travel in the UK''Our experience''taking a full day walking tour of London'', in case you like the idea of a fully guided day''Thoughts on taking a''day trip from London, taking in Stonehenge, Bath and the Cotswolds''And another day trip from London, this time to''Oxford in a day''Heading further north? We have loads of content on''Scotland'', including a''2 Day Edinburgh itinerary'', a guide to the''North Coast 500''and a''2 Day Glasgow itinerary''The''Eyewitness Travel Guide to London'', which has all sorts of information within, including more itneraries and ideas for your trip''Rick Steve’s London 2018''guide, the #1 bestseller on Amazon for UK travel guides, and always an excellent source of relevant information''And that’s it for my two day London Itinerary post! Got a favourite part of London that I missed? Let us know about it in the comments below!''SHARE ON''You should know the drill by now! This is part 3 of my series featuring my favourite images from our''Route 66 adventure''across the US in the summer of 2015. If you’re late to the party, fear not – you can still check out my''Route 66 California highlights''and''Route 66 Arizona highlights''.''I have to admit, New Mexico was slightly vexing. I was very excited to visit, not least because I had been led to believe that the state has spectacular sunsets. We even had a''whole song''on our Route 66 playlist dedicated to the things.''As it was, we were not fortunate with the weather, and didn’t get to see much of a sunset. This was sad, but a reason to return at least! As you’ll see from many of my pictures from this state, it was a bit grey. Ok, very grey. But the views were still excellent, and there were plenty of Route 66 related attractions to keep us happy. Let’s have a look at what we found!''New Mexico isn’t short on old signs from bygone businesses.''Or shops selling cowboy hats.''Or seriously creepy looking abandoned motels.''I mean, you can pretty much see a horror movie being filmed here, right?''Ah, Albuquerque. One day I shall visit and it will be sunny.''This burger joint was supposed to be awesome. Then it went out of business. Sigh.''New Mexico is *all* about the chillies.''And the old buildings.''New Mexico is also where we crossed the continental divide. If you’re not up to speed with geography, this is where the rainwater makes it’s decision as to where to flow – to the East, and the Atlantic Ocean, or West, to the Pacific.''I’ve often thought that a backhoe would be the logical addition to most cars.''Of course, there are plenty of old gas stations, in various states of use and repair.''And some newer ones, looking pretty good!''Giant things are a thing in New Mexico too. In this case, a giant sombrero restaurant.''Our trusty steed. We couldn’t find a pole to park her up.''It really is a legendary road. Even this sign agrees.''Loads of classic old motels along this stretch of Route 66.''And gas stations that haven’t quite survived the test of time.''Crumbly old buildings are a thing too.''The Petroglyphs just outside Albuquerque were worth a visit.''Sometimes you’ve just got to put your sign collection somewhere.''This place didn’t look open anymore, but the sign was cool.''This is one of the more famous diners on Route 66.''And this is probably the most famous motel on the whole route.''One of the original Route 66 bridges.''And of course there’s a casino. I lost at least a dollar in here.''Got to love having signs to guide you on your way.''Santa Fe was on one of the versions of Route 66 (variants of the road changed over the years), so of course we had to visit.''All shops should be shaped like concrete tee-pees. This is a must-stop on the route.''As you drive through New Mexico, these signs for steak in Amarillo start popping up. They worked on us.''And to finish off, a mural! There are loads of murals throughout the states on Route 66, and they were always worth a look. This one depicts a horse hiding from his owner. You’ll have to do the drive yourself to find out where the owner is though!''Tips for Planning your own Route 66 Adventure''If you’re planning your own Route 66 adventure, we’ve got a bit of reading for you!''First, be inspired by photos from all the states we visited, by checking our photos highlights from each Route 66 state:''California'',''Arizona'',''New Mexico'',''Texas'',''Oklahoma'',''Kansas'',''Missouri''&''Illinois''Next, check out Jess’s comprehensive guide to''planning a Route 66 trip''Then, take a look out our incredibly detailed''day by day Route 66 itinerary'', which covers all the sights you want to see, route tips, lodging options and places to eat.''For New Mexico, take a look at our guide to''things to do in Albuquerque'', and''where to eat in Albuquerque''. We also have a guide to''things to do in Santa Fe''.''If you’re new to driving in the US, check out my''tips for driving in the US''to get you started''Not sure how much it’s all going to cost? We’ve got you covered with our''guide to travel costs in the USA''Finally, take a look at''this book''– the best way in our opinion to successfully navigate the entire length of Route 66 as faithfully as you can. We followed it the whole way, and even met the author, and couldn’t have done without it!''SHARE ON''Despite living in France for three years, I didn’t do much sight seeing. So when the opportunity recently arose to spend 2 days in Normandy in the north-west of the country, we leapt at it.''We didn’t have a great deal of time to play with as we were visiting my parents further south in France, but we gave ourselves a couple of days in Normandy, basing ourselves near Mont St. Michel, with the aim of exploring both that and the Normandy D-Day Landing Beaches.''Which was what we did. Here’s our experience over two days in Normandy to give you some ideas of what is possible in this region.''2 days in Normandy''Day 1: Visit Mont St. Michel''We were travelling from the UK, and took the overnight ferry with''Brittany Ferries''from Portsmouth to St. Malo. This meant that we had a good night’s sleep, arriving into France at around 9am local time. Our guest house was an hour’s drive from St. Malo, and they were fine with us arriving early, so we did just that. After dropping our belongings off and parking the car, it was time to explore Mont St. Michel.''This was, very conveniently, within walking distance of''our guest house''. This is a handy tip – if you’re going to stay near Mont St. Michel, stay within walking distance. There’s no way to drive to the island on your own, and if you park there’s a daily fee for doing so (unless you park in the evening when it becomes free). And I’m sure you’d prefer to spend that money on a nice bottle of local cider, or a few glasses of wine, like we did.''There is a causeway to the island, and a free shuttle bus runs from the car park to the island. However, I’d suggest that for your first visit, you walk all the way to the island. The views are gorgeous all the way, and you can really appreciate the magnificence of the island as you get closer to it. Then, you can get the shuttle bus on the way home!''The island itself had more on it than I was expecting. There’s a whole village, with shops, two ATM’s, a number of restaurants and of course, plenty of places to buy souvenirs from your visit. There are even hotels on the island, so you can stay over and enjoy Mont St. Michel when the crowds dissipate for the night.''Speaking of crowds, the streets are narrow, so it can get crowded. We visited on a less busy than average day, and it still got tight in places, so I imagine that in summer it must be very busy!''After stopping for a lunch (many places do a menu of the day option for €17 – €20), we followed the street up to the Abbey which crowns the hill. This is the key point of pilgrimage for visitors, and the focal point of the island. It’s not free to visit the Abbey, with opening hours varying depending on the season. Check the latest opening hours and prices''here''.''The good news is that entry does include an hour long guided tour. Tours depart somewhat regularly and are offered in both French and English. Obviously, we went for the English language option, and had a wonderful tour that taught us about the history of the abbey, the key events that led to it’s construction and look today, as well as the function of many of the rooms.''If you visit, I’d very much recommend taking the tour to learn a bit about the place. But if there is not a tour going during your visit, you can also purchase an audioguide or just do a self-guided tour with the free included leaflet.''Finally, once the tour was over, we headed out of the abbey and took the bus back to the mainland, where we had a spot of dinner accompanied by some excellent Normandy cider. I then spent the evening capturing the sunset over the Mont, which was just gorgeous. So good in fact that I went the next night as well!''Day 2: Visiting the D-Day Beaches in Normandy''Our second day in Normandy was a busy one. Having had a full day to explore Mont St. Michel at our leisure, we set ourselves the challenge of visiting some of the D-Day landing beaches in France.''There are quite a variety of sights, museums, memorials and attractions to visit, but we only had a day, so put together an itinerary that we felt was going to give us a good overview of the area and history.''1. Stop 1 – Utah Beach & Utah Beach D-Day Museum''We started by visiting Utah beach, where there is an excellent''D-Day museum''dedicated to the landings at Utah Beach. From our research, this was indicated to be one of the best D-Day landing museums, and even though time meant we didn’t visit any of the others, it was certainly an excellent way to start our journey.''With a focus on the events at Utah Beach specifically, one of the US landing beaches, the museum went over the key highlights of 6th June 1944, including the planning leading up to it, and the story of the day itself. There was an excellent video about the day, oral histories as well as objects and vehicles that were used. Most impressive of these is an original B-26 bomber, one of six surviving in the world, and of the same type as those used during the bombing runs that happened in the moments before the men landed on the beach.''We then spent some time on the actual beach, and viewing the various memorials. It’s hard to really visualise what it must have been like here all those years ago, and I have to say that visiting the museum was a really worthwhile way to get a really good overview of how it was.''We then had a break for lunch in the wonderful Le Roosevelt Cafe, built around a bunker which housed a German communications center. Then, we headed on to:''2. Stop 2 – Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial''Found in Coleville-Sur-Mer, and managed by the American Battle Monuments Commission, the''Normandy American Cemetry and Memorial''is the final resting place of over 9,000 US military personnel, the majority of whom lost their lives either during the D-Day landings, or in the days and weeks following the landings.''It was the first US WW2 cemetery on European soil, and was established as a temporary location on the 8th of June – two days after the landings started – a necessity given the high casualty rates, particularly at nearby Omaha Beach, which was the most heavily defended of all the landing locations.''Today, there is a visitor center, a memorial, chapel, and of course, the cemetery itself, all of which are free to visitors. The visitor center is excellent, telling the story of the landings with a focus on the personal stories and losses of the people involved, particularly at Omaha beach. It’s very worth taking some time to fully explore this. Then, of course, the cemetery is a sombre reminder of quite how many people died in this conflict.''3. Stop 3 – Omaha Beach Monument''From the War Cemetery we headed back down to Omaha Beach itself, and the monument to the D-Day landings. There are actually two installations here – the huge monument itself, and a huge stainless steel art installation known as “''The Braves''”, which commemorates the 60th anniversary of the landings.''Both are worth looking at, and of course, you’ll want to spend some time here on the beach as we did, casting your mind back across the decades, and just trying to get a tiny idea of the horrors that were witnessed here.''4. Stop 4 – Pointe Du Hoc''Our last stop on our D-Day Landings day was Pointe Du Hoc. This is a rocky cliff top area, the highest point of land between Utah and Omaha beaches, and during WW2, was a heavily defended German installation and lookout point.''It was thought that the destruction of this stronghold was going to be critical to the success of the D-Day landings, as the six 155mm guns that were believed to be installed here could have wreaked devastation on forces landing at both Omaha and Utah beaches.''To accomplish this mission, a 225 strong force of US Rangers was dispatched in the early hours of June 6th, with the mission of scaling the 100ft cliffs and destroying the 155mm guns. As it turned out, the guns had all been moved to a nearby orchard to protect them from Allied bombardments, so whilst the rangers did find them and destroy them, the risk was not as great as first though. The battle for Pointe Du Hoc was also costly, with 70 percent casualties, so even though deemed a success, it was at a brutal loss of life.''Today, Pointe Du Hoc serves as a monument to the Rangers who fought here. Other than the encroachment of nature, the site is not much different today to how it was when the Rangers landed.\xa0 Many of the original concrete bunkers, bomb craters and installations are still in place, and you can freely wander the area, and marvel at the challenges that must have faced the men landing here, from the rough seas to the 100ft cliffs to the barbed wire.''There is also a visitor centre, although it had just closed when we arrived. If it is something that interests you though, you can check the''opening hours here''to be sure that you schedule your day appropriately.''Pointe Du Hoc was the last stop on our tour of the Normandy D-Day beaches. It wasn’t the sort of day that fills you with joy, but I certainly learnt a great deal, and left with a heightened sense of admiration and respect for the many people who gave their lives so Europe and the world could be free.''Now.. on to some practicalities.''Where we stayed in Normandy''There are lots of options for accommodation at Mont St. Michel. We found ourselves a''little chambre d’hote'', which is the French equivalent of a B&B. This was excellent value, and within walking a half hour’s walk of Mont St. Michel – and more importantly, a ten minute walk to where I was able to get photos like this:''We actually found that there are lots of these in the Mont St. Michel area, you can see Mont St Michel listings''here on booking.com''There were three Chambres D’Hotes near each other, including the one''we stayed at'', with a price for two people, including breakfast, usually in the region of €50. Definitely an option worth investigating.''How To Get Around Normandy''Since we took the ferry, we were able to take our own car to France. This was very handy, and definitely meant we got to see everything we wanted to see at our pace. I’d definitely recommend a car as the best option to get as much in as you can for your trip. If you’re coming from the UK, Brittany Ferries operates to a number of destinations in France, with Cherborg, St. Malo and Caen likely to be your best options for a trip like the one we did.''If you’re looking to hire a car in France, then we recommend''Priceline’s car rental price comparison tool''. It checks all the major car hire companies and we find it usually comes up with the best deal.''Getting To Normandy from the UK''As mentioned above, we took the ferry from Portsmouth to St. Malo (and back again!) with Brittany Ferries. We had a four berth cabin on both crossings, which was particularly handy for the night crossing to France as it meant we could have a good night’s sleep. Each cabin also includes a sink, toilet, and shower so you can arrive feeling refreshed.''The boat was also well equipped, and we enjoyed an excellent dinner on board on our way to France, and a lovely lunch on the day crossing back. In the evening, after our dinner, we went and watched the cabaret show (and partook of the excellent bar!), with Jess having a huge cocktail and me going for a slightly simpler beer option.''Jess also got involved in the magic show (this seems to happen to her a lot!), as a man rather worryingly stuck a sword through her throat. This was a lot of fun, and overall, we’re happy to recommend the Brittany Ferries experience to anyone looking to travel to and from the UK by ferry with a car.''Further Reading for your Visit''We’ve written more about''France''to help you plan your visit to this lovely country. Here are some resources we think you’ll find useful:''We have a''2 Day Paris Itinerary''as well as a''3 Day Paris Itinerary''Our guide to the''Best Photography Locations in Paris''A full''review of the Paris Pass'', to help you save money on your visit, as well as a review of the''Paris Museum Pass''A guide to the best''afternoon tea in Paris''A guide to''choosing the best Seine Boat River tour''A guide to recognising and avoiding''common Paris scams''And that pretty much wraps up our two days experience in Normandy! Have you ever visited the sights in the article? Have any tips or experiences to share? Let us know about them in the comments below!''So you know, we received complimentary tickets from Brittany Ferries to and from the UK for two people and a car. All other expenses, including meals and drinks on the boat, as well as our accommodation and activities in France, we covered ourselves. As always, you can read our''code of ethics''to find out how we choose to work with!''SHARE ON''Today, I want to talk about things to do in Baton Rouge. Baton Rouge is the capital of Louisiana, and a city I personally knew very little about before we visited. I am, however, very happy that we did visit, as we ended up seeing and doing a great deal!''Our visit to Baton Rouge was part of a longer''road trip through the ‘Deep South’ of the USA''. That trip had us discovering excellent cuisine, gorgeous old plantation homes and fantastic cities. We also learnt a great deal about the history of the USA, and in particular the civil war and civil rights movement, both of which were focused in this part of the US.''Our road trip adventure covered five states and over 2,000 miles of driving, with us starting in''Charleston'', and finishing in''New Orleans''(just in time for Mardi Gras, and my birthday!). You can read all the posts from our''southern USA road trip here''.''Now though, lets take a look at some of our favourite:''Things to Do In Baton Rouge, Louisiana''1. State Capitol Building''I’m a big fan of getting to the top of a high building when visiting a new place in order to get oriented, and Baton Rouge has the perfect location for this. The''State Capitol building''is a mighty construction, towering over the city, and home to an observation deck on the 27th floor which offers incredible views of the city.''There are more that just views to admire of course. Built to an art deco style in the 1930’s, this building is a National Historic Landmark, and both the interior and exterior are worth taking a bit of time to admire. Inside, the huge memorial hall is the first point of call. Four storeys high, and filled with marble and rich decorations, it’s quite the statement. Of particular note is the massive bronze relief map of Louisiana that takes up a large area of the floor.''This being a working State Capitol building, there are also the two chambers – the House of Representatives and the Louisiana State Senate, which can be visited. We we there on a weekend, so no politics was happening, but we were still able to visit the chambers, as well as tour the building itself. Admission is free.''2. Baton Rouge Arsenal''Whilst you’re at the State Capitol, there are two other attractions you should consider visiting. The first of these is the Old Arsenal Museum, a five minute walk from the State Capitol building itself, and surrounded by beautiful gardens.''Built in 1838 as a powder magazine, in what was once the largest military complex in Louisiana, today the building houses a museum which covers the history of the building and how it was used.''It’s one of the best examples of this style of powder magazines surviving in the US, and the brick constructions really is quite remarkable. Gunpowder being the sort of stuff you want to keep fairly well protected in the case of attack and bombardment!''It doesn’t take long to visit and admission is free. Opening hours are usually 9am – 4pm, with the museum closed on Sunday and Monday as of time of writing. I’d suggest you call to check though.''3. Capitol Park Museum''The final sight to see during your visit to the Capitol Park is the Capitol Park Museum. After you’ve gotten yourself oriented to the layout of Baton Rouge from the top of the State Capitol Building, this is the place to come to learn about the history of Louisiana, from the Native Americans and early settlers, right through to Louis Armstrong and Huey Long.''The museum really does cover a lot, and you could easily spend half a day or more in here seeing all their is to see. There’s slavery and civil rights, shrimp boats and sugar cane harvesters, Mardi Gras and road trips.''The admission at time of writing was $6, which is excellent value for money for everything in this museum, with loads of fun exhibits and something to interest pretty much everyone. More information on opening hours and up to date admission prices can be found on''the official website''.''4. Old State Capitol Building''There is more to Baton Rouge than State Capitol related buildings, but I’m on a roll here, so I’m going to carry on. The Old State Capitol Building, as the name suggests, was the original State Capitol Building, and it dates from the mid-19th century. It was the State Capitol Building until the 1930’s, when the current building replaced it.''It’s a fascinating building. Rather than the classic style of buildings that were popular at the time, which often copied the version in Washington, the architect and city planners went for a neo-gothic design that looks just like a castle, even down to the turrets and crenellations.''The castle went through various functions, and fell into some disrepair, after the seat of government moved. However, it has risen above these challenges, and after funds were raised for restoration in 1990, has become the Museum of Political History.''Our favourite parts of the castle, aside from it’s funky exterior, were the incredible stained glass dome, reached via a spiral stairway, and the 12 minute video on the history of the castle, which was a great deal of fun to watch. The museum is free to visit at time of writing – more information on what’s on and opening hours at''the official website.''5. Mardi Gras Parade''So this one is a bit seasonal, but if you do get the chance to visit Baton Rouge during the Mardi Gras festivities (as we did), then I can highly recommend it. Many people think that Mardi Gras is a New Orleans specific festival, but the reality is that Mardi Gras parades happen across a number of states and cities in the US, as well as the''rest of the world''.''In Baton Rouge, there are a number of Mardi Gras parades, including one dedicated to dogs! We attended a couple of parades – one in the day time, and an evening parade. We found it to be a really family friendly and relaxed atmosphere, with plenty of throws for everyone.''We did hear that the most famous of the Mardi Gras parades in Baton Rouge, known as Spanish Town, gets a bit more racy, but we weren’t able to hang around to witness that first hand. But yes, if you’re looking for a Mardi Gras experience that is a bit less crowded than New Orleans, Baton Rouge is a good pick! Find parade schedules and times for Baton Rouge''here''.''6. Old Governors Mansion''Despite our best efforts, we weren’t able to visit the Old Governors Mansion, as we arrived after the last tour of the day. Still, it wasn’t a wasted trip, as it’s an impressive building from the outside too, and just a few minutes walk from the Old State Capitol Building.''Once the house of the Governor of Louisiana, today this property is run as a historic house, with regular tours. You can just walk-in for these tours (if you make it in time!), with full details on times and admission prices''on their website''.''7. USS Kidd''We had a fantastic time visiting the Patriot’s Point Naval & Maritime Museum when we''visited Charleston'', so when we saw there was a naval museum in Baton Rouge with the opportunity to explore a destroyer, we did our best to visit.''Sadly, all our other plans collided, so we didn’t make it on board the vessel, but we did enjoy wandering around the outside and taking pictures, and would definitely recommend anyone with an interest in naval history to take a look. You can find all the details on opening hours and pricing''here''.''8. Nottoway Plantation''Now, back to the places we did make it to. The last three sights on my list are a little out of town, so you’re going to have to drive a bit. The first is Nottoway Planation. We actually visited around 15 plantation homes during our''Deep South Road Trip'', with 12 of those in Louisiana along the River Road. If you are thinking of visiting a few plantations, check our Jess’s incredible''guide to the River Road plantations''that she has put together.''In the meantime, there are two lovely plantation homes within an easy drive of Baton Rouge, the first of which is''Nottoway Plantation''. This is the largest antebellum mansion in the south, built in the Greek Revival style in 1859, and operating today as a hotel and tourist attraction, which means you can actually stay overnight here – and in the house itself, unlike''Oak Alley''(where we did spend the night!).''The tour is excellent, with my highlights being the White Ballroom, the views over the Mississippi River, and the insights into the history that our period dressed guide was able to share. We also both really enjoyed wandering the grounds both before and after the tour, which are worth spending a bit of time exploring.''Final tip for visiting Nottoway Plantation – be sure to get some food at the little café. We had excellent gumbo and jambalaya at fantastic prices.''9. Magnolia Mound Plantation''Another plantation worth visiting when in Baton Rouge is''Magnolia Mound Plantation''. This is an entirely different style of plantation home to Nottoway or Oak Alley, and is in fact one of the oldest buildings in Baton Rouge.''Unlike many of the other plantation homes, where the owners became wealthy and built ever grander and more elaborate properties to showcase their success, the Magnolia Mound plantation is the pretty much the same house that was built in 1786 – with a few enlargements added in the early 1800’s to accommodate a growing family, and a bit of decoration through the years.''It’s quite a contrast from the grand nature of the other plantation homes, and feels much more like a working home. Today it’s owner by the City of Baton Rouge, and guided tours are available. Definitely worth a visit.''10. LSU Rural Life Museum''Something a little bit different to round up the attractions in Baton Rouge that you should consider visiting. The LSU Rural Life Museum is a large museum dedicated to culture of 18th and 19th century rural Louisianans. It has a huge collection of artifacts from this period, including over 30 buildings that you can wander around in and explore, to get an idea of what life might have been like for the folks who lived off the land in this part of the world.''We found it to be a peaceful and informative place to while away some time learning about the rural history of Louisiana, and if you’ve got an interest in the land and rural life, you’ll find it interesting.''11. Sunset on the river''All of the above activities are wonderful, but to be honest, my favourite thing to do in Baton Rouge was just to wander around with my camera and take photos.''And my absolute favourite place to do that was on the river front at sunset, where I watched some gorgeous color displays. I made of point of coming down here for sunset every night that I could, and it was a highlight of our visit.''Well, those were some of our favourite things to do in Baton Rouge. Let’s take a look now at some practicalities for your trip to Baton Rouge, starting with:''Where to Stay in Baton Rouge''We stayed right in the heart of Baton Rouge at the''Hampton Inn and Suites''. This was located an easy walking distance from all the sights in town, as well as being just one block from the river, meaning I could pop out and catch those sunsets.''The rooms were comfortable and quiet, the included breakfast was excellent, free coffee was available all day, and there was a nice area to work in when we weren’t out and about sight-seeing. The only downside was that parking wasn’t included, although at $8 a night, it wasn’t too pricey. There are plenty of''hotels to choose from in Baton Rouge'', but we think this was a great combination of value and location.''When to Visit Baton Rouge''Obviously, if you’re planning on visiting Baton Rouge for Mardi Gras, then you’ll want to visit when that’s happening! Mardi Gras dates change every year, so check when it’s happening and the parade schedules to be sure you visit at the right time of year.''Otherwise, Baton Rouge is a fairly warm city to visit, although we were there in early February, and it cooled down enough to require a coat in the evenings. Summers are hot and humid. With this in mind, the most pleasant times to visit are likely Spring, around March and April, when the temperatures are a pleasant 21C / 71F average and the humidity isn’t high.''Getting To and Around Baton Rouge''Baton Rouge is a wonderfully walkable city, with most of the attractions on this list within a five or ten minute walk of each other.''There are some exceptions though, so you might consider hiring a car for the out of town sights as we did. We usually recommend and use''Priceline’s car rental price comparison tool'', which works worldwide to find the best price on a rental car – it checks all the major car hire companies and we find it usually comes up with the best deal.''Further Reading for your Baton Rouge trip''We’ve written a number of guides on travel in the USA and beyond, and we have some other resources you might find useful. In no particular order:''Our trip to Baton Rouge was part of a larger trip – check out our suggested itinerary for a''Deep South road trip''We’ve written a guide to''how much it costs to travel in the USA''If you’re planning on taking a road trip and are new to driving in the USA, this post will give you some''Tips for Driving in the USA''If you’re planning on visiting any of the plantations along the river road, check out our comprehensive guide to the''River Road Plantations of Louisiana''As well as Baton Rouge, we’ve also written''City guides''for''New Orleans'',''Savannah''and''Charleston''This is my South''– a travel blog focused on what to see and do in this part of the world''Lonely Planet’s guide to''Louisiana and the Deep South''Our guide to the best''Airbnb Alternatives'', to help you get the best lodging, whatever your budget''And that’s pretty much it for our guide for things to do in Baton Rouge! Have you visited this city, or is it on your list? Anywhere you’d recommend visiting? Let us know in the comments below!''Our trip to Baton Rouge was in partnership with Visit Baton Rouge, who arranged our accommodation and entry to various attractions. All other expenses were covered by us. See our''code of ethics''for more information on who we choose to work with.''SHARE ON''If you’re English, London tends to fall into one of two categories. It’s either the greatest city in the United Kingdom, and you can’t imagine why anyone would live anywhere else, or it’s a crowded nightmare, full of people who won’t stop going on about how amazing it is, even as they’re stuffed into someone’s armpit at rush hour.''I definitely used to fall into the latter camp. London was a big, noisy city, and everyone I knew who lived there was practically intolerable in the way they sang it’s praises. Other cities in the UK were seen as quaint provincial backwaters. To truly exist in the UK, the opinion was, one had to live in London.''Of course, then I moved to London, lived there for a couple of years, and became one of those annoying people.''The thing is, London is pretty awesome. It has so much going on. The transport infrastructure is amazing. If you live centrally, you can walk nearly everywhere. There are countless restaurants, theatres, pubs in which to be entertained and fed, huge green spaces to wander, and more attractions to visit than in any other city in the UK.''So yes, I am definitely a London convert.''Which is why, when''Homestay''offered us the opportunity to spend a few days in London as part of our Homestay ambassadorship, naturally I leapt at it. Jess has only visited London for two short stays, and despite living there for a couple of years, there’s still a heck of a lot that I’ve not yet seen, including such popular attractions as Windsor Castle. So to London we went.''We picked a''flat with Jo'', because the location was absolutely perfect, and it came with cats. Instant win.''10 minutes walk from London Kings Cross, and a minute from the nearest tube stop, we were perfectly placed to explore London. Which we did, most thoroughly, and I’ve written a couple of posts for the Homestay blog detailing just some of the places we visited during our five night stay.''Let me talk about the experience with Jo, which, spoiler alert, was pretty fantastic.''First, we’d arranged a time to arrive at her apartment, but we ended up running late due to a late running train. We let Jo know by text, to be treated to a cheery “no problem”. In the end we were only around 40 minutes late, but it was still nice to know it was all good.''When we did arrive, after a ten minute walk from Kings Cross train station, Jo welcomed us in to her apartment. It felt incredibly welcoming and homely, with a lovely smell of incense, and ethnic style decorations. The flat, split across two levels, had a lovely large living area that led to a wonderful plant-filled balcony area.''Upstairs, there were two bedrooms – our bedroom, and Jo’s. Then there was a separate bathroom (with bathtub, to Jess’s delight), and a toilet. These are shared by guests and Jo, which was never an issue during our stay.''Jo offered us a hot drink on arrival, which we thankfully accepted, and we sat and chatted for a while. Jo’s daughter was also visiting from university, and it was lovely to meet her as well. Of course, Jess was most interested in the cats, of which there were three. Two of these three were somewhat antisocial, and we saw them incredibly briefly as they flitted from sight, but thankfully the third cat was incredibly friendly, so Jess was able to pet him as much as she wanted. Which was quite a lot.''Our room had a standard size double bed and was wonderfully made up. We had a whole desk / chair for working, which was nice, and drawers for our belongings. Jo also said we were welcome to use her kitchen if we wanted, and discovering that I was a fan of Lapsang Souchong tea, said that I was welcome to help myself to her large tea supply.''It didn’t take very long for us to feel entirely at home in the flat. Jo turned out to be an early riser, but on the days that she left early for yoga or work she would leave us a fantastic spread of breakfast items. I stuffed myself on freshly baked croissants from the bakery over the road, accompanied by incredible organic strawberry jam, yoghurts, fresh fruit, and cereals. Definitely the next best thing to a''full English breakfast,''and certainly a lot healthier!''Location-wise, as I’ve already mentioned, we were perfectly set for exploring London. There were also loads of dining and drinking options nearby, including an excellent Italian restaurant and a friendly pub. This latter was directly opposite, so we did worry that noise might be a problem, but thankfully noise-ordinance laws in London are quite strict, so we were not disturbed after 10pm, and slept very well every night.''All in all, it’s absolutely my pleasure to recommend this homestay with Jo. For London, it’s wonderfully priced, the location cannot be beaten, and Jo is a warm, friendly and welcoming person. We tried to think of areas that she could improve upon for future guests when she asked us, but we literally came up entirely blank. Which we figured was a good sign!''Before you go to London, take a moment to read through my''tips for getting the best photos in London'', to be sure you get the best photos from your visit, as well as my other''London guides''for general tips and sight-seeing advice.''So you know: Our accommodation in London was provided by''Homestay''as part of our ambassadorship with them. You can see more posts in this series''here''. All opinions remain our own. Check out our''code of ethics''for more information on who we choose to work with!''SHARE ON''At the end of 2015 we were thrilled to be invited to two new countries for us, Egypt and Morocco, with tour specialist''Travel Talk Tours''. I’ve already written about our''ten day tour of Morocco'', so check that post out if you’re interested in learning about the Travel Talk Tours Morocco experience.''This post is all about our trip to Egypt, land of Pyramids, Pharaohs, and the mighty Nile River. Growing up as a child of the eighties, and learning about all these things through fun school activities, this was truly a country I was very excited to visit, and the trip with Travel Talk Tours certainly looked like it checked all the boxes.''If you visit the''Travel Talk Tours Egypt''site, you’ll notice they have a number of options for Egypt, some of which seem quite similar. We opted for the''Jewels of the Nile''trip, but I’ll explain in this post about some of the other tours and the pros and cons of each. Our itinerary was also slightly different from that listed on the website, which I’ll go through as well.''First, let’s talk a bit about Travel Talk Tours. These guys specialise in really great value guided tours, across a variety of destinations, most of which are around the Mediterranean Sea. Their primary market are backpackers and budget travelers, generally in the 18 – 35 age range, and the vast majority of folks who come on their tours are from Australia and New Zealand, many based in the UK.''That’s not to say that if you don’t meet the target demographic that the tours aren’t for you. Speaking to the guides in Egypt and Morocco, they’ve had all age ranges come on the tours, and a wide range of nationalities. Just bear in mind that it’s a 90% certainty that the other people on your tour will fit those criteria, and the tours are definitely aimed at the young at heart.''Despite being great value, and aimed at younger travelers, Travel Talk pride themselves in offering decent quality accommodation. All the hotels they use are at least four star rated by the Egyptian Tourism Board, and we certainly had no complaints with the quality of accommodation – the river cruise ship in particular was excellent.''Now, let’s take a look at the tour we did, day by day, and then I’ll go into some details as to the pro’s and con’s, and key considerations for this trip, so you can make your own decision as to whether or not a tour of Egypt with''Travel Talk Tours''is for you!''Touring Egypt with Travel Talk Tours – A 9 Day Itinerary''Day 1 – Cairo''The first day of a Travel Talk Tour is just about arriving, with the goal to have everyone installed at the hotel by 6pm.''In our case we arrived a day early, which meant we could take advantage of a day trip to Alexandria, which was an optional add-on to our tour. Jess will be writing about our day trip to Alexandria in an upcoming post. It’s just worth bearing in mind that if you arrive in Egypt early that you might have the option to do a bit more – so do contact Travel Talk prior to booking your flights if that’s something you might be interested in.''Back to our meeting, which we turned up at fairly exhausted after a long day of touring Alexandria. This was where we met with our tour guide, who in our case was an amazing chap called Sameh. Sameh was full of enthusiasm for our upcoming adventure, the highlights of which he went through with us, including some of the sights we were going to be seeing, as well as the various optional activities.''After the meeting, folks were able to book onto any of the optional activities they were interested in, and this was also the point where they paid what Travel Talk refers to as the local fee. All Travel Talk tours have their price split between the upfront payment, and the local fee (this is all very clear on their website, no bait and switch tactics here). This helps folks to manage the cost of their holiday, rather than having to pay on lump sum, they can split it across the two payments. Folks also pay for any optional activities at this point.''I’ll talk a bit more about budgeting at the end of the post, but I would say that Travel Talk do a really good job of laying out a recommended budget for all their trips on their website, with each tour getting a full list of optional activities, estimated meal costs, and an idea for incidentals.''Back (again!, I promise I’ll stop diverting shortly) to our first evening. Here, there was an optional evening excursion, which was an evening cruise all belly dancing show. We were absolutely exhausted from a full day of travelling the day before, followed by an all day trip to Alexandria, so we decided to get an early night and be a bit fresh for the following day. Most people went on the trip though, and had a good time by all accounts. We went to bed, where we had a bit of a battle with mosquitoes. Hint – bring insect repellent to Egypt!''Day 2 – Pyramids and drive to Hurghada, overnight at Red Sea Resort''After a night’s sleep, we were ready for our first big day of exploring, and this was going to be a big one – it was time to visit the Pyramids! These, like France’s Eiffel Tower or England’s Houses of Parliament, are an instantly recognisable world symbol, and have been for thousands of years. They’ve captivated travellers to Egypt for millennia, so as you can imagine, we were fairly excited to be visiting them.''After a decent breakfast (breakfast is included every day on the trip), we hopped into our bus (a vehicle we were going to become intimately acquainted with over the next few days), for the short ride to the Pyramids.''Travel Talk have intelligently set up the trip so that the first hotel you stay in is only a ten minute drive to the Pyramids. You can actually see the Pyramids from the roof top if it’s clear. Which it wasn’t when we visited. So drive it was.''Driving around the Cairo area, you notice very quickly that littering is a serious problem. Rivers in particular are heavily polluted, full of garbage. We asked Sameh about this, and he said this was generally the first question he got asked, and that it was a source of national embarrassment. It’s definitely an eyesore! Still, the main tourist sights we visited seemed to be litter free.''The first stop on our Pyramid tour was the Saqqara burial ground. This is a huge necropolis, noted for being the place where the oldest surviving pyramid in the world can be found: the Djoser step pyramid. This is thought to be the pyramid that started the whole large-scale stone-cut template of pyramid building – with later models losing the steps. Dating from the 27th century BC, and housing the remains of King Djoser, this 5000 year old building is definitely one of the oldest man made structures surviving today.''It was a fitting spot to start our tour, as it let our guide Sameh set the stage for explaining the history of pyramid building and burial in Egypt, a trajectory of construction that led ultimately to the creation of the Great Pyramids of Giza. Sameh definitely knew his stuff, teaching us all sorts of fascinating facts about the rites surrounding life in ancient Egypt, from birth through to death. This continued throughout our entire tour, and it was clear that this was a subject in which he was both passionate and well-informed.''Another area of Egypt that Sameh was well equipped to deal with was a more modern-day detail – that of the vendors who exist at every tourist site.''Another aside, if you’ll indulge me. Tourism in Egypt when we visited was at a serious low point, and has been since the revolutions in 2011 and 2013. It was just starting to pick up, when there was the airline bombing in late 2015. Since our visit in late 2015, there have been additional terror attacks in early 2016, both near the Pyramids, and at a resort in Hurghada.''Terror attacks and revolutions, as well as the coverage that these tend to get in the media, tend to put folks off from visiting a destination, which can seriously impact the lives of those who rely on the tourism dollar. It would definitely be a lie for me to say that Egypt is a “safe” country to visit, on the other hand, I’m not sure I could guarantee safety for any country in the world. For an excellent piece on why you shouldn’t let fear stop you from travelling,''read this''. I will say that we never felt in any real danger whilst we were there.''The purpose of bringing all this up is to stress that whilst we were there, there were very few other tourists visiting, even the major tourist sights such as the pyramids. This meant that the folks who usually make a living from selling trinkets and services at these locations were seriously struggling, with any tourist bus that arrived being greeted with some desperation.''Sameh was very helpful in these situations. Realising that being grabbed, cajoled and hassled by vendors desperate to make a living can make visitors both uncomfortable (and as a result, less likely to want to buy anything), he would give us a briefing prior to arriving at any destination, giving us an overview of what we would likely encounter for sale, a fair price to pay (haggling is key!), and reminding us that these folks were genuinely just trying to make a living. Sometimes he would even negotiate with the vendors, and show us the products on sale, rather than having us be mobbed. This made the whole process a lot easier for everyone, and reduced the stress levels somewhat.''Back to the step Pyramid. We started the tour with a fifteen minute or so talk on the history of pyramid building and the rituals surrounding death in Ancient Egypt, before being given around 20 minutes of free time to explore. In this time we could haggle with the vendors, take advantage of a donkey or camel ride, or just wander and take pictures. Quite a few of the group did take a camel ride, and Jess found herself quite surprisingly hoisted onto a donkey. In exchange for this, we felt obligated to give the man some change who was nice but somewhat pushy. If you don’t want to take part in this sort of activity, you have to be really firm and say no.''For any service you receive like this, there is going to be a cost, and it will often only be presented after you’ve taken part in said activity. Remember that all the prices are negotiable, and you are under no obligation to take part in any of them if you don’t want to! In our case, we agreed a price before hand, and refused to pay any more after we’d taken the photos. This is something that you might need to practice a bit first, but it’s just a part of the culture, and you’ll get the hang of it (like haggling!).''Once we’d seen the step pyramids thoroughly, it was back in the bus, and on our way to the main event – the Great Pyramids of Giza.''These are pretty much instantly recognisable symbols of Egypt, but I have to admit, they still blew me away. They are just so darn big! When we visited, they were also relatively quiet, which was of course nice for us, and we were able to walk around, touch them, and take as many pictures as we wanted. This was a truly incredible place to visit, and an experience I’m not going to forget for a long time.''From the Great Pyramids we headed up to an overlook which gave a great view of the Giza Pyramid complex, and from where an optional camel ride was available. Many people in the group did this, but we’d pretty much had our fill of camel riding in Morocco, so opted to hang out and take pictures instead. A few people also bought entrance tickets to go inside one of the pyramids.''Once the camel riding and pyramid visiting was done, we headed down to the Great Sphinx for more photo opportunities, and learnt more from Sameh about the people who built all these incredible monuments.''Finally, it was time to leave the Pyramid complex, and so we headed to lunch, a five minute drive away. Another note on Travel Talk – not every meal is included, in particular lunches and dinners. You are generally presented with an option or two for meals, but in our experience, and talking to Sameh about this, he said that most people go with the group and the first option. Sameh never steered us wrong, and nearly every meal was good value. As far as I’m aware, no-one got ill on our trip, which was a good sign.''Following a delicious lunch, there was a brief stop in a perfume shop, where we had some lovely tea, and a wonderful gentleman took us through the history of perfume making in Egypt, and showed us a whole number of his perfumes, many of which are used as the base for brand perfumes in the West. Of course, there was the option to buy at the end of this experience, but this was a very low pressure environment, and many people opted to pick up perfume as gifts for friends and family. These were presented in really beautiful glass bottles, and well packed – a really nice gift option.''And then it was time for the less exciting part of the day – the bus ride! Egypt is a large country, and the sights are spread out from the top to the bottom of the country. In our 8 days, we’d be covering over 2,000km, which inevitably meant quite a bit of time on a bus!''The bus, I have to admit, wasn’t quite as comfortable as the bus we had in Morocco. Sure, we all fit in fine, but it was a little older, and the seats were less comfortable. Still, it was good enough. The first drive was to Hurghada, a resort town on the Red Sea, and took around five hours. As with Morocco, you have to accept the bus rides as part of the experience. Bring a book, or some music, chat to folks around you, or spend time enjoying the landscape. Just be prepared, and you’ll be fine. There are plenty of bathroom breaks, usually with the option to buy snacks as well, so you won’t go hungry.''Finally, after dark, we arrived at our resort. This stop is where the itinerary diverges from that on the website, as the website has you driving straight through to Luxor. That would be a very long drive, so I’m certainly thankful that we had this overnight stop in Hurghada. Even better, this stop was at an all inclusive resort (including alcoholic drinks!), so we were able to enjoy a few beers before and after dinner, which was nice.''Day 3 – Half day relaxing in Hurghada, then half day drive to Luxor, overnight at Luxor''After a jam packed day of Pyramids and driving, our third day was a lot more relaxing. We had a half day at the resort, where we could take advantage of the pool, swimming in the Red Sea, a leisurely breakfast, or of course, those inclusive drinks. After lunch, we boarded the bus, and it was another long drive to Luxor, where we also arrived after dark.''Here we went, rather bizarrely, to a local Irish pub for dinner. The food was generally ok, although the Irish options were somewhat more dubious than the Egyptian options. Here there was also the option to get some engraving done, with a local engraver available to engrave various things in hieroglyphics. Then, it was time for bed, with another full day ahead of us.''Day 4 –\xa0 Valley of the Kings, Temple of Hatshepsut, Luxor, drive to Aswan, Nubian Dinner, night on cruise ship''In the morning, we rose fairly early for a full breakfast. On this tour there is the option of a sunrise balloon trip. Whilst this was excellent value for money, no-one opted to take it, largely I suspect because it was required a super early start on a day that was already going to be jam packed. Still, we saw some balloons going over, which was nice.''After breakfast, we headed to another incredibly famous Egyptian location – the Valley of the Kings, stopping on the way to visit some statues.''The Valley of the Kings was the Egyptian solution to graves being robbed. Whilst a pyramid is all well and good, it’s a bit of an obvious construction, and the Pharaohs who were buried in them often had their tombs robbed at some point after their burial. Filling your tomb with treasure and then making it a giant landmark was probably never going to work as a long term security-focused plan.''The solution was, rather obviously, to start hiding the tombs. Admittedly, it took a thousand years or so between the Pyramids being used and the Valley of the Kings being used, during which time Egypt was busy having some history happening, with dynasties coming and going, new rulers, invasions and the like. That’s one thing you quickly realise when visiting Egypt, these guys have been around for A Long Time.''Anyway, the Valley of the Kings was picked as the resting place for at least 20 Egyptian rulers over a period of around 500 years. Obviously, a pyramid would have been better as a resting place, but those cunning Egyptians found a valley with a hill that looks rather like a pyramid, and must have concluded that on the whole, getting to keep all their treasures was worth not having a real pyramid.''Sadly, despite all their careful efforts, many of the tombs were robbed anyway. A notable exception to this being the world famous tomb of Tutankhamun, whose tomb was discovered almost intact in 1922.''Visiting the Valley of the Kings was a fantastic experience. There are twelve tombs that are generally open to the public, although they are often rotated so as to minimise the impact of visitors on the delicate interiors. Other measures to reduce damage to the tombs include no photography being allowed at all on the site, and guides not being allowed to lead tours inside the tombs themselves.''What happened therefore was that we were given some suggestions by Sameh as to which tombs he thought we would most enjoy visiting, representing a cross-section of different styles. He explained all sorts of things about the history of the tombs, and the people who were buried in them, and then we were able to explore them at our leisure. Our tickets gave us access to three tombs (although you can buy more tickets for more access). Jess and I decided to visit three tombs plus bought an extra ticket to visit the tomb of Tutankhamun.''Visiting Tutankhamun’s tomb is an optional extra ticket, but in my mind very much worth it. The mummy of King Tutankhamun is still in his tomb, and visiting it was something that both Jess and I wanted to do. It was definitely worth the extra ticket price!''Following on from the Valley of the Kings we headed to the Mortuary Temple of Hatshepsut. This has been almost entirely reconstructed, and is unusual for an Egyptian temple in that it is more like a classical Greek temple. It’s spread over three levels, and is thought to be one of the most beautiful temples in Egypt, although to be honest, competition is high for that title!''From here the group was definitely starting to get hungry, and so we headed for lunch in a nearby village. This was, in my opinion, the best meal of the whole trip, featuring a traditional BBQ of meat accompanied by all the classic Egyptian side dishes, including flat breads and dips.''Then, it was back to the bus, and a drive down to Aswan. Here, our group split depending on what exact tour they were booked on. We were booked on the Nile Cruise, so we checked in to our rather nice river cruise ship, where we were to spend the next three nights. Other members of the group had slightly different itineraries, so checked into a hotel.''Once checked in, it was time for an optional evening activity, which everyone chose to do, that being the experience of a Nubian dinner. This involved a half hour boat ride, followed by a dinner in a traditional Nubian household. The food was really excellent. Then, after a half hour boat ride home, it was time for bed, because our fifth day involved a seriously early start.''Day 5 – Abu Simbel Temples, Philae Temple, Nile Cruise''I’m not going to lie, this is one busy tour. There’s a lot to see in Egypt, and this tour definitely does its best to get you around the highlights. One of those highlights is of course the Abu Simbel temples – the incredible temples carved out of the rock, way down in the south of Egypt. As part of the Nile damn project, these were to be flooded, but after an incredible effort, the temples were moved in their entirety about thirty meters above their original location, and rebuilt in their original splendour.''It’s about a three hour drive from Aswan to the Abu Simbel temples, and for security reasons, tour buses travel in a convoy. Which departs Aswan at 4am. Yes, that is early. Particularly since I wanted a bit of breakfast, and we had to get to the convoy start point. Long story short, it was a 3am wake up call.''Thankfully, the bus was comfortable enough to get a bit of rest as we drove down, and I was able to wake up for long enough to watch a glorious sunrise. So that was nice.''The temples themselves were, as you might imagine, pretty stunning. Originally built in 1264BC, they fell into disuse and were buried by the desert sands for centuries, before being rediscovered in 1813. Today they are a UNESCO world heritage site, and very much near the top of the list of incredible Egyptian temples to visit.''Wandering these two temples is incredible, especially when you consider everything in them, including the pillars, was carved out of the solid rock. Photography inside the temples isn’t allowed (they are quite strict on this!), but the chap at the entrance did let me get a shot looking into them. For a few Egyptian Pounds, he’ll also let you hold the key to the temple. This ankh represents the concept of eternal life, and often appears in images of Egyptian gods, so is generally considered good luck to hold.''From Abu Simbel, after a strong and reviving Egyptian coffee, it was back in the bus for the convoy ride to Aswan. From Aswan we hopped on a boat to visit the Temple of Philae. This sits on an island in the reservoir formed by the Aswan Low Dam, where it was moved in the 1960’s so as to be above the water level permanently.''Built in the 4th century BC, the Temple of Philae was believed to be one of the burying places of Osiris, god of the underworld and resurrection. The temple feels very Roman, largely because much of was it was constructed by the Romans during their time in Egypt.''I also found the graffiti on the walls to be interesting, left as it was by Victorian-era travellers. You can find this sort of writing engraved on many Egyptian monuments, obviously leaving a mark on an artifact that is potentially thousands of years old is pretty uncool, but those Victorian travellers clearly had a slightly different set of values.''On from the temple and it was back to the boat, where the group split up. Those of us taking the cruise remained on the boat, where we were to spend the next couple of nights cruising up the Nile. Other members of the party were doing the other itineraries – one,''the Felucca trip'', which involves sailing up the Nile on a traditional Felucca, and the others were doing a''land based trip'', which meant they had another full day to explore Aswan, before we would meet them again in Luxor.''Personally, I think the Nile Cruise represents best value for money, as all our meals were included for our time on the boat, and we had a wonderfully relaxing trip up the Nile, stopping to take in various highlights on the way.''Certainly, the''Felucca version of the trip''offers a wonderfully authentic experience, and our guide said it was his favourite of all the Egyptian tours. I think the''land tour option''would be my third choice – you get an hour of sailing on a Felucca, but then have to handle a bus ride from Aswan to Cairo, which is around a fifteen hour drive!''Day 6 – Nile Cruise, Kom Ombo Temple, Edfu Temple,''Our sixth day dawned with us cruising up the Nile on our cruise boat. This was a very comfortable vessel, with nice rooms, lovely big windows to enjoy the view, and a huge top-deck that ran the length of the boat. It was from here that I went to watch the sunrise as we cruised up the Nile.''I was the only one up there at that hour of the morning – everyone else opted for a lie-in! If you can motivate yourself though, I can definitely recommend popping above deck to watch the sunrise – there’s always something magical about watching the first light hit the world around you, especially in a country with so much history.''The sixth day was definitely one of my favourites on the trip. There’s something so relaxing about a river cruise (something I''discovered in Russia''), watching the scenery go by, enjoying excellent food, and stopping off for a bit of sight-seeing as you go.''In our case, we stopped at the Temple of Kom Ombo (also home to a rather interesting mummified crocodile museum), and the Temple of Horus at Edfu. This latter included a buggy ride to the temple, which was a lot of fun (I even got to drive the buggy briefly!), and personally, was one of my favourites of all the temples we visited in Egypt, not least because of the huge scale of it.''Then, it was back to the boat, and an afternoon tea, followed by a lovely sunset, and a few drinks with my fellow travelling companions. We also passed through a number of locks on the river during this part of the voyage. This was a fun experience too, as many vendors came alongside the vessel, and threw their wares up to us in an attempt to sell them. Had we been interested, we would have thrown money back at them. As it was, we just had to throw their wares back at them. Not as easy as it sounds from the fourth storey of a cruise boat!''Day 7 – Luxor Temple, Karnak Temple, Papyrus Scrolls''Our final day on the river cruise and I didn’t quite make it up for the sunrise, opting instead for what I thought was a well deserved lie-in. The boat arrived into Luxor, where we set off to explore the impressive Luxor temple.''One of the most interesting things about Luxor temple, in my mind, is the enormous obelisk that stands outside it. This was once a set of two – the other now sits in Paris’s Place du Concorde. Given the size and scale of this monument, carved out of solid rock, I can’t imagine how challenging this must have been to move!''From Luxor Temple we went to Karnak Temple. Karnak temple was originally connected to Luxor temple by a three kilometre long avenue of sphinxes, but only a part of this survives today.''Karnak Temple is the second largest ancient religious site in the world, after Angkor Wat, so as you can imagine, is fairly impressive also. This is a bit of a thing with Egypt, everything is just so impressive.''By now you might be wondering why I keep going on about these temples, and surely maybe by this point I’d seen enough. Nothing could be further from the truth. Each temple held it’s own unique points of interest and fascination, and Sameh’s guiding was always top notch, keeping us informed and entertained throughout.''In the case of Karnak, easily the most impressive part was the sheer scale, a feature that was particularly obvious in Hypostyle Hall, a 5,000 square meter hall consisting of 134 enormous columns, the majority of which are 10 meters tall, with a few being 21 meters tall! There are also a number of obelisks here – one is missing, as it was borrowed by the Romans in 357AD, and is still standing in Rome. That happens to be the largest obelisk in the world, and originally weighed 455 tons – the mind boggles as to how the Romans transported it from Egypt to Rome!''Following our temple tour of Karnak, our last stop was at a Papyrus store, where we learnt all about the art of making papyrus scrolls, and were able to purchase any artworks we were interested in. As I had enjoyed the temple of Horus so much, I bought a little scroll featuring a depiction of Horus as a memento of the trip.''Then, the day became rather less exciting, as we loaded up into the bus for the final big trip – all the way from Luxor to Cairo. This was a long trip, running from around 4pm to just after midnight, and I can’t say it was hugely enjoyable, but we got through it ok.''Day 8 – Cairo Museum, Mosque of Muhammad Ali, Sound and Light Show''Our last full day with Travel Talk Tours was dedicated to exploring Cairo. Unfortunately, Sameh had come down with the flu, so we had a new guide for our last day. He was certainly very knowledgeable, but the last minute nature of the change meant we started our trip a little late. Still, these things happen.''The day started with a visit to the Museum of Egyptian Antiquities, most often known as the Museum of Cairo. This is one of Egypt’s largest museums, home to over 120,000 items, with arguably the most famous being the Gold Mask of Tutankhamun.''Unfortunately, the famous mask was out for cleaning when we visited, although the upshot of this was that we were allowed to take photos inside the museum, which is normally not permitted. Mask aside, there were still plenty of interesting artefacts on display, although to be honest, I did prefer to be out and about visiting the actual temples rather than seeing the items in a museum setting. I guess I’m just never going to be much of a museums person!''From the museum we headed to a few other areas of Cairo. We visited the incredible Mosque of Muhammad Ali, also known as the alabaster mosque, where we learnt a little about the Muslim religion and worshipping practices. Then we learned went to the Hanging Church and Citadel. We also visited a famous shopping district the Khan El Khalili Bazars – this being the last day of the tour, this gave everyone a last chance to pick up some souvenirs or gifts for folks back home. Finally, it was back to the hotel.''Most people were pretty tired by this point, so the final optional activity wasn’t well subscribed to, but I’ve always wanted to see the Sound and Light Show at the Pyramids, so after a quick bite to eat, it was back in the bus for a trip to the pyramids.''This show, which runs for around an hour or so, was a lovely way to finish off the trip. The Pyramids were without doubt the highlight of our Egypt adventure for us, and seeing them beautifully lit up, as a story about their history was told, really wrapped everything up nicely.''It was also at the sound and light show that the dire state of the Egyptian tourism industry really became obvious. There are literally thousands upon thousands of chairs here waiting for people to visit, and on the night we attended, I counted 21 visitors. Like I said earlier in the post, I can’t guarantee that Egypt is safe, but my experience was that we were well looked after, had no issues, and had a fantastic time. If you have the opportunity to go, I would definitely consider a trip here.''Day 9 – End''Our last day was much like the first day – folks were heading home, and so were we. We had a ridiculously early flight, so it was a quick transfer to the airport and away, having said all our goodbyes the night before.''Phew. Hopefully this gives you an idea of what to expect on a Travel Talk Tour of Egypt like the one we did! Now, let’s go through a few pro’s and con’s.''What was good about the Travel Talk Tour of Egypt''Excellent Guide.''A great guide can really make a trip, and in our case, Sameh really was fantastic. He knew his stuff, he was always hugely enthusiastic, and if anyone had any problems, questions or queries, he went above and beyond to help out. He was definitely a highlight of our trip to Egypt.''Nice Hotels.''Other than being bothered by mosquitoes on our first and last nights, all the hotels we stayed at were comfortable, clean and well-presented. I particularly liked the river boat, it was a lovely space and the views from the full length windows were unbeatable!''Good Food.''Throughout our trip, Sameh took us to well-priced restaurants that served excellent local food. The only exception was the Irish Pub, where the food was not that great. But really, one slightly below par dish from nine days of meals is hardly worth writing home about!''Great Value For Money.''Many of my thoughts on the pro’s and con’s of this tour echo those that I put together for the Morocco tour with Travel Talk. Value for money is another one of these. You can get Travel Talk Tours at an excellent price, and they often run promotional deals. It is worth noting that the tours don’t include admission prices, tips, or all meals, but even once everything is factored in, the value is definitely high.''Egypt is Mind Blowingly Awesome.''Finally, and this has nothing really to do with Travel Talk, other than how well Sameh made this obvious – Egypt is a truly incredible country. I’d often thought that Italy was a good place to visit for history, but Egypt blows that right out of the water. When you think the by the time of Cleopatra, the Pyramids had already stood for over two thousand years. In fact, we’re closer to the time of Cleopatra now than she was to the time of the Pyramids. It’s a fascinating country to visit, and one that everyone with even the vaguest of interest in the development of civilisation should add to their list.''What wasn’t so great?''Of course, not everything is perfect about a trip. Whilst the below definitely weren’t deal breakers for us, I do want to bring them up so you are aware!''Long Bus Rides.''As is likely quite obvious from the post, this tour does involve some fairly prolonged bus journeys. The Egyptian scenery is not quite as varied as the Moroccan scenery, and the roads weren’t always great, so this can get a little tiring. I can’t really see any other way to get a group of people around the country though – the trains are also fairly slow, and flights would likely significantly increase the cost of the trip. So just be prepared – Egypt is a large country, with the key attractions stretched out from North to South, so some time on the bus is the price you’ll have to pay.''Lack of WiFi.''Again, not really a deal breaker – we could all do with a bit of time away from the internet, right? WiFi was not reliably available, except in the odd hotel lobby, so don’t be expecting to keep folks up to date with your every move.''It’s a tour.''Fairly obviously, this is a tour, made up of a group. So, there are downsides to this sort of travelling compared to independent travel, in terms of flexibility, timing, what you are going to see, and so on. Of course, there are advantages, in that everything is taken care of for you. So this isn’t really a downside, just a fact, that a group tour isn’t for everyone. Although you probably already know if that’s you by now!''Who’s going to be on a tour like this?''As previously mentioned, Travel Talk Tours are predominantly aimed at a younger market, with most tour attendees being 18-35 years olds. Unlike the Morrocco trip though, which featured many more single girls, the Egypt trip we were on was nearly all couples, with one family group of four (all adults).''Everyone apart from ourselves was either Australian or from New Zealand, and many of them had been on Travel Talk tours previously as well, always a positive sign.''What do you need to know about travelling in Egypt?''Egypt is definitely a country experiencing some turmoil. Security is high, and we often had an armed truck escort of police escorting our vehicle. The low state of tourism has really impacted the country, and you might find yourself somewhat more hassled than usual as a result.''This said, I would definitely still recommend travelling to Egypt. The people are friendly, the Travel Talk guides know their stuff, and the country is home to some of the most impressive historical sights you are ever going to see. You cannot fail to be impressed by the Pyramids, and the way they have stood for thousands of years, as world civilisations have risen and fallen around them.''Beyond the safety, there are some basic considerations to take into account. As with many other countries, tap water isn’t safe to drink, so only buy and drink bottled water. The local currency is the Egyptian Pound – you can change this into other currencies before you leave, which I would recommend doing, as it can be hard to change once you have left the country.''The electrical system is the same as the UK / Europe at 220v. Power sockets are also similar to European style sockets (two hole), so if you’re travelling from the US or UK you will likely need a travel adaptor.''WiFi is available at many (but no all) of the hotels, but is not always free, so do be prepared to go without internet for prolonged periods of time.''Is a Travel Talk Tour of Egypt for you?''If you’re keen to explore Egypt, like to meet new people, and enjoy having most of your trip being taken care of for you, then you will definitely enjoy this tour. To be honest, Egypt can be a bit of a challenging country to travel in solo, so a tour like this is really an excellent way to have a minimum hassle experience.''I would definitely recommend this trip to anyone who is young at heart and wants to see Egypt. At the time of writing, Egypt is really struggling for tourists, which means that even sights like the Pyramids and the Valley of the Kings, which are usually swarming with thousands of people, are eerily quiet. Travel Talk makes the experience really easy, their guides are absolutely first class, and we had a wonderful time. So yes, if you’ve read this post and think it’s for you, I’d totally suggest you go ahead and''book a trip''!''So you know: our trip to Egypt with Travel Talk Tours was provided complimentary by Travel Talk, who covered our flights, accommodation, tour costs, and most of our entry fees and meals for the duration of the trip. All opinions remain our own – do check our''Code of Ethics''for more on how we choose who to work with.''SHARE ON''Paris''is easily one of my favourite cities in the world, and by far one of the''most photogenic''. Today, as part of my series where I share some of my''favourite photography locations''from destinations around the world, I want to give you my tips for getting the best photos in Paris.''Let’s get started.''The Best Photography Locations in Paris''1. The Top Of Montparnasse Tower''It took me a while to figure out the best place to photograph Paris at sunset, but after a lot of trial and error, I came to the conclusion that the top of Montparnasse Tower is the place to go. It isn’t free to get to the top (latest ticket prices''here''), but it seems perfectly set up for photographers, with holes in the glass to shoot through, and no restrictions on tripod usage.''And what views you get. In my opinion, this is the best location to get photos of the Eiffel Tower, particularly at sunset and through into the blue hour, as the city lights start to come on. You’ll want both a wide angle lens to get the whole city into your shot, as well as something like a 70-200mm to frame the Eiffel Tower more tightly, and of course a tripod, although I would advise bringing a fairly tall tripod as the partitions in the glass are fairly high, and you want to avoid having to extend your central column as much as I did if possible!''You can also get lovely shots of other parts of the city, including Montmartre.''2. At the Arc de Triomphe''The Arc de Triomphe is a classic Parisian landmark, well worth taking the time to shoot. My personal favourite location to do so is from the Champs Elysees, on a long exposure.''There’s a pedestrian crossing a short way down the Champs Elsyees from the Arc, where you can set up a tripod on a long exposure, and get a great shot at dusk, dawn, or night, using the moving cars to create light trails.''3. Place du Concorde''The Place du Concorde is home to the 3,000 year old Obelisk of Luxor, brought here from Egypt in 1833. This was no easy feat, given as it weighs around 250 tonnes! The Place du Concorde has also been home to some notable French events, in particular the execution of France’s last King, Louis XVI, during the French Revolution.''I think the Place makes for a fun photography subject, with the Champs Elysees stretching out in one direction, and the Tuileries Gardens in the other. It’s from these gardens that I recommend getting the shot – in particular, taking advantage of the large pond to get a nice reflection shot.''4. Behind Notre Dame''Notre Dame is a beautiful gothic cathedral, well worth a visit. Its stand out feature in my mind are its flying buttresses, which means you need to shoot from behind for the best shots. To get these, you have two options. The first is from Pont de la Tournelle, a few minutes walk south east of Notre Dame, where you can get some lovely shots with a longer lens.''Alternatively, head underneath the Pont de l’Archeveche, and to the banks of the Seine itself. Here there are some wonderful locations to grab photos of Notre Dame and the River Seine. Ideal shooting times are at dusk and dawn.''5. The Trocadero''There are numerous places to shoot the Eiffel Tower, but other than Montparnasse Tower, my favourite is from the Trocadero. Across the river from the Eiffel Tower, this offers a slightly elevated vantage point, from where you can shoot the Eiffel Tower against the city skyline, and really get a feel for the scale of this construction.''The other advantage of this location is that there are multiple fountains in the Jardins du Trocadero, which line up perfectly with the Eiffel Tower and the road opposite. When they are going off, they can be a lovely bit of foreground for your composition.''6. Montmartre''One of the most famous locations in Paris to watch the sunset is on the steps and slope in from of the Sacre Coeur on top of Montmatre, a hill slightly to the north of Paris. This whole part of Paris though is excellent to shoot. The hill offers panoramic views, the Sacre Coeur itself is no eyesore, and there are little alleyways galore to explore.''Don’t miss the Place du Tertre either – it’s one of the most famous places in Paris to get a portrait painted, and if you’re after a bit of street photography, this is an excellent place to come.''7. At the Moulin Rouge''I very much enjoyed our''visit to the Moulin Rouge'', even though you can’t take pictures inside the show. Still, you can take pictures of the outside of the world’s most famous cabaret, which is nearly as good.''The best spot for shots is just across the road from the famous red windmill, and really you should visit at night with a tripod, and shoot some long exposures. You’ll get that lovely light trail effect from the windmill, and if you position yourself right, you might even get some light trails from passing cars.''8. The Louvre''Last, but by no means least, on my guide to my favourite photography locations in Paris, has to be the Louvre museum. Again, worth visiting the actual museum, but for photography purposes, you’ll want to be outside. There are lots of angles and shots to try, but my suggestion to use the glass pyramid as the hinge for your shots.''This sits in excellent contrast to the rest of the museum buildings, which are of a more classic architectural style, and offers leading lines galore to draw your viewers in. Again, dusk and dawn are the best times to shoot, with those lights popping on, but you can in fact get decent shots here throughout the day as it’s such a fascinating looking construction.''Additional Resources for Paris Photography Locations''There are lots of incredible photo spots in Paris, and I’ve only touched on some of them in this post. I suspect you’d easily be able to fill a weekend of photography with the above, but if you’ve got a bit more time on your hands and want a few more ideas, then here are some excellent resources to help you get the shots you want, plus enjoy the city to it’s fullest.''Our detailed guides to spending''2 days in Paris'', as well as a''3 day Paris Itinerary''This eBook''offers a comprehensive''guide to Photographing Paris''If you’re in the market for a new camera, check out my definitive''guide to the best travel camera'', with something for every budget''My other''photography location guides'', to get you the best shot in destinations around the world''If you are in Paris, check out''this post to help keep you clear of common Paris scams''If you are in Paris for a few days and want to get some sight-seeing in, check out''the Paris Pass''for a great deal on sight-seeing and transport! We’ve also written a full''review of the Paris Pass'', which is worth checking out.''Finally, if you’re looking to learn more about photography, I run an''online travel photography course''which covers everything I know about photography, plus you get one on one feedback directly from me as you go! Check it out and let me know if you have any questions.''Enjoy photographing Paris, and if you enjoyed this post, don’t miss the rest of my''photography locations guides''!''SHARE ON''In mid-2015, Jess and I drove\xa0the entire 2,400 mile length of Route 66, from Santa Monica in California, up to Chicago, Illinois.''Then, we tacked on an adventure retracing the Oregon Trail (which we managed to survive without catching dysentery), because, well, why not?''Back to Route 66. I’m sharing some of my favourite photos and moments from our road trip across each of the eight states that the original Route 66 spanned, in the order that we did them in. I’ve already shared my favourite''California Route 66 images'', and now is the turn of Arizona. You can see the rest of the''Route 66 photo series here''.''I think Arizona was my favourite of all the states we crossed. We had spectacular weather, the scenery is vast, expansive and photogenic, and we even managed to fit in a detour to the''Grand Canyon''as part of our adventure.''In terms of Route 66, Arizona is home to some of the more iconic stretches of this route, at least, from a tourists point of view, with a great many towns and attractions doing their best to capitalise on the legend that is the Mother Road. So whilst there certainly *are* some of those abandoned structures to be found on the way – there are a good many more thriving establishments and towns, all happy to serve you a good old slice of Route 66 charm.''Here’s what we found in Arizona.''A great deal of Route 66 is no longer passable to vehicles – like this old bridge. It’s still photogenic though.''Unlike the bridge, many of the diners in Arizona are still very much in use. This is Mr D’s Diner, which is an excellent stop for a bite to eat and a root beer!''Probably the most famous sign along Route 66, advertising the Jack Rabbit trading post. Signs like this used to span the route for hundreds of miles, promising travellers all sorts of wonders when they finally arrived at the store.''And who could be disappointed when arriving to find a giant rabbit that you can sit on?''There are plenty of other curiosities on the route, including collections of old cars, often found on the site of former gas stations, like the one above…''…or sitting and rusting in the middle of nowhere!''The Arizona scenery was just stunning, and the roads seemed to go on beautifully forever.''The town of Winslow Arizona became famous thanks to the song by the Eagles, “Take it Easy”, which prominently features the song in its lyrics. This is a fact the town has capitalised on, with a whole corner dedicated to the passage from the song.''It is, admittedly, pretty cool.''Of course, traversing Route 66 requires the eating of a lot of diner food. So we did just that, often in diners which have been in existence since the road was first built, and don’t seem to have changed their menus a great deal in all that time.''More faded memories in old gas stations…''And of course, you have to sleep somewhere, with a classic Route 66 motel being the lodging of choice for most travellers.''And of course, more of those diners.''Some towns really get on board the whole Route 66 vibe, with artworks…''…and classic cars.''Another classic diner along the route, this is the Twisters Diner in Williams, Arizona.''Of course, not everywhere has survived the coming of the interstate. This was once a theme park.''It isn’t so much of a theme park any more.''Or a gas station, for that matter.''Still, there’s a lot left to see that is still in operation!''I was fascinated by the immensity of the trains traversing this part of the US. There seemed to be one every few minutes!''Of course, you don’t have to stay in a normal motel. You can sleep in a Wigwam made of concrete, and park your iridescent beetle outside.''Or funky car of your choice, really!''Tips for Planning your own Route 66 Adventure''If you’re planning your own Route 66 adventure, we’ve got a bit of reading for you!''First, be inspired by photos from all the states we visited, by checking our photos highlights from each Route 66 state:''California'',''Arizona'',''New Mexico'',''Texas'',''Oklahoma'',''Kansas'',''Missouri''&''Illinois''Next, check out Jess’s comprehensive guide to''planning a Route 66 trip''Then, take a look out our incredibly detailed''day by day Route 66 itinerary'', which covers all the sights you want to see, route tips, lodging options and places to eat.''If you’re new to driving in the US, check out my''tips for driving in the US''to get you started''Not sure how much it’s all going to cost? We’ve got you covered with our''guide to travel costs in the USA''Finally, take a look at''this book''– the best way in our opinion to successfully navigate the entire length of Route 66 as faithfully as you can. We followed it the whole way, and even met the author, and couldn’t have done without it!''And that sums up this photo essay on Route 66, Arizona, easily one of my favourite states on the Route from a photography standpoint!''SHARE ON''There’s nothing like an English breakfast. Admittedly, the Americans do their best, bless them, but they get the bacon all wrong, and have a strange obsession with syrup. Also, from what I can tell, a phobia of baked beans in the morning, a staple of the classic English breakfast.''The Europeans (I am aware the UK is in Europe, but we often gloss over this with us vs them comparisons) really don’t get breakfast. Who ever turned up for a hotel breakfast, ecstatic with delight at the thought of a continental breakfast? Not me, that’s who.''No. You want bacon. Sausage. Egg. Beans. Mushrooms. Tomato. Baked beans. Black pudding. Toast! To be honest, the list goes on. The key thing is that it’s hot, there’s lots of it, you won’t want to eat for the rest of the day, and your arteries are going to be Very Upset. That is what a Full English Breakfast is all about.''And a Full English breakfast is what we got when we stayed in Birmingham with Eunice and her husband Steve in''their B&B''which we booked through''Homestay''. Every morning in fact, for six days, and it never got old. And it was magnificent, with Eunice creating the feast, and Steve serving it, in between a bit of singing along to the radio, smiling happily, and enquiring as to our plans for the day. It was hard not to be excited about going out and exploring with this level of cheer to bolster us. And the food of course.''This''homestay''was a little bit different to''the previous ones''we’d experienced, what with it being a more formal Bed & Breakfast. This meant it was a little less like a traditional homestay, and a little more of a hotel experience, in that we weren’t sharing a whole house, rather, we had our own en-suite room and then there was a dining room where breakfast was served.''This was lovely – Jess and I are both big fans of Bed and Breakfast’s – they usually offer excellent value for money, friendly hosts and a homely feel – and this experience was no different. Situated in Solihull (10 minutes train ride into central Birmingham), it was perfectly located for us to explore the city, whilst enjoying quiet and relaxing evenings.''As mentioned, our hosts were friendly and welcoming, and lovely to chat to as well. They knew plenty about the local area, and gave us a bit of insight into the history of the property, which was the first to be built in the area – for a time, there were nothing but fields all around. Hard to imagine today, in the suburban landscape of Birmingham! Also, interestingly, they believe that the property was visited by Winston Churchill, back in the days when it was in the hands of a wealthy landowner. Which is pretty cool.''Steve and Eunice have been there for almost two decades, raising 11 kids in the place, and it definitely feels like a family home. They’ve got three rooms they offer out to guests, and the prices are very reasonable. We were welcomed on arrival with a choice of tea or coffee, there were chocolates on our pillow, biscuits by the bed, and that ever essential room ingredient – a kettle, mugs, and tea and coffee making equipment!''The location was excellent, with on site parking, a five minute walk from the train station, and with highlights of the area including Birmingham, Warwick, and Royal Leamington Spa all within easy driving distance.''We spent most of our time''exploring the area'', and had a great deal of fun. We also''visited the UK Photography Show'', which is held in the National Exhibition Center or NEC – this is a ten minute drive from the homestay, so really convenient if you’re in the area for a show or meeting.''Overall, we had an great experience at this homestay, and are happy to recommend it. I really love the flexibility of the Homestay experience – there are loads of options to choose from when you come to pick a place to stay. If you do decide to book this homestay, or any others on the site – you’ll get an automatic 5% discount applied when using''this link''!''So you know: Our accommodation in Solihull was provided by''Homestay''as part of our ambassadorship with them. All opinions remain our own. Check out our''code of ethics''for more information on who we choose to work with!''SHARE ON''Edinburgh, you might not be aware, is a bit nuts about festivals. I was aware already of the yearly Edinburgh Fringe, and the Military Tattoo, and of course, the incredible New Years Eve celebration that is''Hogmanay''. But I had no idea that this is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the festivals that Edinburgh puts on throughout the year.''Edinburgh bills itself as the''Festival City,''and for good reason – they have no less than twelve festivals throughout the year! And there’s something for everything, from''military celebrations'', to''books'', to''comedy''– the list goes on.''But this post isn’t about those festivals. As the title suggests, this post is about the''Edinburgh International Science Festival''. Which, as you might guess, is all about celebrating science.''Over a period of two weeks, hundreds of science focused events happen at venues across the city. And, you might not know this, but Edinburgh really has some spectacular venues for events, of all sizes and shapes. In my mind, it’s pretty much the perfect city for festivals. I guess they figured so too.''Back to the Science Festival. We were invited to check out some of the events through the festival and see what we thought. Now, you might be thinking – science? Isn’t that going to be a series of dull lectures involving chalkboards and equations and, well, things you’d not be interested in?''The answer is no. Science is amazing. Everything comes from Science! How beer is made. How wine is made. How cocktails are made. Wait, I’m focusing on the alcohol. Photography! It’s all about the science. And there was a chance to learn about all these things at the Science Festival, which, incidentally, is the world’s oldest public science festival.''We picked a variety of events to attend, to get an idea of what was on, and who it might be for. We even managed to pick some things that were more educational, and less focused on drinking. Very noble of us. Here’s what we got up to:''Light Painting''The first event we attended was all about the art of Light Painting, which, if you’re not familiar with it, involves taking long exposure pictures of dark scenes, using light sources to “draw” in the air and create art.''This event was hugely popular with families, and other than parents, Jess and I were the only adults in the room. I have zero problem embracing my inner child, and we really enjoyed the session. We were all issued with five LED lights and batteries each, given a brief explanation and history of light painting (I had no idea Picasso was a big light painting fan!), and then we got to get on with light painting ourselves.''Being a well prepared photographer, I turned up with my own camera and tripod. Everyone else in the room got to share three tripods and cameras, which they all seemed more than happy to do. Our host explained some different techniques and things to try, and off we went!''I have to admit, I’m terrible at drawing. I’m even worse at light painting, where you can’t really see what you’re doing. But we had a lot of fun anyway, even if the efforts by the majority of the five year olds in the room eclipsed our scribblings. Still, we had a lot of fun, and got some funky photos to reward our efforts. Plus, we got to keep the LED lights and batteries. Win!''Learning About Mountains''From one extreme to the other – our next stop on our tour was a lecture by Professor Martin Price on Mountains. I’m a big fan of mountains. You can walk up them. You can take pictures of them. They don’t complain if you expose their less flattering side. Basically, what’s not to love about mountains. Here’s a picture of a mountain I took in Scotland for proof of how awesome they are.''Back to the lecture, which was about the most serious science event that we attended during our Science Festival tour. It was a fascinating talk all about the importance of mountains, how we can use them as indicators of things like climate change, and what the world is doing to help preserve and conserve them. Lots of data, lots of facts, all presented brilliantly by a man who clearly knew his stuff.''Sure, sitting in a lecture hall watching a presentation isn’t going to be everyone’s cup of tea, but my point is, the Science Festival really does cover all its bases when it comes to interests!''Tiny Homes''I lived in a three man tent for a year in Australia. And by three man, I mean, if you stacked them on top of each other, you might have fit three people in there. That experience taught me that we might not *need* a lot of room to live in, but heck, it sure is nice.''Still, I do appreciate great design, maximising the use of space, and the practical realities of our ever growing population. Plus the fact that some people really want to live in a really small space, whilst not eschewing all the trappings of modern civilisation like you might in say, a tent.''Enter the Tiny Home. This is a movement to make homes that are, er, tiny. They make excellent use of space, are often portable, and obviously, are rather efficient in terms of heating. In disaster scenarios, there are also some models that can be flat packed and assembled in minutes.''The purpose of all this rambling about Tiny Homes, is that there was an outdoor exhibit on Tiny Homes, slap bang in the center of Edinburgh. This was very popular, with a variety of Tiny Homes on display that we could explore. Which we did. I’m still not convinced I want to downsize that much, but I do very much appreciate how clever the interior designers are!''Playing with Wind''From the Tiny Home Exhibit, we wandered through the streets of Edinburgh (never a chore) until we got to the''National Museum of Scotland''. This is a fantastic museum to visit anyway, but was made a bit more sciencey during the festival thanks to some interactive exhibits.''Jess had a go with the wind simulator, where a fan blows air on you and you have to estimate the wind strength. This, it turned out, was somewhat harder than it might seem.''There was some science involved of course – after failing to predict the strength of the wind to any degree of accuracy, we then learnt how much energy a wind farm could generate were the air moving at that speed. It turned out, quite a lot.''Science Flavored Beer''Now then. Onto the really exciting stuff. There’s a micro-brewery in Edinburgh called''Barney’s Beer'', based in a building called''Summerhall'', which does a special edition beer just for the Science Festival. So, you can see just how serious this festival is, to have its own beer. The beer in question is called Binary Star, and we dropped in to the brewery to meet Barney himself, who talked us through the making of the beer.''Admittedly, this isn’t on the standard calendar of events, but you can definitely drop into the bar at Summerhall, splendidly named''the Royal Dick'', (which also serves excellent food), and drink some of it. And to be honest, that’s the main thing, right?''Uncanny Valley''Back to the stuff that’s aimed at kids! One of Edinburgh’s annual festivals is the''Imaginate Festival,''a festival of the performing arts for children and young people. The Imaginate team partnered up with the Edinburgh Science Festival to put together a show called “''Uncanny Valley''”, an interactive show which aims to explore the line between human beings and robots, and see how blurry it can be.''This show was sold out on every day it was on, so rather than see it, we had a backstage chat with some of the actors involved, who put on a mini show for us. It was, to put it mildly, rather entrancing stuff, particularly “OKAY” the robot, who was both delightful and hilarious at the same time. If you’ve got kids, I would suggest that the Imaginate Festival should definitely be on your list!''Wine''And, finally, the last stop of our Science Festival adventure. Well, almost. We’ve got a cocktail tasting session coming up too, but Jess is going to be telling you about that. The last one I’m going to tell you about is this, our evening titled “Adventures in Viticulture”.''Which included wine tasting. What’s not to love?''Strictly aimed at adults, this event also took place in Summerhall, and featured three guest speakers, each with a unique perspective on wine and vineyards – a wine seller, an expert in the technology of wine growing, and a chap who is trying (currently, not hugely successfully) to grow wine in Scotland.''I have to say, it was this last chap who was particularly hilarious, taking us through his adventures in trying to make drinkable wine in what could best be described as a challenging climate. He freely admitted that he’d not had any success as yet, but his enthusiasm didn’t appear to be dampened one bit by such minor details as producing nothing drinkable.''And that pretty much summarises our experience at the Edinburgh Science Festival. Now, let’s ask ourselves the question:''Is the Edinburgh International Science Festival For You?''Yes.''Ok, I should probably elaborate a bit. With hundreds of events to choose from, there really is going to be something you’ll enjoy. There are family friendly events, adult themed events, events aimed at kids that grown-ups are also going to enjoy, events if you’re really interested in serious science… the list goes on!''The Essentials''Planning on visiting the''Edinburgh International Science Festival''? Here are some things to know:''The Edinburgh Science Festival runs annually at the end of March and beginning of April. For dates, check''the official website''Some events are free, but many are ticketed and have an associated price. They tend to sell out, so it’s advisable to book in advance. You can book online, by phone or in person, and there are usually early bird discounts as well as the usual concessions. Find out more at the''booking information''page.''Events take place all across the city, at a variety of venues. Edinburgh is a very walkable city, so you usually won’t have more than a half hour walk, but if that’s too much, Edinburgh has an excellent''public transport network'', as well as''Uber''and traditional taxis.''If you’re planning on staying in Edinburgh, find the''best hotel deals here''.''Looking for more to do in Edinburgh? Read my post on the''Essential Sights in Edinburgh''!''And of course, don’t forget to check out Jess’s post on the''Edinburgh International Science Festival'', which also has a lot of detail on the other festivals in Edinburgh!''And that’s it! Have you ever visited the Edinburgh Science Festival, or would you consider doing so in the future? Let us know in the comments below”''Note: We were invited to experience the Edinburgh Science Festival in partnership with Visit Scotland and Festivals Edinburgh, who arranged our transport, event entry fees and expenses, in return for us sharing our thoughts here. All those thoughts remain our own. Check out our''code of ethics''for more on who we work with.''SHARE ON''I was recently invited by Panasonic to visit them at the''UK Photography Show'', which takes place annually at the National Exhibition Centre, just outside of Birmingham in the UK.''Obviously, the opportunity to wander around a show dedicated to photography wasn’t something I was going to pass up!''Since neither Jess nor I had ever spent much time in the Birmingham area, we thought we’d also take advantage of the trip to do a bit of exploration. Panasonic having also furnished us with''National Trust''passes, it seemed logical to visit some of the National Trust sites in the vague Birmingham area, and take pictures of them with my''Lumix GX8''. All the photos in this post were taken with the GX8.''I’ll be writing more about our overall experiences and tips for a Birmingham visit in an upcoming post. In the meantime, I’m going to geek out a bit of the Photography Show and those National Trust sites, starting with:''My Experience at the UK Photography Show''The UK Photography Show is held annually at''Birmingham’s NEC''– the UK’s largest exhibition space. It’s a relatively new event, having launched in 2014, but has already become a must-visit event for anyone interested in photography.''What I liked about it was that it wasn’t just about shiny new camera equipment – although there was plenty of that on display, from every main camera brand in the world. There were also talks and workshops, including some excellent talks on photo editing from the folks from Adobe. We went to one of these talks, and I picked up a few new tips on Lightroom editing, which was nice.''The show also featured all the photography gear that you might need, whatever kind of photography you’re into. From full lighting rigs, to photo books, to portrait backgrounds – anything you could possibly want was on display (and on sale!). Most fun to watch were the drones, which ran from absolutely tiny through to larger, professional rigs.''The Panasonic stand was really clever. I’ve been going on about the 4KPhoto capabilities of the Lumix range for a while now, but it’s the sort of thing that you really have to experience to get the best understanding of quite how cool it is. Panasonic have figured this out, and their stand was the perfect place to try out 4KPhoto on their cameras. In the centre of the stand, they had various displays going on, including one from an Olympic level gymnast.''This was the perfect opportunity to use the 4KPhoto mode of the GX8, which shines for capturing action. Ribbons, balls, and even a carnival queen – playing around at the Panasonic stand with all the cameras and lenses on display was a lot of fun, and the stand was busy with interested attendees all day.''Panasonic also had loads of experts on hand, and I learnt a few more things about my GX8 that I wasn’t aware of – particularly the importance of''a really fast memory card''for getting the most out of the 4KPhoto mode.''Suffice to say, we had a lot of fun at the Photography Show – geeking out for hours over photography gear, taking in some excellent photographs, and even learning a thing or two on the way. Definitely worth doing if you’ve got the chance.''Now, on to our experiences visiting those National Trust sites.''Three National Trust Sites Around Birmingham''If you’re not from the UK, you might not be familiar with the National Trust. Basically, they’re a charitable organisation set up to conserve and protect some of the UK’s most historic and beautiful places. The majority of the properties they look after are historic homes and gardens, but they’re also responsible for historic landscapes, including the stunning Lake District – in fact, they’re the largest private land owner in the UK.''If you’re going to visit a few National Trust sites, then the best thing to do is join as a member – for a yearly fee you get access to all the National Trust properties, as well as 14 heritage organisations around the world. It’s excellent value for money, so it’s little wonder that it’s one of the largest membership organisations in the world.''In the UK, there are hundreds of National Trust properties to choose from, including 200 historic houses. The hardest part of being a member is picking where to go!''As it was, we chose three properties around Birmingham which represented a cross-section of what the National Trust has to offer. In no particular order, here’s where we went:''Baddesley Clinton''Baddesley Clinton''is just outside of Warwick, or around a 30 minute drive from Birmingham. It’s a spectacular moated manor house dating from the 13th century, and is pretty much everything you might want from a property like this, with priest holes, gorgeous gardens, and oodles of history to learn about.''It’s also very photogenic, particularly on the sort of sunny Spring day we visited.''The house itself isn’t massive, so it can get a little bit crowded on the inside, particularly on weekends and during holidays, but entry is controlled and timed to stop it from becoming overwhelming. There’s no guided tour, but each room has a knowledgeable National Trust volunteer available to share lots of information with you. Do spend some time exploring the grounds here, they are really nice for a wander.''Back To Backs''It turns out, life in England during the Industrial Revolution wasn’t exactly a bed of roses. In a rapidly expanding city like Birmingham, populations were exploding at a rate that required property developers to come up with new solutions to meet the demand.''The most popular of these solutions was the “back to back” – a housing invention that was exactly as the name describes – houses built back to back, around a central courtyard. The courtyard also playing home to the toilet facilities, laundry area, and storage sheds.''Hundreds of thousands of these houses were built all across the UK to meet property demands, and they were usually filled with working class families, often living in overcrowded, cramped and dangerously unsanitary conditions.''The majority of these types of houses have since been bulldozed and replaced, with the''Back to Backs in Birmingham''being the last surviving example in Birmingham. Today they’re managed by the National Trust, who restored the properties, and now run tours through the four buildings of the Court, each of which contained multiple homes. Each of the four buildings is set up to represent a different time period and furnished appropriately, so you start in the 1840s, and then move through to the 1870s, 1930s and 1970s.''Visiting is by tour only (you have to book in advance to be sure of a spot), and the tour takes an hour and a half, and we found it really interesting. It’s certainly different to the stately homes that you might associate with the National Trust, and our guide really brought to life what living in these times might have been like. In short – not very nice, with low life expectancies, poor hygiene, and quite horrendous diets!''If you’re in Bimingham, we very much recommend you take a bit of time to visit the Back to Backs, it’s a really excellent glimpse back across time, to see how people lived. They’ve also got an old fashioned sweet shop, which you need to pop into!''Now, let’s look at another style of living in the UK, with a visit to:''Attingham Park''Attingham Park''is the fourth most popular National Trust site in the UK. This isn’t a huge surprise, given the splendour of this 18th century mansion house, set in 4000 acres of parkland and gardens, and it’s well worth the visit. It is located about an hour drive from Birmingham and is the most popular National Trust site in the Midlands.''Most impressive in my mind was the interior of the home, which has been beautifully set up – particularly the ground floor – which you can visit either on one of the regularly scheduled tours, or by yourself, following a pre-defined route through the rooms.''We took a tour that focused specifically on the roof of the picture gallery. This might not sound terribly exciting, but given that it was designed by''John Nash'', it does warrant fairly close attention. If you’re not familiar with Nash, he was the architect responsible for most of the look of London today, including Buckingham Palace. Unfortunately the roof leaked badly from the outset – new techniques and unproven building materials being a little risky to work with!''Thankfully, the National Trust has spent a giant pile of money fixing this problem, with a new roof recently installed over the old one to solve the problems – hence the tour, which was very enjoyable, and gave us an insight behind the scenes of a property like this that you don’t often get to see.''The other aspect of the house that was well portrayed were the various characters who lived here, with that leaky Picture Gallery roof pushing the second Lord to bankruptcy and exile (his high maintenance young wife not helping matters), whilst later owners, the eight Lord and Lady, came along and restored the property to its former glory.''There’s lots to learn here, and plenty to see. We enjoyed dining in the cafe situated in the stable block, exploring the house and grounds and learning about the differences between life upstairs and downstairs. We could have easily spent a whole day here, if our itinerary had allowed for it!''And that sums up some of the highlights of our recent trip to Birmingham! Have you visited Birmingham or any National Trust sites in the UK? Do share your experiences below!''So you know: We were provided complimentary tickets to the Photography Show and Annual National Trust Memberships, both from Panasonic, as part of my role as a Panasonic Ambassador. All opinions remain our own. Find out more about who we work with at our''code of ethics''page.''SHARE ON''Following on from my''two week UK itinerary''post, I wanted to put together a slightly shorter itinerary for those of you with less time, but who still wanted to explore more of the UK than the capital city. And so, I present, our suggested itinerary for one week in the UK.''The idea of this itinerary is to take in some of the essential highlights of the UK, but also throw in a few curveballs – spectacular places that you would find hard to visit without your own wheels. If this is your first time driving in the UK, I can also recommend checking out our''guide to driving in the UK''for tips.''Without further ado, here’s my guide for an awesome:''One Week UK Road Trip Itinerary''We’re going to kick off this itinerary in the UK’s capital, on the assumption that this is where you’re going to fly to when you arrive. There are flights from all over the world to London’s airports, so the chances are pretty high that this is where you’re going to be arriving.''1. London – 2 Days''In general, having a hire car in London is A Bad Idea. What with the congestion charge, antiquated road system, and the fact that the traffic moves slower now on average than it did when horses and carts plied the roads – well, you get the idea.''This isn’t to suggest writing it off though. My plan has you hiring a car, picking it up from the airport you land in, and finding yourself a nice hotel a little outside of the centre. Having a hire car will really open up the possibilities of locations, maybe you could find yourself a nice little B&B in the Kent countryside for example. My only tip is to find one near a public transport hub.''For your first day of exploration, I’d suggest grabbing a train into London, and spending your day seeing''the essential London sights''. London is an eminently walkable city, and you’ll be able to take in the majority of the key highlights, from the Houses of Parliament and Buckingham Palace through to Tower Bridge and the Tower of London.''Then, on your second day, take advantage of that car and head out to some of the attractions outside of London. I’m thinking''Windsor Castle'', or''Hampton Court Palace''– both eminently explorable, and easy to reach with a car.''If you want to save money on the above attractions, and will be visiting a few, then you should definitely consider investing in a''London Pass''. Available in 1, 3 and 6 day versions, the savings can really be quite impressive if you plan on visiting a few locations. You can read a full break down on if the''London Pass is worth buying here'', and buy one yourself''here''.''Finally, London has no shortage of accommodation options, something to suit pretty much every budget. Check out the''options for London at booking.com''.''2. Stonehenge, Bath and the Cotswolds – 1 Day''From London, I’m going to suggest you head west, and take in one of Britain’s most recognisable old monuments – the incredible''Stonehenge''. Every year new evidence comes to light as to how these got here, and you can’t fail to be impressed at their massiveness, as well as their seeming impervious nature. Since the motorway was shifted a few years ago, and the fence around the stones moved, this has become a far more pleasant attraction to visit.''From Stonehenge, head along to the old town of Bath. A favourite of the Romans, this place has, as you would imagine, some Baths to explore, where you can see how the Romans kept themselves clean, plus try some of the waters yourself. Also worth taking the time to check out the Georgian architecture, including the Royal Crescent and the Circus.''From Bath, head into the Cotswolds, where I’d recommend you spend the night. Find yourself a''cosy little B&B''in the countryside – somewhere you’d likely struggle to get to with public transport – and really take advantage of having your own wheels!''3. Warwickshire, The Peak District & Yorkshire – 2 Days''After a pleasant overnight in the Cotswolds, it’s time to turn North, and head up to Yorkshire. This will be a bit of a drive, but there are some highlights on the way that I’d recommend stopping at to break up the journey.''First, I’d suggest stopping off at''Baddesley Clinton'', a moated manor house just outside of Warwick. This is a spectacular property, over 500 years old, which will give you an insight as to how the British aristocracy lived in the middle ages. Highlights include the glorious moat that surrounds the building, and the priest-holes in the house itself, where the Catholic priests of the time would hide from persecution and execution.''If you’d prefer to explore an interesting town, then I can recommend dropping in to Warwick. There’s enough to do here to fill a day (especially if you decide to visit the Castle!), but I’d suggest at least visiting the''Lord Leycester''Hospital, and''St. Mary’s Church''.''The former isn’t, and has never been, a hospital, instead, for over 400 years it has housed military veterans of Britain’s various wars. It’s a fascinating cluster of houses, dating from the 14th century, and is basically everything you could hope for in a medieval construction.''St Mary’s Church is one of the largest churches (I thought it was a cathedral when I first spotted it) in the UK, home to a gorgeous medieval chapel, a magnificent view from the top of its tower, and 1000 years of worshipping history.''Once you’re done with the above, it’s time to leave Warwickshire behind, and head on up to the Peak District, where I’m going to suggest you spend the night – there are some really fantastic accommodation options on hand, to''suit every budget''.''After your night in the Peak District, set aside a morning for visiting''Chatsworth House''. Often voted the UK’s favourite country house – if you’re going to take in a stately home on a spectacular scale, then this is an excellent choice. Still home to the Duke and Duchess of Devonshire, the property has 126 rooms, with a number of these open for public viewing. Surrounding the property itself are 105 acres of magnificent garden, constructed across six centuries, and reflecting changing times and fashions. You’ll easily be able to lose a morning at Chatsworth!''From Chatsworth, it’s a 2 hour blast up to the next stop on our itinerary – the gorgeous ruined remains of''Fountains Abbey'', a UNESCO World Heritage Site set in Studley Royal Park.''As well as the well preserved ruins of the giant 12th century Cistercian monastery, you’ll also find the rather impressive 18th century water garden, generally recognised as the most important in the UK. If you can,\xa0 I’d suggest exploring right through until the sun sets, which should afford you some wonderful photography opportunities. There’s lots of ground to cover, and if you find yourself tiring, there’s an excellent tea room.''When you’re done, find yourself''somewhere to stay in the nearby area''.''4. Northumberland\xa0 – 1 day''You’ll be starting your sixth day of exploration bright and early in Yorkshire, and continuing northwards, this time to the country of Northumberland, home to the city of Newcastle, the island spanning Hadrian’s Wall, and some of England’s finest medieval castles.''It’s the latter that I’m going to suggest you focus on in Northumberland. You’re unlikely to be able to do all of the following, but I’d definitely suggest that you visit at least two of the following four sights when in Northumberland, starting with:''Alnwick Castle''. Home to the Duke of Northumberland, and dating from 1036, this is the sort of castle that you probably think of when you think of medieval fortress castles. It’s also the sort of castle you might think of if you’re a Harry Potter fan, as a number of the scenes from the earlier movies, including the Quidditch training scenes, were filmed here. If you’re more of a Downton Abbey fan, well, the last two Christmas specials of the show were filmed here.''It would be easy to spend a day here, particularly as the gardens are also very picturesque, so you’re welcome to do just that. But, if you’re keen to see some more of England’s incredible castles, head along to:''Bamburgh Castle''. I absolutely love the coastal location of Bamburgh Castle, which is just perfect for photography, atop a rocky outcrop by a golden sand beach. The native Britons of the area thought so too – with a fort housing the original Kings of Britain located here. Of course, that all came to an end when the Vikings popped over in 993 and presumably burnt the place to the ground.''The castle that’s on the site today was built by the Normans, in the 11th century, and is another imposing fortress like construction, designed to withstand brutal assault and siege warfare.''Since you’re in the area for Bamburgh, you might also take the time to take a look at either''Dunstanburgh castle'', a few miles to the south, or Holy Island, a few miles to the north. The former was a 14th century fortification that fell into ruin by the 16th century – the latter is an island, accessible at low tide, and where you’ll find the still inhabited''Lindisfarne Castle'', which you can also tour.''If you’ve had enough of castles, or one was plenty, then I’d suggest you visit''Hadrian’s Wall''. Built during the time of Emperor Hadrian (122AD if you’re not up to speed on Roman timelines), this wall stretched from one side of England to the other, and marked the northern limit of the Roman empire. The precise reason for building a 73 mile wall is still unclear, I suspect it was largely just because they could.''There are multiple locations where you can visit the wall, with my favourite being Sycamore Gap, near Housesteads Crag, where a lonely tree sits amongst the remains of the highest part of the wall.''From Hadrian’s Wall, head north, to the Scottish capital of Edinburgh, either overnighting in the Scottish Borders, or Edinburgh itself.''5. Edinburgh – Final Day!''This trip finishes off in Edinburgh, one of my favourite cities in the UK, and where you’ll have no shortage of''things to do''. However, since you have a car, I have two suggestions that you might want to add to the list. First – head to the Pentland Hills. A few miles south of the city, these offer excellent walking, sheep spotting opportunities and iron age hill forts.''I’d also suggest you make the time to head out to an icon of the Edinburgh surrounds – the Firth of Forth bridges, and in particular, the UNSECO World Heritage Listed Firth of Forth Rail Bridge. This is a mighty red cantilevered bridge construction spanning the Firth of Forth, opened in 1890, and still operational today. At it’s time of construction it was the longest single cantilever bridge in the world, and despite now being the second longest, is still might impressive.''Finally, of course, I’d recommend spending some time exploring Edinburgh, which has no shortage of attractions, fine dining, shopping and''places to stay''.''Then – turn your car in, and head home – Edinburgh airport is easy to drive to, has all the main car hire operator’s, and you should be able to fly from here to anywhere you like. Whew! I hope you enjoyed that tour!''Let’s take a look at a few practicalities and things to think about for your trip.''How to Get Around the UK''Well, this one should be pretty obvious! I’m going to suggest a rental car of course. This itinerary is really only do-able if you drive yourself.''We’re big fans of''Enterprise''when it comes to car rental. Especially on a\xa0on a trip like this, where you pick up and drop off the car at different locations, you can incur a one way surcharge. We’ve found that''Enterprise Car Rental''tend to have the best prices for one way rentals, and we’ve used them for road trips all around the world.''When To Visit the UK''The UK has what could best be described as “variable” weather. The good news is that you don’t really get extremes of weather. The bad news is that being surrounded by water, it tends to rain a lot, throughout the year.''Obviously, the summer period is likely to be warmer than the winter period, but the climate is generally mild, so whenever you visit, plan for the gamut of weather conditions, from rain to sunshine. Layers are key to your clothing, meaning you can adjust as the weather changes.''My main piece of advice for a trip like this is to avoid popular weekends and school holidays if you can. The UK has a number of public holidays throughout the year, when the roads (and attractions) get very crowded. If you can avoid these times, you’ll have a far more pleasant experience. Time of year wise, there’s no “bad” time to visit, but I’d advise perhaps May / June might give you the best shot of decent weather, whilst avoiding the summer school holiday period.''Where to Stay in the UK''The UK has loads of accommodation options, from cosy B&B’s through to upscale hotels, as well as all the chains you’d expect.''We’ve tried a lot of booking sites, and nearly always find ourselves using Booking.com. They have an extensive selection of properties, many with no-fee cancellation policies, and often run discounts and special offers. Click on each city title to see their listings:''London'', the''Cotswolds'', the''Peak District'',''Yorkshire''and''Edinburgh'',''If you prefer an apartment or more of a hosted stay, then I recommend''AirBnB''. I’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get up to''a $100 discount''on your first booking with''this link!''If you can’t find what you want on AirBnB, or you want some new options to try out, we have some alternatives we also use. We suggest trying''VRBO'',''Flipkey''or''HomeAway''to start with. For even more ideas to help you save money and get the best choice, we wrote a whole post on the''best alternatives to AirBnB''which you should check out!''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''Further reading for your UK trip''We’ve got lots of resources to help you plan your trip to the UK, from posts we’ve written ourselves to third party content we’re happy to recommend. Here it is:''If you want a longer trip, taking in some more highlights of the UK including Wales and Ireland, check out this''two week itinerary of the UK''that I put together.''As this is a self-drive trip, you should definitely check out our''guide to driving in the UK''for tips.''For budget planning, see our guide to''how much it costs to travel in the UK''If you’d prefer not to drive, we also have an itinerary for''10 days in the UK by public transport''.''We have guides to many of the cities and sights in the UK for you to bookmark, including:''A guide to driving Scotland’s epic''North Coast 500'', as well as''accommodation options on the North Coast 500''A Two Day Edinburgh Itinerary''&''21 Highlights in Edinburgh''Edinburgh: Getting off the beaten path''If you like Royal themed attractions, Jess wrote a''full post about the Royal Edinburgh Ticket here'', which can help you save money on some of Edinburgh’s top attractions.''A guide to''10 of the best Stately Homes in England'', to give you some ideas as you plan your itinerary''A Two Day London Itinerary''A Six Day London Itinerary''The''Best Photography Locations in London''Tips on Buying and Using the London Pass''Eight Things to Do in Kensington''The''Highlights of Oxford''Visiting''Blenheim Palace and the Cotswolds''20 Things To Do in Dublin''A''Guide to Touring the Scottish Borders''If you want a physical (or digital!) book to accompany your travels, then Amazon do a good line in''UK Travel Guides'', and there is naturally a''Lonely Planet''and a''Rough Guide''to the UK available.''SHARE ON''You’ve got to hand it to those Italian Dukes, they sure knew how to live. Florence is a spectacular example of this, where the ruling Medici Family shaped the city – quite literally – throughout the 16th and 17th centuries.''The city has no shortage of examples of the influence and money that these folks had, with the most spectacular example in my mind being the Vasari Corridor – a mile long private corridor that stretches across the city from one side to the other, linking their residential palace with the government palace.''If you can afford to build a corridor across (and above) a city, just for your use, I think you’re doing ok. That corridor was the subject of one of the''Context Travel Tours''we took whilst in Florence, and Jess wrote a post about our''tour of the Vasari corridor here''.''In this post, I’m going to talk about the building at one end of the Vasari Corridor, specifically, the Pitti Palace. This was where the Medici family lived during their rule of Florence and Tuscany, during which time they turned Florence into a monarchy, naturally with themselves in charge.''Of course, the Medici Dukes didn’t last forever – inbreeding pretty much did them in, as it did with many other aristocratic bloodlines of the time. Keeping it in the family really meaning something back then. But the palace survived them, as giant structures of stone have a wont to do. It was used by the Lorraine family when they ruled the area, and even hosted Napoleon when he wandered in this direction late in the 18th century.''Now, the palace serves as the largest museum complex in Florence, having been donated to the Italian people in 1919, with the majority of the exhibition given over to the Medici Family. These guys were, to put it mildly, a bit nuts about art, and they absolutely stuffed their palace with as much of it as they could.''Bear in mind that they were living in Renaissance Italy at the time, so art was pretty much growing on trees, and with Florence at the centre of this art revolution, they had some of the finest artists in the world at their doorstep, as well as the financial means with which to acquire copious quantities of their output.''So, that’s a bit of scene setting. As you can imagine, there was a lot to take in at the Palace, and we figured the best way to do that was by taking a tour with Context Travel. These guys specialise in absolutely tiny group tours (usually no more than six people), led by seriously qualified people. You can read about my''experiences with them in Rome here'', as well as Jess’s''thoughts on our Venice tour here''. Spoiler alert – we’re big fans. The tour we took of the Pitti Palace was titled''Art and Power at the Palazzo Pitti''.''Our guide for the Pitti Palace tour was Dr. Alessandra Becucci. Alessandra was born and raised in Florence, and her qualifications included a degree in art history from the University of Florence with a specialization in seventeenth-century painting, as well as an MRes from the European University Institute in Florence, where she defended her Ph.D in history, focusing on the patronage of Tuscan nobility in Europe during the seventeenth century.''In case that’s not enough, Alessandra also holds a diploma in archival administration, palaeography, and diplomatics from the State Archive in Florence and has been teaching art history and Italian for several years in various schools and institutions in Florence.''I think you could say that Alessandra was pretty much the perfect person to lead our small group around the Pitti Palace. And the group was indeed small, other than Jess and I, there was only one other person on the tour, making a grand total of four of us including the guide.''Our group met outside the Pitti Palace, and after buying our tickets (not included in the price on the majority of Context’s Tours, although the advantage being if you qualify for any discounts you can apply them), we had a small chat outside before heading in.''Every Context Tour we’ve been on has has this small pre-tour chat, with the goal being to figure out the level of knowledge of each tour participant, and their particular interest. I’ll freely admit, I was easily the least qualified person on the tour. Jess is way more into museums than me (and has a PhD), and the other tour member was studying art history. Not being hugely qualified is of course not a problem for a tour, but you should definitely be aware that Context Tours are billed as being for the intellectually curious, so be prepared for a wealth of knowledge to come your way if you take one!''With Alessandra up to speed on our knowledge, she suggested that we do the tour in reverse. Usually the tour starts in the Pitti Palace and finishes in the Boboli Gardens behind the palace. However, as the weather was so nice, heading out to the gardens first seemed like a more logical option. So, our first hour or so was spent exploring and learning about these truly lovely formal gardens, and the people who used them.''Designed in the 16th century for Eleanor of Toledo, wife of Tuscany’s first Grand Duke, Cosimo the First, the gardens were a fairly elaborate statement of wealth and power, as well as being some of Italy’s first formal gardens. Designed exclusively for the close Medici family, the gardens were (somewhat surprisingly) never used for entertainment purposes, and were solely an area of retreat and relaxation for the family. They are filled with garden temples, water features, avenues and of course, trees and plants, with multiple stairways spanning the hillside.''We also learnt that a part of the gardens was designed especially for hunting purposes, with the layout of the large hedgerows designed to help catch birds that would later arrive on the Medici tables. They ate pretty well, as you might imagine.''From the gardens there are excellent views of the city itself, including that magnificent Duomo, which would have been visible in the time of the Medici family as well. We also dropped in to the Porcelain Museum, which can be found at the top of the gardens, home to examples of some of the most famous European porcelain names in the world.''After our tour of the gardens, we headed inside the Palace complex, starting off with a tour of the costume gallery. This contains clothes that span from the 16th century to the present day, largely of a theatrical bent. Rather gruesomely, the gallery also features the funeral clothes of Cosimo the First and Eleanor of Toledo.''From here we headed into the Pitti Palace and its main gallery – the 28 rooms of the Palatine Gallery. This is predominantly made up of the art collection of the Medici family, which features over 500 paintings, the majority of which are from the Renaissance period, and are a veritably who’s who of Renaissance Art, with pieces from Raphael, Titian, Rubens and more. There’s so much art in fact, that it overflows into another part of the museum – the 14 rooms of the Royal Apartments, where the Medici family lived.''What I found most fascinating about the Porcelain Gallery and the Royal Apartments was the arrangement of the art. Which, as far as I could tell, wasn’t arranged in any way at all. The idea was to impress, which basically involved covering as much of every wall as possible with as much art as possible, hung to the whim of the owner rather than following any kind of rhyme or reason. This was bling on a Renaissance scale, and wow, those Dukes and Duchesses sure knew how to show it off.''Of course, the rooms that we visited as part of the tour were themselves works of art, with frescos and gilding everywhere you look, jostling for attention alongside the hung artworks. It could have been overwhelming, but thankfully we had Alessandro on hand to guide us through and ensure we saw the highlights, and truly understand the magnificence of what we were witnessing.''Unfortunately, all good things come to an end, and after two hours inside the Palace itself, our tour came to an end, with Alessandro wishing us farewell. The good news though was that we were free to continue exploring the palace at our leisure, and we visited a number of the other museums, including the Silver Museum, Gold Museum, and gallery of modern art. You can probably guess what each of those contains.''As you can likely see, there’s no shortage of experiences and sights to be seen in the Pitti Palace and accompanying Boboli gardens. Taking a tour with Context really opened my eyes to the sheer opulence and power of the Medici family, and helped me to understand their position, influence, rise and fall, as well as gain a deeper understanding of the art of this time period as well.''If you’re heading to Florence, I can highly recommend visiting the Pitti Palace, and if you can, doing it with a Context tour. You’ll learn an amazing amount, and come away with a new appreciation for what being wealthy in 16th century Italy was all about.''Essential Information''Context tours feature a maximum of six people, with private tours also possible''Tour cost at the time of writing this article was $90 (save 10% with''this link''!)''Tour cost doesn’t include your entry to the Pitti Palace or guide gratuity''This tour is a three hour tour, although our Context experience was that tours often ran a little longer than the allocated time, depending on your enthusiasm!''If you’re planning on staying in Florence, we recommend''this site''to find the best deals on hotels''Save 10% when booking any Context Travel tour with''this link''(discount applied at checkout)''And that’s it! Would you like to visit Florence and take a tour like this? Let us know in the comments below!''So you know: We received complimentary walking tours with Context Travel in exchange for sharing our honest opinion of the walking tours, and being given a discount code to share with you. We retain 100% editorial control and all opinions remain our own. For more on how we choose who to work with, see our''code of ethics''.''SHARE ON''On multiple previous trips to Italy, I somehow failed to visit Florence.''It turns out this was somewhat of an oversight, because, well, Florence is unbelievably pretty. Like, in your face, over the top, can’t quite believe it’s real pretty.''Suffice to say, if you’re planning a trip to Italy, make sure you include Florence in your plans. Those plans can also include''Rome''and''Venice''of course, for a trifecta of Italian goodness, but yes, Florence. Put it on the list.''We recently spent just shy of a week in Florence. We based ourselves in a central''Airbnb''and explored a lot.''Of course, not everyone has the luxury of a week. Maybe you’re going to be spending two days in Florence – perhaps a weekend. Maybe you’ve got it scheduled in as part of a longer trip of Italy, and don’t have all too many days to spare.''Fear not. Thanks to the nice people at Walks of Italy, there’s a way you can see the highlights of Florence, plus take a tour of Tuscany from Florence, in just two days! Here’s how we did that.''Two Days in Florence and Tuscany: A Suggested Itinerary''First, like I said, this itinerary was made possible thanks to Walks of Italy. These guys have two excellent tours that will let you see an awful lot in two days. These tours are the''Florence in a Day''tour, and the''Tuscany Day Trip''tour, which departs from Florence. Between these two tours you will see all the highlights of Florence as well as some of Tuscany’s more impressive sights.''Let’s have a look at the first of these tours,''Florence in a Day'', see what it covers, and what makes it a great tour.''Day 1 – Florence in a Day''The Florence in a Day Tour is a full day tour that kicks off at 8.15am and runs through until around 4pm, with time scheduled for you to grab a bite to eat in the middle. It aims to cover the essentials of Florence, including Michelangelo’s David statue and the Uffizi Gallery, as well as highlights of the city from the Duomo to the Ponte Vecchio.''The tour met a short walk from the Florence Accademia, home to the David statue. After a little introduction from the guide, we were whisked into the museum. One of the nice things about Walks of Italy tours is that all the tickets are included in the price, and they’re all organised in advance, so there’s no waiting around or prolonged queuing – it’s just straight in. More time experiencing, less time waiting, always a good thing.''Our guide showed us some of the notable installations in the Accademia, but to be honest, the main reason for visiting was the David statue, and it wasn’t long before he appeared at the end of a room filled with a number of other key Michaelangelo pieces that help show his techniques and progression as an artist over his life. Our guide, who knew an insane amount of stuff about Florence, art, and Michaelangelo, brought us up to date on all the pieces in the room, and why they were both important, as well as their relevance to the David statue.''Then we got to spend a good amount of time with David himself. It’s hard to really explain how impressive this statue is up person, and it’s always strange to see something in real life that you’ve seen countless images of before, suffice to say, I wasn’t disappointed. Plus, with the early entrance (basically as soon as the Accademia doors open you’re in!), it wasn’t crowded at all. When we left, and saw the queues down the block to get in, we were extremely relieved that this was on our tour and not something we’d have to battle through lines for!''Following the majesty of David, it was on to another Florentine classic – the Duomo. This unbelievable construction, which features the largest brick dome ever constructed in the world (not bad for something put together in the 13th century), dominates the skyline of the city. It’s not just about the dome either, the building itself is just stunning, with a fabulous marble façade.''Inside, the duomo is a little more austere than it’s exterior would have you believe, but our guide explained the reasoning for this, as well as giving us lots of information as to how that incredible dome was built. It was fascinating stuff, particularly given the age it was built in!''Moving on from the duomo, our tour continue to wind through some of the more interesting streets of Florence, before we wound up at the lovely Ponte Vecchio – one of the few remaining bridges in the world to have shops on the bridge. It’s also fascinating as above the bridge runs a portion of the Vasari Corridor, a mile long private corridor built by the insanely wealthy Medici family, who obviously couldn’t just wander around with the riff raff in the streets below when getting from their residential palace to the palace of government.''At the Ponte Vecchio, our tour paused, and we were free to head off and find lunch at our leisure, before we resumed the tour with a visit to the Uffizi Gallery.''The Uffizi Gallery is easily the most impressive art gallery in Florence. Florence, you must remember, was the birthplace of the Renaissance, and this art gallery is an incredible walk through time of the evolution of art pre, during, and post Renaissance. It’s an absolutely unmissable part of a visit to Florence, and having a guide really adds to the experience, as they can explain so much about what you’re looking at that you would otherwise likely miss.''We saw some of the most famous paintings in the world by masters including Botticelli, Caravaggio, Raphael, Michelangelo, Da Vinci and more. Paintings that you will have seen countless times over, but are somehow just mesmerising in person. And as I previously mentioned, having a guide to walk us through it all, and explain the evolution of art before, during and after the Renaissance period was really helpful.''Finally, our tour ended, and we were free for the rest of the day, which in our case meant hotfooting it up to the Piazzale Michelangelo for the best view of Florence at sunset.''Of course, Tuscany is more than just Florence, and you’re likely going to want see what else is on offer in this remarkable part of Italy. Fear not, Walks of Italy have you covered with their''Tuscany Day Trip'', which features some of the highlights of the region, washed down with plenty of wine. Let’s look at what that day looked like.''Day 2 – A Day Trip In Tuscany from Florence''This adventure started in the city centre of Florence, where our small group of seven met our guide and hopped into a comfortable mini-van. Our driver first took us up to the aforementioned Piazzale Michelangelo, which is definitely one of the best places to get a view of the Florence skyline. We paused here for a short while to take the view in and get some photos, before setting off on the 40 minute drive to Siena. If you have a chance, come back here for the sunset during your stay in Florence.''Generally, when you tell people that you’re going to be visiting Tuscany, they will urge you to visit Siena. And for good reason. This picturesque medieval Tuscan hill town has some fantastic sights, including an intriguingly shaped town square and a swathe of churches, not to mention gastronomical delights and an incredible tradition of art and culture.''Our tour wound us through the city streets, where we sampled local delicacies in some of our guide’s favourite shops, took in the Piazza del Campo, home to the annual traditional medieval horse race, before finally winding up at Siena’s jewel – the Siena Cathedral.''Completed in 1380, I have to admit that it reminded me somewhat of a giant liquorice allsort, although I suspect that probably wasn’t the intended effect. In fact, the comparison should be the other way round. This is a stunning building, constructed from white and green/black marble, and you could probably spend a good amount of time just gawping at it from the outside.''You don’t want to miss a visit inside too though. The interior is also very impressive, in particular the mosaic floors, and since this is included on the tour, is a no-brainer.''From Siena, the tour heads up to lunch. One of the really nice things about this tour is that meals (and wine!) are included, which in my mind made for a really great value tour.''Our lunch stop was the''Poggio Amorelli''winery in the Chianti region, which as you might imagine, produces Chianti wine. After a tour of the winery itself, we had an excellent lunch of delicious Italian food, all accompanied by a tasting menu of wines, with a backdrop of Tuscan countryside. Not a bad way to spend an hour or two.''I have to admit, it was a little bit of an effort to put together the motivation to continue our explorations after such a fine lunch, but nevertheless, it was time for a bit more adventuring. The next stop on our adventure was the town of San Gimigiano, which, like both Siena and Florence, is a UNESCO world heritage site. Here we had a fair bit of freedom in what we chose to do, with some folks diving into the shops, and others choosing to just wander a little.''I took the opportunity to climb the biggest bell tower in the town, which rewarded me with fantastic views of the surrounding scenery, just as the sun was setting – if you’ve got the energy to do the same, I can highly recommend it.''Finally, our tour finished up with a wine tour and evening appetisers at''Fattoria Poggio Alloro.''A working farm, as well as a winery, we also were lucky enough to experience the feeding time of the gorgeous white Chianina cows – a famous sight on the Tuscan hills.''After the cows were fed, so were we, with more excellent wine to wash it all down with. This was a lighter, appetiser style meal, but we were all so full from lunch that it was just right. Then, it was time to say farewell to our new friends, as we returned to Florence and the tour ended.''I really enjoyed this tour. It took in a good selection of sights, the tour group was nice and small, our guide was really friendly, and there was plentiful food and wine, with everything included in the up-front price.''Overall, I’m happy to recommend both of these tours if you’re visiting this region of Italy and want to see as much as possible in as hassle-free way as possible. You’ll skip the lines, the guides know their stuff, and the groups are nice and small.''The Essentials''Walks of Italy''walking tours feature small groups, usually 12 or less''The two tours mentioned in this post were\xa0the''Florence in a Day''tour, and the''Tuscany Day Trip''tour, which departs from Florence''The majority of tours operate year round, with full information on times and availability on the website''The meeting time for all tours is 15 minutes before the tour starts, with full meeting information sent to your e-mail when you sign up to the tour''Walks are suitable for all ages''Walks include all entry and attraction fees, tipping the guide is at your discretion''If you’re looking for''accommodation in Florence'', we recommend using''booking.com''. See their''Florence listings here.''Check out my review of other Walks products, including''New York''and''Rome'', for more insights!''What do you think? Are you interested in taking one of these tours? Ever visited this part of Italy? Chime in in the comments below!''Disclaimer – We received complimentary walking tours with Walks of New York in exchange for sharing our honest opinion of the walking tours. For more on how we choose who to work with, see our''code of ethics''.''SHARE ON''Patty makes an amazing martini. She also makes some fantastic grits.''Admittedly, my experience of the latter isn’t based on years of first hand experience, what with these being the fourth plate of grits I’d ever had. So maybe we should focus on the martini. That was truly excellent, and just what I needed after a full day of exploring.''I suspect you might like some context. As noted in''this post'', I’m currently an ambassador for''Homestay'', which means that as we travel along, from time to time we’ll stay with Homestay and share our experiences. In this case, we were''staying with Patty, on Tybee Island'', just near the city of Savannah in Georgia. You can read all about our experiences''visiting Savannah and Tybee island in this post''.''Today, I’m going to tell you more about that Homestay experience, and why this is quite a different thing to other types of accommodation available.''First and foremost, a homestay is built entirely around the idea that it’s a hosted experience. No quick exchange of keys followed by having the place to yourself – the theory is that you’re living in someone’s home, and you’re going to get to know them a bit, learn about the local area based on their expertise, and have a more immersive and richer experience as a result.''Of course, talking to the two hosts we’ve stayed with so far, this immersion is really up to you in terms of how much interaction you want with your host. If you just want to chat with them over coffee in the morning and then be left alone, both the hosts have said that that’s entirely fine with them, and happens from time to time. But most guests really appreciate the option to get local insights, tips and advice, and take advantage of that, and that’s why they choose to use''Homestay''.''I fall firmly into this latter camp. I love talking to people and hearing their stories, and our host, Patty, in Tybee, was wonderfully easy to talk to. She also had a super cute little dog, who barked to high heaven when we arrived, hid on his bed for a while when we came in, and then concluded that maybe we were ok after all.''Of course, having a great host is all well and good, but you need somewhere that suits your needs as well. In the case of Patty’s property on Tybee Island, we had no complaints. I mean, look at the photos. There’s a giant jetted tub. His and hers sinks. A whole separate shower room. And that’s just the bathroom! We also had our own parking space, balcony space for watching the sunset, and a gorgeous master bedroom.''The house itself had loads of space for us to relax in beyond our room, spread out across two floors (plus ground floor parking and a roof-top balcony), plus a well stocked kitchen for cooking in. The nature of our lives means we often need to work on the go, and the expansive dining room table was perfect for that.''Speaking of working on the go, I was having huge issues with my Dell laptop at the time, which was refusing to accept power.This took it out of commission whilst I battled with Dell’s international customer support system. That would be another blog post, if I could summon the effort to write it.''The reason I’m bringing this up is because I had an ever increasing mountain of work that was piling up, one thing in particular being to put the finishing touches on the''photography course''I’ve recently launched, and no means of doing it.''Patty stepped in, and offered me the use of her laptop for the duration of my stay, meaning I could accomplish a whole lot of stuff whilst still finding the time to''explore Savannah''. As you can imagine, this was a life saver, and I am so grateful to Patty for her kindness.''As with all homestays, breakfast was included, and Patty’s has a friend who happens to make excellent baked goods, so we dined on those. When we weren’t feasting on sausage filled home-made grits of course. And then, of course, one evening after a tough day of exploring, I was offered a martini whilst I caught up with e-mails and photography course revisions. Which was a very welcome distraction.''In summary, if you’re thinking of spending some time in Georgia, and in particular the Savannah region, do think about paying Patty a visit. She has a wonderful home, with only the one room available to guests so you’ll not be sharing with anyone. Oh, and the sunrise / sunset views from that roof terrace have to be seen to be believed!''So you know: Our accommodation in Tybee Island was provided by''Homestay''as part of our ambassadorship with them. All opinions remain our own. Check out our''code of ethics''for more information on who we choose to work with!''SHARE ON''We were pretty excited to get invited to experience two new countries recently – Morocco and''Egypt'', in partnership with''Travel Talk Tours''.''These guys do excellent value group tours in a number of countries around the world, and it seemed like a fun and easy way to meet some new people, experience some new countries, and find some exciting things to take pictures of.''The first trip we did was the 10 day “''Exotic Morocco''” tour, billed as the best way to experience the highlights of the country, from the medinas of Fez and Marrakech, to the beach of Essaouria, through to camping under the stars and camel riding in the Sahara desert.''That’s a lot to take in, and a lot of ground to cover, with the desert and wilderness parts being what I was most looking forward to. So what was our experience with Travel Talk Tours? Read on to find out! You can also see more photos from this tour (if there aren’t enough in this post!) in''this photo essay I did.''Touring Morocco with Travel Talk Tours – A 10 Day Itinerary''Day 1 – Marrakech''I’d actually spent eight days in Marrakech prior to the tour starting, so had fairly comprehensively visited all the sights. This was a good thing, but the first day was really just about meeting the rest of the group and having an evening briefing. Our guide let us know how to get into the old city from our hotel (about 3km away), but no formal activities were arranged. If you are interested in sight-seeing in Marrakech,''this excellent post has you covered''.''Day 2 – Drive to Desert Camp in Zagora''The adventures on the bus begin! You’re going to notice there’s a lot of time spent on the bus. On our tour, this was a comfortable bus that could seat around 22 people, and as there were only 16 of us, most people got two seats. That’s not standard of course, but it did make the trip fairly comfortable.''Our trip took us from Marrakech to Zagora, a journey that required crossing the Atlas mountain range, which divides the country. These are a gorgeous mountain range, and the drive through them was filled with jaw dropping scenery.''The tour stopped a few times on the way for bathroom / drink / snack breaks, and we had a longer stop for lunch. Lunch stops on the tour were always optional, in that you didn’t have to go to the recommended restaurants, but everyone did because it was generally the easiest (and only) option!''Finally, after a full day of driving, we got as far as the bus could go, and walked the last section to the desert camp as the sun was setting. Here we had a full meal, music by firelight, and tented accommodation under the stars. In this case, the accommodation was fairly basic, with four beds per tent, although everything was clean and well maintained. The food was excellent, and we had a really nice evening with everyone.''Day 3 – Camel Trekking and 4×4 adventures''The day started early – I wanted to catch the sunrise – so I was out of bed by 6am. Conveniently, a whole pile of camels were collected just behind the tents, which made for some photogenic scenes as the sun rose over the sand dunes.''Then, after breakfast, it was time for a two hour ride on a camel in the desert!''I’m not going to lie, riding a camel isn’t exactly a comfortable affair. For the first ten minutes it was tremendous fun. Then you realise that the seat isn’t so comfortable (you try putting a seat on a hump), and you’re going to be stuck up here for another hour and fifty minutes, and it becomes more of an endurance test. Ok, so I may be exaggerating a little. It was definitely an experience. Jess actually decided to walk her camel rather than ride it and just walked along with the guides and helped direct the camels which was perhaps the smarter idea.\xa0 But I am quite happy to now have ticked off “camel-riding” from my things I’ve done list, and plan not do it again…''From the camel riding we hopped into a collection of 4×4’s. I was particularly excited to be in a Toyota Landcruiser, which took me back to my''year’s Australian exploration''. Having an actual padded seat was also a bonus after two hours on a camel.''Our first stop was a village which makes pottery, and we had a nice tour of the pottery making, followed by the option to buy some pottery. This was a really nice experience, and there was no hard sell at all, just the opportunity to buy some pottery if you wanted. It was really nice pottery, so a lot of folks invested in tagines and tableware, which were at quite reasonable prices.''Then, on again, this time, into the edge of the Sahara proper – hence the 4×4’s! We had a brief stop for lunch, which involved a large picnic rug under some palm trees, and then drove into the desert. If you’ve never ridden a jeep in the desert, you’re in for a treat, this is a load of fun as these vehicles show off what they can do in the sand.''We stopped by a huge dune from where we had a gorgeous view of the sunset, before heading to another desert camp under the stars.''I very much preferred this second desert camp. Surrounded by huge dunes and with a gorgeously clear sky, it was perfect for star gazing and a spot of astrophotography. Plus, music and drinks by the campfire, not to be sniffed at!''Day 4 – Onwards to Tinghir''After another early start (you can’t miss the opportunity to shoot a sunrise in the Sahara!), we had another decent breakfast and it was onwards to Tinghir. If you look at a map of Morocco, you’ll notice that Tinghir is about a five hour drive from Mhamid, which is the town on the edge of the desert, and we were an hour and a half’s drive inside the desert. So, you guessed it, another full day on the bus.''Again, the scenery was pretty epic, and there were plenty of stops for photos, bathroom breaks, snacks and so on, so this wasn’t a problem.''The highlights of this day (other than that gorgeous sunrise), was the trip up into Todgha gorge, a fantastic canyon in the eastern part of the''High Atlas''mountains, with walls that tower up to 160m on either side. It’s very popular with hikers, and a really worthwhile place to visit.''Then, we drove into Tinghir and spent the night in a hotel with lovely panoramic views over the city as the sun set.''Day 5 – To Fez!''Our fifth day was another day of driving. Morocco is a fairly well spread out country, so a lot of transportation seems inevitable. The good news is that we had two nights scheduled in Fez, which meant a whole day of exploration was to come. In the meantime, it was a full day on the bus, enjoying the scenery of the Atlas mountains, again with lots of short breaks.''The highlight of this trip had to be the stop for the monkeys. I mean, who doesn’t like monkeys? (Sorry if you don’t like monkeys).\xa0 We paused for at least a half hour in a lovely wooded area where we watched monkeys of all sizes playing in the trees, swinging from branches, and generally having a good old monkey time.''Then, it was into Fez, where we checked into a lovely hotel, and had the option of an evening entertainment performance (extra fee). This involved a short bus trip into the centre of the city, and an evening of dinner and entertainment. This included music, belly dancers, and a magic show. It was also very interactive, with everyone ending up on stage at some point. The food was tasty, and everyone had a great deal of fun.''Day 6 – A Day in Fez''Fez is home to the oldest university in the world, and the old medieval market, or medina that makes up the heart of the old town centre, has roots reaching back to the 9th century. So it was no wonder that it’s a''UNESCO listed site'', or that our tour would have us spending a full day here.''This involved a guided tour of the medina which lasted a few hours, with a local guide. We were led through the maze that is the medina (I would have been totally lost within moments on my own!), who showed us all sorts of interesting stalls where the locals come to do their shopping, as well as some of the highlights of the medina including that ancient university.''Then it was on to the world famous tanneries of Fez. Unfortunately, these are under serious renovation, after countless centuries they were a little the worse for wear. So we got to see a construction site, and a video of what they should have looked like. Having visited tanneries before, I wasn’t totally sad about this, because they smell awful when in operation! Still, I was a bit sad to miss the photography opportunity.''Then we were given the opportunity to buy from a local tannery, as well as from a local weavers. Again, these were generally fairly soft-sell locations without too much pressure to buy, the quality and prices were reasonable, and certainly plenty of souvenirs were bought by folks on the tour! Then it was back to the hotel and dinner at our leisure.''Day 7 – Rabat and Casablanca''From Fez, it was another long drive, this time to the coast, with our destination being the city of Casablanca – made famous by the movie of the same name, even though none of said movie was actually filmed anywhere near Africa!''On the way we stopped for a tour of Rabat, which is the capital of Morocco and another World Heritage Site. Here again we were taken for a tour with a local expert guide. This included a visit to the''Hassan Tower,''construction of which commenced in 1195 but which was never finished.''Then, it was on to the''Andalusian Gardens'', the''ruins of the Roman city of Chellah'', before we finished our tour wandering around the gorgeously colourful''Kasbah of the Udayas''– filled with lovely blue and white walls, intriguing doorways and tiny alleyways. I think it’s fair to say we would all have been happy to spend more time in Rabat.''Time, unfortunately, wasn’t on our side, as we had to head on down the coast to Casablanca, another long drive away. We took the scenic coastal route, and I did enjoy seeing the rural coastline, and how different it was from the mountainous and desert regions.''Finally, as evening was hoving into view, we arrived into Casablanca. Casablanca isn’t really as romantic as''the movie made out'', being largely a commercial port city, but it does have a impressive mosque. The''Hassan II Mosque''isn’t particuarly old (1993), but it is the largest mosque in Morocco, the seventh largest mosque in the world, and it has the highest minaret in the world, at 210m. It’s also a convertible, in that the interior roof retracts to open the interior to the sky. It’s a rather impressive building, to say the least.''We had an optional tour (fee) scheduled of it for the following morning, but as the light was so lovely, we had a chance to explore and wander a little as the sun set, where I was able to capture some jolly nice images.''Then, it was back to the hotel, dinner, and bed.''Day 8 Casablanca and Essaouria''Casablanca started with a morning tour of the Hassan II Mosque. Like the majority of the activities we did, this was also optional, but most people chose to do it. It was very much worth it as the building is hugely impressive, and as I’d never been in a mosque before, I was intrigued to learn how they worked.''The guided tour was very interesting, and if you’re in Casablanca or on this trip with Travel Talk, I very much recommend making the time to do this.''Then, we left Casablanca, and headed down the coast to Essaouria, another pile of driving away. We stopped for a delicious sea food lunch on the way, and arrived as night was falling.''The hotel was about a 20 minute walk outside the city centre, but some of the group still took advantage of our guide’s offer of a walking tour, and spend some of the evening exploring the medina and old city. I have to admit that Jess and I were tired, so gave that one a miss, opting to explore it the following morning on our own.''Day 9 Essaouria and Marrakech''Our last full day of tour started off with a relaxing free morning, which was nice. We opted to spend it wandering into Essaouria, filming location of one of my''favourite TV shows''. After a twenty minute walk along the beach we arrived at the city walls, and I have to say, I instantly fell in love with this 18th century walled city. It just seemed like the perfect place to come and while away a few weeks, wandering the alleys, city walls and beach, whilst sampling some delicious Moroccan cuisine.''Of course, we didn’t have time to spend a few weeks – just a few hours. We packed them full though – with a highlight being the visit to the Citadel – well worth the minimal entry fee for the views.''Then, it was time to head back to the hotel, check out, and hop into the bus for the last journey of the tour – back to Marrakech! We stopped on the way for a tour of an Argan oil production facility. Argan is an oil from a tree endemic to Morocco, and naturally is said to have all kinds of exciting properties. We didn’t buy anything, but it was interesting to see how the oil was produced and to meet the people making it.''Then, the last leg of the journey took us back to Marrakech, where we checked into the hotel. There was the option of a trip into the city centre that evening which we didn’t take, as we’d already spend a''couple of weeks in Marrakech'', and had a few more nights scheduled there before our trip to Egypt.''Day 10 – the End!''Whew! Still with me? Not much to say about the final day – after breakfast everyone said their goodbyes, exchanged contact details (well, facebook friend requests) and headed on their way.''Travel Talk includes airport transfers, so trundled everyone who was leaving back to the airport. A good few people had booked a couple of extra nights in town, which I would recommend doing as otherwise you won’t see much of Marrakech. I’d also advise booking a guesthouse in the old medina part of town rather than where the Travel Talk hotel is located, as otherwise you’ll be journeying back and forth by taxi the 4km or so each way.''In terms of accommodation recommendations, we''stayed here''for three weeks, and loved it – but there are''plenty of other options to choose from in Marrakech''at all price points.''So that was the tour in detail. Let’s go over my thoughts on our experience and see if this is the right experience for you.''What was good about the Travel Talk tour of Morocco?''Covered a lot –''As you can see from what we did, our ten day itinerary really packed in a lot. We saw everything from deserts to mountains to beaches, cultural highlights and adventure activities. It was a fantastic way to easily experience a lot of Morocco in a relatively short period of time.''Great people –''A tour like this can be made or broken by the people on it. In our case (and on both our tours with Travel Talk in fact), we had lovely people, many of whom have become friends – in fact one will be visiting us in Scotland soon! We had a lot of laughs and a lot of fun together on our ten day adventure, and I got the impression that Travel Talk tours tend to be like this as a rule rather than an exception.''Easy way to see the country –''It’s obviously entirely possible to do a trip like this on your own, plan it all out yourself, go at your own pace and so on. For a first time visit to Morocco though, this could be a bit of an overwhelming amount of work, and the Travel Talk tour removes all the hassle. You see all the highlights, hang out with great people, have a lot of fun, and don’t have to worry about anything other than making the bus in the morning. Too easy.''Decent accommodation at the price –''One thing that really impressed everyone on the tour was the quality of our accommodation. Aimed firmly at the backpacker market, the hotels we stayed in were a far cry from the hostels that many were used to. Sure, you’re not going to be staying in the Ritz, but the hotels were all nice three and four star properties with good beds, high cleanliness standards, private bathrooms and so on. No-one on the tour had anything bad to say about the accommodation.''Friendly, knowledgeable guides –''Our guide Mustafa was very friendly and certainly knew a lot about the history of the country. On those long bus rides, he’d often get up and chat to us about where we were driving, what we were seeing, and the history of the country. I have to confess, Jess paid more attention to this than me, I was happy to just let the scenery wash into me.''Value''– Everyone we spoke to on the tour was very impressed by the value that the trip offered – we saw a lot, and as mentioned above, the accommodation was of a good standard.''It is worth mentioning that the sticker price on the website is not the final price. There is a local fee that will be charged at the destination (collected the first night so have it ready after you arrive) and not all meals or activities are included in the price you pay prior to joining the tour. Travel Talk certainly don’t hide this – it’s really obvious on their website what is and what isn’t included in each tour. Generally, you need to budget in entrance prices, some meals, any optional activities, and tips on top of the advertised price.''Each tour on the Travel Talk website has guidance for how much you might need to budget for these – see here for the''Exotic Morocco example''. Then, also consider drinking water, alcohol, snacks, and gifts to come to a final budget. I think the trips are excellent value for money, just make sure you do your sums first to be sure they are right for you!''What wasn’t so great?''There are always going to be a few things that aren’t always ideal, although whether or not these are deal breakers for you entirely depends on your perspective. Personally none of the things I’m listing here were really issues for me, but I’m bringing them up so you’re aware:''WiFi access''– There’s no WiFi on the bus, and the majority of the hotels we stayed at only offered WiFi in the lobbies. Usually this was fast enough for social media and e-mail, but I wouldn’t suggest you’d be streaming movies or uploading video. In some cases, we couldn’t get it to work at all.\xa0 I expect over time this situation will evolve, but for now, be prepared not to be in constant contact with the world. Not a terrible thing really.''Long bus rides''– As you’ll have noticed from the overview of what we did, we spent a lot of time on the bus. Like, a LOT of time. The bus was comfortable, and the driver and roads were both excellent, so it never felt dangerous, but it did go on for a while on some days.''The plus point to this is that we saw a lot of Moroccan scenery, which was absolutely stunning, particularly in the High Atlas and Desert sections of the tour. There were also lots of stops for photos (and to buy water / use the loo), as well as loads of information from our guide about what we were seeing.''If you’re happy to gaze out of a bus window for hours on end, you’ll not have a problem with this. Otherwise, consider loading up your device with movies, bring a well stocked Kindle, or prepare to become best buddies with everyone on board!''Free time –''We didn’t have a great deal of free time scheduled in to our trip, unless you opted out of some of the activities. We did have plenty of time on the bus of course, but exploring on our own was a bit limited. My advice would be to add on a day or two in Marrakech at the start or end of the trip if you want to see more the city, as the tour spends a minimal amount of time in the city, and there’s more than enough''to do in Marrakech''to fill a couple of days of sight-seeing and shopping. If you’re looking for more ideas on what to do in Marrakech, check out this post from Jess, highlighting''12 must do’s in Marrakech''!''Who’s going to be on a tour like this?''Morocco, being a Muslim country (if fairly liberal) isn’t known as exactly a party destination. Our group was made up of 16 people (Travel Talk Tours can be up to 30 in size), with lots more women than men – there were three guys travelling with their girlfriends, including me, and then the rest of the group were either solo female travellers or groups of girlfriends. Ages ranged from mid-twenties to early thirties.''Nationalities wise, there was a heavy skew towards the Australian, with Travel Talk tours generally popular amongst Australians and New Zealanders – our guide confirming that the gender split, age range and nationalities in our tour were pretty standard for their Morocco trips. So just know that you will probably be on a tour with a bunch of 20-something Australian women.''What do you need to know about travelling in Morocco?''Morocco is a safe country to travel in. The main issues are health, in terms of keeping an eye on what you eat and drink, and the occasionally aggressive nature of some of the vendors.''In the latter case, this might be from street performers demanding you pay them an extortionate amount for the photo you snapped of them or someone who offers you a tour of the tanneries, followed up by some aggressive tactics to make you part with your cash. My advice would be to have some change available to pay vendors if you do decide to take photos, and to stick to only organised tours with a pre-agreed price for the activities.''You’ll be largely insulated from the hassle on the Travel Talk tour, although some of the shops that the tour visits do feature some fairly persistent vendors. Just remember that they’re trying to make a living, and if you do want to buy, nearly everything is negotiable.''For food and drink, similar rules apply to travelling in a good many countries – only drink bottled water, steer clear of salad and fruit that hasn’t been peeled, be wary of ice cubes (it might not be bottled water) and only eat food that is well cooked and served hot. Check out''this guidance''for more info on staying healthy abroad.''Personally I didn’t get sick on the trip, but I travel a lot, and my stomach is pretty good at handling different types of food. Many of the folks on our trip did get upset stomachs, diarrhea and the likes at some point in the tour, which is pretty much par for the course when travelling in areas like this. Pack hand sanitiser and Imodium, or pop into a pharmacy when you’re in the country – there are plenty on hand, and they are more than used to handing over the right kind of pills to travellers in need!''If you go in the hotter months, stay hydrated, and be aware of''the signs of dehydration''– which can often manifest as food poisoning.''When’s the best time to visit Morocco?''Situated in North Africa, Morocco gets incredibly hot in the summer months (40C+), and quite cool in the Winter months, particularly at night and higher altitudes. There’s even skiing in the Winter.''The best time to visit therefore is generally the Autumn and Spring time, when daytime temperatures are in the mid twenties, and it’s cool enough at night not to need to use air conditioning. Pack layers as sometimes it can be a bit cool at night, especially in the desert and in the higher mountainous regions.''Is a tour of Morocco with Travel Talk Tours for you?''Of course, I can’t answer that exactly! Hopefully you’ve got an idea of whether or not it is based on the post above.''I would say that if you want to see a good amount of Morocco, have a safe and fun trip with good people that also happens to be great value, then yes. Of course, if you’re not into group tours, this won’t be for you. Travel Talk also generally has an age range of 21 – 35 on their tours, although our guide said that they have had all ages, so if you’re young at heart this would work for you too!''One thing that did stand out as a positive was that many of the folks on the tour had been on Travel Talk tours before, and were planning to go on them again. Clearly the company is getting it right on their tours for their audience, which is a great sign.''Finally, this wasn’t a “party” tour. Whilst alcohol was available at the hotels we were at, and stops were made to give us the option to purchase it (for example before heading into the desert), the long days, early starts and full schedule meant that whilst people might have had a beer or two (or some fine Moroccan wine!) in the evenings, there weren’t any late night party sessions. Of course, this might vary based on your group, but again, indications from the guide were that this was very much the exception.''And that summarises our experience''travelling Morocco with Travel Talk''! Have you been to Morocco? Been on a tour with Travel Talk? Share your experiences in the comments below!''Our tour with Travel Talk in Morocco was provided to us compliments of Travel Talk, who covered our airfare to and from Morocco, all our tour expenses, and most of our meals during the tour. All opinions remain ours – check out our''code of ethics''for more on that that works.''traveltalktours''SHARE ON''When people learn I’m a travel photographer, I am always asked for my advice on how they can improve their photos. And what camera I use. But mostly, how to improve their pictures.''The truth is, who doesn’t want to take better pictures? Be they of friends and family, shots from your travels, images to share on social media – everyone loves great photos, and everyone would love to be able to take better photos.''Personally, I don’t think photography is a particularly difficult thing. I think photography is a subject that everyone can learn. I also think that is is one that takes time, effort and persistence. There aren’t really any shortcuts, and you have to have a real passion for it. But really, anyone can learn how to take photos like this:''Or this:''The thing is though, learning photography can be a bit of a challenge. It can seem unnecessarily technical, filled with obscure jargon, and the concepts can be a tricky to get to grips with. It is therefore no wonder that so many people end up leaving their camera’s in automatic mode and hoping for the best.''I figured that maybe I could help out with this. I think that anyone can become a better photographer, and I wanted to come up with a way to make that happen.''And now I have. I am absolutely thrilled to have partnered up with Matt Kepnes, author of the travel blog''Nomadic Matt'', to offer you a''Travel Photography Course!''This course contains literally everything I have learnt about photography over the twenty plus years I’ve been shooting. And I do mean everything. I wanted to put it all down into one place, starting from the beginning and walking you through the essentials of cameras and photography, advanced photo techniques, editing, and actually making an income from photography.''It assumes almost zero starting knowledge, and contains everything you need to know about photography, as well as video tutorials, interviews with other excellent professional photographers, and of course, loads of real world tips, advice and examples throughout.''What’s Included in the Course''Broken down into 11 units comprising 33 lessons, the course starts off by getting you entirely comfortable with your camera. You’ll learn how to be a master of your camera, with a detailed understanding of how it works and how it to get the perfectly exposed shot every time. I also teach advanced topics, such as how to shoot the stars, what HDR is and how to do it, mobile phone photography, and long-exposure photography. All of this is laid out with examples, images, and walk-throughs to make it really easy for you to grasp.''Then, the course tackles the post-processing side of photography — what happens after you’ve taken your photo. You’re going to learn everything from how to set up an efficient workflow to editing and backing up your photos.''Finally, the course looks at how you can convert your hobby into a profession for those interested in making money on their photos. From how much to charge to getting yourself found, we go through in detail everything you need to know to start making an income from your newfound skills.''Additionally, you’ll get''feedback on your photos!''Each unit has a homework assignment for you that will help you put the unit’s concepts into action. I will personally look at and give feedback on your submitted homework, and I’ll always be available to answer your questions throughout your progress.''You’ll also''get quarterly webinars!''Every quarter, I will host a free webinar (that will be recorded) where I will answer questions, give advice, and build on the information contained in the course,''Photography is an art that takes a while to master. I firmly believe, though, that it is something that anyone can do, if given the right direction. This course is that direction.''With over 30 individual lessons, multiple homework assignments, and a series of videos, this is the most robust travel photography course on the market. Nothing goes into as much detail as I do.''This is not a short course, but you can do it at your own pace. And whether it takes you three months or a year — I’ll be with you the entire way. Every question, concern, or point of confusion, I’ll help you solve. And you’ll also get lifetime access to the course, including any updates, new webinars, or interviews we have! One price for an entire lifetime!''So, if you’ve ever looked at beautiful images and wondered how to get shots like that — this is the course for you. If you want to understand how to take better images — this is the course for you. If you want to learn how to make money as a professional photographer — this is the course for you. So, if you’re ready to level up your photography – head on over to the''Travel Photography Course Page''and sign up today!''SHARE ON''As part of our five week''road trip through the Deep South''(first stop''Charleston''), we headed down to Savannah, the oldest city in Georgia, to see what there was to do. This, it turns out, was quite a lot! From our explorations, we’ve put together this post, which will give you plenty of ideas for things to do in Savannah for two days (or longer, depending on how much time you have).''We actually spent five full days in the Savannah area, visiting museums and attractions, eating excellent food, watching muskets get fired and we even met a mountain lion! As you can see, there are a lot of things to do in Savannah!''I’ve whittled down all our adventures from our visit into our favourite sights to give you some ideas for your visit.''This Savannah itinerary is split across 2 days, for example for a weekend in Savannah, but could be modified to suit any length of visit.''Contents:''Things to Do in Savannah Georgia for 2 Days''1. Explore the Savannah History Museum''2. Visit a Historical Home''3. Get Your Art On''4. Explore Savannah’s Historic District''5. Wander Along The Waterfront''6. Eat all the food''7. Visit Tybee Island''8. Explore Fort Pulaski''9. Meet a Mountain Lion''10.Walk Among the Woods at Wormsloe Historic Site''11. Visit A Graveyard''Where to stay in Savannah for 2 Days''When to visit Savannah''Getting To and Around Savannah''Further Reading for your Trip to Savannah Georgia''Things to Do in Savannah Georgia for 2 Days''Things to do in Savannah: Day One''1. Explore the''Savannah History Museum''Housed in a former railway shed, this well laid out museum has lots of information about the history of the area. This goes from the founding of the colony, through to the American Revolution, battles of the American Civil War, and the civil rights movement.''If you’re not familiar, the history of the southern US states is one that revolves heavily around race relations, with the civil war revolving around slavery, after which there were decades of struggle for equality and civil rights.''The history museum covers more than the civil war and civil rights movement of course (and if you’re interested in these topics, I’ll be posting more on those as our journey continues through Alabama and Louisiana).''One of the benches from the Forrest Gump movie (filmed in Savannah) is on display, as is information on the founder of the Girl Scouts. It’s not too overwhelming, and the museum was just the right size in my opinion to keep you interested.''The best part of our visit though was the interactive talk led by Ray Christie, a Coastal Heritage Site Historical Interpreter. Dressed in full civil war era garments, he led us through the events that caused the civil war, and the involvement of Georgia. He also shared insights as to who the people were who fought the war, and what life would have been like for them.''Then, he led our small group outside to Savannah’s Battlefield Memorial park, where the second bloodiest battle of the American Revolution was waged. He gave us a detailed insight as to how the events here in Savannah unfolded, explaining why so many men lost their lives, and why this was such an important battle. Issued with wooden muskets, we took part in the failed charge on the battlements, and were then treated to an actual musket firing demonstration.''If you go to the Savannah History Museum, do try and take in this talk and demonstration, it’s really interesting stuff!''2. Visit a Historical Home''In the height of the cotton industry, wealthy plantation owners built their town houses in Savannah to show off some of their wealth. Many of these 19th century homes have been preserved today, largely thanks to the efforts of the''Historic Savannah Foundation''.''We visited a number of these homes, which provide a fascinating insight into how the wealthy of the time spent their money and their lives. We’d recommend the''Owens-Thomas House''as a good option if you’re thinking of just one property – this is one of the finest examples of English Regency style architecture in the US, and the house is wonderfully preserved. It also has it’s original carriage house, inside a part of which you can also find some of the oldest intact slave quarters in the south of the US.''Another good reason to visit the Owen-Thomas house is that it’s operated by''Telfair Museums'', who also run the Telfair Academy and the Jepson Center, more on which below, and you can purchase a ticket with access to all three at a discounted price, saving yourself a bit of money.''3. Get Your Art On''If you’re interested in exploring some art, Savannah has you covered. The aforementioned Telfair Museums have two locations for you – the''Telfair Academy'', which is set in a gorgeous early 19th century mansion. It houses 19th and 20th century American and European art, and also has a number of rooms which are laid out as they would have been originally. So you get the best of both worlds – a museum and a historical home in one! The art on display is really excellent, and I very much enjoyed visiting this home.''If you want to see more modern art, then you should visit the''Jepson Center''. This focuses on the art of today (as well as housing guest exhibitions – we saw an excellent exhibition on Monet and the American artists he inspired), and enjoyed the rest of the exhibition also, which varies between permanent displays, and items that rotate from the 3 million item collection.''4. Explore Savannah’s Historic District''You’ll probably have noticed by now that Savannah has some excellent history going on, what with all those historic homes to visit and that historic waterfront to wander. I can very much recommend taking a bit of time to explore the historic district, either on foot, or on one of the street car tours that run round the city. These hop-on hop-off adventures are a great way to both get around and also to learn a fair amount about what you’re seeing.''Another bonus of the historic district, if you enjoy a drink, is that you are allowed to wander the streets, alcoholic beverage in hand. It’s a quirky little rule of Savannah, and does only apply to the historic district, and drinks must be in an open plastic cup of not more than 16 ounces.''5. Wander Along The Waterfront''Along the Savannah River is''River Street'', one of the oldest parts of the city, and once the trading heart of the city, with cotton setting off from here to destinations around the world.''Although abandoned for over a century, the street was redeveloped by the city in the late seventies, and is today a lovely place to wander, with shops, bars, restaurants and hotels, all set to cobblestone streets and cotton warehouses.''I particularly enjoyed coming down here at sunset and after dark, with the streetlights on and locals and visitors alike enjoying a drink or two in this wonderfully historic location.''6. Eat all the food''I’m not sure where to start on the food of the South! We had amazing food throughout our five week journey. A couple of highlights in the Savannah region were the''80 East Gastropub''on Tybee Island, which did some really excellent classic American fare, and''Wall’s BBQ''in downtown Savannah.''We’d suggest having BBQ at Wall’s on your first day, as you’ll be in Savannah, and then maybe dining at the Gastropub on Day 2 when you head out to Tybee Island.''The Gastropub is a bit incongruously hidden behind a gas station, but the service and food were absolutely spectacular – so good in fact that when we stayed on Tybee Island we ate there three nights in a row.''Wall’s BBQ was also really a tremendous find in our opinion. Serving up incredible BBQ including pulled pork and ribs, and in operation for decades, it might not look much from the outside, but it’s very much worth seeking this spot out and trying their BBQ options!''Finally, if you have a sweet tooth, then you have to try out''Leopold’s ice cream''. These guys have been serving up delicious ice cream in Savannah since 1919, and they are both entirely tasty and excellent value. Worth sitting inside for the vintage decor!''Things to do in Savannah: Day Two''7. Visit Tybee Island''For your second day in the Savannah area we suggest heading out of town for a bit of sight-seeing in the area. We spent a few nights out on''Tybee Island''when we visited, which is about a thirty minute drive from downtown Savannah. This was the beach to come to in the early 20th century, and is still a lovely quiet beach town. Highlights include the museum housed in an old gun battery, as well as the lighthouse (great views from the top) and the beach.''8. Explore Fort Pulaski''Near Tybee Island is''Fort Pulaski'', named for one of the heroes of the American Civil War, who died from wounds inflicted during the previously mentioned battle. Fort Pulaski was a built as a coastal defence prior to the American Civil War using around twenty five million bricks, and was deemed to be impenetrable.''Unfortunately, the invention of the rifled cannon meant that brick fortresses such as this became obsolete, and during the Civil War it only took 30 hours of bombardment before the walls were breached and the fort surrendered to Union forces, effectively handing control of Savannah to the Union.''Today, the fort is a well preserved fortress that is fun to explore – not dissimilar to''Fort Jefferson in the Dry Tortugas''. There’s an informative visitor centre, cannon firings, musket firing demonstrations by the rangers.''9. Meet a Mountain Lion''An unexpected highlight of our visit to Savannah was the trip we took to the''Oatland Island Wildlife Centre''. This park houses a series of animal exhibits that are scattered across a fairly large woodland area, which meant that we got to have a lovely walk, interspersed with sightings of some fascinating animals. We got very close to a gorgeous mountain lion, and also saw bobcats, wolves, red foxes, deer, bison, various birds of prey, and more!''If you’ve got a couple of hours, we’d very much recommend visiting. It was also a real bargain at $5 for an adult. More on opening times and prices,''here''.''10.Walk Among the Woods at Wormsloe Historic Site''About a half hour south of Savannah are the remains of what was once a plantation home,''Wormsloe Hall''. All that remains now are some ruins – the oldest surviving structure of it’s kind in Georgia – as well as some gorgeous woodland, including an incredible avenue of oaks.''I’d say that the site is worth visiting just for the avenue of oaks alone, which are framed by a beautiful stone archway, but once inside you’ll find more to do, including a visitor centre that details the history of the site, an informative video, blacksmith demonstrations, and woodlands trails to wander.''11. Visit A Graveyard''Finally, we’ll end on a slightly sombre note. The south has no shortage of interesting old graveyards, but''Bonaventure Cemetery''in Savannah must surely be near the top of the list of the most interesting!''This 160 acre cemetery is filled with lovely moss draped trees, old graves and lots and lots of trails to wander along. Notable graves include singer / songwriter Johnny Mercer and Gracie Watson, the latter of whom has a lovely statue at her grave.''Oh, fact for you, if you’re wondering the difference between a cemetery and a graveyard. A graveyard has to have a church. A cemetery can be stand alone. And with that out of the way, let’s talk about:''Where to stay in Savannah for 2 Days''We spent our first few nights in a''Homestay''on Tybee Island, which was perfectly located for exploring the attractions in this area including Fort Pulaski and Tybee Island Lighthouse. Also handy for easy access to the beach!''From there we headed to the''Quality Inn''in downtown Savannah, which was perfectly located for walking everywhere we wanted to go in the city, and included free parking – essential for a road trip.''There are plenty of options across a wide range of budgets though – check out the''booking.com listings for Savannah''for more ideas.''When to visit Savannah''We visited Savannah in January, and it was a bit on the cool side. In the summer, temperatures and humidity can be very high, so the best time to visit is going to be the Spring or late Autumn periods for the most pleasant weather.''If you like St. Patricks Day celebrations, then Savannah hosts one of the largest in the US – just be aware it’s very popular, so accommodation prices will shoot up!''Getting To and Around Savannah''The majority of downtown Savannah is easily walkable, but there are also a variety of trolley services that run to the majority of the tourist hotspots if your feet get tired.''For all the sights out of town, you’re going to be best off hiring a car, which is essential if you’re visiting Savannah as part of a US road trip, as we did. We usually recommend and use''Enterprise''when we’re hiring a car in the USA, we find for the longer trips we do their prices tend to be the most competitive, plus they have an amazing choice of locations across the country.''Further Reading for your Trip to Savannah Georgia''We’ve written a number of guides on travel in the USA and beyond, and we have some other resources you might find useful. In no particular order:''Our trip to Savannah was part of a larger trip – check out our suggested itinerary for a''Deep South road trip''We’ve written a guide to''how much it costs to travel in the USA''If you’re planning on taking a road trip and are new to driving in the USA, this post will give you some''Tips for Driving in the USA''As well as Savannah, we’ve also written guides to other cities in the Deep South, including''New Orleans'',''Baton Rouge''and''Charleston''This is my South''– a travel blog focused on what to see and do in this part of the world''Lonely Planet’s guide to''Louisiana and the Deep South''Our guide to the best''Airbnb Alternatives'', to help you get the best lodging, whatever your budget''And that sums up our visit and hopefully gives you plenty of ideas for what do in Savannah for 2 days (or more)! Have you been to Savanna? Do you have any tips for where to eat, where to stay or what to do in Savannah? Do share them in the comments below!''SHARE ON''I’m thrilled to say that we’ve recently signed on to become''Homestay''ambassadors. What does this mean? Well, we’re going to be using the Homestay service in various destinations around the world, and then sharing our stories, adventures, and thoughts with you guys.''In case you’re not familiar with''Homestay'', here’s a quick brief.''Homestay is a service that lets you find places to stay in countries all around the world. I know what you’re thinking – they’re not the only service out there to do this.''The way Homestay stands out in, an admittedly fairly crowded marketplace, is by really focusing on the hosted experience. The idea is that you’re going to be living in someone’s house or apartment, and they’re going to look after you, provide you tips and advice on what to see and do, and give you all the local insights that can turn a trip from the ordinary into something really special. Oh, and breakfast is always included.''Since we find that one of the best things about travel is meeting the locals, partnering up with Homestay to explore what they’ve got on offer seemed like a no-brainer.''I actually first used Homestay a few years ago during''a trip in Ecuador'', and loved that experience. Back then, having only just launched, Homestay were only live in a handful of countries and had a fairly limited choice. Since then, they’ve expanded to over 150 countries, and have thousands of properties to choose from.''With so many options to choose from, picking our first destination might seem like a bit of a challenge. But of course it wasn’t. Given the option to spend a week anywhere in the world, naturally we chose Paris in the run up to Christmas – a favourite city for both of us, and somewhere we really wanted to experience together.''We went through the available Homestay options in Paris (there are many!), and ended up settling on a lovely looking place hosted by a lady called Elisabeth.''You can obviously''read the description yourself'', but in summary, this place looked fantastic. Centrally located, with plenty of space, a delicious sounding breakfast and a friendly sounding host, we signed up for a week’s stay.''From the beginning, everything was well planned. Communication with Elisabeth was easy and prompt via e-mail, and we were given full instructions for finding the place and getting into the property using the door code. Elisabeth was actually away the day we arrived, but was returning the following day. In her absence, we were to be looked after by her housekeeper, Joy, a Taiwanese lady who lives in the property full time and helps out.''The property was very easy to find, very close to the Folieres Bergere, and a five minute walk from two metro stations, which was how we got here from Paris CDG airport. Despite being on the 5th floor, it had a lift – a welcome luxury in Paris and gratefully received by us given our luggage!''On arrival we were welcomed by the lovely Joy, who showed us to our room at the top of the stairs and let us know that Elisabeth would be back the next day. We were also introduced to the two gorgeous cats who live on the property. Jess is a huge cat lover, so having cats to make friends with was a bonus!''We were welcome to use all the facilities, including the kitchen and gorgeous open plan lounge. As it was, we were fairly tired from our travels, and ended up getting an early night.''The next day we had a fine breakfast with coffee (the house has a coffee maker for guest use at any time, which produced excellent freshly ground coffee). Breakfast options included freshly baked croissants from the bakery down the road, yoghurt, fruit, juice and wonderful fresh French bread, with butter and jam.''We also met Elisabeth, owner of the house, who was fascinating to talk to. A French native, she’d travelled extensively, and had spent a good chunk of her life living in Taiwan, hence being able to speak excellent Mandarin (as well as English and French of course!). Self employed since 18, she’s done all sorts of things, including owning and running two hotels in Paris. So customer service was not something new to her!''In terms of the property we were in, Elisabeth had owned this one since 2000, originally as a family home, and has done extensive renovation in order to make it as lovely as it is today. When her children grew up, she opened it up to travellers from all around the world.''It was obvious from our time there that Elisabeth loves to receive guests, who come from all over the world. Speaking fluent Mandarin, she does get a good many from China, Singapore and Taiwan, and while we were there there was a family from Malaysia as well as a couple from Singapore also staying.''It’s worth bringing up at this point that different homestays have different styles, and some will be accommodating more than one set of guests at a time. If you prefer a more personalised experience, then you might want to pick a homestay which only offers one room rather than multiple rooms.''If you’re interested in meeting people from all over the world as well as your host, then a homestay like the one we shared with Elisabeth could be perfect for you. Just bear in mind that of course, more people will be moving around the property at a time, and whilst in this case it never felt crowded, you might find that someone is in the loo ahead of you (in this case we didn’t have an ensuite), or folks catching an early flight might disturb you when leaving. Elisabeth also welcomes families with children, and of course sometimes they can make a bit of noise.''For us, none of these things were an issue – I just wanted to bring it up here to make it clear that this is a different experience from booking a hotel, or a whole apartment to yourself. A''Homestay''is a hosted experience, and you’re going to be sharing a property with someone. Of course, that experience isn’t going to be for everyone – we all travel differently – but personally, I love interacting with locals, and being able to feel at home in a foreign city is a real treat.''Overall, we had an excellent''Homestay''experience in Paris with Elisabeth. We spent a great deal of time exploring one of our favourite cities, taking in the sights, drinking tea, Christmas shopping, and searching for sunsets. Having a warm and friendly place to return to after each day’s exploration was lovely, and we’re happy to recommend the''Homestay''experience to anyone looking for a more local experience!''For more inspiration for your Paris visit, take a look at our''2 day Paris itinerary'', and our''3 day Paris itinerary'', which should give you plenty of ideas for planning your perfect Paris trip.''SHARE ON''When I''visited the Florida Keys''last year, it was immediately obvious to me that this place was an activity seeker’s paradise. There’s so much to do here in fact that you might even manage to stay in shape, in spite of the mountains of delicious sea-food that are going to come your way.''I thought I’d round up some of the fun activities that I found whilst down in the Keys, to get you inspired to head out here and visit for yourself. If I was headed back to the Keys to get active these are exactly the adventures I’d be getting up to:''Cycling''I’ve always loved cycling, and the Florida Keys are the perfect place to enjoy this sport – not least because they are so flat! A great place to go cycling is at the old Seven Mile Bridge. If seven miles sounds a bit taxing, don’t worry, you can actually only cycle for a couple of miles before you reach the end of the road. On the way you’ll get a lovely view of the waters between the Keys (islands to you and me), and the journey finishes with this view:''Not to be sniffed at.''Sport Fishing''When I was growing up I spent a lot of time sport fishing at sea, in the warm waters of the Indian Ocean, and I know just how much fun this sport can be.''The Florida Keys are the perfect location for a spot of sport fishing, with some of the most exciting fish roaming these waters, including sailfish, swordfish and marlin.''Basically, If it’s good enough for''Hemingway'', it’s good enough for me!''Snorkelling''I’m a big fan of water-based activities. I never learnt to dive (although of course you can dive here too), but have spent a great deal of time snorkeling. I find bobbing around in the sea to be a very relaxing endeavor, particularly when the waters are as warm as they are off the Keys!''There are numerous locations where you can enjoy some snorkeling, with reefs to explore and colorful fish to see. There’s even an annual underwater music festival, if you’re looking for something a little quirky.''Jet Skiing''If I have one regret about my trip to the Florida Keys, it’s that I didn’t manage to get myself on a Jet Ski. I saw a lot of folks jet skiing though, and it looked like a heck of a lot of fun – I mean, what’s not to love about flying over those gorgeous warm turquoise waters astride a mighty machine?''Taking a Seaplane Ride''If you don’t want to get wet, don’t worry, you can still enjoy the waters around the Keys from the air! Hop into a seaplane, and you’ll be able to see all sorts of things, like the sunken ship in the shot above, through to dolphins, turtles and other marine life. Loads of fun!''Have you ever visited the Florida Keys? Which of these adventures would you want to try? Let me know in the comments below!''This is a sponsored conversation written by me on behalf of VISIT FLORIDA. The opinions and text are all mine.''SHARE ON''In 2015 we had the pleasure of taking a river cruise from St. Petersburg to Moscow with''Gvidon Tours''. You can read all about that experience, and my thoughts on''cruising in Russia'', in the post I wrote on the subject.''As part of our trip, we got to spend a few days in both Moscow and St. Petersburg, both gorgeous cities. I have to say though, that St. Petersburg easily tops my list of favourite cities in Russia – it’s just so pretty!''If you’re thinking about a trip to St. Petersburg, Russia, I’ve put together my recommendations for the highlights of what to do in St. Petersburg in the post below. I’ve also put together some practical advice on getting here and away, when to visit, where to stay and visas at the end of the post. Let’s start with the exciting stuff first though.''What to do in St. Petersburg, Russia''1. Church of the Saviour on the Spilled Blood''One of the things I really love about Russia is the design of the churches, with their onion shaped domes. In St. Petersburg, the most famous of these churches is the Church of the Saviour on the Spilled Blood. This former Russian Orthodox church stands out in St. Petersburg, which has fairly European style architecture, whilst this church is in contrast a truly Russian looking building.''It’s not all been glory days for the church of course. During Soviet times the church was put to various uses, including a morgue during World War 2, and then it was used as a vegetable warehouse!''Today the church has been restored to its former glory, although it’s no longer an actual church, and serves instead as a museum, dedicated to mosaics. Information on ticketing and opening hours are available in English on the''official website, here.''If you’re not interested in mosaics though, the church is very pretty from the outside, and free to look at.''2. The Hermitage''You basically can’t visit St. Petersburg without at least looking at the Hermitage, given it spans six massive buildings across St. Petersburg and is one of the largest art museums in the world. If you are into museums though, this place will be heaven for you. With over three million items on permanent display, including the largest collection of paintings in the world, you aren’t going to be short of things to look at.''I admit to not being a huge museum fan, but even I have been here twice, and it’s worth visiting just for the grandeur of the buildings themselves, some of which were former palaces of the Tsar’s. The art housed within, which focuses largely on European and world art rather than Russian art, is absolutely fantastic, and it’s worth spending some time exploring. You could lose yourself for days, weeks, or even years here, so my advice would be to either take a tour of the highlights, or come up with a plan for what exactly you want to see beforehand in order to make the most of your visit.''Ticket information and pricing is available from the''official website'', where you can also buy tickets online to beat the queues. At the time of writing, the museum is free to enter on the first Thursday of every month, and closed on a Monday. Tickets are availalbe either for the whole complex, including all the buildings, or indidivually, depending on your interest.''3. Peterhof Palace''St. Petersburg was founded by one of Russia’s most famous leaders, Peter the Great. His wife, Katherine the Great, was responsible (amongst other things) for starting the aforementioned Hermitage. When they were in St. Petersburg, whuch they declared capital of Russia, they would spend their winters at the Winter Palace, and their summers at the Peterhof Palace, located on the shores of the Baltic Sea.''Now a UNESCO world heritage site, this property is around 45 minutes from St. Petersburg, and is basically everything you’d expect from a Tsar’s residence. Often described as the Russian Versailles, the gardens are famous for their magnificent fountains, and you can spend a great deal of time just wandering these. They’re a little bit tricky though – the designers loved water based practical jokes, and occassionally standing on the wrong stone will trigger an unexpected shower of water!''Entrance tickets are available for the different parts of the Palace and grounds. The''offical website''for the palace is a little tricky to understand, but''this website''has lots of helpful information on planning your visit, including entrance fees and opening times for the various parts of the Palace.''Getting to Peterhof from St. Petersburg is relatively easy. Obviously, lots of companies offer tours, which is the easiest option. If you want to go under your own steam, you can either take a hydrofoil across the water, or there are''buses, trains and taxis available''.''4. A Canal Cruise''One thing that you will immediately notice about St. Petersburg when you arrive is how many waterways it has. This is because it was built partially in a river delta, and so there’s an awful lot of water around, which the city designers incorporated into the construction.''This means that you can explore the city on a boat tour, which is a wonderful way to get a different perspective of the architecture and city layout, and learn a bit about the place as you go. Our canal cruise was organised by our river cruise company, but there are no shortage of options –''this map and run down of prices and information''should help you pick an operator to suit. Just be sure to check the tour is in English if you pick one with a guide!''5. Pavlovsk Palace''Another out of town attraction, the Pavlovsk Palace is a gorgeous stately home style residence which was built for Catherine the Great’s son Paul, and designed by her architect. The architect was very much influenced by European architecture styles, and the resulting property is a wonderful homage to all sorts of European styles, featuring a Greek Hall stuffed with columns, as well as an Italian Hall. Art, collected by Paul I and his wife from their travels across Europe, can be found throughout.''The gardens are also very beautiful, designed as an English style garden, and filled with all sorts of hidden treats, including a labyrinth, a temple, and various flower gardens.''Information on the palace can be found on their''official website'', which helpfully include''directions for getting here'',''opening times'', and''ticket prices''.''6. Fabergé Museum''Eggs! Who doesn’t like them. Of course, the eggs at the Fabergé Museum in St. Petersburg aren’t the kind you eat. No, these are the magnficently expensive eggs by the Russian jewler Carl Fabergé, and this museum houses the largest private collection of Imperial Fabergé Eggs in the world (nine – ten are also on public display in the Kremlin Armoury in Moscow).''These eggs were created each year as Easter eggs for the Imperial family, and are incredibly detailed masterpieces of design. Truly exceptional to behold, and bought at a cost of 100 million US dollars, these nine eggs are worth the visit to the Fabergé Museum alone.''However, it’s not all about eggs of course. Housed in the Shuvalov Palace, a stunning building in its own right, the museum also houses over 4,000 works of art, largely Russian, meaning a visit here can take you a bit of time. Find out about opening hours and ticket prices at the''official website'', where you can also purchase tickets.''7. The Opera. Or Ballet.''When I first visited St. Petersburg, I was barely a teenager, and my parents thought it would be fun to take me to see both some opera and some ballet. I loved the latter, and have hated the former ever since.''Still, if you’re into either opera or ballet, then St. Petersburg is an excellent place to experience either of these, with arguably the finest venue for both of these art forms being the historical''Mariinsky Theatre'', which housed both the Imperial Ballet and Imperial Opera, and was the place where people like Tchaikovsky would premiere their works.''It’s a truly Russian experience, and one I would definitely recommend.''Ticket information and pricing''is available on the official website.''Practicalities for visiting St. Petersburg''When to visit St. Petersburg''Being fairly far north, St. Petersburg gets cold in Winter, with over 100 days of snow on average, and temperatures below freezing between November and March.''As such, the summer months are the preferred times to visit, with May through September usually being pleasant, and July and August being the hottest months. If you want to see the fountains active in the Peterhof Palace, you need to visit in the summer months, as they are deactivated over Winter to stop them from freezing.''Visa requirements for St. Petersburg''Unless you’re in''one of these countries'', you’re going to need a visa for entering Russia. If you’re from the US, the standard visa you’ll be issued with is a three year multi-entry visa, and if you’re in the UK, the standard is a thirty day entry visa.''Visa requirements and the process for getting them varies a little by country, but generally you’ll have to apply in person via a visa processing service that is approved by the Russian consul.''You’re going to need your passport with room for the visa (it takes up a whole page), a completed visa application form (you can download this from the relevant visa processing service), an invitation to Russia (from your tour company or hotel) and of course, the visa processing fee, which varies by nationality.''If you’re in the US, visa processing is handled by''Invisia Logistic Services''. In the UK, it’s handled by''VFS Services''. Full information on the visa application process and fees can be found on these websites.''Getting to and from St. Petersburg''St. Petersburg is easy to get to, with multiple flights arriving here from cities around the world. If you’re looking to book a flight, we recommend''searching Priceline''for the best deals. The airport is around 12 miles south of the centre, with public buses and taxis available to take you in to the centre.''There are also a number of train services, and you can get a train''direct to St. Petersburg from Helsinki''for example, which takes around 3.5 hours, or from''Moscow'', which takes just over five hours.''Getting around St. Petersburg''St. Petersburg is a relatively walkable city, particularly in the center where the majority of the attractions are, although if hours in the Hermitage have done you in, fear not, there’s an excellent public transport system, which includes buses, trams and a metro.''There are also plenty of taxis, and''Uber''is also available in the city (if you’ve not used them before, get $20 off your first ride with''this link''!).''And that sums up my post on getting the most from your trip to St. Petersburg! I hope you found it useful – if you have more ideas for sight seeing and must-see St. Petersburg attractions, do share them in the comments below!''SHARE ON''I’ve been using an''Oppo''phone for almost two years now as my main phone. You might not have heard of Oppo, but they’re making big strides in the smartphone world, currently ranked as the eighth most popular smartphone brand in the world, and''shipping 50 million devices in 2015''.''Basically, they’re big in the Asian markets, but still making inroads in the rest of the world. What you need to know is that they make great phones at reasonable prices – particularly good if you’re looking for an unlocked, contract free phone.''The phone that I’ve been using for a couple of years is the gorgeous''Find 7a''. This is a 5.5 inch device with a fast processor, fantastic 1080p screen and all the bells and whistles you’d expect from a flagship device – at a very reasonable price.''I was somewhat aggrieved therefore when I dropped it face first onto some concrete and the screen shattered, beyond repair.''I was even more aggrieved to suddenly find myself in a strange city with no idea where I was, no means of navigation, and no idea how to get to where I needed to be. I was on an alien planet. But that’s a story for another day.''Let’s get back to Oppo. These guys make some excellent phones at excellent prices, and after I bought the Find 7a I got in touch with them and asked if they’d be interested in a collaboration. As a result of that, I’ve given away a number of their phones over the last couple of years, and all the winners I’ve spoken to were very happy with their prizes!''Back to my crushed Find 7a. By a stroke of luck, Oppo had recently sent me one of their midrange devices to test out, the''Oppo R7''(international version). I was going to put it through its paces and report back. Now it was going to have to step up to the plate as my main device.''I’ll admit it, I spend a lot of time on my phone. It’s my mapping system, note taking system, on-the-go photo editing tool, social media management interface, currency convertor, room booker, movie and music player, – you name it, I pretty much do it on my phone.''So how does the Oppo R7 stack up when put to the test? Let’s find out. But first, some specs:''Specifications of the Oppo R7''The phone I’ve got is the''Oppo R7''($349). Oppo also has a large screen version of the phone, which is somewhat similar but has a few more features, including a six inch screen, which is called the''R7 Plus''($499). There’s also an''R7S''($399) with a 5.5 inch screen.''The R7 has the following key specs:''Dimensions'':\xa0 143 x 71 x 6.3 mm (5.63 x 2.80 x 0.25 in)''Weight'': 147 g (5.19 oz)''SIM:''Dual SIM (Nano-SIM/ Micro-SIM, dual stand-by)''Display'': AMOLED capacitive touchscreen, 16M colors, 5 inches, 1080 x 1920 pixels (~445 ppi pixel density, Corning Gorilla Glass 3''Android version:''v4.4.2 (KitKat)''Chipset'': Qualcomm MSM8939 Snapdragon 615 (Quad-core 1.5 GHz Cortex-A53 & quad-core 1.0 GHz Cortex-A53)''GPU'': Adreno 405''Memory'': 16GB internal, microSD up to 128 GB, 3GB RAM.''Camera Front:''13 MP, f/2.2, Schneider-Kreuznach optics, phase detection autofocus, LED flash ,''Camera Rear'': 8 MP, f/2.4''Connectivity'': Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n, Wi-Fi Direct, hotspot, Bluetooth v4.0, GPS, microUSB v2.0, USB Host''Sensors''Accelerometer, proximity, compass''Battery:''Non-removable Li-Po 2320 mAh battery''Lots of good numbers. Let’s see how that looks in real life.''The good''To start with, this phone feels great in the hand. Unlike the other Oppo phones I’ve used, including the 7a and the N3, this is made out of aluminium rather than plastic, and feels like a really premium device. It’s also really skinny.''The AMOLED screen is excellent. Great colors, great blacks, overall it’s a lovely screen, and squeezing a 1920x1080p panel into a 5” screen means you get a really high number of pixels per inch, making everything sharp and crisp. If I had to critisice it, the display is a little cool in color, meaning things look a little blue, but that could just be because I’m used to the warm color of the Find 7a.''Fast charging is another feature that Oppo has had for a while – using the provided charger, the phone can charge from flat to seventy percent in 30 minutes, using what Oppo calls VOOC technology. Once you’ve had this feature on a phone, you’re never going to want a phone without it again. It does mean that you have to use Oppo’s chargers for the fastest charge, as this system isn’t compatible with fast charge systems from other manufacturers.''Performance wise, I have no complaints. Oppo have used a mid-range processor, the Snapdragon 615. This has eight processing cores – four relatively fast cores clocked at 1.5GHz, and four lower power, slower cores. The idea is that for simple things the low power cores do the work, using less battery and so giving your phone longer life. When you fire up an intensive task, the “big” cores step in, and do the heavy lifting.''It’s a bit like having a car with two engines – one efficient motor for when you want to get the most miles to the gallon, and one turbo charged monster for getting the best lap times. And in reality it works pretty well – apps are responsive, and it’s performed admirably with everything I’ve used it for, from Facebook to gaming.''I’ve also found the camera to be fine. To be honest, I don’t often use a smartphone camera. The best camera I’ve used on a smartphone to date has been that on the LG G4, and that still remains my favourite. But certainly, the Oppo R7 has a capable camera, with all the modes you’d expect (HDR etc), and it’s fast and responsive.''Finally, one massive bonus to the Oppo R7 is its price. It’s available direct from Oppo online for $349 / €349. That’s excellent value for an unlocked smartphone which is this capable.''The bad''It’s not all roses and butterflies. There are a couple of niggles with this phone that bug me a little, although you might not see them as problems.''First, having come from the Find 7a’s 5.5 inch screen, I find the 5 inches on the R7 a little small. Again, an adjustment issue I suspect. The screen itself is excellent, and if you’re happy with five inches, and dismayed by the move towards ever larger screens, then you’ll love this. Otherwise, check out the R7S or R7 Plus models, where you should find something to suit your needs.''The other slight disappointment, that isn’t exactly a deal breaker, is the lack of NFC. This wireless technology for close range data transfer is used for wireless payment, and sending data to nearby devices. Not having it rules out using the phone for wireless payment systems like Android Pay, and for pairing it quickly with other NFC enabled devices, like cameras. Again, not crucial, but a bit sad to miss it.''The plain ugly''There are a few things about the phone that bother me more than a little bit, that I miss on a day to day basis compared to other phones. Again, how important these are to you might vary, but this is my review, so here we are:''No gyroscope.''This is a real killer for me, because not having a gyroscope means I can’t do 360 panoramic photos, which is one of the main things I use my smartphone camera for. Google’s Camera app doesn’t support photospheres without a gyroscope, so I can’t make then on this phone.''Kitkat only.''The phone comes with Oppo’s version of Android, called ColorOS. I like the customisations of the software, and some of the features like the app backup, are really handy. Unfortunately, the version of Android that the version of the phone I am testing is Android 4.4, which is seriously dated now. Google recently released version 6.0, so this phone is two versions out of date, meaning it’s missing a number of features and, most importantly, security fixes. I suspect many people don’t really care too much about the underlying software on their phone as long as it works, but if you’re going to buy a new phone, you should at least get a vaguely recent operating system. Oppo have also recently confirmed that this variant of the phone (sold in the EU and other international markets) is unlikely to be updated to a more recent version of Android, which is a serious problem in my book.''No removeable battery.''The battery on my Find 7a gave up after around eighteen months, which wasn’t a problem as I could buy a new one and swap it out. That’s not a feature of this phone, so if the battery dies I’ll have to send it to Oppo for it to be fixed. Not exactly convenient. Still, the world appears to be moving to non-replaceable batteries in laptops and smartphones, so maybe I should start getting used to it.''Odd LTE band support.''The phone doesn’t support every LTE band, so there is a possibility that it won’t work on 4G speeds for your network. 3G bands are fairly widely supported, so you should be able to get 3G speeds, but you should definitely check the 4G bands to be sure it will work on the bands your preferred network uses.''In summary''To be honest, I really wanted to dislike the R7. I was mad about my clumsiness with my Find 7a, and having to use a lower powered device with a smaller screen felt like it was going to be a step down.''Then I used it for a while, and it won me over. Sure, on paper, it’s not as powerful as some flagship devices. But that octa-core chip (and 3GB of memory!), means that it’s performs very well in real world usage, without draining the battery.''There might be the occassional stutter if you’re trying to do too much at once, but I’ve never felt that the phone is laggy or unable to keep up.16GB of built in storage is a bit mean these days, but as the phone has expandable storage with a microSD, that doesn’t really matter.''If you’re in the market for a mid-range, unlocked phone, then the Oppo R7 is one to consider, but be aware that if you’re purchasing the international variant (known as the Oppo R7f), sold in the EU, you’re going to be stuck on an outdated version of Android, and it is unlikely to be updated. Other variants of this phone are being updated, so check by region. If you want something with a bigger screen and a bit more grunt, then the Find 7a would be my preferred option, currently available for $499.''SHARE ON''Charleston, South Carolina, is the perfect city for a short getaway. We think that 2 days in Charleston would give you enough time to see all the highlights, sample some of the incredible food on offer and even take in some of the surrounding attractions.''With this in mind, we put this Charleston itinerary together highlighting some of the many options you have should you visit Charleston for two days, for example over a weekend. This two day Charleston itinerary could be expanded of course to cover more days should you wish!''Our visit to Charleston was the beginning of a''deep south road trip across the USA''lasting five weeks, and you can see more posts from that trip''here''.''Read on to see some of our favourite locations and activities in Charleston, followed by some tips and advice for your trip to Charleston!''2 Days in Charleston''Day 1''1. Visit The Museums and Houses of Charleston''We’re going to start off your two day Charleston itinerary learning a bit about the history of this beautiful city, starting with a visit to the''Charleston Museum''. Opened in 1773, this is recognised as the oldest museum in the US. A fact which makes it worth visiting by itself, but you’ll find plenty to do to keep you occupied as well.''There’s loads of information on the history of Charleston, the American Civil War, and a fascinating exhibit featuring some of the museums earliest pieces.''Just outside the front door of the museum, you’ll find a full size replica of the first submarine in history to sink an enemy vessel – the hand powered H. L. Hunley.''As well as the excellent Charleston museum, Charleston is home to a wealth of grand old homes that you can tour (although unfortunately not photograph inside, hence another photo of a fountain in a Charleston Park!).''We toured a number of these houses, including the''Aiken Rhett house'', and the''Joseph Manigault House'', both of which were fascinating to tour, offering a glimpse of how the wealthy of Charleston may have lived when in town. If you’re interested in this side of Charleston’s history, taking a tour of one of these historic homes is well worth it.''2. Go back in time with a Carriage Ride through downtown''Next up, we think you should take a bit of time to enjoy the beautiful downtown area. One lovely feature of Charleston is that you can take a horse drawn buggy ride through the city to learn a bit about the history and see the sights.''We took a tour with the''Palmetto Carriage Works'', one of a number of companies which offer carriage tours of Charleston.''Our tour lasted around ninety minutes, and our driver and guide kept us entertained and informed throughout, despite the chilly weather.''Taking a carriage ride was a really good way to get a feel for the layout of the city, and gave us lots of ideas for where we wanted to wander with my camera for the rest of the stay. We also got restaurant recommendations and lots of laughs from our guide, so I can definitely recommend this as something to do early on in your visit.''3. Take a Boat Tour to Fort Sumter''Charleston is known as the place where the first shots of the American Civil War were fired, and the actual location of that first battle was''Fort Sumter'', situated on an island in Charleston Harbor. Captured by Confederate forces after a 34 hour battle, its strategic importance meant that it would continue to see battle throughout the rest of the war.''Now operated by the US National Park Service, Fort Sumter is a pleasant trip from Charleston by boat, giving you time to appreciate a view of Charleston from the water, followed by around an hour and a half on the island itself.''This is plenty of time to take a look at the cannons, explore the small museum, and try to get a feel for what it must have been like to be around here during the time of the war. Not terribly wonderful, I suspect!''4. Watch the Sunset at Folly Beach''It’s probably about time we found somewhere to watch a sunset, right? If you don’t want to leave town, then a good option is down on Battery Point, where you can watch the sun set across the river.''If you don’t mind a quick trip out of town though, then head to Folly Beach. The pier here is magnificent at sunset, and the beach is wonderful to wander along.''Once you’re done, there’s no shortage of places to grab a bit to eat – seafood is the obvious choice I’d suggest!''Day 2''5. Visit Patriots Point Naval and Maritime Museum''For the second day of our two day Charleston itinerary, we’re going to go sight-seeing at some of the sights a little way out of time, starting with\xa0a definite favourite for both of us – the''Patriot’s Point Naval and Maritime Museum''.''This location is home to an aircraft carrier, a submarine, an excellent Vietnam war exhibit and a destroyer, all of which you can explore.''You can also take scenic helicopter rides from the museum, for a whole different vantage point of the museum and surrounding areas. Whilst we didn’t take a helicopter ride, we did take advantage of the one flying by to nab the above shot!''The USS Clamagore submarine, built towards the end of World War 2. She never actually saw action in that war, but remained in active service during the Cold War before being decommissioned in 1975. Incredible to wander around, unless you’re claustrophobic!''Yes, I did have a bit of a moment next to this F-14 Tomcat, sitting on the deck of the USS Yorktown which brought back all those memories of Tom Cruise flying around in''that definitive 80’s movie''!''Exploring the USS Yorktown was a fascinating experience. Above is the view from the bridge showing just two of the aircraft that are part of an extensive collection here – if you’re into military history, aviation or the sea, you are going to find something to excite you here. We spent a few hours here, but could have easily spent the whole day exploring everything on offer. A definite must if you’re in town.''6. Visit the Old Plantation Houses of Charleston''The wealth of early Charleston was generated from the land surrounding it, usually by wealthy white plantation owners, and the hard work of the slaves they owned. To find out more about the latter, I very much recommend taking time to visit the''Old Slave Mart Museum''in downtown Charleston.''To learn more about the plantations, you should head out and visit one of the plantations just outside Charleston. There are a number of these – we visited''Magnolia Plantation'',''Boone Hall Plantation'',''Middleton Place Plantation''and''Drayton Hall''.''These are all different, and if you are interested in gorgeous houses, stunning gardens, and the history of the south, then you should definitely visit at least one of them. Three of them are conveniently close to each other, about a twenty minute drive east from Charleston, whilst Boone Hall is about twenty minutes north-west.''Magnolia plantation, which is featured in the above four images, is particularly well known for it’s stunning bridge covered lakes and gorgeous gardens. It’s the most visited of all the four plantations, and there is lots to do here, from wandering those gardens, to visiting the petting zoo, to touring the house itself. There’s even a maze to get lost in!''If you’re heading to Patriot’s Point, you could make a day of it and head out to Boone Hall Plantation, which is a little further along in the same direction. This plantation has a spectacular avenue of oaks leading up to the main house, as well as an excellent exhibition on the slaves who lived and worked here – which is presented in the houses that the slaves themselves used to live in, the so called “slave alley” of the plantation.''The final two plantations are Drayton Hall and Middleton Place. Middleton Place is known as having the oldest landscaped gardens in the US, so if you like landscaped gardens, this would be the place for you. Drayton Hall is unique in that it’s the only property that still has the original house on the property, and it’s also not been restored – rather, it’s being preserved.''This means that the rooms are empty, and it has a very different feel compared to the formal grandeur of the other properties.''Personally, my two favourites were Magnolia Plantation and Boone Hall – the tour through these properties was excellent, and there was lots to see and do in the grounds and gardens.''I also very much enjoyed the old feel of vintage Drayton Hall. However, even if you only visit one out of these four I don’t think you’ll be disappointed by your choice!''7. See the Driftwood Beach at Botany Bay''Heading a little bit further out of town, and this might not appeal to everyone, but it’s a fascinating location, and one that is worth visiting.''Botany Bay Plantation,''about an hours drive outside of Charleston, is a former plantation which is now a park. Buildings survive here from the 1840’s, and there’s a self guided driving tour you can take of the various structures and point sof interest inside the park.''My favouite part though is the beach. Here, hundreds of trees have been engulfed by the rising waters, creating frozen driftwood sculptures that are beautiful and otherworldy to behold.''The drive in to the plantation, featuring moss covered oaks, is also stunning.''8. Drink Tea at America’s only Tea Plantation''I had no idea that tea was grown in the US, something I learned when we took a tour of the''Charleston Tea Plantation''– the only place in the US where tea is actually grown.''You can take a tour of the factory to see how tea is grown, hop on a trolley for a tour of the plantation itself, and spend time drinking unlimited amounts of delicious tea, both hot and cold, in the gift shop.''Whilst you’re out here, do be sure to stop off at the stunning Angel Oak, one of the oldest Live Oak trees in the US!''Other highlights of Charleston''It seems like I’ve covered a lot, but I’ve barely got started with what Charleston has to offer – it’s no real surprise that the town has won the award for best small town in the US five years in a row!''From improv comedy at''Theatre 99'', to moss covered graveyards, to the City Market, to the park at battery point, to the many gorgeous dwellings that fill the tree-lined streets – there’s huge amounts to do and see here, certainly more than we could manage over five days, let alone fit into a 2 day itinerary!''I don’t think you’ll have any problems filling your time, instead, you’ll just be working out when you can next return. Now lets look at some practicalities for helping you plan your visit to Charleston.''Getting to and from Charleston''Charleston has a well serviced airport offering flights to''19 cities in the US'', meaning it’s easy to get here from most places. If you’re coming from outside the US, you’ll have to go via an international hub such as Washington or New York. We recommend Priceline’s''flight comparison tool''as the fastest way to find the best deals on flights. From the airport we took an Uber, but there are also regular taxis and a shuttle bus service.''If you’re looking to get around town and explore further afield, then as previously mentioned, a rental car is a great option. We usually recommend and use''Enterprise Car Rental''when we’re traveling in the USA, we find they have some of the best prices, particularly on weekly rentals, and a great choice of locations. We also find they’re really competitive for the type of one-way trips that we often do.''By car, US Highway 17 runs down the coast through Charleston, whilst I-26 terminates here if you’re coming from the west.''Charleston is also serviced by Amtrak or Greyhound. As you can see, plenty of options for getting here!''Where to Stay in Charleston for 2 Days''We stayed at a couple of properties in Charleston during our five nights in town, both of which were lovely.''We were hosted for three out of our five nights at the gorgeous historic four star''Mills House Wyndham Grand''. Located slap bang in the heart of Charleston, and within walking distance of the majority of sights and attractions – not to mention being across the road from the finest dining spots in Charleston – we can very much recommend this hotel if you’re looking for something nice. The breakfast was also excellent, and was the first place I got to try grits!''We also spent a couple of nights half a mile uptown, closer to the museum and shopping area, in the''Francis Marion Hotel''. Another historic Charleston property, this one afforded us a lovely view across the city from our 9th floor room.''If you are heading to Charleston, and looking for an accommodation deal, here are a couple of the ways we save money when travelling and looking for the best deal.''Our favourite way to find the best deals on accommodation is booking.com. They’re easy to use, usually have the best prices, and have everything from hotels to apartments.''Check out their Charleston listings here!''If you prefer an apartment or more of a hosted stay, then we recommend''AirBnB''. We’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get up to''a $100 discount''on your first booking with''this link!''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''Where to Eat and Drink in Charleston''When we asked for advice on the best places to eat in Charleston, we were universally told that it’s basically impossible to have a bad meal in the city. Competition is fierce, so poor quality venues just don’t survive for long.''I can report that we had incredible meals in Charleston, and if you’re a foodie, you might just be arriving into heaven. We also took a''food tour with Bulldog Tours'', which is an excellent way to get an introduction to some of the specialities of the city.''Over our five days in town, four locations stand out as being particularly memorable. The first place was''Poogan’s Smokehouse''. This is an awesome BBQ joint, and we got messy with a pulled pork sandwich, cornbread, okra, collards – all the classics of the south.''Our next delicious bites were at''Jestine’s kitchen'', notable for home style southern cooking in a friendly atmosphere. This was where I had my first fried chicken of the trip, and it was excellent! We chatted for a while with the owner who was really friendly, and gave us a run down of all the history of the venue and the lady for whom the place is named. If you’re hankering after some southern comfort food, this is the place to come.''The final two locations on my favourites list are two of Charleston’s most iconic restaurants –''Poogan’s Porch''and''82 Queen''. Practically next door to each other, these two restaurants exemplify all that is great about Charleston cuisine.''Poogan’s Porch (who also own the smokehouse mentioned previously), are famous for a number of things, but in particular their Shrimp and Grits, which was the people’s choice award in Charleston for this dish. Charleston is notable for a number of dishes, but Shrimp and Grits and She Crab soup are the two most famous, with every restaurant making their own special variant.''We had the Shrimp and Grits, and it was delicious.''We also had a whole range of other delicious dishes, including the duck below, and I can’t see you being unhappy with anything you have here!''And last, but not least,''82 Queen''. With Poogan’s Porch being known for the Shrimp and Grits, 82 Queen is where you go for''She Crab''soup. This is a very rich, creamy soup, which has a little bit of crab roe added (hence the name).''I found it excellent to eat, and impossible to photograph. So instead, here’s a picture of some fried oysters, another signature 82 Queen dish.''And finally, let’s talk about drinking. Whilst we drank in fine style at all the above locations (in particular the IPA’s at Poogan’s Smokehouse), one notable venue where we enjoyed something a little bit stronger was the''High Wire distillery''.''For a mere $5, you can do a tasting of some of their more popular drinks, including bourbon, rum, vodka, and gin, as well as take a short tour of the factory itself. This is a lot of fun, and well worth doing. Naturally, they also sell their products on site for you to buy.''If you want some more food suggestions for Charleston, check out''this awesome post on places to eat in Charleston''from my friend Ayngelina.''Getting Around Charleston''The majority of downtown Charleston is easily walkable, but there is also a free trolley service that runs to the majority of the tourist hotspots if your feet get tired. Check out the route and timetables for that,''here''.''To get to Patriots Point you''can take a water taxi'', if you don’t have a car.''For all the sights out of town, you’re going to be best off hiring a car. We hired a car to cover our last couple of nights in town, which let us visit all the plantations and out of town sights like Botany Bay and Folly Beach, before starting our road trip of the South. You can also book local bus tours that visit the plantations, Patriots Point, and other locations outside Charleston.''We usually recommend and use''AutoEurope’s car rental price comparison tool'', which despite the name, works worldwide to find the best price on a rental car – it checks all the major car hire companies and we find it\xa0 usually comes up with the best deal.''Further Reading for your 2 Days In Charleston''We’ve written a number of guides on travel in the USA and beyond, and we have some other resources you might find useful. In no particular order:''Our trip to Charleston was part of a larger trip – check out our suggested itinerary for a''Deep South road trip''We’ve written a guide to''how much it costs to travel in the USA''If you’re planning on taking a road trip and are new to driving in the USA, this post will give you some''Tips for Driving in the USA''As well as Charleston, we’ve also written guides to other cities in the Deep South, including''New Orleans'',''Baton Rouge''and''Savannah''This is my South''– a travel blog focused on what to see and do in this part of the world''Lonely Planet’s guide to''Louisiana and the Deep South''Our guide to the best''Airbnb Alternatives'', to help you get the best lodging, whatever your budget''And that sums up some of our favourite activities in Charleston! As you can see – absolutely loads of ways to keep yourself entertained for a short break (or longer!), with everything from excellent food through to history, culture and sights. What would you choose to do on your trip to Charleston? Let us know in the comments below!''We’d like to thank the''Mills House Wyndham Grand Hotel''for our accommodation,''Charleston CVB''for arranging entry to all the attractions we visited and''82 Queen''and''Poogan’s Porch''for feeding us. All other expenses were covered by us. Find out more about who we choose to work with on our''code of ethics''page.''SHARE ON''Despite them being highly recommended by friends, I’d never taken a walking tour with''Context Travel''. Until, that is, our recent trip to Italy, where as well as having''a wedding ceremony in Venice'', we also took a number of walking tours with them, in Venice, Rome, and Florence.''Context is a fairly specialist walking tour company. First, their group tours are remarkably small, no more than six people. In fact, on the five tours we took, there were never more than four of us. That’s pretty intimate stuff.''Second, the tours are, and I mean this in the most positive way, seriously geeky. They’re not your standard “welcome to London, here are the highlights” sort of thing. Each tour is very detailed, focusing usually on a specific theme, with the guide, or “docent”, being a highly qualified expert wielding a masters or doctorate degree relevant to the subject of the tour.''Basically, you are going to have your mind blown with some serious, in-depth knowledge, focused around a specific subject. The tours are aimed at people who are looking for something a little different to a standard tour, who want an in-depth understanding of the subject, and are intellecturally curious about the topic in question.''This definitely describes''Jess''. But what about me?''Let’s look at the tour we did to answer that question.''The three hour long “''Popes, Power and Parties''” tour focuses on a period in Rome’s history during the Renaissance, from around the 16th through to the 18th centuries, with particular focus on the 1500’s. This was a time when enormously wealthy and powerful European families came to Rome, and spent piles of cash building somewhat extravagant palaces, throwing gigantic parties and of course, amassing power, ultimately vying for that ultimate throne at the time – the Papal seat.''Basically, Rome at that time was a bit like''Game of Thrones'', with less dragons and bloodshed, but just as much political intrigue and plotting.''Our tour started in the Piazza Farnese, where we met our guide, Jose Grave de Peralta, holder of a master’s degree in art and Spanish literature, and a full time resident of the city of Rome. It was raining a bit, which wasn’t a wonderful way to start the tour, but Jose was warm and friendly, and it turned out that we were the only two people on the tour, which was nice.''At this point it quickly became clear how Context differ from other tours I’ve taken. The guide took his time to ask us about our backgrounds and interests, so as to be sure that our walk would best reflect what we wanted to see and learn about. I thought this might be because there was just the two of us, but even on the other tours we took, with more people, the guide did their best to learn about what everyone was intersested in, so as to try and get the most out of the tour for everyone involved.''As our guide deemed we were young and fit, he planned out a route to encompass a good number of sights that fell under the theme of the tour. We started off in Piazza Farnese, the tour meeting point, which is home to the Palace of the Farnese family. The Palazzo Farnese is an impressive 16th century palace and one of the most importatnt palazzos built in Italy during the High Renaissance period, employing artists and architects such as Michelangelo and Giacomo della Porta. The Farnese were one of the most powerful families of the time, and one doing well with the game of papal thrones, with Pope Paul III being a Farnese. More on the Farnese family later.''From Piazza Farnese we took a short walk to the stunning Basilica Parrocchiale S. Lorenzo in Damaso. This is a really beautiful church that doesn’t get very many visitors, partly because it looks very little like a church from the outside. It’s worth popping in to though, as it’s full of gorgeous artworks, including sculptures and frescoes. Jose’s passion for his subject really started to shine through in here, as he spoke to us about the various power struggles in Rome over the centuries, and how this affected the architecture and art of the city, with each figure in history keen to leave a lasting legacy in the form of buildings and art.''Beyond the Basilica, our tour continued on through the Piazza Navona, home to the incredible''Fontana dei Quattro Fiumi''by Bernini. This fountain was designed for the Pamphili family, who happened to both own the main Palace on the square at the time, and have one of their chaps as Pope – Pope Innocent X, who commissioned the project. This is a stunning Piazza, which should be on every visitor’s''Rome itinerary''.''From the Piazza it was on to more churches, including Santa Maria della Pace, an octagonal building whose facade was commissioned by Pope Alexander VII, successor to Pope Innocent X, and a member of the powerful Chigi family. Contained within are a series of stunning frescoes by Raphael, comissioned by an earlier member of the Chigi family, who happened to be Pope Julius II’s personal banker. You can actually have a coffee or drink here at the on-site cafe to either admire the Raphaels or to sit outside in the cloisters. We also dropped in to the Basilica di Santa Maria Sopra Minerva, tucked away behind the Pantheon, which happens to have a Michelangelo sitting next to the altar. As you do.''From this area of Rome we hopped into a taxi and drove to the Ponte Sisto, to start the second half of our Renaissance journey. The''Ponte Sisto''is a beautiful pedestrian bridge across the Tiber River, which was commissioned by Pope Sixtus IV, and it offers lovely views of the river banks and the dome of St. Peter’s Basilica.''Then, we wandered to the''Villa Farnesina'', to get a more personal look at the sort of place that the wealthy families of the time lived in.''This one was commissioned by Agostino Chigi, that personal banker of Pope Julius II. Clearly not short of a bob or two, this stunning pad is lushly decorated with frescoes by many of the great artists of the time, including Raphael. There are also some incredible frescoes on the first floor which use perspective tricks to offer a marvellous view of countryside and cityscapes. It’s hard to tell where reality ends and painting begins!''After the Chigi family, the Villa became the property of the Farnese family (hence the name). As mentioned earlier in the post, these guys were seriously influential, having a pope, a cardinal, various military commanders and even the Queen of Spain amongst their ranks.''This last part of the tour was really fascinating, giving us an insight into the sort of place you could live if you happened to hail from the right family tree in Renaissance Italy. Quite a nice one, as you might imagine.''So what did I think of the Context Tour? I thought it was brilliant. The passion of the guide really shone through, bringing to life for me this period of Italian history, which had so much impact across the rest of Europe, and the people who made that all happen. I liked the fact that the group size was so small, and it really just felt like a wander around a city with a knowledgable friend, who was keen to help me understand a subject about which I had very little prior knowledge.''Any complaints? Well, my only real niggle about Context Tours is that they don’t typically include any entry fees as part of their tour prices. This does mean that if you are eligible for any discounts that you can take advantage of them of course, at any attractions you have to pay for, and if you don’t get to a certain site during your tour you haven’t already paid for it so there are positives to this approach – personally I like to have one price that includes everything when booking a tour.''Save 10% on all Context Travel Walking Tours!''After my experiences with Context Travel, I’m delighted to recommend them to you as an excellent walking tour service, particularly if you want a more personal, detailed walking tour experience.''I’m even more delighted to be able to offer you a 10% discount code to all our readers for all''Context Travel tours''– just''use this link''to book, and a 10% discount will be applied at checkout automatically.''The Essentials''Context Travel walking tours feature very small groups, six people or less''This tour is a three hour tour, although our Context experience was that tours often ran a little longer than the allocated time, depending on your enthusiasm!''There’s sometimes a minimum number of people required to make a tour happen''Full meeting information is sent to your e-mail when you sign up to the tour''Walks are designed for the curious and are very in depth''Many tours''don’t include entry, transport, and attraction fees'', tipping the guide is at your discretion''Context offer a number of tours in Rome – check out Jess’s review of their''Romantic Poets Tour in Rome, here''Save 10% when booking any Context Travel tour with''this link''(discount applied at checkout)''So you know: We received complimentary walking tours with Context Travel in exchange for sharing our honest opinion of the walking tours, and being given a discount code to share with you. We retain 100% editorial control and all opinions remain our own. For more on how we choose who to work with, see our''code of ethics''.''SHARE ON''Rome. The Eternal City. A place so stuffed with history that they’ve had to layer it, like a cake, sandwiched atop itself. Everywhere you look, history piles upon history, from thousands of years ago to the present day, all jostling for space in the city, and time on your itinerary. It’s one of my favourite cities in Europe, and definitely one to add to your to-do list if you’re''visiting Italy''!''The problem is, if you only have a couple of days to spend in Rome, say a weekend, you might be a little perplexed as to where to start, and how to get the most out of your visit, particularly if it’s your first time.''In today’s post I’m going to suggest one way to get the most out of your time, see the essentials, learn the history, and even get to grips with pasta making while you’re there – by taking some detailed walking tours that will cover the essential parts of the city!''Specifically, take some walks with''Walks of Italy'', who offer a good many tours in Rome, three of which we were invited to experience, following on from our''tours with them in New York''.''The three Rome tours we took with Walks of Italy are the perfect way to quickly see the highlights of Italy’s capital city, learn a little Italian cookery, and have time left over to explore on your own and''eat all the gelato''. Which is the main thing to do when visiting Rome.''I can also recommend reading this post in conjunction with my guides to spending''2 days in Rome''and''3 days in Rome'', so you can mix and match walking tours with self-guided adventure, as you choose.''Let’s see what we did with Walks of Italy, and why it would make a great introduction to Rome.''A Tour of the Vatican, the Sistine Chapel and St. Peter’s Basilica''One of the slight problems with Rome, that posts like this don’t help with, is that it’s just so darn popular. Pretty much whenever you visit, it’s going to be filled with visitors, all keen to see the highlights. And a visit to the''Vatican City''is of course a must – letting you experience the mighty''St Peter’s Basilica'', the incredible''Sistine Chapel'', and the endless corridors stuffed with priceless artworks that make up the''Vatican Museums''.''Unfortunately, it’s a must for everyone, which means there are usually long queues to get in, and your experience in the Sistine Chapel in particular is going to be both crowded and full of elbows.''I’m not saying this to dissuade you from going of course. Just to advise you that you need to be a little bit clever when it comes to planning your visit. Thankfully, Walks of Italy has come up with a cunning solution to the problem of crowds. Which does require you to get up a little early, admittedly. Not everything is perfect in life it seems. Still, if you get up early you might catch a lovely sunrise over the Tiber river, as in the first photo in this post, which I caught on the way to this particularly tour. So it can all work out.''The tour in question is called “''Pristine Sistine''”. It includes, as you’d suspect, the Sistine Chapel, as well as the Vatican Museum collection, and St. Peter’s Basilica.''The key point is that this group tour goes into the Vatican Museum at 8am – a whole hour before the Vatican Museum opens for general admission. Meaning you get to wander practically empty corridors in the Vatican! In addition, the guide expertly leads the group through the maze that is the Vatican Museum and straight to the Sistine Chapel as the first port of call, meaning you get to experience it with just a handful of other early birds.''So what was this like in reality?''Pretty darn awesome.''I have been to the Vatican before, and the Sistine Chapel. Except I went mid-afternoon with the rest of the crowds. Nearly six million people pop into the Vatican Museum every year, and trust me, it can be a crowded experience. It’s kind of hard to really appreciate the wonder when you’re fighting for breathing room, and photography opportunities float right out the window.''This tour was a wonderful contrast to that. Being able to freely walk through the almost empty corridors of the museum and then leisurely just enjoy the unbelievable masterpiece that is the Sistine Chapel was truly marvellous.''Following the Sistine Chapel, the tour then goes through the highlights of Vatican Museum collection, including masterpieces by Raphael and Michelangelo. As the time passes, the museum does get more crowded of course, but you will see a good deal of it before it is too crowded. Then, you go back through a more crowded Sistine Chapel and pop out of the Vatican Museum into St. Peter’s Basilica.''It’s worth mentioning at this point that you also have the option before you exit the Vatican Museum to just stay at your leisure and explore, rather than continuing the tour into St. Peter’s Basilica. St Peter’s is free to enter, so you can visit at any time, but the Vatican Museum has an entry fee, so if you want more time to explore the museum, you can just do that and leave the group. No-one on our group chose to do that, but it was there as a choice.''Finally, the tour culminated with a tour around St. Peter’s Basilica. This is one of the most important, and largest, churches of the Catholic religion, and is very much worth visiting on a guided tour. The tour ended inside the Basilica, where we could continue to explore at our leisure, and to visit the crypt or head up the dome if we wanted. I very much recommend doing the latter if you want a great view over Rome, although it’s not included in the tour price.''Of course, the other features that make Walks of Italy tours memorable were all here too. A knowledgable, friendly guide and a group that was 12 people in size, making the tour more intimate and personable. In total, we spent just under four hours with our guide, and I very much recommend this as a great way to start your Roman experience, with the rest of the afternoon free for your own adventures.''Where to next? Well, the other main attractions that you have to visit on your first visit to Rome:''The Colosseum, Roman Forum and Caesar’s Palace''Rome was of course, built by the Romans! And the most recognisable relic that the Romans left us was the Roman Colosseum, a massive arena in central Rome, the largest amphitheathre in the world, and an absolute must when visiting Rome.''Walks of Italy offer a number of Colosseum tours, many of which also include the Roman Forum, another highlight of ancient Rome. Both of these are best experienced as part of the tour to get the most out of your visit and learn about the history, construction and usage of these sites. This is particularly true of the Roman Forum, a sprawling complex of ruins which is tricky to interpret without the expert assistance of a guide.''Our tour was the recently launched''VIP Caesar’s Palace tour with the Colosseum & Roman Forum''. Our guide was an expert in Roman history, having studied and worked as an archaeologist in the Roman Forum itself, so he was more than equipped to give us a full run down of everything we needed to know.''Our tour started in the Colosseum, where our “skip the line” pass got us in quickly – more time seeing the sights and less time queuing is always a win in my book. From inside the Colosseum, our guide gave us a fascinating insight into the history of the Colosseum and it’s construction, with lots of detail on the downfall of Emperor Nero, on whose palace grounds the Colosseum stands.''Following the Colosseum we headed to the Roman Forum, heart of the government of the Roman Empire. It was here that some of the most notable events in the history of Rome took place, including the cremation of Julius Caesar’s body. There’s a great deal to cover here, and our guide was able to give our group an excellent feel for what it might have been like at the height of the Empire, through the medium of drawings reconstructing the site and of course, the stories of the site itself.''Finally, this tour took us to the recently opened Casa di Augusto, a newly opened area inside the Roman Forum. This was a really special part of the tour, as this part of the complex was opened exclusively for our group, and together we were given leave to explore the home of the Emperor Augustus Caesar, heir to Julius Caesar, and the most powerful man in the world at the time.''His home on palatine hill literally gave us the word “palace” as we use it today, and it was an immense priveledge to be able to wander these ruins and learn about the lives of Augustus and his wife Livia during this fascinating period of history.''The building itself is remarkably well preserved, with many of the frescoes that Augustus and Livia enjoyed still in excellent condition today. A very worthwhile tour, which lasts around three and a half hours, and finishes in the Roman Forum just in time for lunch, giving you the whole afternoon free to explore at your leisure – either more time in the Forum itself, or on to explore more of Rome!''Bonus round – Learning how to make Pasta in Rome!''The last part of my recommended itinerary for your two days in Rome is a bit different, and revolves around food. You can’t come to Rome without sampling some of the food here, particularly the pasta. Wouldn’t it be even better if you could learn how to make pasta like the locals do, and take your knowledge home with you?''That’s exactly what we did on the''Walks of Italy Pasta Making Class''tour!''This one isn’t a walking tour. Rather, you visit a local chef and his gorgeous roof-top apartment, and learn about the art of pasta making with a small group of people.''This was a wonderful way to spend an evening. The chef was friendly and knowledgeable, sharing with us the secrets of cooking, everything from how to cut an onion through to when to add the salt (hint: right at the end of cooking!). We started the evening with aperitifs and prosecco, before we were shown how to make the ragú, a tomato based sauce which in this case was a traditional Pasta all’Amatriciana.''Then, with plenty of delicious Italian red wine from Abruzzo to accompany our efforts, it was on to the meat of the evening, the actual pasta making. We made this from scratch, using flour and water, before rolling it out and creating the pasta shapes.''This was a lot of fun, and our group had a lot of laughs over wine and floury hands as we got to grips with the hand wound pasta machine, and each found out which part of the process we were best at. In my case, I think the eating.''Which was of course how we rounded off the evening – we got to eat our wonderful creation, which was just delicious, accompanied by even more lovely Italian red wine, after which we finshed with a shot of ice cold limoncello!''I can very much recommend this evening of pasta making. It’s a lot of fun, you meet new people, learn a few things, eat and drink piles of delicious Italian food, all in a marvellous roof top setting. A memory you definitely won’t forget. You also are given a website by the chef which contains a list of all the recipes for the pasta and food from the evening so you can prepare it at home.''And that about wraps up my suggestions for getting the most out of a short trip to Rome. On a shorter trip like this, taking a series of walking tours can really maximise what you are able to see and achieve.''The small group tours that Walks offers makes the experience a little more intimate, and you’ll have plenty of opportunity to interact with the guides and ask questions. Then, you’ll have loads of free time during the remainder of the days to explore at your leisure.''Walks of Italy offer a great many''tours in Rome'', so you can mix and match the above to create your perfect itinerary, and have a journey to really remember.''The Essentials''Walks of Italy''walking tours feature small groups, usually 12 or less''The majority of tours operate year round, with full information on times and availability on the website''The meeting time for all tours is 15 minutes before the tour starts, with full meeting information sent to your e-mail when you sign up to the tour''Walks are suitable for all ages''Walks include all entry and attraction fees, tipping the guide is at your discretion''We actually took a fourth Walks of Italy Tour in Rome! Read about our''visit to the Borghese Gallery here''.''If you’re looking for''accommodation in Rome'', we''recommend using Booking.com''to find the best deals across all the major hotel search engines''If you’re in Rome for a little longer, and looking to save money on attractions, check out the''Rome Pass''for an excellent way to see more sights for less money!''Disclaimer – We received complimentary walking tours with Walks of Italy in exchange for sharing our honest opinion of the walking tours. For more on how we choose who to work with, see our''code of ethics''.''SHARE ON''We spent almost a month in Costa Brava recently, exploring all there was to offer in the last of the summer months of 2015.''This was my third visit to this region, but we still found loads to do, from''discovering Dali'', through to exploring medieval villages, hiking up to castles and wandering on the beaches.''Not to mention eating tremendous piles of excellent food.''As part of our trip, we investigated some ways to get active in Costa Brava, partly to work off those piles of food, but also because you might not realise that there’s a lot more to the Costa Brava region than just beaches. In no particular order, here are some wonderful ways to get active in Costa Brava!''Hiking''Ok, so I said this wasn’t in any order, but this is probably one of my favourite activities in this area. There’s just so much hiking to be done here!''Excellent hiking options include the Cap de Creus National Park, for gorgeous coastal walks past surreal rock formations, and of course, the mighty Pyrenees mountain range, which offer''countless hiking trails''of varying levels of difficulty. If you love hiking, you’re going to plenty to keep you occupied! There are hiking trails throughout the Costa Brava area and if you plan you hike you may want to get a copy of''The Costa Brava Way''which is a great guide to hiking in this area.''Cycling''Cycling''is an incredibly popular activity in Costa Brava, with everything from flat routes on the plains of Emporda through to mountain biking routes in the Pyrenees that will challenge even the toughest cyclist. You can wend your way from winery to winery, or tour quaint little villages.''On a previous visit to Costa Brava I did a fifty kilometre cycle tour over a couple of days, along some of the gorgeous Greenways. You can read all about that''here''.''Adventure Park''If you really want to challenge yourself and do something seriously adrenaline filled, then a visit to the''Costa Brava Parc d’Aventura''has to be on your list. This was a definite highlight of our trip to Costa Brava.''The Adventure Park consists of a series of activities, strung high above the trees, which you have to navigate from one end to the other. It takes a bit of a head for heights, although the earlier courses start fairly close to the ground to get you acclimated before moving higher and higher (up to ten metres up!).''I freely admit that I’m not great with heights, but I had a lot of fun challenging myself to see how far I could go, trying to navigate myself across swinging log bridges, tight rope walks and zip lines.''It’s all very safe of course – they use a really clever''smart carabiner system''which means you can’t disconnect yourself from the safety system until you get to the end of the course, even by accident. My favourite part was the zip lining – there’s just something fun about dangling from a wire and sailing through the trees!''It’s a very family friendly activity, with small (and low!) courses and a play area available for kids. The courses are all self guided, and the price varies depending on how many of the circuits you want to do. Find out more about pricing, opening hours and safety on their''official website''.''Swimming''I’m not going to lie, I didn’t actually go swimming in the Costa Brava. Having grown up in the Seychelles, I’m a bit of a wuss when it comes to swimming anywhere where the water temperature is less than around 25 degrees C.''Still, that’s not to say swimming isn’t an option – there are hundreds of beaches to choose from, and even in September when we visited, there were plenty of people taking advantage of the sunny days and clear waters to enjoy a swim in the ocean.''We did splash around a bit in the water though, and enjoyed lots of beach walks. Which are also an option if you find the water too cool for your taste.''Boating''If getting in the sea doesn’t appeal, how about floating on top of it? There are plenty of options for getting active in a boat in the Costa Brava region, from sailing through to boat tours through to just hiring a row boat and floating around somewhere like Lake Banyoles.''On this trip, we took a boat tour from Roses to Cadaques with''Don Pancho'', who operate a variety of tours along the Costa Brava coastline. The three and a half hour trip we did included some time exploring the gorgeous seaside town of Cadaques (a must visit if you’re in the area!), as well as plenty of time to take in the stunning Costa Brava coastline, dotted with picturesque towns as well as incredible sea cliffs and birdlife.''Hot Air Ballooning''Ok, so I’m not sure this really counts as exactly active, other than the fact you have to get up pretty early in order to do this. Otherwise, hot air ballooning mostly involves relaxing in a basket, drinking champagne, and enjoying the view. Sometimes the landing can be a bit bumpy, but on the whole, hot air ballooning is a fantastically calm experience, floating along suspended under a bubble of hot air.''I’ve been ballooning twice in Costa Brava, once''over the Emporda Plains'', and once''over the foothills of the Pyrenees'', and had a magnificent time on both trips. Highly recommended.''Fishing''If you like fishing, then you’ll find plenty of opportunity to fulfill your passion in Costa Brava, from fishing off the beach through to deep sea fishing.''Fishing has been a part of the way of life for the people in this region for hundreds – if not thousands – of years. Even if you don’t want to physically get out there and catch a fish yourself, you can learn all about the history of the people and their relationship with the sea at the hugely informative and fun to visit''Fishing Museum in Palamos''.''Here you’ll learn all about the art of fishing, how it has evolved over the years, all the different types of fish in the area, and of course, the future of fishing, as the world moves more towards trying to implement sustainable practices.''A highlight of the visit to the museum is to see the live fish auction, which happens every day in the afternoon. Here you can see the process of fish buying in action, as the produce is offloaded from the boats and sold directly to merchants from all over the Costa Brava region, ready to be used in restaurants and markets. There’s also a fish market for the average person like you and me, where you can pick up some fantastically fresh fish and seafood at excellent prices!''More Ideas and Reading''So, there are at least seven ways to get active in Costa Brava! Of course, I’ve only scratched the surface of what’s available. There are loads more adventure activites to be had, from skydiving to canyoning to paintballing, to name but a few!''If you want more inspiration for your active holiday to the Costa Brava take a look at the''official tourism portal''for a full run down of the options available.''If you want to read some more first hand experiences of active adventurers in the Costa Brava then you might enjoy:''This blog post on''getting active in Lloret''This post featuring''Five Activities to Try in Costa Brava''This daredevil tale of''skydiving in Costa Brava''Now, let’s talk about some practicalities for your visit to Costa Brava''Practicalities for Visiting Costa Brava''When to visit Costa Brava''Located on the southern coast of northern Spain, bordering France, Costa Brava enjoys a lovely Mediterranean climate. It can be particularly hot in the summer months (although the sea is wonderful for cooling off!).''It’s also busiest in the summer months, as this is a popular destination for families looking for a beach getaway, so if you want to avoid the crowds, you would likely be better off visiting in May/June, or September, to get the best weather and slightly fewer people.''Where to Stay in Costa Brava''We based ourselve in three different town during our month in Costa Brava, and in all three instances we stayed in an apartment as we find the flexibility they offer for our slow travelling style to work well for us.''In Girona we stayed in a lovely two person apartment just five minutes walk from the medieval old town. This was a perfect base for exploring Girona, and all the surrounding attractions. Just one word of warning about staying in Girona – parking can be a bit of a hassle! There are free car parks, but they are usually full, so finding a spot can be a real challenge if you have a car.''After Girona we headed to the resort town of Empuriabrava. This is a relatively newly developed town, so doesn’t have the cute appeal of towns like Tossa de Mar or Cadaques, but it is centrally located for exploring the region, and has a fantastic beach. If you’re into boating, then this is also the town to base yourself from, as it’s stuffed full of canals and has a giant marina for sea enthusiasts. We stayed in an apartment complex called''Comte d’Empuries'', which was a five minute walk from the beach.''Finally, our last ten days were spent in the coastal town of L’Estartit, a little further south along the coast, and perfect for exploring the more southern parts of Costa Brava. in L’Estartit we had a fabulous apartment (I might be biased because it had a dishwasher), thanks to''Ceigrup Torrent Api,''who offer a number of apartments in L’Escala, L’Estartit, Roses and Begur – all lovely towns to base yourself in.''On previous trips to the region I’ve also stayed with''Naturaki'', who have a series of fantastic villas across the whole region, and if you’re travelling with a group of people these can be a really''cost-effective way to stay in luxury''!''If you’re not looking for a villa or apartment, then there are plenty of guests houses and hotels available in Costa Brava region. Check these listings to get the''best prices for your stay''.''Getting Around Costa Brava''Every time I’ve visited Costa Brava I’ve had a car. It’s by far the best way to get around – giving you so much more flexibility in terms of what you want to see and where you want to go.''Whilst public transport does of course exist in the Costa Brava region, exploring all the nooks and crannies of the area, as well as finding the perfect hiking spot, is going to be a lot easier if you have your own transport.''If you fly into Barcelona or Girona airports, then all the major hire car companies are available – our advice is to''compare rates across all of them using Priceline'', and find the best deal for your trip, based on your requirements.''And that’s it for getting active in Costa Brava! Have you visited this area, and done something adventurous? Tell us about it in the comments below!''Our trip to the Costa Brava was in partnership with the Costa Brava tourism board, who covered our food budget, transport, accommodation and activities during our stay. All opinions remain our own – check out our''code of ethics''for more on who we choose to work with.''incostabrava''SHARE ON''Route 66 is without doubt one of the world’s most legendary roads, and a road trip along it is something I’ve always dreamed of doing.''In mid-2015, Jess and I had the chance to tour the US and we decided that driving the entire 2,400 mile length of Route 66, from Santa Monica in California, up to Chicago, Illinois, was going to be the definitive road trip for us.''With a side trip to the''Grand Canyon'', of course.''Crossing eight states and much of the country, our two week adventure along Route 66 was an absolute blast. You can find out more about how we went about''planning the definitive Route 66 Trip in this epic post''by Jess. In this post, I’m kicking off an''eight part series of photos from Route 66'', which I’ll be dividing by State, to give you an idea of what you’ll see along the way, including some of my favourite photos from the trip. Stay tuned for more as we go through all the States!''Spoiler alert. The desert phase of Route 66, as we drove the old road through vast expanses of the Mojave desert, were easily my favourite. The open road, the open sky, those landscapes stretching out forever. What’s not to love?!''I was hugely surprised when we drove Route 66 by quite how much freight train traffic there is in the US. Passenger transport numbers in the US may not be very high, but there sure is a heck of a lot of freight plying the railroads of the US!''There appears to be a Route 66 museum in every state. The first one we visited was in California, and naturally we took advantage of the opportunity to sit inside an old VW and wear wigs and sunglasses. Oh wait, I didn’t need to wear a wig, I just have hair like that already.''A highlight of Route 66 is the wacky accommodation on offer. This for example, is the''San Bernandino Wigwam Motel''. It’s not even the only Wigwam Motel on the route! If you’ve always wanted to stay in a concrete wigwam, this is your chance!''The other fascinating, if slightly depressing, aspect of Route 66, is how abandoned so much of it is. When the interstates were built to replace routes like this, traffic (and the income associated with it), disappeared, entirely killing off communities and businesses. The result? A lot of derelict motels, gas stations… and everything else.''There are a lot of abandoned gas stations.''And homes.''And stores…''And even airstream trailers!''It’s not all abandoned of course, although many of the buildings are repurposed. Here’s the''Harvey House''at Barstow train station, once a hotel, now repurposed into local administration buildings and museums.''There’s also a lot of trash along the way. Here an enterprising individual has turned that into a bottle tree forest and sculpture park, known as''Elmer’s Bottle Tree Ranch''(tripadvisor link).''There are also towns that have been abandoned since before Route 66 came along. Once home to over 3,500 people, when the price of silver crashed at the end of the 19th century, the''town of Calico became a ghost town''. Nowadays it’s''open as a tourist attraction'', managed as a Regional Park, and is very much worth stopping at.''Sometimes Route 66 is really easy to follow, with giant photogenic signs like this to follow. Other times, it isn’t. Thankfully, there’s''an amazing guidebook to help out''. Plus this post from Jess, of course.''This part of Route 66 is also home to the location of the''world’s first McDonald’s''! We were a little disappointed that we couldn’t have an actual McDonald’s meal here as it’s no longer operational, but we did enjoy peering around the free museum anyway.''Abandoned gas stations abound – this was the first one we found. The cost of upgrading these stations to keep up with environmental regulations meant that the majority of these small businesses went out of business, not helped by the lack of traffic plying the old routes.''There are lots and lots of Motels along the route, in varying stages of repair and upkeep. The signs are quite the spectacle.''Needles, where we entered the Mojave Desert, was the hottest place on our trip. Driving in July / August was probably not the wisest choice, now I think back. It hit 106F at this point on the journey – and forced us into an air conditioned motel for the night!''I’m not sure anything says Route 66 quite like a giant plastic chicken. And a sign that says Route 66 of course.''More motel signs. This series will likely feature quite a few of these.''You know who else lived in Needles? Snoopy’s brother Spike! Here he is, depicted on one of the may Route 66 murals that can be found on the journey.''Here’s another one, also featuring our glorious green steed.''Finally, to wrap up this photo essay, one of the most famous Motel signs on the route – that outside Roy’s Motel and Cafe. Which is still operational! We stopped and had a root beer, and chatted to the owner awhile, before heading on our way.''Lots more to come in this series as we wind our way across the US, faithfully following the original Route 66 as closely as we could.''Tips for Planning your own Route 66 Adventure''If you’re planning your own Route 66 adventure, we’ve got a bit of reading for you!''First, be inspired by photos from all the states we visited, by checking our photos highlights from each Route 66 state:''California'',''Arizona'',''New Mexico'',''Texas'',''Oklahoma'',''Kansas'',''Missouri''&''Illinois''Next, check out Jess’s comprehensive guide to''planning a Route 66 trip''Then, take a look out our incredibly detailed''day by day Route 66 itinerary'', which covers all the sights you want to see, route tips, lodging options and places to eat.''If you’re new to driving in the US, check out my''tips for driving in the US''to get you started''Not sure how much it’s all going to cost? We’ve got you covered with our''guide to travel costs in the USA''Finally, take a look at''this book''– the best way in our opinion to successfully navigate the entire length of Route 66 as faithfully as you can. We followed it the whole way, and even met the author, and couldn’t have done without it!''SHARE ON''There are some activities in Paris that are just so quintessentially Parisian that you can’t imagine doing them anywhere else. Wandering the left bank of the Seine. Pretending you’re going to go back in time and''visit the writers of the Lost Generation''. Gazing mesemerised at the Eiffel Tower. Spending hours agonising over who''makes the best Macarons''. Taking''pictures of everything your eye catches''.''And''more''.''One of the essential activities is to attend a cabaret show, and arguably the most famous cabaret show in Paris, if not the world, is the show at the''Moulin Rouge'', where the Can Can dance was born during that magnificent period in French history – the''Belle Époque''.''It seemed entirely natural therefore that when''Tinggly''asked us if we would like to try out their service, that we would choose to visit the Moulin Rouge show in Paris. After all, we were going to be in Paris. And neither of us had been to the Moulin Rouge, despite multiple visits to Paris.''A little about Tinggly, in case the name is unfamiliar.''Tinggly is an online gift service which gives the gift of experiences rather than something physical. And we all know that''experiences make us happier than things'', right? You basically pick an amount you want to spend on a gift price, and then gift it to someone. Or keep it to yourself, we won’t tell.''Gifts are currently available at three tiers: The Essential at $79, the Premium at $119 or the Ultimate at $279 – different tiers unlocking different experiences of course!''Common to all of the gift options is that they are all valid for two years. So you can gift someone a Tinggly gift, and they have up to two years to figure out what they want to do with it!''This is a good thing, because Tinggly have a lot of choice. Obviously, the choice varies between packages, but currently:''The''Essential''Gift gets you a choice of over 130 experiences in 70 countries''The''Premium''Gift ups the choice to 350 experiences, in 100 countries!''The''Ultimate''Gift offers over 300 experiences in over 100 countries. Many of these gifts are for two, although some of them are just awesome adventures for one.''It’s super easy to do, and the website makes it all a breeze, from purchasing the gift through to picking an experience. Here’s an idea of some of the locations with experiences, to give you an idea of the choice!''We looked through the Tinggly offerings, prior to settling on the Moulin Rouge experience, and concluded that there’s an experience for pretty much everyone in your life, from travel lovers through to foodies, with options ranging from bungee jumping to spa days.''But what was the Moulin Rouge like you ask? Pretty spectacular, as you’d hope.''As neither of us had been, the whole experience was new to both of us. There are two shows per night, a 9pm and an 11pm show. The''Tinggly Moulin Rouge experience''that we booked included half a bottle of champagne per person, but no other food. Dining at the Moulin Rouge is possible but not in a Tinggly package – it’s a much more expensive option, with dinner served before the show at 7pm, and then leading into the show at 9pm.''There are also two types of ticket available for visiting the Moulin Rouge, the normal ticket, and the VIP version. Only the normal version is available through Tinggly. So you are aware, the VIP package adds improved seating, a show programme, priority access, some Macarons, free use of the cloakroom and a gift. It is however significantly more expensive, usually costing around twice as much as the standard show, which is likely why it’s not on Tinggly.''Back to our experience.''After queuing and going through some security measures, we were shown to our table. This was on a raised area to the back of the seating area, around 50-70ft from the stage. This offered good views, although we were sharing a table of four with another couple.''They had come in for the 7pm dinner, and had finished that (it had all been cleared away), and were also watching the 9pm show. We were a little surprised to be sharing a table, and having people in front of us had the potenial to obstruct our view a little, but we arranged our chairs to solve that issue, and had excellent views of the stage once we’d sorted ourselves out. We also chatted with them, and they were a lovely couple from the US, so it all worked out well in the end.''The included bottle of champagne helped too of course.''And then the show began, and any concerns about seating arrangements or visiblity floated out the window.''The Moulin Rouge show is an amazing spectacle featuring beautiful performers and stunning costumes, not to mention set pieces and lighting. With up to 100 artists on stage, we were transported from Paris to four separate adventures, including a Circus and an Indonesian Pirate adventure, all part of the “Féerie” show, which is the current cabaret performance. Naturally, during the evening the girls performed the Can Can, the most famous of the dances.''As well as the main four set pieces, there were smaller performances which allowed for major set changes to take place. Jess was particularly taken by these – featuring one to four people performing amazing acts of acrobatics and daring. Very circus like!''You aren’t allowed to take pictures of the show during the performance, which meant I could focus on enjoying the approximately 90 minute performance (all photos of performers in the show were kindly provided by the Moulin Rouge press team). And enjoy it I did – I mean, watching talented people in stunning costumes over a bottle of champagne with the woman I love in one of our favourite cities was never going to be a disappointment, was it?''We can of course recommend the Moulin Rouge if you’re visiting Paris – it’s a great show and a lot of fun to attend. It is a little risqu''é –''many of the scenes do involve topless ladies – but there is no full nudity as with some of the other cabaret shows.''It’s for most ages though, with a mimimum age of six required to attend, and the dress code isn’t too difficult, you just need to avoid shorts and t-shirts for the most part. You can find more information on the dress code, age limit and other questions you may have''at the official site''.''In conclusion, if you know someone who’s looking to buy you a gift, send them to''Tinggly''! Even if Paris isn’t on the radar, you’ve got two years to make it happen… if you can hold off from the countless other experiences in the meantime that is!''Our visit to the Moulin Rouge was complimentary thanks to Tinggly, who provided us with two tickets that included champagne in return for sharing our story with you. All opinions remain our own – check our''code of ethics''for more information on who we choose to work with.''SHARE ON''When we travel, we often''rely very heavily on technology''to help us''preserve the memories of the trip''we are taking.''From photos to diary entries, trip notes to budget tracking, technology pops its head up all over the place to help us out.''But what happens''when things go wrong''? What if our laptop or camera is stolen, or the hard drive fails, or we get some kind of virus that wipes it all out?''Here are some ideas for how you can keep everything safe, should the unthinkable happen, ensuring that all you lose are some physical items rather than your precious memories.''This is based on both''my personal experience travelling across multiple countries''with hundreds of gigabytes of data to keep safe, as well as nearly''ten years of IT experience''.''Options for keeping your data backed up when travelling:''1. Email''This is a really simple way''to back stuff up. Just email it to yourself. Most of the large email providers now provide large amount of storage as well as large file attachment allowances.''The''advantages of this option are its simplicity'', as getting access to email whilst on the go is pretty easy.''The disadvantages are that emailing yourself your entire photo collection for example whilst on the move is''likely to be impractical.''For''quick and easy document backup'', this is a tough one to beat. Just make sure that your email provider doesn’t have a strict rule about deleting data after a period of inactivity.''Best for: small, regularly updated files such as a diary or budget tracker''2. Cloud based storage''Whilst sending yourself e-mail works on the same principal as storing your data in the “cloud”, it is not purpose designed for this so isn’t totally convenient. When I refer to the “cloud”, what I mean is some kind of online storage facility.''There are''a number of options for cloud based storage''. Usually you download a program, point it at the folders on your hard drive that you want to keep synchronised, and it will do the rest for you automatically.''Dropbox''is my favorite option,''offering an initial 2GB of free storage, which you can then expand if required.''Other options include''Tresorit'', which comes with 5GB of storage for free, and''Onedrive'', offering 5GB for free.''A number of services offer specific storage for photos'', including''Google’s Photo albums''. Here you can get 15GB of free storage (part of your overall Google storage), which again, can be expanded for a fee.''If you’re an''Amazon Prime subscriber'', you get access to unlimited photo storage as part of that service, which is a fantastic value-add.''Finally, if you’re looking for a dedicated set and forget it backup solution, I use and recommend''Backblaze''. They offer a number of packages, and you pay a fee for unlimited backups of as much data as you can throw at them. Personally I use''Backblaze''to backup all my unedited files, and Dropbox for my edited work.''The downside of these solutions, as with any cloud based system, is that''the initial backup of all of your files and photos can be very time and bandwidth consuming'', and thus may not always work out so well on the road.''It is, however, a decent option for archiving your key documents and absolute favourite shots from your trips against disaster.''Best for: Key documents and your favourite shots from your trips, as well as long term archiving''3. Local backup onto multiple disks''In many cases, and''in particular if you shoot a lot of digital video or photos'', you are just going to have far too many files to make anything other than a local solution impractical, at least whilst you are on the road. In this case,''I would recommend a backup solution involving at least one external hard drive.''Personally''I use two external hard drives for backup'', as well as keeping my data on my laptop hard drive. I have had a number of external hard drive fail on me during trips and having multiple copies of everything has saved me from losing anything.''Setting up a regular backup schedule isn’t too difficult to do'', and if you do it regularly, it will take you no time at all. I use the excellent and free SyncToy from''Microsoft''which allows you a great deal of control over the way you back up your data.''More options on offline backup can be found in''this excellent lifehacker''article.''When travelling, I try my best to''keep the hard drives in different locations'', as well as separate from my laptop.''I also chose''ruggedized and waterproof''external hard drives because hard drives are sensitive creatures and encasing them in rubber should help stop them from becoming damaged.''My personal recommendation for external hard drives that have worked for me''on a number of trips are:''The''Transcend Information External Hard Drive''If physical size matters more to you than storage space, then a selection of''flash based usb''drives could be your solution. Plus, when they get full, they’re''easy to pop in the mail and send home'', keeping your data safe for when you get home. I use and recommend the''Best for: Keeping everything backed up as you go''That’s it on keeping your data safe whilst on the move. Do you have any tips on this subject, or horror stories you’d like to share? Feel free to do so in the comments below, or over on the site’s''Facebook page''. You may also like to check out my''travel photography gear guide.''SHARE ON''Update September 2017:''Since I wrote this post, Vanguard have launched the new VEO 2 line. As of writing, you can still buy the original VEO, but if you are interested in the newer model you can see my''review of the VEO 2 here''.''For the last six months I’ve been travelling the world with a set of''Vanguard’s VEO gear''– a collection of bags and tripods specifically aimed at travellers. That means they’re light, sturdy, and designed for the rigours of travel.''Six months of travel across three continents and nine countries seemed like a decent amount of time to test the gear out and form an opinion. So you know, I’ve been shooting with a''Canon 6D''and various lenses, including the spectacularly weighty''Canon 70-200 f/2.8 IS II''. I’ve also used lighter mirrorless gear, including the Panasonic Lumix GX8.''First, a little about the VEO line. It consists of the''VEO tripod range'', made up of five tripods, and then''two VEO bags''designed to compliment and hold the tripods in every day usage scenarios.''I’m a massive proponent of a tripod for travel photographers (read''why you need a tripod here'') – the bottom line is that they just open up so many more creative possibilities. The main downside is that they can take up a bunch of room and weight – a bit of a problem for travel! This is why the VEO line is so cool – it’s designed to be as small and lightweight as possible, whilst still offering maximum support for your gear.''Today I’m going to share my thoughts on the VEO gear I’ve been travelling with, specifically the''VEO 235AB aluminium tripod'', the''265CB carbon fibre model'', and the''VEO 37 shoulder bag''. I’m going to compare it to some of Vanguard’s other gear that I’ve been using for around eighteen months, as well as some of the other options on the market right now.''A quick heads up as to the objectivity of the review. I’m not going to lie, I love Vanguard products, which is why I agreed to''be an ambassador''for them. And the VEO tripod packaging even has one of my photos on it. So obviously it must be great, right? I’ll do my best to outline the pro’s and con’s of the gear from various perspectives, but I’m not going to pretend I’m entirely unbiased!''What’s good about the Vanguard VEO Gear''Let’s talk about the tripods first, and the two things that make them fantastic for travel: weight and size.''Yes, this tripod is light! Compared to the Vanguard Alta Pro 254CT which I also use, which weighs 4.6lbs with the''BBH-200''head, these tripod are a dream to travel with, both coming in at 3.3lbs. The Carbon Fibre VEO 265CB is bigger and more sturdy, but that carbon fibre frame means it ends up weighing the same as the aluminium model.''I have no problem at all carrying either of these tripods around all day, either in a shoulder bag or backpack, although as the carbon fibre model is sturdier with a couple of inches extra reach, that’s the one I tend to use for the majority of my work.''The other awesome thing about this tripod line is how small it folds up. Because the central column folds inside the legs when packed away, Vanguard have managed to get the folded size down to 14.8” for the aluminium model, and 15.4” for the carbon fibre model. That’s small enough to fit inside a shoulder bag with no problem!''There are of course other things about the tripod that I love. It’s quick and easy to put up and down, and the arca-compatible mount plate means it’s fast and easy to get the camera up and down. The ball head has a spirit bubble for helping to get the tripod level, and is fast and easy to adjust. There are markings on the tripod to help with panning shots, and the legs can be adjusted to three different angles to help with stability or to position the tripod for different shots. Speaking of legs, they have rubber feet which can be screwed to reveal spikes, meaning versatility no matter the ground.''So yes, I’m happy with the VEO tripod range – they’ve accompanied me all around the world for much of 2015, and I’ve shot thousands of frames atop them, including many long exposures measured in minutes, and I’ve been delighted with the results.''Let’s talk about the bags.''Picking a camera bag is no easy feat. I’ve actually got a variety of them now, including the''Vanguard UP RISE II 33''messenger bag, and the''Vanguard Heralder 49 backpack'', both of which are great, the latter being my go-to bag for long days of shooting with multiple lenses and camera bodies.''The VEO bags are designed around the VEO tripods. The''VEO 37 shoulder bag''for example, which is the one I’ve had the most use out of, has a special zip at the bottom of the bag so you can easily slide the tripod in and out of the area reserved for the tripod.''Other features of the bag include a padded area for your tablet (up to 11”), a full length side pocket with lots of little compartments for accessories, a water bottle holder, and a rain cover – the latter of which is super useful when the weather turns against you!''Of course, this being a messenger bag designed for travel, you aren’t going to fit all of your SLR your gear into it, especially with the tripod in there. I find it fits the tripod, a mirrorless camera like the Panasonic Lumix GX8 with a lens, a couple more mirrorless lenses, spare batteries and filters, cleaning cloths and a water bottle.''Without the tripod, I have been able to stuff two Canon 6D bodies with lenses attached into it, but it’s not really designed for that.''That said, I find it has been the bag that has accompanied me on more shoots than any other this year. It’s subtle, doesn’t look like a camera bag, and I can’t overload it to the point that it’s too heavy to carry. For mirrorless photography, or times when I’m just shooting with the one body, it’s perfect.''The other VEO bag is a small backpack, and to be honest, I’ve not used it very much as my gear configuration isn’t really suited to it’s dimensions. However, for a set of mirrorless gear, or smaller DSLR’s with a couple of lenses, this would be a great backpack to accompany the VEO tripod line as it’s small and well put together.''Things to keep in mind''There are some basic laws of physics that you have to consider when buying a lightweight tripod, particularly if you are using heavy gear. If you fully extend the central column, and stick a massive camera and lens combination on the top of a lightweight tripod, it’s inevitably going to be sensitive to things like wind.''The carbon fibre version has thicker leg columns to help with the stability (hence the higher load weight), but in windy conditions it’s best to avoid extending that central column – something you’ll find with all travel tripods.''In addition, this tripod range is designed to be cost effective and light weight, so you can’t change the head. There are ball head and pan head options to choose when you purchase, but you’re stuck with what you choose – unlike with a more expensive, heavier model like the Alta Pro, with which you can pick any head you like, such as the excellent BBH-200, and switch it out.''You also don’t get fancy bells and whistles like a central column that you can angle, such as with the Alta Pro range, nor does the tripod convert to a monopod like some of its competition, although to be honest that’s not a feature I’ve ever missed.''Personally, I find the ball head that comes with the VEO range is more than good enough for my needs. The only real issue is working in really windy conditions with heavy gear, but that isn’t a problem limited to the VEO range – any lightweight tripod would struggle. That’s why there’s a market for tripods that are much heavier and sturdier!''The Main Competition''There are a LOT of other tripods out there to choose from. I’ve asked around other travel photographers for their favourite brands, and came up with a list of some of the more popular options that compete against the two VEO’s I use, to give you an idea of what’s out there and how they differ.''Aluminium Models''Vanguard VEO 235 AB''Manfrotto\xa0 Be Free Aluminium''MeFoto Roadtrip''3 Legged Thing EVO3 Punks''Folded Height''14.8”''15.7”''15.4”''13.4”''Extended Height''57.1”''56.7”''61.6”''58.9”''Leg Diameter''23mm''22.5mm''?''23mm''Max loading''13.2lb''8.8lb''17.6lb''22lb''Weight''3.3lbs''3lb''3.6lb''3.3lb''Price''$149 ($119*)''$199''$199''$169''Carbon Fibre Models''VEO 265 CB Carbon Fibre''Manfrotto Be Free Carbon Fibre''MeFoto RoadTrip Carbon Fibre''3 Legged Thing EVO3 Punks Rick''Folded Height''15.4”''15.7”''15.4”''13.4”''Extended Height''59.1”''55.9”''61.6”''58.9”''Leg Diameter''26mm''22.5mm''25.2mm''23mm''Max loading''17.6lbs''8.8ln''17.6lbs''44lb''Weight''3.3lbs''2.4lb''3.1lb''2.9lb''RRP''$349 ($279*)''$349''$349''$249''* – price after applying exclusive 20% discount to Finding The Universe readers with code FindingTheUniverse in the''Vanguard US store''.''As you can see, there are a lot of different tripods out there, and this is just the tip of the iceberg, with plenty more brands and price points to consider.''What you’ll notice is that they aren’t hugely dissimilar in terms of what they offer. The main differentiators are weight and sturdiness – a key factor to consider if you have heavier gear especially. You’ll notice how different manufacturers have chosen different leg diameters for their tripods – usually the thicker the tripod leg, the more sturdy the final result.''One area they seem to vary wildly with is the max loading weight. Personally I’d not want to be putting anything too heavy on any travel tripod, anything above 6-8lbs would require something more substantial in my opinion. So I’d not pay too much attention to those numbers – whilst I’m sure the tripods won’t break if you load them to their max advertised weight, I’m not sure any of them would be hugely stable either!''When it comes to the aluminium models, the Vanguard VEO 235AB is particularly competitive on price, especially after you apply the Finding the Universe discount, and is amongst the lightest and smallest of the options out there.''Moving up to the Carbon fibre models, again, this is a very competitive space. On paper, the 3 Legged Thing Rick looks better, but the Vanguard has thicker legs, which in theory make it more stable. I’ve not tried the other tripods on this list though, so I have no real world experience to go by. Certainly, I’m very happy with the performance of all the VEO tripods I’ve tried, and am more than happy to both keep recommending them, and to keep using them!''SHARE ON''We spent ten days in November travelling around the wonderful country of Morocco with''Travel Talk Tours''on their''Exotic Morocco''tour. I’ll be doing a full post on the experience very soon, in the meantime, I just wanted to share some photos from the trip to give you an idea of what we experienced travelling in Morocco.''I wasn’t really sure what to expect from Morocco – and was pleasantly surprised by the variety of landscapes and scenes to shoot.''It’s a monkey! He looks totally happy with life, but the truth is he was in the middle of being chased out of a tree by another monkey, and he only held this face for a tenth of a second or less!''This is totally a camel. You can’t go to the Sahara and not take pictures of camels, so I took pictures of camels. They were quite friendly, if slightly dribbly.''These are the incredible high Atlas mountains, which run in a spine down the country. Here the villages cling to the hillsides, the skies are gorgeously blue and the clouds float serenely on by. There’s probably a poem in there somewhere.''Whoever came up with the idea of contour lines probably came here first.''Laundry day in the Atlas mountains…''To the east of the country is the edge of the Sahara desert, which stretches across north Africa all the way to Egypt. It’s an immense place, and we just touched on the edge of it. As you can see, it’s a pretty stunning place.''We camped out for a couple of nights in the desert, nomad style, enjoying sunsets, incredible starry nights and music around the fire. A really magical experience.''We also played around with the camera to capture the perfect “jumping” shot.''It’s basically impossible to visit Morocco and not go shopping, even if you’re as allergic to shopping as me. Despite my allergy, I still enjoyed wandering the medina’s of Marrakech and Fez, seeing all the colourful wares on offer, and taking pictures of it all.''Some of the shops even had live workshops, so you could see the goods being made.''The old walled medina of Fez dates from the 9th century, and the scenery seems to be frozen in time. It’s a real warren – it’s easy to get lost, and nearly everything you can imagine is on sale. This butcher shop for example sold a different kind of meat to that which I was used to seeing hanging up!''I’m not usually big on street photography, but Morocco makes it a must. I loved the framing of the doorway above, and then got a little obsessed with the doorways, which are quite magnificent all around Morocco. If you like to shoot doors, you’re not going to run out of subjects…''As well as mountains and desert, Morocco has some lovely beach towns, including this, the town of Essaouira, which is home to a really nice beach, a gorgeous walled medina, and a beautiful old fortress. It was one of the filming locations for Game of Thrones, and was one of my favourites cities on our trip around the country.''Ah, those blue fishing boats in Essaouira.''And of course, the obligatory jumping shot in front of a camel.''We also stopped in Casablanca, which is one of''my favourite movies'', even if none of it was actually filmed in Morocco. The highlight was the Hassan II Mosque, the outside of which you can see as the first picture in this post. It’s also worth going inside, as you can see from this photo!''Last but not least, there’s the food! If you think of Moroccan cuisine you probably think of couscous and tagines, and I’m not going to lie, we ate a lot of those two options during our stay there! Of course, there’s more to the food than tagine and couscous, and we took an awesome''food tour of Marrakech''where we tried all sorts of other delicacies, but really, the tagine and couscous are pretty awesome!''And that’s it for my quick photo journey through Morocco with my camera and Travel Talk! I’ll have lots more photos and thoughts on the trip coming soon, in the meantime, if you’re looking for more on''Morocco'', check out this''photo essay from Marrakech'', and this post to inspire you for''what to do for three days in Marrakech''.''So you know: Our Travel Talk Tour was provided in return for sharing our thoughts with you guys. Read more about how I choose who to work with on my''code of ethics''page.''SHARE ON''As part of my on-going quest to find awesome''photography locations around the world''to share with you, I recently headed to London, a city I know and love, to see if I could put together a guide to the best photography locations in London.''The bar has already been set high, with my guides to''photographing Yosemite'', capturing the''Grand Canyon at sunrise and sunset''and my''12 favourite San Francisco photography spots''proving popular, and being British I obviously wanted to do London justice.''I decided to focus on some of the more popular photoshoot locations for this guide that would happily fit into a weekend trip to London – it would partner up nicely with my''1 day''or''2 day London itineraries''.''Obviously there’s endless opportunity and countless photography locations in London, and I’ve included some additional resources at the end of the post to give you even more photography ideas for London.''One up front tip – if you want to save money on getting in to the attractions on this list,''grab yourself a London Pass'', which both saves you money and time on all the best attractions in London (read our''full review of it here''). Now, let’s get on with:''The Best London Photography Locations''1. Tower Bridge''Definitely up there as one of my favourite bridges in the world, Tower Bridge is marvellous to photograph both during the day…''… and at night, as a long exposure. It’s also good from both sides of the river, although if you go to the south bank then you can frame it with the Tower of London as well, which is nice. There is plenty of space to stand along both sides of the river, so you shouldn’t struggle to find a space. The closest tube stops are Tower Hill, or London Bridge.''Since you’re already here and on the south bank, you can just pan your camera to the left to get a great shot of HMS Belfast and some of the skyscrapers that make up the “City of London”.''And here’s my gear taking those shots. There’s a part of the footpath here that has a little alcove where you can set up so as to get a nice clear shot without having to include the path or railings, which is nice.This is also a great London selfie spot location, as you get both Tower Bridge and the Tower of London in the background.''Now, let’s head over to the other side of the river, and visit:''2. The Tower of London''Two things to be aware of in London. First, the weather can change mind-bogglingly quickly. I got the above shot about five minutes before the below shot, and you can see how dramatically quickly the light and clouds have changed!''The other thing to keep in mind are the crowds. Attractions like the Tower of London get really busy. If you want to get relatively people-free shots like these, you have to do what I did, and get up early.''If you arrive at the''Tower of London''as early as it opens (around 9am, check website for up to date hours), then you will get a good bit of time without too many people around. You might even get a bit of time with a Beefeater, who are very friendly folks, and will even pose for you if you ask them nicely:''As you can see from the shots, my favourite subject in the Tower of London is the White Tower. It’s photogenic from multiple angles, but my favourite place is to shoot it from near the entrance to the Crown Jewels, or, as with the case of the Beefeater above, with Tower Bridge in the background.''The closest tube to Tower Bridge is Tower Hill. The Tube is a great way to get around London – just make sure you''pick up an Oyster card''to benefit from the best fares. Tower Bridge is also''included on the London Pass'', which will help you save some money if you are visiting a number of sights.''The centre of London is also very walkable, so do check if it might be quicker to walk before jumping on the tube – the tube map is not a good way to estimate walking distances!''3. Westminster Abbey''Moving down to the City of Westminster now, and London’s most famous church, home to Royal Weddings, Coronations (all of them since 1066!) and a whole host of famous dead people –''Westminster Abbey''.''You’re not actually allowed to take photographs inside the Abbey, but that’s ok, because the outside is very photogenic. Unfortunately, the folks in charge of civil planning tend to ignore the needs of photographers, because there’s a rather inconveniently placed road right in front of the Abbey’s two stunning towers.''Your options are to work with this road, perhaps incorporating an iconic London Bus or taxi into your composition, and shoot from across the road.''Or, you can get up close and personal with a wide angle lens, and shoot through the bars in front of the abbey to get shots like this.''Whatever you choose, you should get some photos you’re happy with! The closest tube stops are Westminster or St. James’s Park.''4. Houses of Parliament''Just across from Westminster Abbey are the incredible Houses of Parliament Building, with that iconic clock tower, home to the giant bell – Big Ben.''My favourite place to shoot the Houses of Parliament is from the other side of the river, or atop Westminster Bridge. Here you can get some excellent long-exposure shots of passing traffic (try and frame a passing bus if you can!), with the light lines leading your eye to the Houses of Parliament themselves.''You can also get some fabulous shots from along the South Bank – just position yourself somewhere between the London Eye and Westminster Bridge, and you should be able to find something fun. The lights that run along the south bank are pretty cool as foreground material!''The closest tube is going to be either Westminster or Waterloo. Now, since you’re here, turn to your left, and you’ll find:''5. The London Eye''Another London landmark, the London Eye offers great potential for photography. My favourite place to shoot it from is standing on Westminster Bridge – the same spot I like to shoot the Houses of Parliament from. You get a great view of the River Thames, and as the day fades away, the wheel lights up beautifully.''The other option for shooting the London Eye is of course from inside the London Eye! This ride offers an incredible view over the London Skyline, particularly at sunset,\xa0 and is very much worth doing. Just be aware that you have to shoot hand-held – you can’t set up a tripod inside the pod.''The closest tube for visiting the London Eye is either Waterloo, or Westminster.''6. The Shard''Last on my list, and another one where you unfortunately can’t use a tripod if you go inside – the Shard. A relatively new addition to the London Skyline, the Shard offers an incredible view of the London skyline from far above the ground.''Like the London Eye, it’s also best visited for sunset – we advise''booking your ticket in advance''to be sure to get the right time slot for your visit. It’s also''included on the London Pass'', which is a great way to save money on London sightseeing.''You might find yourself struggling with reflections up here.''My tip is to head up to the second floor where there is only one pane of glass rather than two, which cuts back on the reflections. Then, hold your camera lens right up against the glass, which will cut out pretty much all the reflections. If you have a sun-hood fitted, you’ll want to take it off.''Finally, you can get great shots of the Shard without actually going up it! This shot above was taken from around about the same place that I shot the first picture of Tower Bridge from – on the riverbank just outside the Tower of London. Here again you can see HMS Belfast parked up, and a variety of other buildings to lend scale.''More Photography Locations in London & Resources!''This post has only touched on some of my favourite photography locations in London, all accessible over a couple of days of photography. Obviously, I’ve not been able to fit all my favourites in, and some notable locations including St. Paul’s Cathedral and the Millennium Bridge, Buckingham Place, Trafalgar Square, Camden, Borough Market, Primrose Hill and more have fallen by the wayside in this round up.''But, if you’ve got more time on your hands and want some more ideas for where to shoot in London, then here are some excellent resources to help you get the shots you want. I’ve also added in a few more articles to help you plan your trip to London.''The official Visit London folks have''ten spots for a photo opportunity'', geared more towards good spots to get a photo of yourself in''If you’re looking for something a bit different, here’s Timeout’s Guide to''8 locations that look nothing like London''If you want something to take along with you,''here’s a Kindle book''that goes into epic detail on the''best photography spots in London'', covering nearly everywhere you could possibly want to go!''If you are looking for a tripod (and if you’re serious about your photography, you absolutely should have one!), then Vanguard have an excellent range. The''VEO system''I was using for this shoot is specifically designed for travel, meaning it’s super-light and easy to use, plus they won’t break the bank.''Not photography related, but if you are in London for a few days and want to get some sight-seeing in, check out''the London Pass''for a great deal on sight-seeing and transport!''If you’re in the market for a new camera, check out my definitive''guide to the best travel camera'', with something for every budget''My other''photography location guides'', to get you the best shot in destinations around the world''We’ve also written a number of guide to London to help with your planning. Take a look at these posts for inspiration:''A Two Day London itinerary''A Six Day London Itinerary''Harry Potter fans will want to check out our guide to the key''Harry Potter filming locations in London''Tips on Buying and Using the London Pass''Eight Things to Do in Kensington''The guide to the''best military museums and memorials in London''A guide to''public transport in London''A detailed''London packing list''to help you pack''A guide to''getting into central London from all London’s airport''s''Finally, if you’re looking to learn more about photography, I run an''online travel photography course''which covers everything I know about photography, plus you get one on one feedback directly from me as you go! Check it out and let me know if you have any questions.''Enjoy, and don’t forget if you are inspired to invest in a tripod (an essential part of your photography gear!) you can''save 20% on''everything in the Vanguard US store''. Just enter the coupon code FindingTheUniverse (all one word, case sensitive) at checkout to get the discount! Alternatively, Amazon have an''excellent selection of Vanguard products''on their store.''SHARE ON''As you might be aware, I’ve been playing around recently with the awesome''Panasonic Lumix GX8'', a wonderful micro four thirds format camera that has let me capture some great moments, both''ballooning in Costa Brava'', and''exploring Marrakech''.''The key new feature of the camera is a new “4K Photo” mode, which lets you record bursts of high quality video, and then pull out images from that – ensuring that you never miss a moment. Panasonic asked me to talk you through it, most logically in video form, and so that is exactly what I’ve done in the video embed below. Obviously, I have used a cat as the main subject, because, well, cats.''I’d love to hear what you think – is this a feature you see yourself using? Here are a couple of shots of that cat too, grabbed as stills from the 4KPhoto video I shot to give you an example of what’s possible when you’re shooting at 30 frames a second!''I’ve got more to come – in particular some shots of monkeys in Morocco that have come out really well – if you’re interested in those, check out all my posts on my''4KPhoto experiences, here.''.''SHARE ON''I’m often asked what photography gear I use for my photos. I’m asked so much in fact, that I put together a whole''page on this site'', dedicated to answering just that question!''One piece of photography equipment that I highly recommend is a tripod. In today’s post, I want to explain exactly why it is that you need a tripod for photography, so you can understand the benefits to your photography of lugging around an extra bit of kit. Let’s get on with answering the question:''Why You Need A Tripod For Photography''1. Photographing Long Exposures''If you want to do any kind of photography with shutter speeds longer than around 1/60th of a second, you are going to need a tripod so you don’t end up with blurry images as a result of your hand movements.''A perfect example of when you’re going to need a tripod is for long exposure photography – where you try to capture the movement of the world around you by opening the shutter for periods of time measured in seconds – and sometimes minutes!''There’s no way you are going to be able to hold the camera still for that long in your hands, so you’re going to need a tripod if you want to get shots like this.''or this:''2.\xa0 Photographing in Low Light''If you’re not familiar with the exposure triangle, here’s a quick recap. It’s the way we describe the relationship between the exposure of the image, and the three tools we have at our disposal to manage that exposure – shutter speed, aperture and ISO. Changing any of these three options directly affects the exposure, and they all work together to create the final look of the image.''Unfortunately, in any given scene there is only so much light to work with. As the day falls to dusk, or when we’re shooting inside, there might not be very much light available. Our options to increase light we capture are to widen the aperture (thus decreasing the''depth of field''), to increase the ISO (making the image more noisy), or to reduce the shutter speed (making the image susceptible to hand shake).''Ideally you don’t want to decrease the aperture as that affects the depth of field of the image. You also don’t really want to increase the ISO, as noisy images are less than desirable.''So the only solution is to use lower shutter speeds – down to the slowest you can go without capturing unwanted motion in the shot, before adjusting the aperture and ISO. And those slow shutter speeds are going to need, of course, a tripod so as to avoid the blur introduced by your hand movement! More''here''on how the different parts of the camera work together to create the shot.''3. Photographing With Filters''As well as neutral density filters, which are largely used for long exposure photography as detailed above, I also like to use a polarising filter for my photography. This accentuates certain colours in the sky, makes clouds pop right out, and cuts out glare and reflections.''More on the''effects of a polarising filter here'', in the meantime, just be aware that the darkness of the glass cuts the light, meaning you’re going to need to use lower shutter speeds, faster ISO rating or wider apertures to still get the shot, and a tripod will negate hand shake at lower shutter speeds when using a filter.''4. Photographing Landscapes''Landscapes are one of my favourite subjects to photograph – as regular readers will no doubt be aware! For landscape photography, one of the most important camera settings to be aware of is the aperture – we want to use an aperture of at least f/8 and up to f/16 for the majority of landscape shots, ensuring we get a wide depth of field with everything clearly in focus.''Unfortunately, those narrow apertures reduce the light coming in, which means of course that we either need to reduce the shutter speed or increase the ISO in order to get the right exposure for the shot.''Since increasing the ISO will introduce noise to the image, our only option is to reduce the shutter speed, which, (you’ve guessed it!), means we’re going to need to sit the camera on a tripod to avoid hand shake. As a guideline, anything under 1/60th of a second shutter speed is inadvisable for handheld photography.''5.\xa0 For Any Video Work''Ok, so I know I said this was a photography post, and I don’t do very much video, but from time to time I need to do a piece to video, and since pretty much every camera these days comes with video functionality, it’s worth mentioning.''Video looks a million times better when shot on a tripod. Wobbly hand-held video screams amateur – stabilising your video with a tripod will instantly make it look more professional.''6. For Time Lapses''I don’t do a great many time lapses, but when I do, I do them on a tripod. A time lapse, in case you’re not aware, is a sequence of images shot a certain number of seconds apart, and then turned into a video which speeds up the action. It’s hugely important that the frames are aligned, so a tripod is absolutely essential to time lapse photography.''7. To Make You Think About The Framing of Your Shot''This one is a little bit less tangible than the other reasons, however it does actually make a difference to your photography. When you have your camera in your hand, it’s all too easy to just put it up to your eye and press the button without thinking too much about your composition, framing and subject matter.''When you start using a tripod, everything is going to take a bit longer. You have to set up the tripod, adjust the positioning of the camera, make sure everything is level and so on. This process will slow you down, and force you to really think about your shot. In my experience, this can lead to much better results.''8. For Far Better Self Portraits''I may be fighting a losing battle here, but seriously, if you want a decent photo of yourself in front of something cool, a tripod is going to give you a far better result than a selfie-stick.''Yes, I appreciate the ease of use of the selfie-stick, the speed you can upload to social media, the fact you don’t have to hand your camera to a stranger to get a shot – all of those factors are powerfully persuasive. But you are so restricted in terms of framing, where you can be in the shot, and by the capabilities of your smartphone camera.''Pretty much every camera in the world has a timer function which lets you press the button and take a picture after a set period of time has elapsed. Putting the camera on a tripod means you’re going to have a lot more creative control over the shot, and you’ll get much better results because of it. You could even''shoot your own wedding.''For more on taking better shots of yourself when you travel, check out my''guide to taking better couple shots when you travel'', which has lots of tips and advice to help you out.''9. For Astrophotography''The stars are a lot of fun to photograph, but they pose the rather unique challenge of being only visible when it’s quite dark. And of course, when it’s dark, that whole exposure triangle thing comes out to get us, and we end up having to shoot at both long exposures and, in many cases, at high ISO’s and low apertures as well!''Whichever type of star photography you want to do, be it static shots of the milky way, or epic long exposures of the stars wheeling across the sky, you are going to need a tripod to hold the camera still.''10. For HDR Photography''If you want to dabble in High Dynamic Range Photography, and get shots that look a bit like this:''Then you are going to need a tripod. High Dynamic Range photography allows you to take shots in challenging lighting conditions, where there is an extreme contrast between the dark and light parts of the image – such as a bright sky and a shadowy foreground.''It requires you to take multiple shots at different exposures, and then blend them together using software such as Lightroom, Photoshop or Photomatix Pro.''Those shots need to be lined up perfectly to get the right results, and since your camera takes a bit of time to take multiple shots, and your hand will move in between them, for best results you’re going to need a tripod.''11. People will Take you More Seriously''Ok, this is a bit of an odd one, but I’ve found it to be true on multiple occasions. When I’m shooting on a tripod, people will make a concerted effort not to get in the way of my shot – far more so than if I’m just shooting normally. There is clearly the supposition that I must be either terribly serious, or actually working, and that I shouldn’t be interrupted.''Of course, this isn’t always the case, but I have had less shots ruined by errant passers by when shooting on a tripod. Admittedly, not a reason in of itself to purchase a tripod, but a nice to have nonetheless!''How To Choose a Tripod for your Photography''Getting a good tripod is really important for your photography – you don’t want to make the wrong choice and then have to upgrade a few months down the line!''There are three main factors to consider when choosing a tripod: price, weight and stability. There is a saying that you can have two out of those three factors that make you happy, and the third will make you sad.''The first thing to consider is''the weight of your gear''. Tripods will have guidelines for how much weight they can hold, and you need to be sure that anything you purchase can hold the weight of your gear with lenses. Something that is perfectly capable of holding a mirrorless camera system and lens might struggle to cope with something more serious like a full frame DSLR and a high end telephoto zoom lens for example. You need to pick a tripod that is rated to be stable with the gear you are using.''Next up – you need to consider''the weight of the tripod''. The sturdier the tripod, the more it is going to weigh. You can reduce the weight of the tripod by investing in tripods made from more exotic materials, but that is going to directly impact the third factor, that being:''The''price of the tripod''. Tripods come in all sorts of prices, from really poor quality tripods costing less than $50, through to expensive tripods costing in excess of $1,000. My advice is to buy the best tripod you can afford for your gear, with a sweet spot being from around $100 – $500 depending on the features, stability and weight savings you are looking for.''There are a number of other factors to consider when purchasing a tripod. First is the “release” system. This is how you attach the tripod to the camera through the tripod screw. These days, most camera system use what is called an “Arca-Swiss” compatible design, so you screw a mounting place onto the bottom of your camera, and then you can slide the camera on and off the tripod easily. I always use Arca-Swiss compatible tripods because it means that I can mount my camera to all of my tripods, as well as ensure compatibility with other accessories such as the Peak Design strap system.''Next is whether or not the tripod has an integrated “head” – the part that you attach the camera to and move it around on, or if you have to purchase the head separately. Purchasing a separate head gives you flexibility over the type of head you by, plus you can buy different heads for different functions (panning, video etc), but will usually come at a higher price.''Then there are the various other features you might want. These range from clever central columns that rotate away from the tripod itself, spirit levels to show you if the tripod is level, how compact the tripod is when you fold it up, how tall the tripod is (eye height being ideal if possible!), how many leg extensions it has, how easy it is to put up and put down, and so on.''Personally, I have two main tripods at the moment. I am thrilled to be an ambassador for Vanguard, whose products I recommend wholeheartedly. Currently I use the''Alta Pro 2+ 264CT Tripod''paired with a''BBH-200''ball head, and it’s fabulous.''This is a very sturdy tripod, constructed from carbon fibre for weight saving, and is rated for loads up to 15.4 lbs, weighing a total of 4.95lbs (tripod 3.75lbs, ball head 1.2lbs).''My other tripod is the one I use primarily for travelling, where weight is more of a consideration, and that’s a tripod from the Vanguard VEO range, which are specifically designed as travel tripods.''I’ve been using these since they launched in mid 2015 as the original VEO, as well as the VEO 2 range, launched in 2017. One of my photos is even on the packaging, which is nice.''I’ve used multiple variants of these tripods, including the aluminium''VEO 235AB''and the carbon fibre''VEO 265CB''. These both have an integrated ball head, so you don’t need to buy one separately.''The''VEO 2 265CB'', which replaced the original VEO 265CB range, is my current go-to tripod for travel photography. Vanguards VEO tripods have travelled with me to''Yosemite'',''San Francisco'', the''Grand Canyon'', Spain, Italy, the UK and many more locations around the world, and I’ve been very impressed by their performance and reliability.''Their carbon fibre construction means they are wonderfully light, and the VEO 2 265CB has a load capacity of (17.6lbs), as well an extended height of 59.1 inches. I also love how compact it is for travelling, folding up to a size of only 15.4inches.''It’s also well priced,''available online''for $249.99 – an excellent price for a carbon fibre tripod with a head.''Further Reading & Photography Resources!''I’ve covered everything I can think of relating to tripods in this post, and hopefully helped you understand why a tripod is necessary. But that’s not all I have regarding photography on the site! Here are some more resources to help you get the most from your photography journey!''This series of articles''will help you get the best photos for locations around the world''And''this series of articles''contains a lot of tips and advice on getting better photos!''Finally, if you’re looking to learn more about photography, I run an''online travel photography course''which covers everything I know about photography, plus you get one on one feedback directly from me as you go! Check it out and let me know if you have any questions.''SHARE ON''For the last few days we’ve been hanging out in Marrakech, a new city (and country!) for both of us. Ostensibly our time here has been to take a breather from our hectic schedule, catch up on a bit of work and plan our future adventures.''But, the call of a new destination is strong, and we’ve made time every day to pop out and do a bit of exploring.''Moroccan mint tea is a big deal – full of sugar and minty flavours. The theory as far as I can tell is to pour it from as high as possible, which Jess did a great job with!''Now, let’s take a look and see what else my wanders in Marrakech revealed….''One of the highlights of Marrakech is the old Medina, a twisting labyrinth of tiny streets where everything you can imagine is on sale. I love how the smoke from the food stalls is caught by the late evening light.''The walls of the mosques and other old buildings are often covered in beautiful text.''You basically can’t come to Morocco without eating couscous, even if it doesn’t make the list for the''top cheap foods in Morocco''!''I love the details on the doorways, be it in stone or wood.''If you like photographing doorways, Marrakech is a good place to come.''Even shooting into the sun this camera performs admirably.''The souks in the medina are full of colourful wares. If you like shopping, you could go nuts in here. If you don’t like shopping… well, you’ll likely also go nuts in here.''The blend of the old and new – no doubt traders have been vending their wares in the square for centuries. The satellite dishes on the other hand are likely a more recent addition.''Had to test out the panoramic mode on the GX8. It works well, although best if you go fairly slowly otherwise you can get banding in the sky.''Sunset in the square. The best place to watch it is from one of the panoramic roof terraces. The ones with the best views tend to charge in the form of an overpriced soft drink (three euros instead of fifty cents) – but it’s worth it for the view!''Yep, the doorways are pretty cool!''Gave the camera a work out with a portrait shot into the sun, whilst waiting for the sunset. It handled it admirably.''This is one of the largest mosques in the city, which glows a wonderfully warm colour at sunset.''There’s that square at night. A long exposure of a few seconds to bring out some of the movement of the crowd.''The streets of Marrakech are full of cats. This chap seemed happy enough.''Piles of pigment, to be used for dying or painting, as discovered on a wander through the Kasbah.''And of course, Morocco is famous for rugs. The colours in this stack were particularly nice.''We took a tour of the tanneries, and found a pile of dead animal skins drying away to themselves.''Another cat, sleeping in a sunbeam.''We spent some time wandering the Kasbah – a part of the old city that is a little less commercialized and crazy than the souks of the medina. We were advised that if we wanted to get a feel for how Marrakech was before tourism, this was the place to go. So we did.''Sunset from the main square.''And finally, three tombs, in the 16th century''Saadien Tombs''.''If you’re inspired to add Marrakesh to your list, check out this post to give you some''ideas for spending three days in Marrakech'', or''this post on the twelve things to see in Marrakech!''SHARE ON''I’m all about new water-based experiences this year! I started out with my first experience on a huge cruise ship (where I also got married), crossing from New York to Southampton.''A few weeks later, we headed to Russia, where we experienced our first ever river cruise, sailing aboard the MS Rachmaniov on a river cruise from St. Petersburg to Moscow, as guests of''Gvidon Tours''.''As I’d never done a river cruise before, I didn’t really have any idea what to expect. I figured it would probably be like a coach tour, but on a river. With, presumably, some older people. We’d see some sights, eat some food, meet some people, talk about the war – that sort of thing. It would also be fun to travel from St. Petersburg to Moscow by boat, as this is a big section of Russia that we’d never experienced. So lots to look forward to.''And, as it turned out, I ended up enjoying myself a great deal.''There were, in fact, many older people – this relaxed style of travel clearly appealing to a more mature audience, and I’d say that 60+ was the main age group. This wasn’t really a problem for us, as I’ll happily talk to anyone, and we met some lovely people – more on those in a bit.''The overall experience was also a lot of fun, with plenty of time to relax, sight-see, and socialise. Let me dive into the details of our experience, to see if cruising in Russia might be something for you.''Our Experience Taking a River Cruise in Russia''The Boat Itself''The MS Rachmaniov, so the brochure tells me, is a purpose-built river cruise ship, constructed in Germany in 1981. From our observations of other boats on the river, it’s a pretty typical design and layout. This particular ship was totally refurbished in the year 2000, and then modernised and updated again over the Winter of 2013/4. We were certainly impressed by the overall decor, and the ship felt new and modern throughout.''The ship is designed to accommodate up to 200 passengers and 91 crew, and comes with everything you’d expect from a modern river cruise ship. Let’s look at some of those details.''The Rooms''There are three classes of room on the MS Rachmaniov: Junior Suites, Double Cabins and Single Cabins.''We stayed in the Junior Suite, which as you can see from the pictures had loads of space – 20 square meters of it in fact. We had two twin beds (pushed together to make one bed), a sofa, lots of wardrobe space, a small fridge, a safe, a bathroom with a shower, and a desk to work on. We also had two large windows to watch the world go by from. Our room was really a wonderful haven, and I really loved how we could stay in the same place for ten days without needing to pack up and repack, and still have different scenery and activities going by.''The Double and Single cabins are a lot smaller, at 9 square meters and 8 square meters respectively. They are really more for sleeping only, featuring either one or two single beds and a bathroom, but don’t come with a fridge or desk area. The good news is that there are plenty of places on the boat where you can sit and relax, so if you are on more of a budget these rooms are still very nice.''All the rooms come with a TV (don’t expect any English language programming apart from a four part series on the history of Russia), a radio, air conditioning and heating.''The Food''During the cruise we had three meals a day, a buffet breakfast, and then two meals served to the table. A menu would be presented to us the day before, and we’d have to make a choice from two options for a starter, a main course and a dessert for the following day. Every meal also started off with a salad, making them all four courses long, accompanied by bread.''The food was certainly of good quality and we got lots of it – no-one went hungry, that’s for sure! In terms of what we ate, well, soup featured heavily as a starter, and then there were various options, usually a meat or fish dish, accompanied by some form of potato and some form of vegetable. We never ate the same thing twice, and the service and presentation were good. One thing to note – Russian food features a lot of dill. And potatoes. If you don’t like dill or potatoes, you are going to be in trouble.''If you’ve got any food allergies (we don’t), just let your host know, and they’ll ensure you get the right food. One chap on our tour had an allergy to peppers, and his meals would come (usually!) without peppers, although if you have a really serious allergy you might want to check in advance to be sure they’ll be able to accommodate you.''One definite criticism that caused grumblings amongst fellow passengers was the water situation. The water in the taps on the boat wasn’t drinkable, so the only way to get water on board was to pay for it. At €1 per litre, it wasn’t massively expensive, but I know a number of guests were upset that drinking water wasn’t available, even with a meal, unless it was bought.''The only exception to the food that we didn’t overly enjoy were the packed lunches on the trips from the boat in Moscow and St. Petersburg (although you did get a free bottle of water!). We heard similar feedback from other guests. It wasn’t that the food was bad, it just wasn’t very interesting or imaginative. We’d suggest taking some roubles with you and picking up a snack while you’re out, if you go down this route.''The Staff''On a cruise like this there are two types of people you’re going to be interacting with – your fellow passengers, and the staff on board. More on the people we were cruising with shortly. First, let’s talk about the staff.''Everyone on board is a part of some sort of group. This is either based on who you booked the trip with, or, as in our case as we were travelling independently, was done based on language. We were part of the English language group, which was in the minority – there were between 15 and 20 of us from all around the world. Each group has its own host on board the ship, and our hostess was the lovely Victoria.''Victoria was responsible for making sure that everything went smoothly, arranging shore excursions, and dealing with any problems anyone had. She was also the main interface between us and the crew, as English wasn’t widely spoken.''The fact that most of the rest of the crew didn’t speak much English wasn’t really a problem though. They were all wonderfully friendly, polite and helpful, and certainly contributed towards making the experience what it was.''Other Facilities''The ship had free Wi-Fi throughout, which was obviously very helpful for us. From time to time it would drop out, usually when we were crossing some vast lake, or deep in the middle of the Russian countryside, but for the most part we found it was perfect for our needs of uploading the odd photo and downloading our e-mails.''Other guests used it to download their daily newspaper and update Facebook accounts. It wasn’t fast enough for tasks like video streaming though.''Power sockets were available throughout the ship, with a European style two pin plug putting out 220v. There was only one in our room, so if you want to plug in multiple devices, bring''something like this along'', and of course''a travel adaptor''if you need one.''There was a library on board, however it only had two English books. If you like to read, I would very much recommend taking along a''Kindle''or something similar, and loading that up. You’ll have plenty of time to relax on the boat, and there are some nice locations on board to sit and while away a few hours in a book, as the scenery floats on by.''Speaking of locations on board, there were three bars / lounges on board, as well as a large sun deck at the top of the boat. These served up everything from “proper” coffee, through to a selection of beers, cocktails, wines and soft drinks. Prices were in Euros and fairly reasonable, around €2 for a coffee, €3 for a beer, and in the region of €15 – €25 for a bottle of wine.''There was also a souvenir shop selling various items, from Matroska Dolls through to jewellery, as well as maps of our route and books about the cruise itself. In addition the ship had an on-board doctor and medical room as well as a small beauty salon / hairdresser.''Our Travelling Companions''The other passengers on the boat comprised a variety of nationalities. German and Italian were probably the largest two groups, with the remainder made up of a mix of nationalities including American, English, Australian, Russian, Austrian and Taiwanese.''As mentioned before, the groups were split up generally by nationality, both for tours, and also for seating. For events involving the whole ship, like the Captain’s welcome reception, this caused a slight issue, because everything had to be translated into five languages to cover everyone on board, which slowed things up a bit. Not the end of the world, but something to know about.''Our main interaction was obviously with the English speaking group, and was during tours and mealtimes. On the first night, we were told to choose a table, and then stick to it for the rest of the trip to make everything easier in terms of meal ordering.''Obviously, polite chaos ensued for the first couple of days as folks adjusted to different tables and found themselves choosing who they wanted to sit with. We ended up mostly sharing our table with two lovely ladies, the magnificent Diana, a lady from the UK, and Isabel from Portugal, who was actually a tour leader for some of the English folk who had booked through a different agency, but were all part of the “English speaking” group.''Depending on your personality, being lumped into a social situation without much choice can be a challenge, and whether or not you enjoy this sort of thing is really down to you. I quite enjoy socialising and meeting new people, and we were lucky to have some interesting companions to share our table with. Jess sometimes finds it a bit harder, and in particular as she speaks quite softly sometimes (not to mention very quickly!), had a little bit of trouble being heard by some of the more elderly travellers, which posed some challenges to the flow of conversation.''As it was, we ended up having a lot of fun over mealtimes, comparing notes from the day, learning about the lives of our fellow travellers, and talking about everything from TV shows of the eighties to the differences between the Guardian newspaper and the Times, and what that says about you as a person. There was never a dull moment, and mealtimes quickly became something I looked forward to, and not just for the prodigious quantities of food!''Tours from the Boat''There were a multitude of opportunities to take tours from the boat throughout the trip. The cruise started in St. Petersburg, and we had two full days there, followed by five full days of actual cruising, and then two full days in Moscow.''In St. Petersburg and Moscow there were a series of tours included with the cruise price, such as the tour of the Hermitage in St. Petersburg and the Kremlin in Moscow. There were also some optional extras that were paid for separately. These ranged in price, but were usually €30 – €50 per person, and included items such as a night river tour of the St. Petersburg canals, or a trip to the''Peterhof Palace''in St. Petersburg.''All the tours during the cruise itself were included, and we stopped in five different places along the way, including UNESCO world heritage sites, interesting cities and so on. We’ll be writing up our thoughts in more detail on the tours in a separate post, suffice to say they were well organised, the guides spoke good English, and there was usually enough free time included for a little bit of exploration on our own.''One downside of the cruise was that the parking location of the cruise ship in Moscow and St. Petersburg was quite a long way from the city centre in both cases – 45 minutes to an hour by public transport.''Because of this, we ended up taking the optional tours rather than exploring by ourselves. Had we wanted to explore by ourselves, our guides were more than happy to give us maps, directions and advice as to how to get around. There was absolutely no hard-sell on the optional tours – we were given the choice in a quick five minute talk about what was available, and then folks could pick and choose.''We spoke to some of our fellow passengers, and learnt that many of them had built in extra time at either the end of the cruise to explore Moscow or at the beginning to explore St.Petersburg at their own pace, so do consider that as an option if you’re planning on a trip like this.''Activities on the Boat''It wasn’t just about food and socialising on the boat, whilst the scenery glided on by. There were lots of activities to get involved with, should you be so inclined.''These included Russian language classes, doll painting, and even learning how to sing traditional Russian songs. That last one culminated in a final “talent show” in front of the whole cruise ship, with each group of nationalities standing up to sing their favourite song or songs that they had learnt. I went along for that, which was a lot of fun to watch!''We didn’t actually take part in any of the learning events, but they were highly rated by the folks we chatted to, and were certainly a good way to spend a bit of time when on board. They were also all included in the price of the trip.''We did take advantage of the opportunity to visit the bridge though, which was a lot of fun, and Jess even got to drive the boat for a short while!''The only on-board event that wasn’t free (for obvious reasons!) was the vodka tasting afternoon. This cost €15 per person, which was quite a bargain as it included a series of appetisers as well as five shots of varying vodkas, plus lots of information on the different vodkas. I popped in to see what it was like and take some photos, and was given a shot of vodka, which certainly made me sit up straight!''There were also nightly shows, usually consisting of singers or musicians, who would play in the various bars, usually the largest and most ornate bar at the top of the boat. We were initially a little concerned as our cabin was directly under this bar, but they’d obviously done their homework in terms of sound proofing, and we were never disturbed when trying to sleep.''When to go on a River Cruise in Russia''We cruised in late September, a time of year when the weather is usually a bit cooler, as the country shifts through Autumn. Our cruise was the last sailing that Gvidon Tours offered for the year.''As it was, we were incredibly lucky, and had magnificent weather for pretty much the entire ten days, much to the surprise of all our guides. Temperatures hovered around 20C (68F) in the daytime, and dipped to around 8C (46F) at night.''Obviously, visiting in the summer months means you are likely to get much warmer weather, with a higher chance of sun, as well as longer days.''However, the weather in Russia can be unpredictable at any time of year, so you’ll want to bring a range of clothing layers that you can put on and off to suit. A rain jacket would also likely be a good idea.''Preparing and Packing for a River Cruise in Russia''To start with, travelling to Russia means you are likely to need a visa. You’ll have to apply for one in advance and pay a fee. The fee, process and type of visa will depend on your nationality, and you might need a letter of invitation from your tour company. Gvidon Tours helped us with all of this, and we got our visas via the Russian Embassy in the US.''Clothing wise, this wasn’t a “formal” sort of cruise, so you don’t need to pack the dinner jacket or evening gowns, although some folks did get a little dressed up for the evening meals and entertainments. In terms of clothing, you’ll want a variety of layers to cover different temperatures. The boat itself was kept warm, but obviously if you venture out on deck in the evenings or at night it might be a bit cooler. You should also consider packing something in case it rains, and comfortable shoes for prolonged periods of walking, as some of the day tours do involve quite a lot of time on your feet.''Otherwise, you don’t need to pack anything particularly special – battery chargers, your camera, any electronics, travel adaptors – all the normal stuff. If you want to check out a comprehensive packing list to remind you what you might need, I have a''full packing list here''.''Is a river cruise in Russia for you?''If you’ve never been to Russia, a river cruise is an excellent way to get a first taste of the country in a nice easy way, where everything is handled for you. If you’ve never done a river cruise, well, this one was a lot of fun even to a novice like me. Just be aware that you will need to socialise a bit with other travellers, and that obviously guided tours offer less flexibility compared to independent travel.''Speaking to a number of the other passengers, some of whom were first time cruisers like me, I found the majority to be pleasantly surprised by how much there was to see and experience in Russia, as well as the general friendliness and welcoming nature of the Russian people.''Closing thoughts''I really enjoyed my first river cruise experience. Obviously it’s tough for me to compare this to other river cruise companies as this was my first trip like this, however I suspect it won’t be my last.''What I really loved was how, unlike a bus tour for example, we were able to keep the same room, with our clothes hanging in the wardrobe, and just let the world come to us through the windows of the ship and via the tours we took. No hassle constantly having to load our gear on and off buses, or in and out of hotel rooms.''I also loved how the scenery varied every day, the process of going through the huge river locks, and the beauty of the sunsets that we had most nights.''The ship was clean, well maintained, and the staff were wonderfully friendly. Our shipboard guests provided ample conversation opportunities, and the passing scenery was gorgeous. I was never bored (although I did get a lot of work done!), but do bring a book or other way to pass the time if you think you’ll need to.''Overall, I am a convert to the river cruising, and in fact, general cruising experience. I can definitely see myself taking this sort of trip again!''Our trip was provided complimentary to us by Gvidon Tours who covered the cost of our cruise, food and drinks on board the boat, airport transfers and the optional tours we chose to take during the cruise. Opinions remain our own, see our''code of ethics''for more on how we choose who to work with.''SHARE ON''I’ve done a lot of different types of photography. Followers will know that my favourite type of photography is landscape photography, although you might not know that I do dabble in event and portraiture from time to time – I love to catch friends and loved ones in special moments, or in a way they want to be caught.''Like this shot of''Jess''from earlier in the year, preparing to leave the States for a prolonged voyage''themed around the Grand Tour'', taking us from the''United States''to''Italy''by boat and train.''One type of photography I’ve not attempted though is wedding photography. Largely because it looks like very hard work, and I’d hate to mess up someone’s vision of their big day. Seems like a lot of stress.''Still, you’ve got to try everything once, right? So it was that I found myself nominated by Jess as the official photographer for our two (!) weddings this year. No pressure.''The first wedding we had was a wonderful private ceremony in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean on board the Cunard ship the RMS''Queen Mary 2'', roughly half way between the USA and the UK, which seemed fitting given that I’m from the UK and Jess is from the USA.''It was also about 30 miles from where the Titanic sank, so maybe I shouldn’t fixate on location omens too much.''The second time was surrounded by friends, family and pigeons in the dawn light over San Marco Square, Venice.''Both were quite lovely locations, I hope you’ll agree. Each with their own challenges.''The logistics of the first wedding meant that hiring a wedding photographer of our choice was going to be a bit of a problem (“Hi, can you fly to the mid-Atlantic for a quick shoot? No? Oh…”).''The good news was that the Queen Mary 2 was a rather stunning venue for a wedding. A luxury transatlantic cruise liner comes with all kinds of epic photography opportunities, from ballrooms to bars to grand staircases. I wasn’t going to have a problem with locations. The only challenge was getting the shots of the two of us together.''Obviously, I pondered using a selfie-stick and a mobile phone.''I kid.''So, how does one go about shooting one’s own wedding? Well, to start with, I’m not the most photogenic person in the world. There’s a reason I like to be on the button side of the camera. So, shots of the bride were easy enough to manage.''Still, you do have to be in the odd shot of your own wedding I’m told.''The actual solution was much more obvious – the use of my tripod. And some patience on the part of my lovely bride. With the tripod I could set up the shot and use the timed release to set it off when I was in position. And, since I’m''a Vanguard ambassador'', I have no shortage of tripods to my name. In the case of this shoot I used two – their lovely travel focused''VEO 265CB'', which has been accompanying me on''a variety of shoots across the world'', and the slightly weightier''Alta Pro 254CT.''Now, you might be wondering, with 2,000 other people on the boat, why not recruit one of them to do the button mashing? Well, my Canon camera’s aren’t exactly set up to be user friendly. I have back button focus set up, to start with, which means that focusing happens separately to pressing the shutter button. I also often use the centre focus point, and then recompose the shot afterwards. Long story short, when I give my camera to non-photography minded folks, I get a lot of blurry shots back.''Plus, I’m not sure anyone on a cruise ship really wants to give up a day of their life to take pictures of a couple.''This isn’t always the case, as my Venice story below will illustrate. But on the Queen Mary, the tripod was the easiest solution.''Towards the end of the day, we also happened upon a wedding photographer who was on board, who kindly grabbed the below shot of us with my Canon. Sure, we could have done this with the tripod as well, but since he was there, well, why not?''So that was the Queen Mary. Our second wedding was in Venice, my''favourite city in Europe''.''In this case, we had actual guests in attendance. Sure, on the Queen Mary, the other 2,000 passengers felt somewhat like honorary guests, but in Venice we had people with us that we actually knew! So I had a cunning plan to rope them all in as wedding photographers, in partnership with my tripod.''We held the ceremony in St. Mark’s Square, right in the centre of Venice, then wandered around some of the more interesting sights.''If you’ve been to Venice, you’ll know that this square can get a bit crowded.''To overcome this problem, and get the best light, we decided to hold the ceremony at sunrise, which in October is around 7.30am. It says something about my friends that they were willing to get up at an ungodly hour to share our day with us. And, at the last minute, find a violin player to serenade us as we arrived.''The plan worked though. The light was jolly nice, and the square almost deserted.''It turned out that some of my guests were pretty decent with a camera, and concepts such as back button focusing and composition weren’t lost on them. So we got some great shots thanks to them.''For the group shots, it was back to the tripod, which I set up, both on a remote release, and also with the help of the violin player who came along for the morning, who was excellent at pressing the button on an already composed shot.''Compose….''Run….''Pose!''The towel on the floor in that last shot, incidentally, was a gift to Jess from my wonderful best man, in a''reference to my favourite novel''.''Anyway, Venice was just magnificent, and we had an amazing day, one that we’re unlikely to forget. Here are a few more moments we got.''Finally, one can’t discount passers by, and their enthusiasm for taking pictures of a lovely bride. As the day progressed, we started to get more people talking photos of us, including a lovely gentleman from Taiwan, who set up and grabbed this shot of us, and then kindly e-mailed it to us afterwards.''I’m not sure I’d generally advise crowd-sourcing your wedding shoot, but if you do decide to go down that route, Venice is a great option to do so! If you do, take along some business cards or something, so people can send you the photos.''And that was it! Thanks for reading this rather inward focusing post! Do let me know if you think I should keep on with wedding photography in the comments 😉''If you’re interested, these shots were taken on a pair of''Canon 6D’s''in combination with a''17-40mm f/4 lens''and a''70-200mm f/2.8 lens'', in conjunction with those Vanguard tripods. I was also using my newest addition to our camera family, the''Panasonic Lumix GX8''paired up with an''incredible f/2.8 24-70''equivalent lens. You can read more about the''gear we use for our photography, right here''.''Finally, if you’re looking to plan a wedding like this, check out Jess’s incredibly detailed post on''planning a cruise wedding''. If you’re planning a themed or destination based wedding, take a look at this post for''destination themed travel wedding inspiration''!''SHARE ON''I love to wander a city. Preferably, I’ll have my camera in hand, and there will be frequent stops to observe and capture moments, with the sights and sounds all washing over me.''Whilst my blind wandering is very personally fulfilling, much of the “washing over” ends up being just that – I get a lot of photos, but tend not to learn very much. Add to this the fact that planning and research aren’t things I enjoy doing a lot (I like to be surprised is my way of explaining this), my wanderings can be a bit, well, aimless.''Not ideal for someone who is supposed to be writing a blog to give you guys ideas for things to do yourself!''It’s for this reason that I like to take city walking tours. When on a limited time, it’s an excellent way to see a lot, learn a lot, and give yourself a whole pile of ideas for your next visit. If you’re not time limited, I advise taking them early in your trip, to get yourself oriented to a city and help you plan the remainder of your stay.''On our recent trip to New York where we were particularly time limited, we had the opportunity to partner up with''Walks of New York'', who started out in Italy as''Walks of Italy''.''They came recommended by other bloggers''and also have an excellent''TripAdvisor rating'', so naturally we were keen to see what they had to offer.''Our goal in New York was to experience some of the classic sights. We ended up going on four tours:''A''tour of the Broadway Theaters''with a behind the scenes look at the Disney New Amsterdam Theatre!''A''tour to the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island'', including access to the Statue Pedestal''A food tour featuring the cuisine of Chef Mario Batali in Greenwich Village (tour no longer available as of 2018)''A tour focusing on the''memory of the events of 9/11''with a trip up the new One World Trade Center building''Here’s how our experiences went…''Our Experience Walking New York''Exploring the Theaters of Broadway''Our first tour was of Broadway, one of the most famous theater districts in the world. Starting in Times Square, our group of five was led by Ben, who had a wealth of knowledge about the theatres, having actually trodden the boards himself as an actor.''The tour started with a walk around some of the more famous theaters of Broadway (there are forty in total!), where we learnt what makes a Broadway theater, as well as some of the more famous plays, actresses and actors who had passed through. The tour was very interactive, with much debate between our group as to which was our favourite play or musical!''The second half of the tour was a little different, and I found it really interesting. We were led into the oldest theater on Broadway, the New Amsterdam Theatre, currently operated by Disney, and showing''Aladdin''. Here our guide handed us over to the Disney folks, and we were sat, alone (!), in the auditorium, where we learnt all about the history of this fascinating building, which had stood derelict for a good many years before Disney stepped in and restored it to it’s former glory.''Then, and most fun of all perhaps, we were led down to the costume room, where a host of costumes and props from previous Disney productions were waiting for us to play with! Yes folks, Jess got dressed up as Mary Poppins. I had a turn as Neptune. Then we both played with the incredibly light and fantastically expensive headpieces from The Lion King. A lot of fun, and a brilliant way to finish the tour.''How long was the tour?''The tour lasted two and a half hours, with the first hour and a half being a walking tour, and the final hour inside the New Amsterdam theatre, which also had restrooms available for use.''Who’s it for?''I’ll be honest – I’m not a huge theatre aficiando. However, I found the tour to be really fascinating, learning about the history of all the theaters, as well as insights from an industry insider. Learning about the history of the New Amsterdam Theatre was also a lot of fun. So, I’d say that this tour is for anyone who wants to learn a bit more about Broadway. The dressing up portion of the tour is also fantastic, particularly if you have kids!''Meeting Lady Liberty''I’ve visited New York before, and one of the things I regret not doing on my first trip was visiting the Statue of Liberty. So,''taking a tour over here with Walks of New York''seemed like a great idea. This tour was led by Michael, a New Yorker with over a decade of experience leading tours in the city, and covered both the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island – two icons of the U.S. immigration story.''Since the Statue of Liberty is on an island, the first part of the tour involved a boat ride. The tour started early, with a 9am start, so the boat wasn’t too busy, and the line for the obligatory security check was minimal. Once on the boat, our guide gave us tips for the best places to stand for photographs, and then let us get on with enjoying the views of the city skyline, and the Statue of Liberty as she got ever larger.''Then, on the island proper, we re-grouped, were given some information about our visit by Michael, and then we headed straight to the Statue herself.''There are various levels of access to the Statue of Liberty You can just visit the island and look at the statue. Alternatively, you can pre-book access to get inside the statue itself – either to the Pedestal level, or right up into the Crown. Note you need to do this before you get to the island as spaces are limited!''The Walks of New York tour comes with pre-booked pedestal access, meaning we got to climbing up the stairs right to the feet of the Statue, where we got both an excellent view of the Manhattan skyline, and a good appreciation of the scales of this massive statue. We also got to peer up inside the framework, which was fascinating to behold.''Our guide was particularly well versed in the best locations for photography, and even took everyone’s photos in front of the statue, which was a really nice touch, particularly as it meant he had to lay flat out on the concrete. I spend a lot of time adopting strange poses to take pictures, and very much appreciated the effort he put in to get everyone a nice shot to take home with them!''After wandering around the pedestal we went back down inside to visit the museum, where we learnt about how the statue was created and why. Then, it was time for the second part of the tour, for which we boarded the boat across to''Ellis Island''.''Ellis Island is a place well known to the majority of Americans, home to the first Federal Immigration Center, and the place where over twelve million immigrants arrived in the USA. Today, over a third of the US population has an ancestor who passed through the imposing immigration hallways here.''The story of Ellis Island is a fascinating one, and our guide was chock-full of knowledge to share about the history of the location, filled as it is with dreams, hope, and in a small percentage of cases, crushing disappointment when immigration was denied. It was a moving place, and certainly very much worth taking the guided visit to experience.''How long was the tour?''The tour ran for four hours. There were plenty of restroom opportunities, as well as spots to sit, so we weren’t on our feet the whole time.''Who’s it for?''This tour is for everyone – you get fantastic views of the city, an up-close experience with the Statue of Liberty, and a fascinating tour of Ellis Island. You can even stay on Ellis Island beyond the end of the tour if you so wish, for further exploration of this historical site.''The Memory of 9/11''9/11 is one of those events where everyone can remember where they were when they first heard about it. In my case, I was backpacking through China, and only found out after some locals held up newspapers showing the burning towers.''Our guide, Michael, who had led us that morning on the Statue of Liberty tour, was somewhat closer when the planes hit – being from New York he was actually in the city, and like so many New Yorkers, had lost friends when the towers came down.''For this reason, he frankly confessed to us that for a long time he had been very much against giving this tour. I had to agree – this kind of dark tourism can sometimes feel exploitative to the memories of those who have died.''But, like so many tragedies in the history of humanity, the only way for us to learn and remember is to keep sharing the stories of our past. And it was for this reason that Michael said he had finally decided to start leading these tours – in order to share the story and keep the memory of the events and people alive. He said he was particularly moved to do this after seeing how other memorials to events had come and gone, and he didn’t want that to happen with 9/11.''The tour started in''St. Paul’s Chapel''– a fascinating building for many reasons beyond its involvement of the events on September\xa0 11th, 2001. It’s the oldest church in New York, and has survived numerous events, most notably the great fire of 1776, when over a quarter of New York burnt to the ground. It was also the church that George Washington attended in New York, and his pew is still on display.''During the aftermath of 9/11, the church turned into a full blown recovery centre for the rescue workers, who used it to sleep, recover and rest in between performing their difficult and dangerous task. Today, memories of those workers and the events of 9/11 line the walls.''After visiting the church, our guide led us through the new, marvellously futuristic underground passage, across to Brookfield Place. Here, he wisely took advantage of a large seating area and air conditioning (New York is hot in August), to tell us some of his personal stories from the day, as well as some of the notable events of the day, including the water-based evacuation of lower Manhattan (''larger than Dunkirk''!) and the incredible role played by the retired fireboat''John J Hervey''.''Then, we passed by the site of the Twin Towers themselves, now the site of two moving memorial pools, each sized for the footprint of a tower, and ringed by the names of those who lost their lives. Here, we paused to learn the story of one of the heroes of the towers –''Rick Rescoria'', the man credited with saving thousands of lives.''Finally, the tour ended at the base of the new One World Trade Center building, where we were issued our tickets to head up to the''One World Observatory''for spectacular views across Manhattan.''One thing to note – this tour doesn’t include the 9/11 memorial museum. There is''a separate tour for that'', which doesn’t have the trip to the top of the One World Trade Center, but includes instead tickets to the museum for a self-guided tour.''How long was the tour?''The tour ran for two hours, and then we had as long as we wished on the One World Trade Center observation deck.''Who’s it for?''This tour is not exactly uplifiting, but it does offer an interesting, moving, and personal insight into the events of 9/11 and how it impacted the city and its residents in the days, weeks and years after the attacks. This was an event that shaped many of the events of the early 21st century, and I think would be of interest to everyone.''Eating all the Italian Food''To finish off our tours of New York, we decided to take part in the Mario Batali food tour in Greenwich Village (tour no longer available as of 2018). If you’re a foodie, you’ll already be familiar with the work of Mario Batali, the Italian American chef who owns a host of Italian restaurants around the world, including ten in New York alone.''This tour, which focused on the food experience of Greenwich Village, and in particular a number of Mario Batali venues, was fantastic. We ate like kings, with everything from delicious Italian style treats, through to antipasto and gelato, not to mention a sit down primo and secondi course at two of Batali’s restaurante. The whole experience was accompanied by delicious wine to wash it all down with, as well as sampler tastings of some excellent olive oils and balsamic vinegars.''The tour was a real hit with everyone, and beyond the food included information about the historic Greenwich Village area from our knowledgeable guide Nikki. If you like food tours, this is unmissable. Just make sure you turn up hungry!''How long was the tour?''The tour ran for three hours, with frequent stops for eating!''Who’s it for?''This tour features a lot of Italian food, so is best for lovers of great Italian food!''Other Walks of New York tours to consider adding to your itinerary:''Given our restricted time (we still managed to fit a lot in!), we weren’t able to experience everything that New York had to offer, nor all the walks that Walks of New York have. One tour that Jess definitely wants to do next time round is a tour of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, available as either''an express two hour option'', or a more in-depth,''3 hour version.''Both versions come with entry tickets that mean you can stay as long as you like after the tour is done – I suspect I’d not get Jess out until closing!''What we liked about the Walks of New York Tours:''The Walks of New York tours were all, in our opinion, excellent. We particularly liked the fact that all additional fees were included – the price that you see on the website is the total price you pay for the tour, with the exception of guide tips of course.''We also liked that the group sizes were small – ranging from five of us on the Broadway tour through to ten on the 9/11 tour. Walks state on their website that they keep''all tours to twelve people or less''(with some exceptions) a very manageable size!''Finally of course, the quality of the tour is very much about the quality of the guides, and in every case in New York the guide for each tour was perfectly suited to that tour.''Our Broadway theatre tour was led by a guide with experience actually acting on the stages of Broadway.''Our Statue of Liberty, Ellis Island and 9/11 tours were all led by a born and bred New Yorker who had been guiding tours for over twelve years, and had been in New York during the attacks.''Our Italian themed food tour was led by a passionate foodie of Italian heritage who had visited Italy multiple times.''Disclaimer – We received complimentary walking tours with Walks of New York in exchange for sharing our honest opinion of their walking tours. For more on how we choose who to work with, see our''code of ethics''.''SHARE ON''San Francisco is a seriously photogenic city. Having been based around this area for a period of time whilst in the US, I took advantage of the photography opportunities it presented to test out my Vanguard VEO gear. Which, it turns out, is just at home in the city as it in in locations as stunning as''Yosemite''and''the Grand Canyon''.''Today I want to share some of my favourite spots for photography in San Francisco, from my personal photography expeditions around the city. I’ll also share some resources at the end which will help you find more locations for your own adventure. Just be aware – San Francisco has countless opportunities for photography, so you’re going to need a while!''Let’s get started with some of my favourite places to shoot San Francisco’s iconic Golden Gate Bridge, and then move onto some other locations around the city.''The Best Photography Spots in San Francisco''1. Baker’s Beach''I’ll start off with my favourite location in San Francisco for shooting the bridge, Baker’s Beach. You’ll have to park above the beach and walk down to it, but the view as the sun set across the water is just stunning.''You can also walk from here towards the beach for closer shots (although be aware of the tide!) if you want the bridge to seem larger. There are also some photogenic rocks the closer you get to the bridge for foreground composition.''I was pretty happy with just hanging out on the beach and enjoying the sunset though.''2. Battery Spencer and Vista Point''On the opposite side of the bay there are two easily accessible locations to shoot the bridge from – Battery Spencer and Vista Point. Battery Spencer is a little higher, and puts the city of San Francisco behind the bridge. Or it would, on a clear day. Which, as you can see from my photos, I didn’t exactly have.''Still, the Fog is kind of a San Francisco thing, so it’s not really the end of the world if it’s a bit foggy. It adds to the atmosphere, you can tell yourself. If you’re really lucky, then you will be able to get above the fog and shoot the bridge poking out of it from the Marin Headlands (see below). I wasn’t lucky.''Across on the other side of the freeway (there’s a pedestrian tunnel to go underneath), is Vista Point. From here you can shoot the bridge with the skyline of San Francisco visible. It’s also a great location to shoot directly down the length of the bridge.''3. Bonita Point Lighthouse and Marin Headlands''Once you’ve visited Battery Spencer and realised the whole world is covered in a thick, impenetrable fog, don’t panic. Head further up the coastal road and if you’re lucky, you might be able to get above the fog and get some seriously epic photos.''As previously mentioned, I wasn’t exactly lucky.''Still, I could definitely See The Potential, which is why this drive, all the way along the Marin Headlands to the Bonita Point Lighthouse, is included in my location options. There are also some wonderful abandoned old fortresses up here, so if you’re into that kind of grungy decay, you’ll do well up here.''4. Land’s End''Side note –''Land’s End''is my favourite place in San Francisco for a spot of walking. You can walk from the car park here all along the headland, with excellent views of the Marin Headlands and the Golden Gate bridge. The beaches here are also excellent for longer exposure work, with plenty of rocks and rushing water to get excited about.''With a longer lens, you can can also get some great shots of the bridge from here.''That’s probably enough of the Golden Gate Bridge. Check out my resources section at the end for some more excellent ideas on locations for shooting the bridge at different times of day. Now, let’s talk about some of the locations in the city for photography.''5. The Financial District''Like many US cities, San Francisco has some gorgeous skyscraper’s to admire, with my favourite being the Transamerica building – a bizarre pyramid shaped building that is a lot of fun to shoot.''With the right cloud cover, an ultra-wide lens and a Neutral Density filter (check out my''photography gear post''for tips), you can have a lot of fun shooting the buildings in the financial district.''6. China Town''If you’re into colorful street photography, head to China Town. I was lucky, and caught the Chinese New Year’s Parade, which was spectacular, but you don’t need an event like that to get some great street shots of a different style to the rest of the city.''Street photography is really more about being unobtrusive, so a tripod didn’t come in that handy, but since the VEO range is so light anyway, it wasn’t a problem to stuff it in my bag whilst I went handheld.''7. The Castro District''A little different to Chinatown, the Castro is the centre of gay San Francisco. The colours (and characters!) here are just fantastic, and I was particularly enamoured by the rainbow coloured crosswalks. There are also plenty of rainbow flags here of course.''8. Corona Heights''If it’s a fantastic view of the San Francisco skyline you’re after, head up Corona Heights, where you’ll get a fantastic view across the whole city. We came up here recently as part of a''San Francisco walking tour'', and the climb up was more than worth it!''9. Pier 7''San Francisco is surrounded by water, and as a result has a rich and interesting maritime heritage. It also has a great many piers to explore – the most famous of which is Pier 39, also known as Fisherman’s Wharf.''I’d recommend starting your Pier exploration at the Ferry Building, and walking from there all the way to Pier 39, with a stop off at Pier 7 on the way. You’ll see some delightful old-time street cars on the way, and also have the opportunity to stop off at Pier 7, which is my favourite.''The street lights along the pier are beautifully symmetrical, plus there’s an excellent view of the Transamerica building.''10. Pier 39 (Fisherman’s Wharf)''Of course, you can’t come to San Francisco without coming to Fisherman’s Wharf, the most amazing tourist trap in town. Which, as you would imagine, makes for some excellent photo opportunities. Oh, and the clam chowder isn’t half bad either. Get the stuff from Bourdin, served in a sourdough bun. It’s delicious.''Where was I? Ah yes, photography. Pier 39 is good for photographing people, sea lions, and people taking pictures of sea lions. There are also all kinds of stores and street entertainers to keep you going.''Pier 39 is also a good spot for getting photographs of Alcatraz, as there are some lovely views out into the bay, particularly with a long lens.''11. Nob Hill and Powell Street''Trams! You can’t leave San Francisco without an iconic photo of a tram, ideally ascending or descending one of those improbably steep hills. I have a couple of options for you. First – Powell Street, at the Market Street end of the cable car, where the cars are turned around. Personally I found this area a bit crowded for decent photos, but if you head up Powell a little, you can sometimes find a row of cable cars that are waiting for their turn. Which means you can get some people-less pictures, if that’s your thing.''If you want some shots of the trams in action, then you’re going to have to walk. My advice is to head up Powell Street to the intersection with California. Here you’ll be able to get some good steep street shots. Pack a long lens for some nice compression effects.''Whilst you’re in the area, you can also enjoy some of the architecture of the Nob Hill area, which has some fantastically grand hotels.''12. Mission District''If you’re looking for street art, or just something a bit more gritty, then head to the Mission district. There’s a whole alley of street art to start you off, after which you can wander the Mission District. This area used to be one of the more dangerous in the city, but has become a lot safer in recent years.''Where to Stay in San Francisco''There are plenty of options for accommodation in San Francisco. We’ve stayed at and are happy to recommend the''Hotel Rex'', which is well located in the city center and within walking distance of many of the locations in this photography guide. You can see more''options for hotels in San Francisco''here.''Additional reading and resources for photographing San Francisco''I don’t feel that one post can cover the whole city, nor do I feel myself to be anywhere near an expert in all the photographic locations in San Francisco. I’ve not even mentioned the Bay Bridge, the Painted Ladies, Haight-Ashbury, the various musuems… the list goes on!''Thankfully, this isn’t the only website in the world, and there are a good number of other posts as well as books available on the subject. Some to take a look at include:''The''top photos spots in San Francisco'', according to Nomadic Pursuits.''An excellent guide to the''Best Places to Photography the Golden Gate Bridge'', by my friend Brendan.''Thoughts on the''best photo locations in San Francisco'', from Shot Hotspot.''Thomas Hawk’s''Top 10 Places for Photography in San Francisco''Jess’s Guide to the''Top 10 Things to Do In Golden Gate Park''– another excellent photography location!''A''Digital Field Guide to Photographing San Francisco''The''Photographer’s Guide to San Francisco''If you are looking for a tripod (and if you’re serious about your photography, you absolutely should have one!), then Vanguard have an excellent range. The''VEO system''I was using for this shoot is specifically designed for travel, meaning it’s super-light and easy to use, plus they won’t break the bank.''If you’re in the market for a new camera, check out my definitive''guide to the best travel camera'', with something for every budget''My other''photography location guides'', to get you the best shot in destinations around the world''Finally, if you’re looking to learn more about photography, I run an''online travel photography course''which covers everything I know about photography, plus you get one on one feedback directly from me as you go! Check it out and let me know if you have any questions.''And that’s it for my guide to some of San Francisco’s best photography locations! If you’ve visited San Francisco, do share your favourite photography locations in the comments below – particularly if you found a great spot for sunset or sunrise, and don’t forget to check out some of my other''photography location guides''for more travel photography inspiration!''SHARE ON''Wait a minute, you’re thinking. Well, you might be thinking, if you’ve been here for quite some time. Haven’t I already written a blog post about''ballooning in Costa Brava''?''Well, yes. I have.''But seriously, who turns down a ballooning opportunity? Plus, this was with a different company,''Vol de Coloms''. and we were to fly over an entirely different part of Costa Brava – the volcanic foothills of the Pyrenees.''Getting ready for the off.''Can you beat sitting two thousand feet over a gorgeous turquoise ocean, peering down at more turtles than you thought existed, and listening to Tom Petty belting out “Free Falling”?.''Maybe. But for me, it was a perfect moment. Let’s rewind to the beginning, and do some word association.''The Florida Keys!''Hemingway. Beaches. Fishing. Drinking. Sunsets. Retirement.''When I was invited to the Florida Keys, these were the words that floated through my mind. It didn’t take much arm-twisting on anyone’s part to encourage me to pack my bags and fly across the States to find out how well aligned me expectations were with the reality. Which was precisely what I did.''The trip was a five day adventure, starting in Miami and driving the length of the Keys as far as the road would take us, stopping off at as many highlights as possible on the way and eating as much seafood as was humanly possible. Which was quite a lot. Here’s what we got up to.''What to do in the Florida Keys''1. Feed the tarpon at Robbie’s''There’s a lot of sea life in the Keys, and if you visit''Robbie’s''restaurant then you can get up close and personal with the tarpon – a fairly large species of fish that you can hand feed.''I didn’t actually hand feed said tarpon – I left that task to the incredibly brave Justin, a fellow-blogger at True Nomads. Justin was a true solider, holding onto the fish food as long as possible, coaxing the tarpon higher and higher out of the water in order to help get the shot.''He was bleeding by the end of it (if you go, let go of the fish food before the tarpons get grumpy and encase your hand), although it was worth it for the photos. Nice job Justin.''2. Get blown away by the sunset at Mallory Square''Every day at Mallory Square, at the edge of Key West, there’s a party at sunset known as the Sunset Celebration. Just across the water from here is an exclusive island, called Sunset Key.''These were hints that perhaps this was going to be a good spot for watching the sunset.''It was.''Words can’t really do justice to the magnificence of the sunset that I witnessed that night. Which is why I took these pictures.''What I can say is that if you do go to watch the sunset, hang around a bit until after the crucial sunset moment. I hung around for a good while, which is how I managed to catch this, easily my favourite lightning shot to date.''3. Fly out to the Dry Tortugas''You can, of course, take a boat to the Dry Tortugas. It takes around three hours each way, and means your day is going to involve a lot of staring at the ocean and wondering what life would be like as a pirate.''Whilst this is no bad thing, a preferable option is to arrive in style and panache, by flying over in a seaplane. This takes half an hour, and is a heck of a lot of fun. Particularly because you get a headset, which as well as some knowledge about the journey and what you are flying over, is also filled with excellent songs.''Like I said at the start of this post, listening to some of your favourite music (the pilot had excellent taste) whilst floating in the air above turtles, dolphins, and postcard-perfect vistas is not a terrible way to spend half an hour of your life.''Of course, the journey was also about the destination, which in this case was very much worth it.''The''Dry Tortugas''are a group of seven islands located almost seventy miles west of Key West. They are a National Park, with the highlight being Fort Jefferson on Garden Key, a gargantuan brick fortress which is claimed to be the largest brick structure in the western hemisphere.''This hexagonal structure was originally conceived as a fortress, and whilst it did perform this function it was never actually completed. It was instead used in it’s incomplete state as a prison fortress, a role it served throughout the American Civil War, with the prisoners tasked with the arduous job of continuing construction.''It’s most infamous prisoner was Dr. Mudd, who was imprisoned here after helping to treat John Wilkes Booth, Lincoln’s assassinator. Following the end of the civil war, the fortress started to lose military usefulness, and was from 1888 onwards instead used as a military quarantine station, before being turned into a National Monument and then a National Park.''Nowadays the structure is a tourist attraction, and what an attraction it is. In gorgeous surroundings I was just boggled by the sheer scale of the place, a four storey structure designed to accommodate 1,000 guns and to be impervious to any kind of attack. A hugely formidable place, it was hard to imagine anyone even considering an attack, which I guess was kind of the point.''4. Watch the world’s most surreal music festival''I’ve been to a few festivals around the world, including Glastonbury, WOMAD and ConFest. However, nothing prepared me for the festival they hold annually in the Florida Keys – the Underwater Music Festival.''Celebrating it’s 31st year when we took part, this two hour long event features costumed performers bobbing away on the bottom of the ocean, whilst the strains of ocean-themed music are played through underwater speakers.''I have to admit, there was something quite relaxing about snorkelling in the clear waters off the Keys whilst listening to “Under the Sea” from the Little Mermaid soundtrack, watching an actual mermaid playing a wooden guitar accompanied by both Spongebob Squarepants and Patrick the Starfish. Turns out you don’t need to take any drugs at all to have a trip in the Florida Keys.''The underwater music festival is held every year, and you’ll need to find a boat to get out to it as it’s held a few miles out to sea, over one of the more popular diving and snorkelling spots. If you get a chance, it’s totally worth doing.''5. Cycle the seven-mile bridge''You know when you have a brilliant idea for something that will look incredibly cool and make you seem like the''hoopiest frood''on the planet? And then it becomes blindingly clear within minutes that said idea is going to cause you a great deal of discomfort for a prolonged period of time, but damn it, you’re going to crack on anyway because You’ve Committed?''That was my experience cycling the''seven-mile bridge''in the Florida Keys. Unlike everyone else, who chose a perfectly ordinary two wheel bicycle with modern trappings like gears, I decided it would be hilarious to hire a tricycle.''It was, admittedly, hilarious. For at least a few seconds. Until i realised that tricycles are heavy, awkward, prone to tipping over at the slightest hint of a sideways incline, only have one gear, and have a seat that wouldn’t be out of place as a medieval torture instrument.''Anyway, I was committed, so I put a brave face on it and off we went.''The seven-mile bridge consists of two bridges, running parallel to each other. The original bridge was built for the railroad, and then converted for automobile use. However, it wasn’t ever really wide enough for this purpose, and the new bridge was built next to it in 1978.''Nowadays the old bridge is only open to pedestrians (and foolhardy tri-cyclists), and offers a wonderful 2.2 mile journey over the shallow waters below, ending at Pigeon Key.''The ride out wasn’t to Pigeon Key wasn’t so bad, with the wind at my back, and the views were, it has to be said, just gorgeous. Puffy white clouds, endlessly azure oceans – you get the idea.''The ride back, with the wind having picked up and firmly blowing into my face, would best be described as a slog. Still, don’t let me and my damaged nether regions put you off. I’d highly recommend hiring a bicycle and taking the time to peddle out to Pigeon Key. Just make sure it’s a two-wheeler.''6. Ate all the Seafood. And the Pie.''If you ask anyone in the Keys what the local speciality cuisine is, you’re going to be told about the seafood. Being surrounded by water, and with fishing being a major sport and livelihood in the area, that’s not really a surprise.''And the seafood is, as you would imagine, pretty darn good, even if not exactly cheap. We ate seafood towers, lobsters, fish caught that day and grilled up, crab cakes cooked before us on tables set on the beach – it was a marine smogasboard.''If you don’t like seafood, you are going to be in a bit of a pickle in the keys. Unless you like pie of course.''I can’t talk about the food of the Keys without touching on the Pie, namely the''Key Lime Pie''. I lost count of how many slices of the stuff we ate in our five day trip, but it was an embarrassingly large amount. And of course, every slice was labelled as the best in the Keys. I’m not sure where my favourite was, but it was all darn good to be honest. Except for my waistline.''Highlights of our culinary journey in the Keys included dinner at the fabulous''Latitudes Restaurant''on Sunset Key and dinner on the beach at''Marker 88'', both of which I can recommend highly. Ideally accompanied by some sort of fantastically coloured cocktail or three.''7. Learnt about Hemingway''Of course, no visit to the Keys is complete without a journey to to learn about Hemingway, who lived, drank and wrote here for eight years. The town has plenty of Hemingway related action, including the bars he frequented, and the''annual Hemingway lookalike contest''.''The dedicated Hemingway aficionado though will want to head straight to the house he called home from 1931-1939, now open to visitors and called, as you would expect, the''Hemingway Home''.''A tour of the property by one of the knowledgeable guides is the best way to get a handle on the home, you’ll learn about Hemingway, his loves, his life in the Keys and of course, his writing. The house itself is also interesting from a historical perspective, being the first property in the Keys to have indoor plumbing, an upstairs bathroom and a pool.''If you also happen to like cats, then you’re going to love the Hemingway Home, as it is home to at least forty of the legendary''six-toed cats''– all of whom are descendants from the cats that Hemingway himself had, and the majority of whom are incredibly friendly, and delighted to be petted.''If you want to learn more about Hemingway, check out this detailed post that Jess wrote, all about''Finding Ernest Hemingway in the Florida Keys''.''Where we stayed and ate in the Florida Keys''We had the privilege of eating and sleeping at some fantastic properties during our trip to the Florida Keys, some of which I’ve mentioned through the post. Here’s a full list of where we slept, ate and drank, all of which will serve you well should you be planning you own trip:''Cheeca Lodge'', a 27 acre property and one of Travel and Leisure magazines 500 Greatest Hotels in the world. Spectacularly located for sunrise, and the giant outdoor hot tub baths were nice too. The restaurant is also excellent.''Ocean Key Resort and Spa''. Right in the heart of Key West, this hotel is perfectly located for exploring all the attractions of Key West, as well as having spectacular sunset views''Robbie’s''– As well as feeding the tarpon, we had a wonderful casual lunch here.''Marker 88''– Gorgeous sunset views and cocktails, this Upper Keys restaurant owned by Chef Bobby Stoky has been serving epic seafood since 1967''El Meson de Pepe''– A little bit different, this is a family owned and operated Cuban restaurant, serving up Cuban classics since 1984.''Azur Restaurant''– If you want a departure from the local cuisine, this Mediterranean style restaurant might be just the ticket.''Blue Heaven''– noted for being where Hemingway refereed boxing matches, this place is a must for breakfast. Go for the lobster eggs benedict, and thank us later.''Latitudes''– located on the exclusive Sunset Key island, and part of the Sunset Key Guest Cottages, this incredible restaurant serves up some of the finest dining in the Keys, accompanied by truly excellent cocktails. One for a special occasion.''In conclusion''I had a fabulous time in the Florida Keys. If you’re into history, fishing, sea food, water-sports or just having a good time, then I’m sure you will too. Bring plenty of suncream and, depending on the season, insect repellent, although I wasn’t bothered by any bites whilst I was there.''So you know: My trip to the Florida Keys was covered by the''Florida Keys and Key West Tourism Council'', who covered our transport, accommodation, activities and flights. All opinions remain my own – see my''code of ethics''for more on how this stuff works.''SHARE ON''I spent a good deal of my childhood in Oxford, and it has long been one of my favourite cities in the UK. On a recent trip to England, I couldn’t wait to show Jess around, and have her experience some of the sights of the city, from punting on the river to exploring the spectacularly pretty University college buildings.''We spent a couple of days in Oxford, which is more than enough time to explore thoroughly as it’s a very compact and easily walkable city. In fact, even if you’re staying in London, you could easily do a day trip here as it’s only an hour by rail from central London, and still take in a good many highlights. To help you plan, here are some ideas for what you could do on a day in Oxford, based on both our recent visit and my previous experience living there.''Things to do in Oxford on a Day Trip''1. Take a walking tour''One thing Jess and I did this time round that was different to my previous visits was to take an official walking tour. This was an excellent way to get oriented (I always get lost in Oxford, the place is a maze!), learn about some of the history of the city, as well as see some University Colleges, of which there are many!''We took the''Official University and City Tour'', which start at the visitor centre and are run by the official Oxford Tourism Board. Tours run a number of times a day, and prices are £9 per adult, with concessions available.''The tour lasted a couple of hours, with our guide taking us to some of the highlights of Oxford, including the covered market, the high street, the Radcliffe Camera, the Bodleian Library and of course, a number of the university colleges.''It was excellent value for money, and a wonderful way to quickly get a handle on the layout of Oxford, the history of the town, and to learn more about the university colleges. We also went in to a number of the universities, and were given advice and tips as to which ones we should come back to to visit independently.''Finally, our last port of call was the optional Divinity School, a stunning building which also doubled up as the location for the Hogwarts Sanatorium in the Harry Potter movies. Film buffs will know that Oxford was featured in many of the Harry Potter films – there’s a''good guide here from the BBC''on where to find more of them!''All in all, a very worthwhile couple of hours of exploration!''2. Visit the University Colleges''We visited a number of the colleges on our walking tour, and they are just stunning. Our guide had given us some ideas as to which we could visit by ourselves, including some of his personal favourites, and I would very much recommend setting aside a bit of time to explore the colleges by yourself.''A little bit about Oxford University. One of the oldest Universities in the world,''Oxford University''is made up of thirty eight colleges, each of which is independently governed. There’s no campus, with all the colleges, halls, faculties and departments set throughout the city centre.''Visiting the colleges is a bit hit and miss depending on the time of year. In addition, some of the colleges (notably Christchurch), do charge an entry fee. Since opening times vary depending on the time of year and the exam schedule, your best bet is to draw up a shortlist of colleges you would like to visit, and pop into the porter’s office for each college to see if it’s open. The porter’s office is pretty much always at the entrance, and we found that they were always more than happy to help us out.''We visited a number of the colleges, including David’s College, Exeter College and Trinity College. I particularly liked the chapel at Exeter College, arguably one of the most picturesque of all the college chapels, and the gardens at Trinity College was also gorgeous to walk in.''Christchurch, which is generally regarded as one of the more spectacular colleges, was unfortunately closed on the day we visited, but if it’s open when you’re in town, I’d highly recommend popping by.''3. Go Punting''Punting is a classic pastime in Oxford, and one that is best enjoyed over a lengthy period of time, where you can learn how to actually do it, and maybe even reach a pub somewhere on your journey.''I’ve punted a few times before, but usually in the company of a competent punting friend. On this visit, it was just Jess and I, so I was given the task of figuring out how to make the boat move along the river in the direction I wanted it to go.''After a slightly confusing start where I confused the front and back of the punt, and following some helpful advice from the punt house as to my technique, we set off upstream, with the theory being that this would make for an easier return journey. I settled into a vaguely efficient rhythm, managing to avoid both the riverbanks and other punters, and we had a lovely time, even if we didn’t get quite far enough to find a pub.''For punting, I’ve always gone with the''Cherwell Boathouse''. It’s a great location, there are pubs in both directions, and they have a lovely bar and restaurant on-site if you don’t quite make it the half hour upstream that’s required to find a pub. We went this time, and were thankful for the friendly service and helpful punting advice! Punts are hired either by the hour, or the day, with the most up to date prices on their website.''4. Imbibe a Beverage''If you struggle to punt your way to a pub, don’t worry. Oxford has no shortage of fantastic watering holes, with some personal favourites including The Eagle & Child (popular with Tolkien), The White Horse, the Lamb and Flag, and the King’s Arms.''At the top of my list though is''The Turf Tavern''. A little tricky to find, being as it is down a tiny alley just next to the Bridge of Sighs, if you’re struggling just find a local to give you directions. This is one of the oldest pubs in Oxford, and has a lovely outdoor beer garden as well as plentiful indoor seating and a wide selection of beers as well as food.''It’s popular with University students, and has had it’s fair share of famous faces over the years, including former Australian Prime Minister Bob Hawke, who downed a yard of ale in 11 seconds. Not as easy as it sounds. Other famous visitors include Bill Clinton, and legend has it that it was at the Turf Tavern that he “did not inhale”. Whatever you think of that story, you’re bound to love this venue.''5. Visit Oxford Castle''If you are travelling with children, they’ll likely love a visit to''Oxford Castle''. Originally built in the 10th century, the castle served first as the main defensive centre of the town, back when castles were genuinely useful for that, before being used as a prison from around the 14th century.''Whilst much of the original castle was destroyed in the English Civil War, the parts that survived were incorporated into Oxford’s official prison, and stayed that way until 1996, when it was concluded that it probably wasn’t the most modern of prison constructions, and decommissioned.''Now, the surviving castle complex serves a number of functions, with part of it being a hotel. As a visitor wanting to learn more about the history though, you’ll want to take an''Oxford Castle Unlocked''tour, which gives you access to the Motte (a big earth mound), St George’s Tower, the crypt and parts of the prison.''The tour, which ran for around half an hour, largely comprised St George’s tower, and was performed by a character actor who assumed the role of King Stephen. From him, we learnt all about the history of the tower and it’s various uses, as well as some notable characters who had been held here. We also got to go up on the roof of the tower itself, which had great views over the city. After the tour was complete, we were able to explore the prison, where we got a bit of an insight into prison life over the years, which looked pretty miserable! You can buy tickets online''here''.''6. Climb the University Church''Regular readers will know that one of my favourite ways to see a city is from above, usually by finding a nice tower and climbing to the top of it. It turns out that even in all my years living around Oxford I had never found a suitable tower, which was a bit of a failing as it turns out there’s an excellent view to be had from the top of the''University Church of St. Mary the Virgin'', which is right next to the Radcliffe Camera.''It’s a bit of a climb to the top, and there’s an entry fee of £4, but the view is more than worth both the effort and expense.''Practicalities''Where to stay in Oxford''There are plenty of options in Oxford for accommodation to suit the majority of budgets. We stayed a little way outside of the city centre at the peaceful''Hawkwell House Hotel'', found in Iffley Village. This is just a short taxi from Oxford City centre, or a ten minute bus ride. It’s also walkable via a lovely riverside footpath.''Our room was very comfortable, and the included English breakfast was of course appreciated. Other details like free wi-fi and luggage storage rounded out a solid offering.''If you’d prefer to be more central, there are lots of options for city centre accommodation in Oxford – check out the''booking.com listings for Oxford here''to get yourself started.''How to Get To Oxford''Oxford is very easy to get to, being served by trains and buses, and of course by car. There are direct trains to London Paddington multiple times an hour – if you get one of the fast trains the journey time is around an hour. Avoid the local trains which stop at more than four stations on the route, as this can make the journey more like two hours!''There are also buses which leave the centre of London, Heathrow Airport, Gatwick Airport and Stanstead Airport. Buses are usually a little bit cheaper than the train, although they do cost a bit more.''If you’d prefer to drive yourself, Oxford is between 60 and 90 minutes drive from London. If you’re visiting Oxford as part of my''detailed two week UK itinerary'', then you’ll know that a hire car is my preferred method of getting around the country, giving you more flexibility and control over your trip.''Check here for a competitive car hire quote'', sourced from up to 17 providers.''Further reading''We’ve got lots of resources to help you plan your trip to the UK, from posts we’ve written ourselves to third party content we’re happy to recommend. Here it is:''If you’re planning a trip around the UK, I have both a''one week itinerary of the UK''and a''two week UK Itinerary''for you to check out.''For budget planning, see our guide to''how much it costs to travel in the UK''For journeys beyond Oxford, we have guides to many of the cities and sights in the UK for you to bookmark, including:''A two day Edinburgh Itinerary''&''21 Highlights in Edinburgh''A''2 Day Glasgow itinerary''Looking for an epic Scottish road trip? Take a look at our guide to the''North Coast 500''A guide to''10 of the best Stately Homes in England'', to give you some ideas as you plan your itinerary''Essential Sight-Seeing in London''The''Best Photography Locations in London''Tips on Buying and Using the London Pass''Eight Things to Do in Kensington''Visiting''Blenheim Palace and the Cotswolds''20 Things To Do in Dublin''A''Guide to Touring the Scottish Borders''If you want a physical (or digital!) book to accompany your travels, then we suggest the''Oxford Insight Guide''So you know: we partnered with Visit Britain for our trip to Oxford, who covered our accommodation, walking tour, punting trip and Oxford Castle visit. As always, opinions remain our own – check out our''code of ethics''for our disclosure policy.''SHARE ON''Remember how''I went to Yosemite''to take pictures and share them with you, as part of my series of''photography location guides around the world''?''Admittedly, Yosemite was a tough act to follow. Maybe I should have aimed a bit lower for my first post in the series. I think, however, I may have found a worthy successor. On a recent road trip through the USA, we stopped off at the''Grand Canyon''.''Which is rather a pretty place, quite nice for photography. I have no idea how I’m going to follow these two locations up, to be honest it’s probably going to be downhill from here.''Back to the Grand Canyon. We had allocated two full days to take it in, and I spent a good deal of time researching the best places to shoot the sunrise and the sunset at the Grand Canyon, both online and through questioning the park rangers when we arrived. Note that this is all for the south rim – time was tight, so we didn’t have a chance to get to the other side.''I appreciate that a couple of days isn’t very much, but to be honest, I think that most visitors come for around about this length of time, and you will have enough time to see as much as you want. I took in the Grand Canyon sunset from two different locations, and sunrise from one, and was very happy with the results. Here are my tips for where to go for shooting the Grand Canyon at sunset and sunrise, as well as some general advice on visiting.''Grand Canyon Sunset and Sunrise Locations''Sunset locations at the Grand Canyon: Hopi Point and Yavapai Point''A little pre-visit research, followed by a chat with the rangers on arrival confirmed that Hopi Point was a good option for sunset at the Grand Canyon – the location thrusts out a way into the Canyon, so you have a clear view in both directions.''The key thing to remember when shooting sunset at the Grand Canyon is that you really want to be shooting in the opposite direction to the sun, slightly counter-intuitively. This is because the contrast is super high as the sun sinks low, and shooting into the sun won’t reveal the glory of what is below you very well.''Point your camera away from the sun though, and you’ll see the light on the rocks below, which is just spectacular.''One thing to note at this point, about this location, and about many of the locations in the Grand Canyon. It’s going to be busy. Sunset is a very popular time for folks to come out, and locations such as Hopi Point get very crowded. It’s not all bad news though! Just step a little away from the crowds and fences (take care, the drops are quite incredible!), and you will be able to find your own quiet photography paradise to get the shots you want.''In the case of Hopi Point, I went a little way east of the main viewing area, and was very happy with the results. The advantage of Hopi Point was that as it’s so popular, there are a great many buses ready and waiting to get everyone home after the sunset is over. More on getting around and the bus system at the end of the post.''The other location I went for sunset was Yavapai Point. This is a little walk from the visitor centre, although there is a shuttle bus option. I found myself a route down to the edge which appeared to have excellent views up and down the canyon, and waited to see what would happen.''As you can see, what happened was quite pretty! Admittedly, the mile deep drop was fairly terrifying, but the views of the Canyon and the light (again, shooting away from the sun until it set), were magnificent!''Sunrise at the Grand Canyon: Mather’s Point''I will freely admit that I have a major flaw as a photographer – I hate early mornings. Given that the best light of the day is at sunrise and sunset, this means that I’m missing around fifty percent of my shooting opportunities just because I’m lazy.''Well, I think I’m going to have to change that, and start trying to get up earlier.''I’m going to issue a spoiler – the sunrise at the Grand Canyon was easily the best I’ve ever seen, and entirely worth the 4am start for.''I took a bit of time to find a great location for sunrise, walking up and down the rim path near Mather’s Point, which is by the visitor centre. Mather’s Point is a popular location for sunrise, as this photo shows:''and I didn’t want to be battling crowds to get the shot. So again, I headed east along the rim, in this case around 300 metres, and found myself a handy spot away from both people and railings. I grabbed a selfie (tripods have so many good uses!) to give you an idea of where I was.''As you can see, not a bad spot for sunrise. And these were the photos I got:''Which, as you can imagine, I was quite happy with.''Other Grand Canyon Photography Locations''Ok, so it’s not all sunset and sunrise. If you’ve got more time at the Grand Canyon, then you’ll find yourself wanting to shoot during the day. In this case – pray for some clouds. The canyon is vast, and getting a sense scale can be a bit challenging.''We drove up and down the Canyon Rim a little, and found countless opportunities to stop off and take photos. One favourite was Duck Rock (first photo below), a rock which is said to look like a duck. I admit I wasn’t totally convinced, but it made for a nice piece of foreground!''Finally, in the main cluster of hotels and bars near the train station there are ample opportunities along the rim for photos, including some excellent spots to get that all important selfie. Which, I promise you, will look a lot better with a tripod.''Practicalities for visiting the Grand Canyon''First, you need to remember that the Grand Canyon is a hugely popular destination, for overseas visitors and Americans alike. If you plan on going, book your accommodation well in advance! Camping, which was what we did, is a good option, but in the busiest summer months sites can book up months in advance. Lodging options and links for reservations can be found''here''.''Next, all those people mean that getting around the Grand Canyon is a process that is carefully managed. Whilst you can drive your own car, the canyon road network is labyrinth like, and I’d suggest that instead of driving you take''the free shuttle bus''. Large parts of the park can only be accessed by this shuttle bus network for much of the year, and they’ll get you where you want to go. At popular times of day (sunset!), be aware that there can be queues for the buses, so arrive well in advance (at least an hour) so as not to miss a moment.''What else? Well, in the summer of course it’s going to be seriously hot here, so be aware of the''signs of dehydration''and keep yourself well topped off with water. Food is available in a variety of locations, and there’s an excellent grocery store, as well as a bank and post office, so you don’t need to worry about that.''Further Reading and other Resources for Photographing the Grand Canyon''If you want more information, both on photography at the Grand Canyon, and on visiting in general, then I can highly recommend the following resources:''The''Photographers Guide to the Grand Canyon''.''This''blog post''which shares 10 tips for photographing the Grand Canyon.''If you want to do more than just sunset and sunrise (you’ve got a whole day after all!)''this blog post''shares 10 of the top photo locations in the Grand Canyon''And here’s another''Photographer’s guide to the Grand Canyon''For more general advice on visiting the Grand Canyon, including visiting both the north and south rims, this excellent post on''spending four days at the Grand Canyon''has you covered.''If you are looking for a tripod (and if you’re serious about your photography, you absolutely should have one!), then Vanguard have an excellent range. The''VEO system''I was using for this shoot is specifically designed for travel, meaning it’s super-light and easy to use, plus they won’t break the bank.''If you’re in the market for a new camera, check out my definitive''guide to the best travel camera'', with something for every budget''My other''photography location guides'', to get you the best shot in destinations around the world''Finally, if you’re looking to learn more about photography, I run an''online travel photography course''which covers everything I know about photography, plus you get one on one feedback directly from me as you go! Check it out and let me know if you have any questions.''If you’ve visited the Grand Canyon, do share your experiences and thoughts in the comments below – particularly if you found a great spot for sunset or sunrise!''SHARE ON''A classic US road trip has long been on my list of Things To Do. Jess and I had been planning an adventure across the US for the summer of 2015, and we were delighted when''Jucy''offered to partner with us on the adventure and lend us one of their spectacularly green RV’s in which to travel.''For those of you not familiar with the company, Jucy was founded in''New Zealand''back in 2001, and has swiftly grown to cover New Zealand, Australia and the USA, offering RV hire as their main service. With vehicles that are more compact than the RV’s you may be more familiar with, they are aimed at the more budget conscious traveller who wants something that’s relatively fuel efficient and easy to drive.''Anyone who has visited New Zealand or Australia will have seen the bright green and purple Jucy vehicles being driven around by happy looking travellers – I certainly saw plenty of them during my years in the two countries. They aren’t as familiar a sight in the US yet, but I imagine that will change in the years to come. We certainly got a lot of attention during our trip! But I get ahead of myself. Let’s get back to the beginning.''Looking at the map of America, we knew that we had to do something pretty epic to put our Jucy RV through its paces. Some sort of classic American road trip seemed appropriate. But which one?''Well, when it came down to it, there was only one to choose from. But we did three, because that’s just how thorough we wanted to be with our test. We started out in San Francisco, driving down the mind bogglingly pretty''Pacific Coast Highway''to Los Angeles.''Then we picked up''Route 66''in Santa Monica, and followed it for 2,400 miles to Chicago, with the odd detour to see sights such as the Grand Canyon.''From Chicago, we hotfooted it across Illinois down to Independence, Missouri, where we took our chances with Dysentery and set off along''the Oregon Trail''all the way to, you guessed it, Oregon, where we finally turned south and found ourselves back in San Francisco.''Three paragraphs on a 7,000 mile road trip covering three distinct adventures doesn’t quite do them justice, and Jess and I will be covering a variety of aspects from these trips in a number of posts, both on this blog and over on''Independent Travel Cats''.''In this post though, I want to talk about our experience with the Jucy RV that we hired, so you can figure out if this sort of hire is right for you. I’ll start off with:''Everything you need to know about the Jucy Champ''In the US, unlike in Australia and New Zealand, there’s only one option when it comes to hiring a Jucy vehicle – the''Jucy Champ''. This is a four person vehicle, converted in-house by Jucy from a minivan base, which is either a''Dodge Grand Caravan''or a''Chrysler Town and Country''.''Jucy hires their vehicles to anyone over 21 years of age with an English language drivers license (pick up an''International Driving Permit''or a certified translation if your license is from a non-English country before you leave), and you can drive the vehicle anywhere in the US or Canada. You can even have multiple drivers at no extra cost, as long as they meet the requirements. If you are worried about driving in the USA, I’ve written a guide featuring some of my''top tips for driving in the USA''to help get you going on the road!''Let’s talk about the features, starting with the interior.''Features of the Jucy Champ''The interior is designed so you can comfortably fit four people when driving – two in the front, and two right at the back. Legally, there are belts for five, but unless it’s three kids or very close friends this might get uncomfortable for longer journeys.''When stopped, there is a place to put a table in the back, and you can sit four people around it. This is handy when the weather is inclement. It’s a minivan, so you can’t stand up inside, in case you were wondering!''For sleeping purposes, the back of the vehicle converts into a double bed (with the front seats all the way forward). I’m not that tall, at 5’ 10”, and I fit fine, but we thought it might be a bit tight if you were much over 6ft tall. All is not lost though, because this is where the awesome penthouse comes into play.''Atop of the Jucy Champ you will have noticed a large purple box. This isn’t for storage, rather, it’s a pop-up tent that has a mattress inside. This comfortably sleeps two people, and is accessed by a ladder. It also has lots of little areas for storage whilst you are up there, in the form of elasticated netting, so you won’t lose your car keys in the bedding! More on storage shortly. Space wise, it seemed more roomy than the downstairs options, and with netted windows on all four sides, there was plenty of air to keep us cool.''Right around the back of the vehicle is the kitchen area. Somehow, Jucy managed to fit a sink, draining area, chopping board, pull out stove (+ an extra stove for taking to a table), fridge, cutlery tray and pan storage, here.''I love cooking, and having this fully featured kitchen at the back was wonderful – morning coffee every day plus a self-cooked meal every night really made the trip. And it helped our budget to no end of course, not having to eat out for every meal. The fridge though was the crowning glory – I spent a year''driving and camping around Australia''living largely on tinned food due to the lack of refrigeration, and the joys of fresh food and cold beer were not lost on me!''Jucy offers a number of extras. Some, like the cookery kit and bedding, are kind of essential unless you want to bring your own pans or sleeping bag. Others, like camping chairs and table, are nice to have but not critical. You can also hire a GPS device, although I’d recommend travelling with an unlocked smartphone and just using that if you can, which will save you some money.''Finally, if you have any problems at all on your trip, or even just questions on how things work, there’s a 24 hour roadside assistance number you can call to get the help you need. We never needed to call this number, and had no problems at all, but it was nice to know it was there if we needed it!''Good Things About the Jucy Champ''There were loads of features that we loved about the Jucy Champ. I’m going to go over some of them now, and then talk about some of the trade-offs that a smaller vehicle like this necessitates. First though, some of our favourite aspects:''Lots of storage''. In the back of the vehicle, just behind the driver’s seat, there’s a huge compartment under the bench chair which goes deep into the vehicle, and into which you can fit a great deal of stuff. For two people, you’d easily be able to fit everything you need for your trip in here. For four people you might need to be a little more economic with your packing, but you should still manage. On top of that storage, the kitchen area has a very generous pan storage cupboard, and the fridge will suffice for your food. Unless you fill it with beer of course.''Plenty of power ports''. Everyone travels with lots of tech gear these days – cameras, phones, laptops. We’re certainly no exception. I was therefore thrilled to discover that the Jucy Champ had four of those cigarette lighter style 12v outlets, as well as two USB ports. For charging our phones and hooking up the GPS, we were set.''The one problem was our laptops and cameras, which require more conventional power sockets. We picked up a''power convertor on Amazon for $30'', which converts the 12v DC car power into a more conventional 110v output in the form of two US style plugs, which kept us going. You can grab one from Amazon at the previous link, or from most auto stores in the US.''Two batteries.''Powering a fridge, the interior lighting and charging our electronics uses up battery power. For this reason, the Jucy Champ comes with two batteries, one which is used for starting the engine, and the other for powering the accessories.''This means that even if you stop in the same place for days on end and run the second battery flat, you’ll always be able to start the vehicle. In addition, there’s a solar panel on the roof which trickle charges the batteries, keeping you topped off when it’s sunny. We were told that the second battery would last for a couple of days under normal usage, with a couple of hours of driving required to fill it up again. For most usage scenarios, this seemed more than enough!''One thing to remember – there are two 12v ports in the front of the vehicle which are powered by the engine battery. I’d suggest only using these when the engine is running so as not to flatten the battery.''Easy (and economical!) to drive.''This is one of the key reasons to hire this vehicle over a larger RV. It’s so easy to drive – essentially the same as a car with a slightly higher viewpoint. Being smaller than an RV (17ft long and 7ft high) meant that it was super-easy to park, and fuel consumption was also good. We averaged around 22mpg on our trip, with a mixture of interstate and standard road driving.''Other features I liked as a driver were the cruise control and the automatic gearbox, fairly standard features on US cars, which make long road trips a lot more pleasurable. A more unusual feature was the “manual” gearbox, where you could instruct the car to shift up and down gears by moving the gear level from left to right when in “Drive”. This was handy for engine braking on steeper inclines, something that automatic cars aren’t always great at.''Finally, there’s an “eco” button on the dashboard which activates a more economical mode, whereby the car will adjust its gear shifting to try and maximise fuel economy. We had this on for the entire journey.''Awesome stereo.''A road trip is nothing without music, and I put together some CDs before we set off containing all sorts of songs themed to our trip. The CD player supported both normal CD’s and CD’s full of MP3 tracks, which meant I could fit over 100 songs onto each CD, and the sound was excellent through the speakers.''In addition, there was an AUX-in port, and Jucy provided us with an AUX cable before we left, meaning I could just plug my phone in and listen to all the songs on that for the trip. There was no USB or Bluetooth stereo support, but that wasn’t an issue for us with the AUX cable.''Easy to convert.''There’s nothing worse on a road trip than arriving somewhere and having to spend ages converting the vehicle from “driving” mode to “sleeping mode”. Traditional RV’s tend to have the advantage here as they have so much space, but the Jucy Champ was so easy to convert between modes that it usually only took us a few minutes to get her ready to sleep in.''Some of the models of Jucy Champ have an electronic roof tent system, where you just press a button to pop up the tent. Ours was a manual mechanism that required me to wind the handle. This wasn’t difficult, but closing it was sometimes a bit challenging, as you have to ensure all the pieces of tent are inside. It is do-able though, even as a one-man job.''Hard to lose.''Ok, maybe this was just me, but I did love the fact that a bright green and purple vehicle is nearly impossible to lose in a car park after an hour of wandering around a giant shopping centre. The bright colours also attracted a lot of attention, and I lost count of the number of times we showed people all the features of our mini-RV. The kitchen at the back was always a firm favourite, and we struck up plenty of conversations thanks to Jucy’s stand out attire!''Electric doors.''Yes, I’m just a big kid at heart. I loved the fact that the big sliding doors on the side of the vehicle, as well as the rear door, could be remotely opened from the car key, or from inside by pressing a button.''Great kitchen.''I love cooking. The kitchen area in the Jucy Champ is pretty impressive, given the limited size available. The two stoves, powered by gas canisters (available for around $3 in the camping section of Walmart), were more than adequate for everything I wanted to cook, and the fridge was fantastic.''Window blinds.''When we slept inside, we obviously wanted privacy. All the rear windows are tinted, but on top of that they also all come with blinds that are custom cut to fit the windows. It can take a bit of practice to put these up as they attach by suction cups, but once you have it figured out they are easy enough to put up and take down.''Disadvantages of a Jucy Champ''Of course, life isn’t perfect, and neither was the Jucy Champ. To be honest, these “disadvantages” are really just things to know – having a smaller RV like this means some features of larger RV’s just don’t fit!''No electric hook-up.''This is one of the main drawbacks of the Jucy Champ, particularly when travelling in hot or cold months. Most large RV’s come with the ability to plug in to external power, meaning you don’t need to worry about running your second battery down when stopped, or travelling with a power convertor to charge your gear. It also means that paying to stay at a fancy campsite is largely negated because one of the benefits they offer is power hook-up that you can’t take advantage of. The main problem of not having hook-up though is:''No A/C when stopped.''This is likely to be the deal breaker for many people if travelling in the hotter months – as we did! When you stop the vehicle and turn the engine off, running the air conditioning would kill the engine battery very quickly. If there was an external hook-up, the A/C could run off that, although the additional wiring and electronics required probably wouldn’t fit in the vehicle. We were generally ok, as we could sleep on top in the roof tent when it was too hot, and the breezes kept us cool. We only had to retreat to a motel for one night, when we were passing through Needles in California, and the temperature hit 106F.''No toilet / shower facilities.''This should be fairly obvious from the size of the vehicle – there’s clearly no room for a shower or toilet anywhere! This wasn’t really a problem in the US though, as there are free toilets all over the place, and showers can be found in a variety of locations, from gas stations to camp sites.''Limited availability.''Currently, Jucy only has US locations in San Francisco, Los Angeles and Las Vegas. Admittedly this gives you access to some of America’s most spectacular landscapes, including California, Arizona and Utah, but does make longer cross country trips a bit harder as you’ll generally need to do a round-trip adventure.''Water fill-up.''The Jucy Champ has an on board water storage tank which carries six gallons of water which you can use for washing up (they’re not designed for drinking). The tank is filled via a little hole in the kitchen area, which we found rather tricky to use, as the hole was quite small and had no lip. A hosepipe wasn’t always available, so we ended up fashioning a funnel. This was really just a niggle.''No Pets.''This is a fairly standard hire-car policy, and is just worth bearing in mind – if you have a furry friend''Costs for this sort of US road-trip''We did a fairly extensive trip, so our costs were a bit higher than average. I’ll average out the costs to give you an idea of what a week might cost, as well as an average day, to help you budget for any length of trip.''We were on the road for a total of 26 days, and covered 7,000 miles, consuming around 300 gallons of fuel. The major costs for a trip like this are''fuel'',''food'',''hire of the vehicle''itself and''accommodation''.''Hire of the US model Jucy Champ in peak season is around''$112 / night'', or $784 a week. You can save a good deal by travelling off-peak, when prices are as low as''$33 / night,''which is what we would recommend as a cost-saving option.''On top of that you have to consider if you want insurance (''$0 – $22''/ night) and what sort of mileage you’ll be covering (mileage starts from''25c / mile'', packages are also available).''We went for the unlimited mileage package ($25 / night) and full insurance cover ($22 / night), so the total cost for our hire was''$159 a day'', or $1,113 per week. Insurance is not required, but we would certainly advise it!''For food, we normally ate out for lunch and made our own breakfast and dinner, so our food budget was around''$15 – $20 for the two of us each day'', or $105 – $140 per week.''Gas was a major expense, but only because we’re a bit nuts and chose to drive 7,000 miles. For smaller trips, such as the classic “California triangle”, you’re looking at more like 2,000 miles max, which is more manageable (and affordable!).''The Jucy Champ did around 22 miles to the gallon during our trip, so we consumed about 300 gallons of fuel, at a cost of''around $33 / day''with fuel averaging out at about $3 per gallon (gas varies by State from up to $5 a gallon in the west to $2 a gallon in the east of the country). I’d suggest that would be a maximum spend, and you would likely do much better than us!''In terms of accommodation, we stayed at motels a couple of times ($60 / night for two) and in the National Park campsite at the Grand Canyon ($18 / night for two), but other than that we were able to find free spots all across the US which saved us between $10 and $50 per night in camping fees. Campsites in the US vary quite a lot in price depending on the facilities, location and time of year, so do some research beforehand in order to keep inside your budget.''There’s an excellent resource here on''finding free camping locations in the US''to help you out. So our total accommodation spend was $156.''Putting all our numbers together:''Vehicle Hire: $159 / day''($112 hire + $22 insurance + $25 mileage)''Food: $15 / day''Fuel: $33 / day''Accommodation: $6 / day''TOTAL: $213 / day''Overall, our trip cost $213 per day for two people, or just over''$100 per day per person''.''Using our numbers, here are some forecast costs for a more average trip, let’s say''a''2,000 mile trip over two weeks from Las Vegas in March:''Vehicle Hire: $67 / day''($33 hire + $22 insurance + $12 mileage)''Food: $15 / day''Fuel: $20 / day''Accommodation: $10 / day''TOTAL: $112 / day''There’s also the option to add on bedding and towels for up to four people for a''fixed $100'', a''GPS for $10''/ day ($90 maximum), and''cooking equipment / utensils ($115 fixed).''Obviously all costs are indicative and your particular travel style will give different results, so please only take these as an guideline!''Travelling in the off-peak season is clearly the most cost-effective option for a trip. In addition, Jucy run a number of''special offers'', and depending on the time of year you go, sometimes a set number of miles will be included in the price. My advice would be to''visit the Jucy website''and put some dates and options in to find the best deal for your budget.''Another way to save is of course to travel with more people. The Jucy Champ has sleeping accommodation for four people, so if you travel as a group, the only cost that will really change will be your food. You’d be able to do a trip like ours in peak season for around''$50 – $60 per day per person,''or as little as''$30 per day per person off-peak''. That’s a serious bargain!''Obviously, there are various factors to take into consideration, including your food / drinks budget, how far you want to drive, what level of accommodation you are looking for, and your activities budget, but these numbers are a good place to start.''Is a Jucy Champ hire right for you?''We had a wonderful time in our Jucy Champ, but of course it’s not for everyone. We’d suggest it’s great if you’re on a tighter budget, and would like a smaller, easier to manage vehicle that comes with nearly everything you need for an epic adventure.''We’d also suggest that an ideal amount of time for an adventure would be 10-21 days, and aim for no more than two to three thousand miles – not just for reasons of cost, but also to ensure you have some time to see as much as possible.''The vehicle suits younger couples and groups as well as families, but be aware that whilst the storage is plentiful for the size of the vehicle, it’s not infinite!''Overall, we’re happy to recommend Jucy to anyone looking for a fun adventure, and are looking forward to our next Jucy road trip already!''So you know'': we were given a discounted rate for our Jucy RV hire in return for sharing our story. We covered our own expenses for our journey (food, fuel, accommodation etc). Check our our''code of ethics''for more on how we work with companies.''SHARE ON''I’m just wrapping up my time here in America, and I wanted to finish it off with a post about some of the things I’ve noticed here that are, well, just generally better than in other places.''Sure, America has that wacky obsession with gun ownership, and a love of policing the world, and you can drive through whole states without finding anything other than country music to listen to on the radio (turns out it grows on you), but there are piles of things that the country actually does pretty well. So here’s a list. Let me know your favourites at the end!''Drive-in’s''I think it would be fair to say that America is a nation both obsessed by and (currently) built around the concept of the car. Not owning a car makes life, generally, pretty darn tricky.''Owning a car though, opens up a whole world of awesome car based possibilities, beyond the usual getting from A to B without having to make eye contact with strangers.''The concept of the drive-in was invented in America, and has come, in my mind, to pretty much sum up the American automobile experience. You can drive-in to just about everything. Fast food places, obviously. Pharmacies. Movies. Coffee stores. If there’s room to drive a car up to a window and transfer goods and payment, there’ll be a drive-in version.''National Parks''Holy crap America, do you have some mind boggling National Parks. I’ve travelled a lot, and seen some amazing places, but the stuff in your average American’s back yard makes the rest of the world, well, there’s probably a good reason not so many Americans own a passport.''Yosemite'', I have already waxed lyrical about. Mind, thoroughly blown. I also recently visited the Grand Canyon, where I witnessed perhaps the most epic sunrise I’ve ever seen. Ok, so I’ve not seen that many sunrises because I tend to get up too late (bad photographer), but yes, I can imagine it’s going to be hard to beat giant rays of light pouring into a mile deep six million year old rock carving.''And that’s not even mentioning Yellowstone, Utah (as far as I can tell the whole state is a photography paradise), the Rockies or… well… the list goes on. Suffice to say, if you’re into nature and wilderness, America has some options for you. Just don’t blame me if you never leave.''Road trips''I think the word road trip is pretty much synonymous with the USA. This is a land of sweeping roads that just cry out to be explored, of vistas to stop and take in. From the all time classics like''Route 66''through to the''Pacific Coast Highway'', the Oregon Trail, or, well, just about any highway you can find, America has a road to suit everyone.''If your idea of a dream holiday is cruising down endless highway with the top down, the stereo blaring and your hair just blowing in the wind, well, the USA will probably work out just fine for you.''Freeways''A lot of the things on this list are to do with roads it occurs to me. I guess that’s just how it has to be. In England, where I’m generally from, we have three types of roads. They have either one, two, or three lanes per side, and whichever you choose, you’re likely going to be sitting in some drizzle watching some road works and wondering if this is really what life is all about.''In America, roads come with somewhat more size options. It turns out that when you don’t inherit thousands of years of road building history and medieval shaped villages, and have spectacular gazillions of both money and space to throw at a problem, you can really go to town on a road network. I’m talking six lane highways. Six lanes, each way! Each Way!''Admittedly, those six lanes are often chock full of people trying to get from one place to another, and sure, there are roadworks here too, but the good news is that it’s definitely more likely to be sunny here. So you can cook in your car instead of watching the drizzle. But yes. The highways in America rock.''Hamburgers''Speaking of rocking, Hamburgers.''Nowhere in the world does hamburgers like America. I guess it’s pretty sad being a cow here given your fate is either to bounce around in a rodeo with clowns shouting at you, or to end up between some lumps of bread, but, well, that’s how it is I guess.''Anyway, the hamburgers are just freaking divine, and there is somehow no end of choice for options, with everything from super-fast to build your own, through to mysteriously upscale joints where hamburgers are presumably hand pressed between virgin thighs, given the prices associated.''And still they taste excellent.''Personal favourites included Wendy’s, In N’Out burger (a must in California) and The Counter, not to mention endless diner options that we found along Route 66. You can’t visit the US without trying the hamburgers. And then living off them.''Google''Ah, Google. Often promising so much. When I was in Europe, I’d read excitedly about some new feature that Google had rolled out, (I’m looking at you Google Voice) that was clearly the Next Big Thing in technology. Yes, I’m a bit of a geek. Then I’d discover that, said new feature didn’t work anywhere apart from the Good Ol’ USA.''Unlimited music streaming for example, through Google Play Music. It knows what time of day it is, what day it is, and what kind of music you like. Because Google knows everything. And on a Friday evening, it’ll pop together a handy playlist to get you in the weekend mood for anything from a wild party night through to washing the dishes.''Ok, so this isn’t unique to Google. There are a whole pile of awesome internet services that are apparently only available in the US. But since I was living next door to Google in San Francisco, it seemed the best one to pick.''And those were my six things! I have plenty more to write about from my time here, including all sorts of stuff from our recent month long road trip following Route 66 and the Oregon Trail, not to mention visiting the Grand Canyon, New York and the Florida Keys, plus I’m still going through content from our last Europe trip.''Click here''to never miss an update!''SHARE ON''One of my favourite things about London is how it’s basically a large collection of villages that have all grown together to become a big city. Taken as a city, it can seem overwhelming, but once you start to treat each area as it’s own place to visit, you’ll find it a lot more manageable.''On a''recent trip to London'', our apartment happened to be in the Earl’s Court part of the city, south-east from the centre. This was just a short walk (or even shorter tube ride!) up to Kensington, an area famous for shopping and a multitude of other activities. We did our best to do as much as possible during our time there, and came up with the following ideas to help you to spend anywhere from a few hours to multiple days exploring Kensington.''Things to Do in Kensington''1. The Natural History Museum''Ok, there are a lot of museums in Kensington, so brace yourself. The three I’ve chosen are three of London’s finest museums though, so if museums are your thing, you’re going to have a ball. You’re also going to run out of time, because all these museums can easily soak up a day or more of your time.''First up is the magnificent''Natural History Museum'', which is worth looking at from the outside even if you don’t go into the building itself. I mean, look at it.''You’d be doing yourself a disservice if you don’t go in though. From the mighty dinosaur skeleton who greets you at the main entrance, to the giant life-sized suspended blue whale in the marine area, through to the “escalator through the earth”, there is loads to see and do. Those three things just mentioned were my favourites, but there’s lots more.''One thing – the museum isn’t exactly cutting edge any more, so if you are used to fancy interactive displays and holographic shizz, you probably won’t find too much of that here. It’s a museum from a slightly older time, but don’t let that put you off.''Plus it’s free. Hurrah.''2. The Science Museum''Conveniently next door to the Natural History Museum, and conveniently also free (who said London was expensive!),''the Science Museum'', is, well, a museum about science. I remember visiting in the eighties as a child and being wowed by all the interactive exhibits.''I’m not sure how well it’s aged, because we weren’t able to make it this time round, but the power of nostalgia means I’m adding it to this list anyway. So there.''3. The V&A Museum''The V&A Museum, or the''Victoria and Albert Museum''to give it its full title, was a new addition to my “museums I’ve visited in London” list. For some reason, despite having lived in the capital for a number of years, the V&A Museum had somehow never had a look in.''Which, it turns out, was a terrible shame because damn, this is an awesome museum. Stuffed full of all sorts of treasures, from Roman and Greek artefacts (the giant pillars are a particular highlight), through to more modern collections, this is the perfect museum to round out the museum trilogy of Nature, Science, and Culture.''It’s also free. Seriously London, your free museums rock.''4. Shopping in Harrods''Yeah, I can’t really afford to actually *buy* anything in Harrods. But that doesn’t mean I don’t enjoy wandering around this exquisite department store and wondering what life would be like with my very own monogrammed luggage set from Globetrotter.''Or how much more I might enjoy Backgammon on a hand stitched artisan backgammon board.''Or how much I might enjoy the tea that is sold in the tea shop, poured in loose leaf form from giant urns, to pretty much any amount that you might want.''Ok, so it turns out I can afford something in Harrods. Tea. Terribly British of us, I know, but if you are looking for an excellent souvenir at a reasonable price, a bag of tea from Harrods is a good place to start.''5. High Tea at The Berkeley''Speaking of tea, all those museums and shopping have likely weakened your spirit, and the best way to revive them is no doubt with a High Tea experience.''I’m not going to lie, never in my life have I had High Tea. It’s probably the sort of thing that gets your British Passport taken off you, so this visit to London with Jess seemed the perfect opportunity to get my high tea experience on. Which I did, twice.''The first was at''The Berkeley Hotel'', and to be honest, it was not the most traditional of high tea experiences. But it was a damn good one, so I’ll let it slide.''Rather than a traditional high tea featuring scones and cakes and, well, the sort of things you would imagine of a High Tea, the Berkeley offer a rather different experience. Their High Tea is fashion themed, with all the tasty pastries and cakes being modelled after recent fashion lines by top designers.''I’m not really a fashion expert (probably not a huge surprise), but thankfully the many cakes and pastries came with a little card which explained what was going on, and what each was meant to represent.''It was all a great deal of fun, made even more so by the fact that we had the posh version of High Tea, which meant starting with champagne. And who can argue with High Tea that starts with champagne? Certainly not me. Read a full''review of our high tea experience at the Berkeley, here''.''6. Kensington Gardens''One of my favourite things about London are its huge amount of green spaces. I spent a great deal of time in Hyde and Regent’s Park when I was living in London, finding myself a small corner to hide away from city life for a while.''If all of the above has you craving an escape from the hustle and bustle of the city streets, than take a bit of time to head into Kensington Garden’s, one of eight Royal Parks in the city. Here, amongst other things, you’ll find a statue of Peter Pan, the Serpentine Galleries and the Albert Memorial, all set within 242 acres of lovely parkland. Relaxing stuff.''Whilst you’re in Kensington Gardens, you might as well:''7. Visit Kensington Palace''The official residence of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge (that’s William and Kate), you can actually visit this Royal residence, including wandering around various Royal State apartments and the gardens.''I wouldn’t expect to actually bump into any Royalty when visiting, but this is where William, Kate and Harry do actually live, so there is always hope that you might find an errant Royal wandering the public areas. Keep your fingers crossed for that one.''8. Have a Pub Lunch''If you fail to spot a Royal, don’t worry. You can drown your sorrows with a classic British pub lunch.''Admittedly, this is hardly something you need to travel to Kensington to do, given that the entirety of the UK revolves around the existence of the local Public House, but since it’s such a classic, I couldn’t do anything other than include it here.''Favourites include various pies (meat, covered in pastry), fish and chips (although I prefer mine served at the sea side), and on Sunday’s, the classic Sunday Roast, which will come with all sorts of trimmings. Go for the roast beef and Yorkshire pudding if you want to experience a true British meal, and don’t worry, the pudding isn’t a dessert.''Accompany the whole thing with a draft pint of real ale, and your day in Kensington will be complete. Even it if’s just the beginning of the afternoon…''Further Reading for your Visit to Kensington''And that’s it for our tips on what to do in Kensington. Before you go, here are some resources you might find useful for planning the rest of your trip.''Our suggested''1 Day'',''2 Day'', and''6 day London itineraries''can help you plan for your''visit''A''full review of the London Pass''which can help you figure out if the pass would help you save you money on your trip to London.''A guide to''getting to and from all of London’s airports''A guide to''public transport in London'', tips on''how to buy and use the Oyster card in London'', plus advice on the''best way to pay for public transport in London''.''Tips on finding the''best Photography Locations in London''that I put together''For the Harry Potter fans amongst you, take a look at our guide to''the key Harry Potter filming locations in London''Our experience''taking a full day walking tour of London'', in case you like the idea of a fully guided day''Interested in day trips from London? We have posts on a''Stonehenge, Bath & Cotswolds day trip'', and tips on planning a''Oxford day trip.''If you are looking for London travel guides, we’d recommend checking The''Eyewitness Travel Guide to London''and the''Rick Steve’s London''guide, which are both excellent sources of relevant information''So you know: Our High Tea at The Berkeley was complimentary in partnership with Visit Britain. Everything else was covered by us. See more at our''Code of Ethics''.''lovegreatbritain, thisislondon''SHARE ON''It’s time for the 19th edition of my series which features some of the most popular photos shared on my''Facebook Page''over the last couple of months. I’m starting today’s post off with the above, a shot of a gorgeous sunrise over the Florida Keys, which was totally worth getting out of bed for!''If you’ve missed any of this previous versions,''check them out here''. Now, let’s get on with 16 more spectacular photos from around the world!''Meteora in Greece was just a mind blowing place to visit. When I shared this photo on my page, a reader commented that they had no idea Greece had more than gorgeous beaches and blue waters. Well, it totally does. Find out where this is and why you should visit in my''photo essay on Meteora''.''I’ve been having a lot of fun''living in California''for the last few months, not least because the photography opportunities are magnificent! Here’s the Golden Gate Bridge at sunset with a nice long exposure. I met a couple of super nice photographers whilst down on this beach – one of whom got his shoes wet rescuing a battery of mine that went for an unscheduled dip during this photo shoot. Thanks for that Neil!''Ah, New Zealand. A land with pretty much everything you could want! This is the beach near the town of Karamea, which doesn’t make it on enough''traveller’s itineraries for New Zealand''. Which is a shame, because it’s awesome!''A waterfall in''Khao Yai''national park in''Thailand'', where I was thrilled to see Asian elephants in the wild for the first time ever. If you’re in Thailand, do consider adding this national park to your itinerary. If you can tear yourself away from the beaches, that is…''The Long Room in Dublin’s Trinity College, Ireland, is a stunning place for anyone who loves literature – the place is literally (sorry!) stuffed to the gills with books. And, admittedly, people, making photography a bit of a challenge. Hence the upward angle. I think it worked out.''Speaking of Universities, Jess and I recently did a tour of some of the colleges in Oxford, and this, the chapel of Exeter College, was one of our favourite spots. It’s free to pop in and have a look, and if you’re in Oxford, is worth doing. Full post with ideas for spending a day in Oxford coming soon!''We also spent a week in London as part of our UK trip, and as this was Jess’s first visit to the country, obviously we had to take in some classic sights in London! Here is Tower Bridge, which sits next to:''… the tower of London! We were the first in when it opened, having arrived early, and so I was able to get this snap of a Beefeater guarding the White Tower without any other visitors in shot. He was a very accommodating gentleman, letting me take my shot without any fuss at all. Always nice!''Back to Oxford briefly, and this is a view of the Radcliffe Camera from above, using the fisheye effect that the''Google Camera app''for Android offers as standard.''Another highlight of our visit to London was taking a trip up The Shard for''The View from The Shard''– the highest viewing point in London. This building hadn’t even been completed the last time I was in London, and it was magnificent to be able to get so far above the city. Particularly good at sunset, as you can see!''Back to beaches briefly (I do like to hop around a bit!), here’s a shot of''Fraser Island'', one of my favourite spots in''Australia''.''Bologna''in Italy is famous for its porticos – covered walkways to you and me. They’re the longest in the world, and offer shelter from the rain and the sun – most convenient all year round in fact. When you’re in Bologna, you can’t miss them. Or bolognaise.''More old stuff that begins with a B. This is the bridge in''Besalu'', Costa Brava, which serves as the magnificent entry way to the town.''Rotorua in New Zealand is famous for its thermal activity, with everything from geysers to mud pools and hot waterfalls. This is''Lake Rotorua''itself, where the air is heavy with the smell of sulphur.''Back into Thailand, with this shot of one of the gorgeous Wats in Chiang Mai.''To finish this round off, another New Zealand beach, this time at the far end of the North Island, Spirits Bay beach.''And that’s it! As always, thanks for reading, and if you have a favourite from all the above, do let me know which one it is in the comments below!''SHARE ON''There’s nothing quite like a good bit of British weather. The sort that gets right in your face, blows you off your feet, stings your eyes with fat drops of water, and makes a mockery of your umbrella.''This was the weather that found us at Stonehenge on a recent day trip from London – a bitingly cold squally wind combined with freezing raindrops. The sort of thing that would usually have you hiding in a pub and warming yourself by a nice, reliably crackling fire.''It didn’t dampen the mood of our guide though. No, Phil, representing''City Wonders Tours'', barely batted an eyelid as the wind threw his raincoat around his body in unholy shapes. He just kept on telling us, with barely controlled excitement, all about the history and discoveries of one of Britain’s most fascinating ancient monuments, as we attempted to remain anchored to the Earth.''Let’s rewind a bit.''On our recent trip to the UK, which was Jess’s first encounter with the country and her unique weather, we were invited by''City Wonders''to experience some of their tours, from an extensive selection, both in the UK and abroad.''We chose a couple of them, one being a''full day of exploration of royal London'', and the other being''a full day out into the countryside''.''Today, I’m going to tell you all about that day out into the countryside, where we visited the gorgeous Roman city of Bath, took in a pub lunch in the Cotswolds, and finished off with the mighty Stonehenge. Let’s get started, and by the end hopefully you’ll have an idea if a day trip from London to see these sights is something you’d enjoy doing.''Our Experience with City Wonders''This tour covers a lot of distance, so it shouldn’t come as any surprise that there’s an early start, with a meet-time of 7.15am scheduled. Thankfully, the meeting point was by Gloucester Road tube stop, a five minute walk from our apartment in London.''Everyone was on time, and our group was a good size, there being 18 of us. City Wonders only operate smaller groups, with a maximum size of 25.''That smaller group size meant there was plenty of room on the bus, which was a medium size, and had oodles of legroom and exceptionally comfortable seats. As we pulled out of London at 7:30am, largely avoiding the morning rush hour, our guide Phil got started on chatting to us about our day and what we could expect.''First stop: Bath''Our first stop was to be the Roman city of Bath, a good 2.5 hour drive from London. We arrived mid-morning, and Phil took us on a quick introductory tour of Bath, sharing with us some of his highlights and the history of the city. Then we were presented with a choice, we could visit the''Roman Baths''(admission extra), or take a guided walking tour with Phil.''This option was presented to us as the heavens opened, with many on our group opting for the drier, interior choice. Myself and a couple from the US were the only brave souls who were happy to brave the weather, and Phil set us off on a 45 minute guided tour of Bath, taking in all the highlights, while Jess went inside to see the Roman Baths.''We saw the remarkable''Pulteney Bridge''(one of only four bridges in the world with shops on), as well as Bath Abbey,''the Circus''and of course, the''Royal Crescent'', as well as many other sights. Throughout the tour, despite the weather, Phil kept us informed and entertained as to what we were seeing, which happily distracted me from the fact my jeans were slowly affixing themselves to my legs as the rain moistened me.''Finally, we reconvened back at the Roman Baths, where Jess and I had just enough time for a Bath Bun and a spot of tea at''the Pump Room'', the cafe attached to the Roman Baths, to the pleasing sounds of a live string orchestra. Then it was back to the bus, and around half an hour’s drive to:''Lunch in the Cotswalds''Update 2017 –''As of 2017 a number of readers have let me know that lunch is not included on the tour any more, and the tour no longer stops in Castle Combe as a result. This is unfortunate, but we still feel the tour represents good value for money, plus having more time to explore Lacock is actually a good move. I’ve left the text from our tour the same to reflect the experience we had, but do be aware that the current version of the tour is slightly different.''A definite highlight of this tour (I like food!) was that lunch was included, in a gorgeous little pub in a picturesque village in the Cotswolds. So picturesque in fact, that while we were there a feature film was in the process of being shot on the main street.''The village we visited was called Castle Combe, and it was pretty much everything you could want from a quaint English village in the Cotswolds, with incredibly cute stone houses, an old market cross, an ancient church (replete with crumbling gravestones and 13th century clock) and flowing stream.''And of course, that pub, where we had a lovely two course meal, in between which I dashed around taking pictures and trying to catch the moments of sun that the day was at that point attempting to bestow upon us.''Visiting Lacock''After lunch, and a few more minutes wandering around Castle Combe (it’s not a big place!), it was back in the bus for another 20 minute ride or so to Lacock, another lovely village in the Cotswolds, also stuffed with cute houses and streets, and almost entirely owned by the''National Trust'', who have preserved its natural appearance.''Beyond being pretty, Lacock is also interesting for two more reasons, both of which revolve around''Lacock Abbey'', a 13th century country house in the heart of Lacock.''The first reason, interesting to me as a photographer at least, is that it was at Lacock Abbey in 1835 that the oldest surviving photographic negative was taken, by''William Henry Fox Talbot''.''If photography doesn’t rock your boat, then maybe it’s direct descendent will – the art of the motion picture. Lacock Abbey has played a starring role in a number of films as well as TV series.''Most notably in film, Lacock Abbey was featured in''Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets'', as well''The Other Boleyn Girl''. TV-wise, Lacock Abbey is the home of recently aired BBC TV show''Wolf Hall'', and Lacock itself was used as a location for the sixth season of''Downton Abbey''.\xa0 All of which should firmly put this place on the map of film and TV buffs!''Having spoken so much about Lacock Abbey, I of course now have to tell you that our tour didn’t actually include a tour of this property, we just got to peer at it through the gates. We were given all the above details though, although the photographer in me was keen to get inside and check out the photography exhibition.''Instead, we had a tour around Lacock instead, with Phil pointing out points of particular interest, including a 14th century tithe barn, one of the best surviving examples in the country.''On to Stonehenge''After our walk around Lacock, it was back in the bus once more for another drive, this time to the highlight of the tour – the mystical Stonehenge.''I’ve visited Stonehenge before, but it was quite some time ago, and things have changed for the better since my last visit. The road that used to hurtle traffic past the stones has been torn up and rerouted, and the visitor centre has been relocated to a site over a mile away.''Now, the magnificent stone circle is a much more pleasant visiting experience, feeling somewhat more back to nature than in years past.''It felt particularly natural on the day we visited, as the weather was quite spectacular in its ferocity. As mentioned at the beginning, there was a bitingly cold wind filled with fat raindrops, and clouds scudded low over the skies. We did have at least three seconds of sunshine in which I was able to grab an entirely unrepresentative photo of our visit, so I should be thankful for that at least.''The weather didn’t deter Phil though. He said that anyone who wasn’t keen on visiting the Stones was welcome to stay behind, but he was going to plough on regardless. And plough on he did, sharing with excitement and in detail the history of this incredible construction, with all the latest scientific theories alongside the myths and legends. Phil’s enthusiasm was infectious, and somehow everyone stayed in the group for the whole ninety minute tour around the rocks, in spite of the weather. Bravo, Phil.''After this, it was back in the bus, and our noses turned back to London, and a relaxing drive home, on which pretty much everyone grabbed a bit of shut-eye. All in all, an excellent tour experience. Now, let me share some facts and thoughts on the whole thing, to help you decide if this is going to be for you.''Some facts about doing a day trip from London with City Wonders''How long did we have at each location?''Our trip left London at 7.30am and returned to our pick-up point at 8.30pm (13 hours!)''We had 1.5 hours in Bath (supposed to be 2 hours but traffic was bad)''We had 1.5 hours in Castle Comb, including lunch''We had 30 minutes in Lacock''We had 1.5 hours for Stonehenge''What was included on the tour?''Transport, guide, and driver''Excellent pub lunch (note, not included any more as of 2017)''bottled water''guided walking tour of Bath, Castle Combe, and Lacock,''Entry and guided tour of Stonehenge''What wasn’t included?''Alcoholic beverages with lunch''Entry to the Roman Baths (or any other museums in Bath)''Tips for the guide / driver''Would you change anything?''Well, obviously, the weather!''Apart from that though, the tour really packed a lot in, whilst not feeling rushed. Personally, I would have liked a little more time in Bath to explore, and a little less time at Stonehenge. I also felt that the Roman Baths entry price should have been included, or at least, offered at a discount, as this was clearly a popular option. This is a tricky one though as on a fine day no doubt many people would take the Bath walking tour instead.''I’d also have loved to actually visit Lacock Abbey, although I appreciate that there was never going to be time for that given the schedule. Plus I understand not everyone is *that* excited about photography or Harry Potter. One to explore on a future trip methinks.''The lunch was fantastic, and it was excellent to have that included. Free WiFi on the bus would have been nice, but that could just be because I’m a blogger! Overall I’m just nit-picking – this tour was really comprehensive and the guide was excellent.''How should I prepare?''You don’t need to prepare too much. I’d advise bringing along layered clothing (British weather is not the best), ideally something wind proof, and cash for tips or any other extras.''If you’re the sort to get oddly hungry, you might want to bring snacks, but the lunch will easily see you through! You’ll also want to eat something before you start the trip, or grab a bun on arrival in Bath.''Do I Need To Take\xa0 A Tour To See Stonehenge and Bath?''If you read my site a lot, you’ll know that I’m a big fan of independent travel, and I’ve put together a detailed''two-week self-guided itinerary of the UK''that actually includes Stonehenge, Bath and the Cotswolds.''However, not everyone has the time (or inclination!) to do that sort of a trip, so if you are in London and want to get a taste of some of the other sights in the UK, quickly and easily, then a tour like this is going to be your best option, particularly if time is tight.''Without your own transport, visiting these all these sights in a day would be logistically challenging, whereas a tour with an operator like''City Wonders''lets you have all the fun with none of the effort, and the small group size, friendly guide and well planned itinerary mean that we are more than happy to recommend City Wonders Tours to you guys.''If you don’t like the look of the City Wonders tour, we can also recommend Rabbie’s. They have a''couple of tours departing from London''that cover similar destinations to this tour, and are slightly cheaper. We’ve taken a number of their tours, and always have a good time.''We can also recommend the''Take Walks Stonehenge tour from London''. Take Walks are the folks behind the popular Walks of Italy walking tours, and we’ve always enjoyed their tours.''Disclosure: We were guests of City Wonders on this tour, but we paid for our own ticket to the Roman Baths and covered the guide tip ourselves. All opinions remain our own – see our''code of ethics''for more.''SHARE ON''I’ve had the pleasure of visiting Sri Lanka twice, once for just a few short days, and then again for around a month where I had more time to explore. I was asked recently how I would recommend spending two weeks in Sri Lanka, and thought a''nice long itinerary post''would be the perfect answer.''First though, let’s start by asking:''Contents:''Why should you visit Sri Lanka?''When should you go to Sri Lanka?''A Two Week Sri Lanka Itinerary''How much does it cost to travel in Sri Lanka?''Where to Stay In Sri Lanka and How to Get Around''Some other practicalities for travelling in Sri Lanka''What to Pack for Sri Lanka''Getting here and away''Further reading and information''Why should you visit Sri Lanka?''The short answer is because it’s awesome, offering everything from great surf to amazing animal encounters to magnificent beaches to spectacular culture and food, all in an easy to explore size.''In case you need a bit more convincing though, here are some more facts.''First, location. Sri Lanka is an independent island nation located off the coast of India in the beautiful Indian Ocean. In 2009, the 26—year long war finally came to an end, with a heavy focus on tourism developing in the intervening years.''When I was in Sri Lanka, many of the people I was with said that Sri Lanka could be described as a “lite” version of India. Having never been to India, I can’t exactly comment. However, if India has always fascinated you, but has perhaps felt too overwhelming to tackle, then Sri Lanka could serve as the perfect starting point. Although, having visited, you will probably just want to come back.''Sri Lanka has a wonderful, friendly people, delicious food (particularly if you like curry!), beaches, rainforests, natural attractions and mountains, as well as a multitude of cultural and historical attractions.''There’s no shortage of activities to suit everyone, from adventure seekers to nature lovers, to people just wanting to relax and unwind on a gorgeous beach.''When should you go to Sri Lanka?''This isn’t as easy a question to answer as you might think, because despite being so small, Sri Lanka has markedly different climates across the island, due to it having two separate monsoon seasons.''The good news is that there’s always going to be somewhere sunny on the island. The bad news… somewhere else is likely to be wet!''Generally, April – June is the wettest season in the west and hill country (including Kandy).''The east coast, on the other hand, has its wet season in November / December.''The worst time for weather (but likely cheapest for your pocket), is October – November, when it can rain anywhere.''For the itinerary I’ve outlined below, which covers the west and south coasts as well as hill country, the best time to visit is going to be December through to the end of March. Just be aware that prices will be higher during this time period. See more on budget towards the end of the post.''Temperature wise, there isn’t much variance through the year as Sri Lanka is quite close to the equator. Expect daily temperatures of around 28 degrees C ( 82F) in the lower and coastal areas, decreasing as you go up in height to average around 20 degrees C (68F) in Kandy. Humidity is high everywhere, ranging from 60 – 90%.''A Two Week Sri Lanka Itinerary''Ok, let’s get going with this two week itinerary!''Day 1 – Colombo, City Exploration''To be honest, Colombo isn’t really worth spending a lot of time in, compared to the rest of the country.''However, since all the international flights arrive here, it makes a good stop to recover from a long journey, adjust to the time zone and start getting used to the heat. I’d suggest checking into a hotel here and relaxing for your arrival day, with a bit of sight-seeing thrown in if you’re up to it.''Highlights of Colombo include the National Museum, the Old City Hall and Viharamahdevi Park, plus you can take walking tours and naturally there are plenty of restaurants, bars and cafes.''I stayed in Colombo for a couple of nights, at the lovely''Cinnamon Lakeside'', which had a fine pool and lovely lake views.''However, I’ve been told that the''Cinnamon Red property'', which features a 23rd floor rooftop pool and stunning views of downtown Colombo, makes for a great, well-priced place to start a Sri Lankan adventure. Just don’t forget to do some sight-seeing as well before you get distracted by a chilled beer and that pool view!''Prices range from $80 – $200 on booking.com''.''Day 2 – 4: Habarana, Elephants and UNESCO sights''Once you’re acclimatised and relaxed, it’s time to head into the country, and my suggestion would be to head north to what is known as Sri Lanka’s cultural triangle, around four or five hours drive from Colombo.''Base yourself near or in the town of Habarana, in the Anuradhapura district, and take some time to see the following sights:''Sigiriya''–''an absolute must-visit when coming to Sri Lanka, this giant rock rises above the surrounding plains to a height of 200m, and served as the palatial fortress and home of one of Sri Lanka’s early Kings in the 5th century AD.''Nowadays it’s a''UNESCO world heritage site''and it is fascinating to visit, with ruins, frescoes, and of course, that mighty rock, which you can climb right to the top of via a series of fairly hair-raising stair cases. I’d suggest spending half a day here, and coming as early in the day as possible – it gets very hot, particularly on the top of the rock.''Polonnaruwa''–''another of Sri Lanka’s UNESCO world heritage sites, Polonnaruwa is the second oldest of Sri Lanka’s original kingdoms, having been here since at least 1070AD. Today it is one of the best preserved archaeological destinations in the country, and well worth your time to visit. It’s quite spread out, so you are likely going to need to hire some form of transport to get around the whole place. Bikes are a good option.''Minneriya National Park''–''If all that culture is a bit much, fear not, this region has another magnificent attraction, in the form of the Sri Lankan wild elephant. These guys are a subspecies of the Asian elephant, so a little smaller than their African cousins.''Despite being on the endangered list, Sri Lanka has the highest density of wild elephants in Asia, so you are almost guaranteed to see elephants. The best way to do so is by taking an elephant safari into one of the national parks, with Minneriya National Park being one excellent spot to do so, although this will vary depending on the time of year. We saw literally hundreds of elephants from the back of our jeep, a truly incredible experience.''The Golden Temple of Danbulla''–''Last on this list, since this is the cultural triangle, you should also make time to visit the third UNESCO site in this area, the Golden Temple of Danbulla. This is Sri Lanka’s best-preserved cave temple complex, and has been a site of pilgrimage for over two thousand years.''In terms of accommodation for the Habarana region, I stayed at the''Habarana Village by Cinnamon'', which offered lovely chalet-style accommodation, a beautiful open plan restaurant/bar and a pool. Prices vary, but a quick look shows they are in the region of''$40 – 120 for two adults on booking.com'', depending on time of year. Naturally there are many more options in the region, to suit any budget.''Days 5 – 6 Kandy, Hill Country''After all the excitement of those UNESCO world heritage sites and elephant spotting, I recommend heading up into Sri Lanka’s hill country to the town of Kandy, which also happens to be a UNESCO world heritage site. Sri Lanka sure packs them in!''It’s around a 2 hour drive, or''4 hour bus ride'', from the Habarana region down to Kandy, the largest town in hill country, where the climate is cooler and, likely, wetter. Here, highlights include:''The Temple of the Tooth –''one of Sri Lanka’s holiest shrines, the Temple of the Tooth houses a relic of the Buddha. It’s an important site of pilgrimage, and is well worth visiting, even if seeing the actual tooth is a bit tricky. Note that security is quite tight, with security scanners and guards, and you will have to be appropriately dressed to enter. If you love temples, Kandy has plenty more to choose from, so you can spend a good deal of time exploring!''Tea!''Sri Lanka, once known as Ceylon, is world famous for its tea, and the hills around Kandy are full of the stuff. A good place to get a handle on it all is at the''Tea Museum''(''TripAdvisor reviews''), found in an old tea plantation. This four storey building is a short (3km) trip from Kandy, and offers four floors of tea facts, as well as a lovely view of the surrounding landscape.''The Royal Botanical Garden''– probably the best garden in Sri Lanka, these gardens feature a giant banyan tree, an orchid house and bats. Entry is just shy of 10USD.''Finally, if you’re feeling like a good hike, Kandy is a great launching point for one of Sri Lanka’s most popular hikes, up Adam’s Peak. This is an important pilgrimage for multiple religions, as there is a footprint on the top believed to belong to Shiva, Adam or the Buddha, depending on which religion you ask.''The mountain is just over 2 km high, and the hike will take you a total time of 4 – 7 hours, depending on fitness. Most visitors climb to see either sunrise or sunset. Find out''more about climbing Adam’s Peak here''.''Days 7 – 10 Galle, Beaches and Forts''After all that culture, maybe it’s time to relax a bit, and head to the south. Leaving Kandy, I can highly recommend taking the scenic train towards Colombo, which offers stunning views of the scenery. Then, you can take either the bus or train on to the fortified city of Galle, your next destination.''Built by the Dutch, the original city of Galle dates from 1663, and is today one of the best surviving examples of a fortified port city in Asia. It’s also a UNESCO world heritage site.''These days, it’s a wonderful, vibrant place to wander about, with highlights including those incredible walls and the lighthouse. It’s also filled with boutiques, cafes and''no shortage of hotel options''.''Around Galle, there is also plenty to see and do, with visits to the beach towns of Unawatuna and Hikkaduwa recommended, both of which offer stunning beaches, dotted with cafe’s and bars, on which you can get your relaxation properly on.''Days 11 – 13 The Far South – Whales, Leopards and More Beaches''If you can tear yourself away from Galle and surrounds, then I can recommend heading even further along the south coast. The further you go, the more deserted and gorgeous the beaches become. When I visited, these beach towns were everything I had ever hoped for from previous trips to Asia, but never quite found. You should definitely visit before everyone else figures this out, to wander beaches lit by candle-light against a back drop of surf.''If you do go into the south, a couple of things you should definitely do:''Visit''Yala National Park''–''before I visited Sri Lanka I had no idea how incredible the wildlife viewing opportunities were. Yala National Park is full of wildlife, but the main attraction is without doubt the leopard. Yala has one of the highest densities of Leopard anywhere in the world, meaning your chance to see these animals is pretty good.''Go Whale Watching –''the seas off the southern coast of Sri Lanka are filled with all sorts of marine life, but the big draw are the whales.''I took a trip from Mirissa with''Raja and the Whales'', and I have to say I was impressed by how the boat operator put the whales first, with the captain explaining how he wasn’t going to get too close, or “chase” the whales, as many of the other boats around us were doing. They also work with local scientific organisations, collecting data on the whales, and at one point during the trip the captain even hailed a passing tanker and gave them a verbal dressing down for their illegal waste dumping.''I had a thrilling morning of whale watching, we saw blue whales, dolphins and turtles, and the boat operators kept us fed with eggs, toast, cake, and for those who needed them, sea sickness tablets! Highly recommended.''And that’s the end of this two week Sri Lanka trip itinerary! There is obviously a lot more of Sri Lanka to explore, including the east coast and the far north, and you could easily compress the above itinerary into a week if you wanted to move faster, but since going slow and taking everything in is how I prefer to travel if I can, that’s how this itinerary has worked out.''Now, let’s look at some practicalities of travelling in Sri Lanka, including budget, health, staying safe, and more.''How much does it cost to travel in Sri Lanka?''Sri Lanka is not a seriously budget destination, although you can get by on $30 – $50 all in by being careful. Much less than that would be tricky though, and as soon as you start adding on sight-seeing and attractions, your budget is going to increase. Here’s an''excellent budget guide to Sri Lanka''to give you an idea of what’s possible.''Generally, rooms will cost you $20 and up, food can be had for $2 – $5, and transport on the cheaper buses can be had at a very low price. Of course, you can spend far more, with accommodation options available in a wide spectrum of prices, and if you choose to take a tour or other arranged trip then your budget will vary depending on the quality.''The other main cost you will have is going to be entry to attractions. Most national parks and monuments have an entry fee, and as a visitor you will pay a lot more than a local. Entry to attractions can quickly eat into your budget, with places like Sigiriya costing around $30.''Where to Stay In Sri Lanka and How to Get Around''Accommodation''There’s no shortage of''accommodation options in Sri Lanka'', from upscale hotels, to boutique guesthouses, to hostels and B&B’s. Prices are not extravagant, but Sri Lanka isn’t a budget destination either.''On my two trips to Sri Lanka I was hosted primarily by Cinnamon Hotels, who own a series of three to five star properties all around the island, and are an excellent choice if you are looking for upscale, great-value comfort. I stayed in three of their properties at varying levels of luxury, and enjoyed the friendly welcome, hospitality and amazing food at all of them.''There are of course numerous other options depending on your budget. I’d be remiss if I didn’t mention another great option if you’re heading down south – the Cantaloupe properties. These guys hosted me for four nights of relaxation at their two properties,''Cantaloupe Levels''and''Cantaloupe Aqua'', both near Galle, and made sure I had an amazing time.''These are very different properties, with Levels being more of an upscale boutique hotel with a romantic, relaxing vibe, whilst Aqua was a beach front property that was perfect for a spot of surfing and sun. If you want something a bit smaller and intimate in this part of Sri Lanka, these two properties should have something to suit. See more tips on getting a great deal on accommodation in Sri Lanka at the end of the post.''Getting Around''There’s an extensive road network in Sri Lanka, some of which is brand new (the highway from Colombo to the south is excellent), and much of which is a little worse for wear.''Being a passenger in a vehicle can be a fairly hair-raising experience, although as the roads aren’t so great, often the speeds aren’t so great either. If you want to drive yourself, here’s our''recommended way to get the best deals on car hire'', searching across all the major providers to find you the best deal.''The cheapest way to get around is going to be on public transport, with buses running all over the place. They are likely to be crowded, slow and uncomfortable, but hey, it’ll be an experience. Some routes offer more expensive air conditioned buses with guaranteed seating, although they travel on the same roads so don’t expect to get there any quicker.''There are also three wheeled tuk-tuks for hire, which looked entirely terrifying. A better option would be to hire a car with a driver, which will likely work out relatively good value for money, and the driver might double as a tour-guide. If you don’t go on a full blown tour, I’d suggest that this might be the next easiest way to get yourself to all the major sights listed on the itinerary below.''If time is more important to you than money, then you can also get around the country by air.''Cinnamon Air''operates a charter service from Colombo, with which you can get around the country relatively easy. They also do sight-seeing services. I did a scenic flight over Sigiriya, which was a magnificent experience.''Finally, one experience not to be missed is a train ride. I took the train from Kandy to Colombo, an incredibly scenic journey through forests and fields. Some of the trains offer scenic observation cars, and if you splash for a more expensive ticket, the carriage could be air conditioned. There’s a good train network across Sri Lanka, and I would recommend this as a solid option.''Some other practicalities for travelling in Sri Lanka''Currency''The local currency in Sri Lanka is the Sri Lankan Rupee, which is easily exchangeable for most major world currencies. Credit cards are also accepted, although it’s always useful to have cash on you, particularly in more rural areas or at local restaurants and smaller hostels and guesthouses.''Electricity''Sri Lanka uses a 220v system. A little confusingly in my experience, different places had different types of plug. Some properties used the British three pin square shaped plugs, whilst others used a three pin round plug design (also found in India).''Either way, you’re most likely going to need an adaptor, which you’ll be able to buy on arrival, or you can pick one up from''Amazon''before you go.''Tipping''Tipping is part of life in Sri Lanka, so it’s advisable to have some rupees to hand. For things like porterage you’re looking at around 50-100 rupees, for restaurants, a 10% tip is fairly normal. This might be automatically added to your bill.''Crime''Sri Lanka is a safe destination, although you should always take the usual precautions with your valuables, using the hotel safe if there is one available, and not leaving valuables in plain sight. Violent crime against visitors is pretty much unheard of, but as always, be mindful of yourself and your possessions.''Health''The tap water in Sri Lanka is not generally advisable to drink, so either drink bottled water (widely available), or travel with''a water purifier like this''.''Sri Lanka also has malaria, although it is rare, so your requirement for anti-malarials will likely depend on where you are visiting. I’d very much suggest going to visit your doctor and getting up to date advice as to whether or not you need to take anti-malarials, as well as any other shots you might need for your trip.''For current health advice from the UK’s National Health Service for travel to Sri Lanka, see''here''.''Finally, Sri Lanka is a tropical country with a hot climate, so the biggest risk you are likely going to face is dehydration, which can make you very ill. Read my post for more on''how to spot the signs of dehydration''as well as how to treat and, more importantly, avoid it altogether!''Visas''Nearly every visitor to Sri Lanka will need a visa. Tourist visas are valid for ninety days, and you can either''apply online for an e-visa'', or pick one up on arrival. The cost is around 30USD – slightly less if you buy online in advance.''Internet''Sri Lankan internet is passable, but not terribly fast, and Wi-Fi connections are often a bit flakey. Still, I had no trouble getting online everywhere I went. If you have an unlocked phone I’d advise picking up a SIM card at the airport, an extremely simple and cost effective option.''I used a Mobitel SIM card all around the country on both trips with no problem. You can expect 3G speeds in most cities, and 2G speeds as you get more rural. For up to date information on networks and pricing,''this website is an invaluable resource''.''Cultural Considerations''Sri Lankans society is fairly modest, so dress appropriately. If visiting culturally important sites, showing anything above the knee, or having bare shoulders, is generally frowned upon.''You will also likely have to remove footwear and hats to enter temples and the like, and be respectful of imagery of deities. It’s considered rude for example to stand with your back to certain statues, so keep that in mind when taking photos. Swimwear is fine on the beach, but not for general wear about town.''Language''There are two official languages in Sri Lanka, Sinhala and Tamil. As a visitor though, you will find English (spoken fluently by 10% of the population) will serve you very well, although of course learning some key words like “hello” and “thank you” in the local languages is always nice.''What to Pack for Sri Lanka''My general''packing list for digital nomads''is a great place to start, which you can adjust as necessary. If you’re not a digital nomad, you can leave much of the tech off the list, although these days all of us seem to travel with a lot of gadgets!''Overall, layers and breathable lightweight clothing are going to be your best option. It can get cooler in the evenings in hill country, particularly if you hike up Adam’s Peak overnight, so a fleece or windproof jacket will come in handy.''Something like a sarong for ladies to cover shoulders is likely going to come in useful. Unless you’re planning serious multi-day hikes, you won’t need any serious hiking gear. Beachwear and casual clothing are going to be your go-to items of clothing. You’re also going to want''insect repellant''and''high-factor sun cream'', and a hat wouldn’t go amiss!''Getting here and away''I flew to Sri Lanka with''SriLankan Airlines'', the national flag carrier, who offer direct flights to Colombo from a number of destinations in Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Planes are modern and the service is excellent, so I have no hesitation recommending them. Reaching Sri Lanka from the US is a little more tricky, as there are no direct flights.''When searching for flight deals, I generally find''Priceline''to be one of the best options.You can check them out''here''to see how much it will cost you to get to Sri Lanka.''Further reading and information''Looking for more reading to help plan your Sri Lanka trip? Here are some resources to help you out from the web:''A Budget Traveller’s Guide to Sri Lanka''by fellow blogger What’s Dave Doing''The Rough Guide website''’s resource section for Sri Lanka''Wikivoyage''has a comprehensive page on Sri Lanka''My''four day Sri Lanka trip report''which covers taking a private tour for a shorter trip, with a focus on luxury travel, tea and leopards''If you prefer your books to be somewhat more tangible (or offline readable at least), these are the most recently updated guidebooks out there at the moment, available on Amazon:''The''Lonely Planet Sri Lanka Guide''The''DK Eyewitness Sri Lanka Travel Guide''And that’s it! Have you visited Sri Lanka yet, or is it on your to-do list? Let me know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''We recently accepted an invitation from''Visit Cambria''to come and take a look at what their region has to offer, all part of my ongoing efforts to see as much as of California as possible during my time here (see more of my''California exploration here'').''It turns out Cambria has plenty of things to do, from exploring rambling hilltop castles, to spying on Elephant Seals, to walking on sparkly, moonstone-filled beaches. And that’s before I even mention the food and wine! Of which there might have been some. You’ll have to read on to find out.''In the meantime, you might be wondering where Cambria is. It’s on the Californian coast, exactly half way between San Francisco and Los Angeles (around 3 – 4 hours drive from either). It can be found at the bottom end of the''stunning Pacific Coast Highway'', or a short detour off US-101.''We spent a three-day weekend exploring Cambria and its surrounds. Here are some of the sights and activities we took in.''Things to Do in Cambria''1. Walk on Moonstone Beach''I love walking on beaches, and it’s probably no co-incidence that Jess and I first really connected on a walk on a beach in Italy, and got engaged on a beach in California. It shouldn’t come as a surprise then that when I learnt Cambria is home to one of California’s most beautiful beaches, we put this right at the top of our list.''Moonstone beach''is so called because of the''shiny gemstones''that can be found on the beach, which glitter in the sun in all kinds of colours. They’re not really worth anything, but you’ll find people out collecting them to make jewellery, because they’re so pretty. There’s also a nice boardwalk along the coast here that you can follow, and from where you can watch gorgeous sunsets.''2. Visit Hearst Castle''A highlight of a visit to this part of California has to be''Hearst Castle''– an incredible construction found atop a hill, just six miles to the North of Cambria.''This National Historic Landmark was built by''William Randolph Hearst'', the original American media mogul, responsible at the time for the largest newspaper and magazine publishing business in the world. He, and Hearst Castle, were the inspiration for the classic movie''Citizen Kane''.''As you might imagine, the castle is quite the construction. Hearst wasn’t short of a bob or two, and brought art and antiquities from all over the world to make his dream come true, from entire hand carved Italian ceilings, to church knaves and more. The collection and castle is a testament to just exactly what one can do if money is truly no object, with 56 bedrooms, 61 bathrooms, its own movie theatre, airport and Romanesque bath complex to name just a few of the attractions on offer.''Oh, Hearst also had a zoo, which he filled with all sorts of exotic animals. Many of these had to be sold off when his empire hit upon rocky times, but you can still see herds of zebra roaming the nearby plains. Which isn’t weird at all.''When open, this was the place to be, with''film stars, politicians and sporting legends''all gracing the property, and after a few drinks, often providing Hearst with the scoop for his next newspaper headline.''These days, the Castle is owned and operated by the''California State Park Service'', and access is only possible via a tour. A great many people visit every day, so it’s advisable to get your tickets in advance to guarantee entry. You can''buy them online, here.''Our tour took us up the hill to the castle along what was once the private drive (an experience in itself), before we had a guided tour of some of the highlights of the castle. I think it’s fair to say my mind was fairly blown by the sheer magnificence of it all. After our tour, we were free to wander the grounds, which we did, admiring the views and the many guesthouses and artworks in the immediate grounds of the castle itself.''I could go on at some length about Hearst Castle, suffice to say, it’s very much worth visiting. Go early, before it gets too busy, and if you want to read more before you go, check out''Jess’s guide to Hearst Castle'', which is stuffed full of information.''3. Wander Historic Downtown Cambria''Of course, no visit to a town is complete without wandering around the downtown area, and we found Cambria to have a pleasant downtown for a stroll. Studded with antique shops, restaurants (more on eating options at the end of the post) and even a micro-brewery, we kept ourselves entertained for a while.''There’s also a bike hire shop in the centre of town, in case you want to explore a bit more. You can also use the bike to explore the Fiscalini Ranch Preserve described below.''4. Explore Fiscalini Ranch Preserve''Right behind Cambria’s Main Street is a huge green area, known as''Fiscalini Ranch Preserve''. This 430 acre wilderness area is easily accessible from the town centre, and you’ll find yourself wandering green meadows and wooded hillsides in moments.''The highlight though, in our minds anyway, was the Coastal Bluff Trail, a track that runs along the coastline and offers stunning views up and down the California coastline. We visited in the peak of the wildflower season, and despite it being a tad breezy, very much enjoyed our wanders along the cliffs. If you only go on one walk in Cambria, you need to make it this one.''5. Visit Piedras Blancas Elephant Seal Rookery''When we visited Hearst Castle, we decided to head up the coast a little further to the''Elephant Seal Rookery'', around seven miles north of San Simeon.''I’d actually stopped here on a road trip through the area near the turn of the century (I’ve wanted to use that phrase for a while), but this time round it was the height of breeding season, and there were thousands and thousands of elephant seals taking up every available spot of space.''Amorous males were duelling in the sea, largely ignored by the females on the beach as far as I could tell, who seemed very busy napping, or lazily throwing sand around. It was quite the sight, and worth stopping for.''6. Take a Tour of Piedras Blancas Light Station''Visible from the elephant seal rookery of the same name, we didn’t actually manage to get on a tour of the''Piedras Blancas Light Station''on this trip as the tour times didn’t work with our schedule. So the closest we got to it was the locked gate on the highway.''Still, if you are able to get onto one of the two hour tours (''timing and information here'') we’d recommend you do so. A lighthouse has been found on this spot since 1875, and today this whole area is designated as an Outstanding National Area, as well as being listed on the National Register of Historic Places. It’s on our list for our next trip through for sure!''7. Walk on San Simeon Pier and Visit the Coastal Discovery Centre''On the beach front opposite the Hearst Castle entrance is the''San Simeon Pier'', found on the Willliam Randolph Hearst State Beach. Yep, that Hearst chap has his own beach.''It’s not notable for anything in particular in terms of length or age, but it is a pretty pier, popular for fishing, and the beach is very nice. There’s also a nice''Coastal Discovery Centre''in the parking lot with very enthusiastic staff who told us all about the marine life in the area. It’s worth popping into, and they also run a variety of activities including beach walks and geocaching adventures.''8. Marvel at Nitt Witt Ridge''Back in Cambria, we visited a building that could be described as a poor-man’s Hearst Castle, although to do so is perhaps to do it an injustice.''Maybe an alternative Hearst Castle? I don’t know. Whatever, you should make time on your trip to Cambria to take a tour of''Nitt Witt Ridge'', where one man spent a lifetime building a house out of, well, whatever he could find.''Construction materials include abalone shells, beer cans and drift wood – whatever Arthur Beal, who spent fifty years building the place, could beg, borrow… or acquire through possibly dubious means. Those bits of Hearst Castle that we saw at the house probably weren’t given knowingly!''After Arthur’s death in 1992 the house was largely abandoned and fell into disrepair, before being taken over privately in 1999 by a hugely enthusiastic chap called Michael and his wife, who runs tours of the property by appointment.''The tour, which was just the two of us and Michael, was a fascinating insight into the life of “Art” Beal, who clearly polarised opinion during his lifetime. Michael, despite having run tours for over a decade and receiving almost no support from state authorities, is hugely enthusiastic both about the property and it’s creator, and the tour was both fun and moving. When you visit Cambria, do make time to do this – you won’t regret it!''Eating and Drinking in Cambria:''Wow, where to begin. Well, Jess is going to go into more detail on the food of Cambria in her upcoming post, but suffice to say, we were very well fed during our time here.''Highlights for me included the dinners we had at the''Black Cat Bistro''(intimate and homey) and''Madeline’s Restaurant''(romantic, classic dining), as well as the two experiences we had dining with Linn.''Started as a fruit growers''in the seventies, Linn’s has now expanded to restaurants, pie making (over 400 pies baked every day!), preserve creation and more. You’ve got to do two things – try a slice of Olallieberry Pie at''Linn’s Easy as Pie Cafe''(amazing!), and have breakfast at''Linn’s Restaurant,''where the pancakes are excellent. Not to be missed.''It’s not all food of course. California is famous for wine, and Cambria has its fair share of vineyards. We visited the''Stolo Family winery'', who produce some fantastic wines, including a Syrah which is grown closer to sea than most. I’m by no means a wine expert, but we certainly enjoyed the tasting – so much so that we picked up a bottle to take home with us.''If wine isn’t your bag, don’t panic, Cambria has you covered. In the centre of town you’ll find the''Cambria Beer Co'', a micro-brewery who have been brewing craft beers since 2012.''We had a tasting flight of all the beer they have on tap (six at time of writing), and very much enjoyed the laid back atmosphere of the bar, full of people playing board games, chatting and making new friends over some excellent beers. Whilst they didn’t have an IPA (I love a bit of hops), they did have some excellent Porters, and we had a lot of fun testing all the beers and seeing which we preferred. The beers change regularly, so drop in and see what they have on offer!''Accommodation in Cambria''We stayed at the lovely''El Colibri Hotel and Spa'', a luxury boutique hotel that was a short walk from Moonstone beach, and a 2 minute drive from downtown Cambria.''This was a really wonderful spot, with gorgeous rooms, a spa bath and welcoming staff. Our two nights here were comfortable and quiet.''If you’re heading to Cambria, we’d very much recommend the El Colibri Hotel and Spa. However, there are plenty more options to choose from, across a range of budgets.''We suggest you take a look at the''Booking.com listings for Cambria'', they have a wide range of options that cover hotels, apartments and more, and we find they’re usually very competitive on price.''We were hosted by Visit Cambria for our trip to Cambria, who provided us with our accommodation, meals, fuel expenses,\xa0 and entry to attractions. Opinions remain our own. Speaking of which, Jess has also written a''detailed post on Cambria'', so check that out for even more ideas on what to do!''SHARE ON''Yosemite is a landscape photographer’s dream. It was here that Ansel Adams took so many of his iconic images, and where countless photographers since then have come to try and capture a little of the wonder of this place.''It’s no surprise therefore that when I was based in California that it was very high on my list of places to visit, and we finally set aside some time to do just that. I was super excited to visit, to try out some of my Vanguard VEO gear, and also more than aware I was walking in the footsteps of giants!''I’d never visited Yosemite before, and, suffice to say, my first trip blew me away. It’s just unbelievable. I hiked up past waterfalls, took in stunning vistas, watched fiery sunsets… the list goes on.''In this post I’m going to share with you some of the locations I particularly enjoyed photographing, that if you are visiting Yosemite, you should definitely add to your list. Then, at the end of this post, I’ve provided some additional resources to help you plan your trip and get the best photos when you’re there!''Enough of all that. Let’s crack on with:''My Favourite Photography Spots in Yosemite.''1. Nevada and Vernal Falls''The''hike up to Vernal and Nevada Falls''was without doubt the highlight of my time in Yosemite. Vernal Falls in particular were magnificently photogenic, and the hike was incredibly rewarding.''It’s a busy trail, especially on the way up to Vernal Falls, but I think you’ll agree that it’s worth it. The best shots are to be grabbed by getting slightly off the path so as to avoid the people – just take care as the area is usually wet and slippery – it’s not called the mist trail for nothing!''Speaking of mist, whilst all that water does create beautiful rainbows, it’ll also get all your gear wonderfully wet. You’ll want to bring plenty of wipes to dry your lens off. I also find that a sun hood can help prevent getting a lot of moisture on your lens. Timing-wise, the afternoon is when the light seemed to be best, and you’re going to want to bring along''some ND filters''on this trip to get those gorgeous fluffy waterfall shots.''At the top of Vernal Falls is this giant lake, known as the Emerald Pool, which offers lovely views and further photography opportunities.''If you still have the energy, you can keep on going past Vernal Falls and hike another mile or two to Nevada Falls. This trail offers stunning views of the surroundings, as seen below from my hike back, but getting a shot of Nevada Falls themselves is a little tricky. For a direct view of the falls themselves, as seen above, you’ll have to leave the trail and head down over the rocks. This is a bit tricky, so be careful!''And one last shot of Vernal Falls. Just unbelievable.''2. Tunnel View''Tunnel view is a wonderful place to get oriented as to the layout of the valley, with views of El Capitan, Half Dome and Bridal Veil Falls. In fact, it’s one of the better places to get shots of Bridal Veil Falls, which you can see to the right of the shot below.''It’s a very busy location, but there’s a large car park and plenty of space for everyone. I thought it would make an excellent location for astrophotography, although it was unfortunately cloudy on the evenings we were there, so I wasn’t able to test out that theory. Here’s the behind the scenes shot of me taking the above:''3. Glacier Point''The majority of the locations in this post are easily accessible from inside the valley, either with your own vehicle or by using the free shuttle bus that pootles around the valley floor.''Glacier point requires a bit more effort, as it’s a 30 mile drive up from the valley floor, which you can either drive yourself, or pay for the bus. Alternatively, if you’re feeling especially fit, it’s a''five mile hike''up from the valley, with a 3,200ft elevation gain.''However you choose to get up here, the views are entirely worth it, with spectacular panoramas across the whole valley, with waterfalls cascading all over the place and those impressive rock formations just blowing your mind.''As it’s relatively accessible, it’s also very busy, especially Glacier Point itself. I’d advise stopping off at the viewing point about a mile before Glacier Point itself for slightly less crowded but no less impressive vistas.''There’s an excellent view of Vernal and Nevada Falls from this location, in the lower right of the shot. How small they seem from up here!''4. Half Dome''Half Dome is one of the most recognisable rock formations in Yosemite, and the 10-12 hour''round-trip hike''is a favourite for park visitors.''It’s visible from all over the park, although the area outside Curry Village affords some spectacular views, which is where the next two shots were taken from.''You can also get a great view of Half Dome on the way into the park from a viewing point on Big Oak Flat Road, which is also not quite as busy a location as many of the other viewing points.''5. Sentinel Bridge''For sunset views of Half Dome, one of my favourite locations had to be Sentinel Bridge. From here you can see the last of the light illuminating this magnificent rock formation, with the added bonus that there’s a river for reflections.''This was certainly a popular spot, but I was able to pop my tripod in amongst the other tripods to get the shot.''6. Valley View''Valley View is a wonderful location to get shots of El Capitan, especially because of the large, slow flowing river that affords plenty of reflection opportunities. This is also an excellent place to get sunset shots on more cloudy days.''7. Yosemite Falls''One of the more magnificent falls in all of Yosemite, and split into the Lower and Upper falls, these falls can be shot from a variety of locations. For the upper falls, I felt that near the Ansel Adams gallery there were some good opportunities to capture them in all their glory.''The lower falls are''easily accessible by foot'', but don’t be too hasty to get close. My favourite shots were with a long lens almost from the road, using the forest to provide some natural framing.''8. Bridalveil Falls''Like Lower Yosemite Falls, Bridalveil falls can be seen from a number of locations in the park, and access to them is very easy via the''Bridalveil Falls path.''Also, like Lower Yosemite Falls, the best place to shoot them is definitely not the viewing point – it’s crowded and the angle is awkward. Instead, either shoot them from the car park at the trail head, or from somewhere where their grandeur is more obvious, such as the previously mentioned Tunnel View.''Well, those were some of my favourite spots in Yosemite for photography. As you’ll have noticed from many of these shots, I had my camera set up on a tripod – in this case the Vanguard VEO. I’m proud to be a Vanguard Pro, and I find their VEO range to be perfect for travel, offering a great mix of portability and stability in a well priced package. If you’re in the market for a tripod, you should definitely check them out – and US readers get a 20% discount on everything in the''Vanguard store''with code “FindingTheUniverse”.''Further Reading and other Resources for Photographing Yosemite''If you want more information, both on photography in Yosemite, and on visiting in general, then I can highly recommend the following resources:''The''Photographers Guide to Yosemite'', by''Michael Fyre''. This excellent book covers all the highlights of the park, best times to shoot, tips on gear and much more, in a handily pocket sized edition. Very much recommended.''This''blog post''by acclaimed photographer Colby Brown also covers some excellent locations, as well as tips on places to stay and when to go''This excellent post from Jess introduces the park, and will help you get the most out of''one day in Yosemite.''If you are looking for a tripod (and if you’re serious about your photography, you absolutely should have one!), then Vanguard have an excellent range. The''VEO system''I was using for this shoot is specifically designed for travel, meaning it’s super-light and easy to use, plus they won’t break the bank.''If you’re in the market for a new camera, check out my definitive''guide to the best travel camera'', with something for every budget''My other''photography location guides'', to get you the best shot in destinations around the world''Finally, if you’re looking to learn more about photography, I run an''online travel photography course''which covers everything I know about photography, plus you get one on one feedback directly from me as you go! Check it out and let me know if you have any questions.''Up in the northeastern part of California, around a 3.5 hour drive from San Francisco, is the Shasta Cascade region. This part of California is excellent for lovers of the outdoors and landscape photographers like me, offering mountains, lakes, potentially live volcanoes and of course, hiking and photo opportunities galore.''We were recently invited by the nice folks up at Shasta Cascade to experience some of what their region has to offer. We packed our three days full of activities to try and take in as much as possible – here are some of the things we got up to, and some recommendations for planning your trip should you choose to go yourself.''What to get up to in Shasta Cascade''Whiskeytown Lake and National Recreation Area''About six miles from Redding, and just past Shasta City (see below), is the Whiskeytown National Recreation Area. This is a gorgeous park, featuring a lovely big lake (Whiskeytown lake) as well as a plethora of outdoor activities, from hiking to kayaking.''One of the highlights of the reserve are the four waterfalls that you can hike to, Whiskeytown Falls, Boulder Creek Falls, Brandy Creek Falls, and Lower Crystal Creek Falls.''In a perfect world of course you’d want to try and do all these activities and take in all the waterfalls (which will earn you a fully stamped Waterfall Passport!). However, if like us time is not on your side, then we’d suggest you dop in at the park office just off the highway, first to get an excellent view of Whiskeytown Lake, and second to get fully up to date information on the trails, and which waterfalls are going to be best to visit based on your fitness levels and water flow. More information on the falls and trail maps to help you plan your visit can be found''here''.''Old Shasta City''Before the railroad came to the area, Shasta City was the place to be. This was the town that served as the epicentre of the gold rush in the region, and in the late 19th century this was the region’s focal point..''Unfortunately, being up in the hills made rail access a challenge, so when that technology came along and stopped at Redding, around six miles away, businesses and people moved to where the action was, and Shasta City was largely abandoned.''That’s good news for us, because the town is now designated as a historical park – the''Shasta State Historical Park''– and you can wander amongst the ruins to get a feel of what life here might have been like back in the day. Which is exactly what we did, guided by one of the park rangers.''Many of the buildings are mere shells of course, when the original businesses left, many of them took the bricks with them! But there are enough standing to give you a good idea of what the main street would have looked like. The highlight is the restored courthouse and jail, which also serves as a museum of the town’s history and people.''The park is just off the highway, and you can wander the ruins whenever you like, but for access to the museum you’ll need to visit during opening times, which are Thursday through Sunday.''Waterfalls and Mount Shasta''There are''dozens of waterfalls in the area surrounding Redding'', so if you love waterfalls as much as I do, you’re going to be spoilt for choice.''We took a trip up north from Redding to take in two of the more impressive falls in the region – the Burney Falls and the McCloud Falls.''Our first stop was Burney Falls, in the McArthur-Burney Falls Memorial State Park''.''Waterfalls can be a bit hit and miss, depending on weather conditions and water availability, and with California in the midst of a seemingly never-ending drought, you might think that waterfalls would be more miss than hit at the moment.''Well, it turns out that Burney Falls are reliably awesome year round, with a 40 metre drop and 380 million gallons of water going over the edge every day, sourced from underground springs that keep that flow going even when it’s the dry season.''As you can imagine, that much water makes for a hugely impressive waterfall, which was wonderfully photogenic.''After Burney Falls we headed up to the McCloud River Falls, which are a series of three falls on the McCloud river. From Burney Falls this is approximately a 30 minute drive north.''The three falls are named the Upper, Middle and Lower falls, and they can be reached either via the''3.8 mile long river hike'', or, if you’re short on time, you can drive to all three falls via the paved road.''A short walk is required to see the Upper and Middle falls, with the lower falls visible pretty much from the car park.''It’s worth visiting all three falls as they all offer something a little bit different, and if you have the time and energy, do make sure you hike down to the base of Middle Falls for the best view.''After visiting these three waterfalls we headed to Mount Shasta itself, or at least, the hotel near the base of the mountain,''Mount Shasta Resort'', where we had dinner in the Highland House Restaurant. This was accompanied by lovely views of snow covered Mount Shasta itself, which is a mightily impressive mountain. We spent a very short amount of time exploring the area, with the highlight for me being the lake we found in the area where I was able to get a few photos like this:''Sundial Bridge and Turtle Bay''In Redding itself, there are a number of options for things to do. Two of my favourite activities were visiting the Sundial Bridge, and taking in the''Turtle Bay Exploration Park'', which are conveniently located next to each other.''The first, the''Sundial Bridge'', is an impressive 700ft long glass floored construction which spans the Sacramento River, offering pedestrians access from the Turtle Bay Museum to the Arboreteum on the other side. It’s also a part of the''Sacramento River Trail'', a 16-mile trail which is a highlight of Redding’s''80 miles of trails''.''Whilst controversial at the time due to the price tag (over $18 million), it’s hard not to be awed by the flair of this design, with the main feature being that giant cantilever tower which both supports the weight of the bridge, and as the name might suggest, acts as the time-piece for the sundial. Yep, this bridge can tell the time, although, given that it’s accurate only one day a year, I wouldn’t replace your watch just yet.''This pedestrian bridge is quite wonderful to walk over at any time of the day, but is especially popular at sunset and as night falls, as it is illuminated. I visited a number of times to take pictures, and particularly enjoyed the view from the Turtle Bay side down by the river, where you can capture the span of the bridge and the glass underneath. Heading east along the trail you can also get some great shots of the sun setting behind the bridge.''Ok, so that was four paragraphs about a bridge. I’ll move on now to the Turtle Bay Exploration Park.''This is a fairly large complex, the central focus of which is the museum, which houses displays on the surrounding flora and fauna, with particular focus on the Sacramento river which flows by right outside. There are also occasionally special exhibitions – when we visited there was a whole section of the museum given over to the history of candy, which was very interesting – particularly the free jelly beans!''It’s an educational centre with hands-on activities, and certainly seemed popular with the school groups that were passing through. This was also the case for the outdoor wildlife park which housed a variety of interesting wildlife, from porcupines to foxes to parakeets. The latter are really fun – you’re allowed into their “playhouse” to feed them, and they get really up close and personal with visitors, sitting on heads, arms and hands in the quest for a bit of food!''Entry to Turtle Bay when we visited was $16 for an adult and $12 for children and seniors, which grants access to the Museum, Forest Camp, Parrot Playhouse and the Botanical Gardens on the far side of the river. If you have kids, it’s a no-brainer.''More information on opening hours, ticket prices, special events and membership can be found on the''Turtle Bay website here''.''Diestelhorst Bridge''The Sundial Bridge is certainly the most famous of the bridges in Redding, but is by no means the only bridge in town. Another bridge worth visiting is the Diestelhorst bridge, built in 1915, and is the first and oldest concrete bridge across the Sacramento.''Ok, so that might not sound spectacular, but I did enjoy the views from this bridge, both of the river, and of the awesome wooden rail bridge that spans the river just a little way upstream. Another good spot for photography!''Shasta Caverns''The Shasta Cascade region isn’t all above ground activities like bridges, waterfalls and lakes. Although if it was, that wouldn’t be a bad thing.''You can also get underground, taking advantage of the fact that the area has a lot of limestone. Limestone, of course, means caves, and Shasta has some excellent caves to visit – the Lake Shasta Caverns, which you can visit on a tour.''This is a cool tour to do because it includes not just the caves themselves, but also a boat-ride across Lake Shasta, and even a bus ride up a hill. The latter is more exciting that it sounds due to the spectacular views in affords.''We really enjoyed this tour, more than I was expecting to be honest. Despite having seen a lot of caves, this whole trip, with the lovely boat ride followed by the hour or so cave tour accompanied by an amusing and well-informed tour guide was really a lot of fun. The grand finale, in the cathedral room, was particularly impressive. Very much worth it.''Pricing when we visited was $24 for an adult, and $14 for children aged 3-15. For ticket purchase and more information, including up to date opening hours, see the website''here''. Note that this trip does require climbing a lot of steps, so a basic level of fitness is advised.''Shasta Dam''Lake Shasta is not a naturally formed lake, it was created as a result of the building of Shasta Dam between 1938 and 1945.''When it was built, using a similar technique to the Hoover Dam, it was regarded as one of the greatest civil engineering feats in the world, and even today the Dam is impressive, measuring over a kilometre in length, and towering 600ft above the valley below.''It’s free to visit the dam, and tours are offered which allow you to explore the history and making of this impressive concrete structure. We’d advise taking a walk out to the centre of the dam to appreciate the construction, as well as for excellent views. It’s also worth taking the scenic loop drive to and from the dam, which offers excellent views of the surrounding area, and on a clear day, will let you see all the way to Mount Shasta.''More information on''Shasta Dam''can be found''here'', with detailed tour information''here''.''When to visit the Shasta Cascade Region''Obviously, the time of year you visit will depend on the activities you want to do. The Shasta region has four distinct seasons, with cold winters and hot summers. If you want to ski on Mount Shasta, obviously you’ll want to visit in Winter, but for the majority of the activities on this list, we’d suggest coming in either Spring or Fall – you’ll get moderate temperatures that are perfect for outdoor adventures, and you’ll avoid the scorching heat of the summer.''How to get here''The best way to explore Redding and its surrounds is with a car, so our advised way of getting here would be by car. If you don’t have a car, then we’d definitely''recommend hiring one for your trip.''Redding is just off Interstate 5, around a 3.5 hour drive north of San Francisco.''You can also reach Redding by plane, with flights from San Francisco. Train and bus are also options, although the train times are a little inconvenient at time of writing.''Where to stay''We stayed in the''Bridgehouse B&B'', a gorgeous little bed and breakfast about a five minute walk from the town centre and just above the Sacramento River. Our hostess was knowledgeable about the area, and sharing breakfast with fellow guests every morning was a wonderful experience. So that’s a great option.''There are plenty of other places to stay of course, in both Redding and the greater Shasta Cascade region.''HotelsCombined'', one of our favourite ways to find the best deals, lists''40 hotels in the Redding area'', which should cover most budgets and requirements.''If you’re more into the sharing economy, then AirBnB has you covered, with loads of properties in the Redding area. Get up to $100 off your first booking with''this link''.''And that’s it for Shasta Cascade! There’s loads more to do in this area, (get more ideas in''Jessica’s extensive post on Shasta Cascade!'') and we’ve only just touched upon the surface – somewhere we really want to visit next time being the''Lassen Volcanic Park'', Shasta’s version of Yellowstone.''Have you visited this part of California before? Is it on your list? Let us know in the comments below!''Our trip to Shasta Cascade and Redding was in partnership with the Shasta Cascade CVB, who covered our accommodation, meals and entry to all the attractions. All content and opinions remain our own.''SHARE ON''It seems fitting to be writing this article whilst I’m sitting on a train. Admittedly, of all the train lines in Europe that you could take with the prize on offer (the clue is in the headline), the 9.50am from London Paddington to Oxford, with stops at Slough and Reading, might not be at the top of your list.''It’s one of those solid and dependable trains that rattles along at a commuter pace, with London suburbia finally giving way to green fields and countryside. Starting in London Paddington does mean you can have a photo opportunity with the Paddington Bear statue, which naturally we took advantage of. Should you be passing through, say hi to him on platform 1 by the McDonald’s.''I digress somewhat. You probably don’t need to hear every detail of my train ride today. Let’s get on to talking about this prize.''Rail Europe'', the global leader in European Rail Distribution, is running a survey on travelling Europe by train or plane.''Take part in the survey'', and you’ll have a chance to win two first class Eurail passes for Europe, valid for a month and worth over €1,000!''I actually took advantage of these passes a couple of years ago, and wow, what a way to travel. First class rail in Europe, particularly aboard the high speed inter-city trains, is a magnificent way to get around. On my trip within Europe,\xa0 I took in France, Germany, Belgium, Denmark, Sweden, and Norway, all in first class luxury!''Train travel is easily my favourite way to travel. In my mind it’s one of the more romantic means of transport, as you find yourself placed in the company of strangers, full of stories to discover, imagine (or ignore!). You get to gaze at glorious countryside, towns and villages, and you can read a book, write a letter, or, in my case, transcribe thoughts to text.''Then, you arrive right in the heart of your destination, ready to get exploring straight away without having to figure out how to get from whichever airport you landed at to the city centre.''I’m such a fan or train travel in fact, that we’re going to be doing another trip this Autumn with a global Eurail first class pass – exactly the same type that you can win in this competition!''If you want to be in with a chance to win this amazing prize (and who wouldn’t!), head on over to the''Rail Europe survey'', answer the questions, and you’re in! Thanks for reading.''Full terms and conditions of contest can be found on the survey site. We were provided compensation for making you aware of this contest.''SHARE ON''Air guitar. We’ve all done it. Our favourite song comes on the radio and before we know it we’re strumming along with the best of them. My personal favourite is actually air drumming, but that’s a story for another day.''Anyway, if I was going to ask you how air guitar and Oulu were connected, you might not know. I sure didn’t. Until I visited, and learnt that Oulu is the home of the''world air guitar championships''. Yes, that is a thing. No,unfortunately,\xa0 I didn’t get to see it because we visited at the wrong time of year. But yes, I did get to perform my very own air guitar solo whilst in Oulu. More on that shortly. Let’s talk a bit about what to do in Oulu in Winter. But first:''Where’s Oulu and Why Would I Visit in Winter?''Oulu is up on the north-west coast of Finland, on the shores of''Bothnian Bay'', the most northerly part of the Baltic Sea, and is the fifth largest city in Finland. In addition to being world famous for air guitar, it’s also Finland’s technology capital, with the city serving as home to many tech firms and Finnish innovators.''If the lure of technology and air guitar don’t blow your mind, here are some more ideas for passing some time in Oulu.''What to do in Oulu in Winter''1. Visit Tietomaa, the Science Centre''Oulu is home to''Tietomaa''(''click here for tripadvisor reviews''), a large science museum with a focus on hands-on interactive exhibits. We learnt about everything from oceanography to the Northern Lights, and had a lot of fun in the process. We were even issued with a wristband when we arrived, which let us track our scores on all kinds of tests throughout the museum, to see how we stacked up against the rest of the world. I seem to have lost my results, but I am fairly sure they were good.''The highlight of course was the music area which featured, naturally, a booth for performing your very own air guitar solos. Even better, you can record videos of yourself performing and then broadcast them to the world via social media. I didn’t quite go so far as that, but I did have a bit of fun strumming along to some air guitar worthy hits. Thankfully there are no photos of this.''If you’re interested in science, interactive exhibits and the like, then this is a very worthwhile stop. And if you have kids, they will definitely love this one as most exhibits are very family-friendly.''2. Hit the Beach''Given the fact that there was significant snow and freezing temperatures when we visited Oulu, we didn’t actually make it to the beach. It just didn’t feel exactly… beachy when we were there. If you’re hardier than us though, or visit at a more clement time of the year, then you might want to take advantages of one of the''15 beaches of Oulu'', where you can ice swim in Winter, or do more normal beach type things in summer.''One of the more popular beaches on the Baltic Sea is Nallikari (''click here for tripadvisor review''), which has a gorgeous stretch of golden sand, as well as plenty of activities and dining options for everyone. There are even camping and lodging options in and near Nallikari if you want to get away from the bustle of the city.''3. Go Bird Watching at Liminganlahti Visitor Centre''Liminganlahti Visitor Centre'', overlooking the''Bothnian Bay National Park'', is a fantastic spot both for a bit of bird watching and also to learn about the all the species that pass through here. Open year round and with free entry, the centre is situated 35km south of Oulu, and can be reached either by public bus or car. See transport instructions''here''.''Neither Jess nor I are what I would exactly describe as avid bird watchers, but we both very much enjoyed visiting the centre and having a tour of the various bird watching and feeding stations. You don’t even need to bring your own binoculars – the centre has both telescopes and binoculars that you can borrow, and the views of Bothnian Bay are excellent. It’s also the best place to see and learn about the annual crane migration in Autumn.''4. Visit the Bobby Statue and Marketplace''By the Oulu seafront you’ll find, should you visit at the right time of year, the Oulu marketplace, which will be filled with food stalls and vendors featuring all kinds of local produce.''Even if the market isn’t happening because you are visiting in the depths of Winter, you’ll want to come down here to take a look at the famous Bobby Statue, who stands guard here come rain or shine, in honour of the bobbies who used to patrol the marketplace. There are also some gorgeous old wooden buildings, and the old market hall itself is very photogenic.''5. Eat Tasty Food on an Artistic Island''We had an amazing meal at the''Sokeri Jussi tavern''in Oulu, a restaurant which is wonderfully set inside an old timber store house on the island of Pikisaari. Fear not though, it’s about a two minute drive from downtown Oulu, or a ten minute walk via bridge – the island is found in the river estuary rather than far out at sea.''This was one of the best meals we had in Finland, with tasty and perfectly cooked reindeer and lamb on our menus. Also recommended are the elk meatballs, although we didn’t manage to fit those in on our visit, a decision I slightly regret! This is also a good place to try local berry wines, such as blueberry, cloudberry, and ligonberry wines.''6. Visit the Park and Castle Ruins''It’s quite remarkable how much of Oulu is made up of islands. Another easy island to visit in the centre of the city is Linnansaari, which is worth visiting because it’s both a pretty park and nice to wander around, and also because here you can see the remnants of Oulu Castle.''Admittedly, there isn’t a great deal of actual castle to see, after being destroyed by both the Russians and a bolt of lightning it was sort of given up on as a viable defensive location. It does however serve as the site for the Oulu Observatory, which was built on the ruins of the powder room in 1875, and has been serving as a warm weather cafe since 1912.''7. Head out of town and visit the Koitelinkoski Rapids''If you want to experience more of the great Finnish outdoors, then you might want to head out to the''Koiteli region'', and specifically, visit the Koitelinkoski Rapids.''Only 24km from Oulu, these rapids on the river Kiiminki are very pretty, and a great spot for fishing, hiking and canoeing. When we visited, admittedly, you’d need nerves of steel to tackle most of those activities, with temperatures well below freezing, but we certainly saw the potential!''When to Visit Oulu''With a year round average temperature of around 3 degrees C (37 degrees F), and as Finland’s most northerly large city, Oulu isn’t exactly a tropical destination. Although, no-one really comes to Finland seeking palm trees. This is a place for getting outdoors and enjoying yourself.''With that in mind, Spring and Fall are likely going to be the best times to visit, when the days are a longer and warmer, attractions are going to be open, and you can really explore the outdoors without freezing. If you visit in Winter, like we did, prepare for Arctic weather conditions, and perhaps use Oulu as a stopping off point for heading to somewhere like''Iso-Syote'', where you can experience the best of Arctic Finland.''Where to Stay in Oulu''We stayed in the centrally located''Scandic Oulu'', a mid-range business oriented hotel where we had a nice corner room that offered great views across the city and river. If for some reason that’s not right for you, then we can recommend the following tools for booking your trip and getting the best accommodation deal, whatever your budget:''Our''current favorite way''to find the''best deals on accommodation''is with''HotelsCombined''. These guys let you search over 100 booking sites at once, including booking.com, Agoda and TravelPony, and nearly always get the best price.''Try them and see!''Alternatively, if you prefer an apartment or more of a hosted stay, then I recommend''AirBnB''. I’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get''a $25 discount''on your first booking with''this link!''How to Get to Oulu''The easiest way to get to Oulu is by air, with around twenty flights a day from Helsinki. There’s a bus from the city centre to the airport, or a variety of''car hire services at the airport''.''If you don’t want to fly, it’s around a six hour direct train from Helsinki on the express train, or there’s a sleeper train option which takes nine hours. Train tickets are cheapest if booked in advance in Finland, with the cheapest fares available two months in advance (the furthest in advance you can buy tickets).''Train tickets in Finland are available via''vr.fi''(English version).''Buses also run from Helsinki to Oulu, as well as from other destinations in the country, and take 9 to15 hours, with prices around €75.''Bus services in Finland can be booked on the''Matkahuolto website''(English version).''Further Reading for your visit to Finland in Winter''We’ve visited Finland a number of times in both summer and winter, and have written a number of posts to help you plan your trip.''To start with check out this post Jess wrote, that details the''top 15 Winter Activities in Finland''you have to try!''Next, you’ll probably be wondering what to bring with you. We have a guide to''what to pack for winter in Finland''to help you out.''If you’ve ever wanted to take a multi-day husky sledding safari,''this post''shares what that experience is like''If you’re thinking of visiting Helsinki, we have a guide to spending''1 day in Helsinki''to help you plan your visit.''Want to visit more towns in winter? Check out''our guide to visiting Rauma''in winter for more inspiration!''And that’s it for my experience visiting Oulu in winter! As always, we’re open to your comments and feedback, just use the comments box below to share your thoughts.''So you know:''Our trip to Finland was covered by the Visit Finland tourism board, who covered our accommodation, transport and food, and provided us compensation for our time. Content and opinions remains our own.''SHARE ON''And here we are again, with the latest edition of the most popular photos from the''Facebook Page''over the last month or two. We’ve sailed on past 400,000 fans on Facebook in the last couple of months – a huge thanks for all your support over there! It is genuinely appreciated.''Also, while I’m thanking you, I just wanted to thank everyone who voted for us in the Annual Bloggies. It was an honour to be nominated, and even nicer to win the''Bloggy Award for Best Photography on a Blog''. Ok, so part thanks, part brag.''Back to this post. As you may or may not know, we try to share a photo a day on our Facebook Page from our travels around the world, some old, some new. And, in case you missed any, this post puts some of the most popular into one handy place for your viewing pleasure. Because five out of six people are not on Facebook. If you’re in that majority:''Ah, Finland in Winter. It’s very pretty, and it’s very cold! Check out my''tales of our husky sledding adventure''(crash included!) in Rovaniemi, and then if you’re inspired to take a trip of your own, take a look at Jess’s post on''top Winter Activities in Finland''. Or just peer googly eyed into the luscious blue eyes of our husky. Whatever works.''The gorgeous coastline of Costa Brava. We’re heading back here in May 2015 to take part in the TBEX travel conference, where I’m delighted to be the official photographer. Always a lot of fun.''Glencoe. So far, still my favourite photography destination in 2015. Check out my''Glencoe photo-essay''here. I’m almost done telling you how amazing this place is I promise.''Brindisi in Italy''was one of those places I visited with no real expectations, yet which delighted me. Great food (ok, it’s Italy, that’s a given), beaches, lovely streets, and scenes like the above. If you’re down on the heel of Italy, drop in.''Another one from Finland, but this time in summer-time, when it’s warm enough to swim in the sea. Not that the temperature has much influence over Finns and their swimming habits of course. Ice swimming in winter is a popular past time after all. But then, so is whipping yourself with birch and sitting in a hot room. Ah, Finland.''Cuicocha lake up in the Andes near the town of''Otavalo, Ecuador''. There’s a stunning hike that goes all around this crater and takes around four hours to complete. If that sounds like too much work, you can get stunning views like this from just next to the visitor centre.''The 12 Apostles on Australia’s Great Ocean Road are without doubt the highlight of this epic road trip, although with rainforests, beaches and wildlife galore, it’s tough to pick a favourite. If you’re going to Australia, get this on your list!''Boats sailing in Greece. You can’t go wrong with the Mediterranean. Unless your boat sinks. Try to avoid that.''Giant rocks with a tiny person for scale! It’s Meteora in Greece, of course. See''more of Meteora here''.''Sunset in Australia, after an epic thunderstorm swept past our camp. Sunsets are awesome. Australia is awesome. Everything is awesome.''Crikey, a lot of Australia in this post. Well, it’s a big place. Plenty of room for taking photos. This is''Fraser Island off the Queensland coast''. Another one to add to your Australia list!''This waterfall is tucked away in Spain’s Costa Brava. Not much more to add here, it’s a waterfall. Lovely swimming spot too.''Oh New Zealand. Mind bogglingly photogenic at every corner. This is the headland at Kaikoura, which is both famous for whales, and for having a pretty headland.''The white city of Gondor! No, wait, it’s the white city of Ostuni. Sorry. It’s very similar, but there are less orcs trying to overrun this one. Very pretty too, and just down the road from Brindisi in Italy.''Gosh, having a bit of an Italy-fest here. Here’s one of Milan’s canals, designed by da Vinci and an excellent spot for some early to late night snacking along with wine and friends. Also decent for a sunset.''Glencoe! I’ve already told you multiple times how much I enjoyed visiting. That horse is well and truly beaten. I’ll just keep sharing photos like this to persuade you to visit if that’s ok.''Just near this photo is the secret island lair of Scaramanga, James Bond villain extraordinaire. It’s not quite so secret now, unless hiding behind a pile of visitors and souvenir shops is what villains are doing these days. Actually, that’s not a terrible idea. Anyway, Bond villains aside, this part of Thailand really is spectacular, and taking a canoe trip around the islands is a lot of fun.''The Cliffs of Insanity, from childhood classic The Princess Bride. Also known as the Cliffs of Moher, and found on Ireland’s west coast. They are very high, and very majestic.''More from Costa Brava – this time the actual coastline. I love beaches, and Costa Brava sure has some nice ones. More from this region to come very soon!''And to finish off with a castle that could be owned by a Bond villain, but isn’t. It’s on Lake Garda in Italy, so you’d need a Bond villains resources to be able to afford it. As it is, it’s very pretty, and if Italy is on your mind, then Lake Garda and the castle on the Sirmione peninsula should be nuzzling it’s way onto your to-do list!''SHARE ON''A few weeks ago, if you’d asked me where Walla Walla was, I would probably have guessed somewhere in Australia. It just has that sound about it.''Obviously I would have been entirely wrong. It turns out that Walla Walla is in Washington State in the US, about four hours inland from Seattle, and there’s not a kangaroo in sight.''Why is this relevant? Well, we were recently invited by the nice people of the Courtyard by Marriott to come experience the wines, art, and general wonder that is Walla Walla, as part of their celebrations in opening the 1000th Courtyard Hotel. Which also happens to be in Walla Walla.''Excited to visit a new state, Jess and I packed up our bags and went to see what this town has to offer beyond a sparkly new hotel. We were not disappointed. Here are a few of the things we got up to.''What to do in Walla Walla''Walla Walla is a gorgeous town of around 35,000 people, nestled near the Blue Mountains, the start of which can be seen from town. The city’s Main Street has won awards for being the prettiest in the country, and the town has also won awards for being home to the friendliest people.''We certainly wouldn’t dispute either claim – we wandered up main street on foot and also took in the pretty Whitman College Campus, which was very picturesque. We also received a warm welcome everywhere we went. A good start for Walla Walla.''But there’s got to be more than just a pretty main street and college campus to make you want to visit, right? It turns out there is. The main attraction in Walla Walla nowadays being:''Winery tours''Move over Napa Valley. Well, shift to the left a bit. Just, make some room, ok? Ok. Because Walla Walla is bursting onto the wine scene.''Ok, so bursting onto the wine scene may be a bit of a stretch. Walla Walla and its surrounds were actually some of the first wine growers in Washington, way back in the mid-19th century. Although the inhabitants got a bit distracted from their wine growing efforts by the gold rush, after which bad weather and prohibition put the nail in the original wine industry in the early 20th century.''Fast forward a bit to the end of the 20th century, and Walla Walla decided to have another crack at the wine making whip. It started small, but the quality of the wines spoke for themselves, and now there are almost 150 wineries who call Walla Walla home, making world class wines, with Cabernet Sauvignon being the most popular of the grapes. In 2014, Walla Walla was named a''top ten wine destination in the world''by Wine Enthusiast.''We did a tour with local wine tour company''Imbibe Wine Tours'', and owner Jay took us to a couple of wineries (usually the tour visits four or five but we had a shorter version).''We were delighted to visit and do a full tour of''Pepper Bridge Winery'', owned by three families, and we were even more excited to be given a personal tour by one of the owners, Norm McKibben.''Norm has been in the area for over 25 years, and started some of the earliest vineyards here. His passion and enthusiasm for both wine making and the area shone through as he guided us round, and we felt lucky to have a personal tour with such a character. The wines, naturally, were rather splendid, which we tried with both Norm and Katie Regnier, who manages the''Pepper Bridge Wine Club''.''We also did a tour of Pepper Bridge’s sister winery,''Amavi Cellars'', both of whom have winemaker Jean-François Pellet in charge of the wine creation process. As with Pepper Bridge, we tried an excellent selection of wines, and also took advantage of the Imbibe Wine Tours lunch option – a giant platter of locally sourced meats, cheeses and vegetables.''If you’re in Walla Walla, you have to try the wine. A wine tour is a great way to do that, with many of the wineries offering tastings. You can read more about the wineries of Walla Walla, and learn which ones offer tastings, at the''Walla Walla Wine''website, and also at the''Wines of the Pacific North-West''website.''Art''So that was a lot about wine. But it turns out there is more than wine to Walla Walla. Because Walla Walla is home to The Foundry.''You probably have no idea what I’m talking about. But the chances are, that you will have seen the fruits of the Foundry’s labour at some point in your travels.''You see, the Foundry is one of the largest contemporary art foundries in the world. Some of the world’s greatest artists have used these facilities to have their works realised, before being put on display around the world. Artists such as''Deborah Butterfield'',''Jim Dine'',''Paul McCarthy''and''Maya Lin''have had their works created here – you can see a more complete list at the''Foundry Portfolio''page.''We were given a tour by Dylan Farnum, an enthusiastic dynamo of a man, who also happens to be both the Foundry director and the chap largely responsible for turning it into the powerhouse it is today – staffed by over 150 people, and exclusively creating art projects.''Unfortunately you can’t visit the Foundry as I did, unless you happen to be a local schoolkid – this is a working factory, and it’s not really set up to handle guests. Yes, I was lucky.''The good news though is that The Foundry also have''a vineyard'', and their tasting location is also home to a gallery and displays of some of their work. You can also take the''Whitman College Sculpture Tour''(PDF), which will lead you on a 1.5 mile route around the beautiful Whitman College campus, past a number of pieces, some of which were cast at The Foundry. Fitting, as the owner of The Foundry, Mark Anderson, is a Whitman alumni.''If you want to learn more about The Foundry, there’s also a''book about the place''that you can read.''Dining''So – wine and art. It seems only fair to round off this post of recommendations for Walla Walla with a bit of talk about food.''Yes, Walla Walla is also a bit of a foodie paradise it turns out. Seriously, I know, this town seems to have it all.''We dined out a couple of times. Once was at''T. Maccarone’s'', where we had a whole pile of Italian style food. I know, describing food this good as a pile is probably not how you’re supposed to do it, but this is why I’m not a food blogger. We also ate at the''Maple Counter Cafe'', which offered mind blowing portion sizes, all day breakfasts and an excellent pancake selection. I didn’t really need to eat again that day.''Our evenings meal, and lunch on our wine tour, were both catered by''Olive’s Marketplace and Cafe''. Think local cheese, cured meats, olives (well, of course), vegetables and more. Seriously tasty both times, and I’m sure the in-house experience is just as good.''For more ideas on eating out in Walla Walla, check out this post from a more serious food blogger on''eating your way through Walla Walla'', as well as the tourist board’s suggestions,''here''.''More activities''There’s a lot more to do in Walla Walla that we didn’t get a chance to experience on our first trip. If you have more time, then we’d suggest checking out the''Fort Walla Walla Museum'', a huge attraction across 17 buildings which covers the history of the region and is set in the original 19th century Walla Walla military fort.''Other attractions include the''Kirkman House Museum''and the''Dayton Historic Depot'', to name but a few – see more options on the''TripAdvisor page for Walla Walla''. There are also musical and cultural events (Foo Fighters in August 2015!), farmer’s markets (Walla Walla is famous for onions!), as well as outdoor activities including hiking.''For even more ideas on what to do on your visit to Walla Walla, check out the''Walla Walla Tourism portal'', which has event listings as well as a whole''series of visitor resources''to help you plan you stay!''When to visit''Walla Walla has a fairly traditional climate with four distinct seasons. Summers are hot, Winters are cold and snowy. Spring and Fall are probably the best times to visit, although keep an eye out for major events as accommodation is likely to fill up in advance.''May is the Spring release weekend in Walla Walla for the wineries, so is liable to be a popular time to visit.''How to Get Here''We flew to Pasco direct from San Francisco, from where it was around a 50 minute drive to Walla Walla – there is also a bus service between the two towns. Walla Walla does have''an airport'', with a couple of daily services to Seattle on Alaskan, from where you can fly locally and internationally. Compare flight deals''here''.''Walla Walla is also not too far from Seatlle or Portland by car, around four hours of driving, and''Greyhound''operates various bus services which you can use to get to Walla Walla.''Where to stay''We were invited to Walla Walla by the''Courtyard by Marriott'', which is the 1000th Courtyard Hotel now open in the world – a fairly major achievement! Situated a two minute drive, or ten minute walk, from main street, this brand new hotel was just perfect for us.''There were a few features that I really enjoyed. The massive TV in the room was nice, but it was the little touches like the power sockets everywhere (and USB ports too!), the Bluetooth enabled speaker system and the custom designed sofa in most rooms that made it for me. There was also a microwave and a fridge in every room, although the on-site Bistro (with Starbucks coffee!) catered to our needs so well that we didn’t really need that.''The other feature I really loved, particularly as a long term traveller, was the on-site coin operated laundry facility with complimentary detergent! Seriously, the number of times I’ve been stung by a business hotel for exorbitant laundry fees when I just need a few items doing… or turned to my sink for a spot of sock-washing…''Anyway, there are more features that I should mention. Fast, free wi-fi throughout, which shouldn’t need to be mentioned in this day and age, but since some places still insist on charging then it still warrants mention. Other touches include the use of local artists for the artwork throughout the building, and another favourite of mine – the use of reclaimed wine barrels for the furniture!''There’s also an exhibition kitchen which is going to be used for cooking classes and demonstrations, a small swimming pool, outdoor whirlpool, well equipped gym, library and business centre. The food is served via the Bistro, where we had excellent Starbucks coffee and tried various breakfast options, and the hotel really embodies the “Have a Little Fun” spirit of the Courtyard. So yes, I have no problem recommending this as a base for your stay.''We had a lot of fun in Walla Walla, thanks to the Courtyard people, taking part in a fun opening night party, as well as all the activities, and we really loved the hotel, so naturally I would recommend them as your first point of call when planning a trip to Walla Walla.''If you’re looking for something a little different though, then check out the''HotelsCombined listings for Walla Walla'', for more options across various budgets and to get the best deal.''So you know:''We were invited to Walla Walla to take part in the Courtyard1000 festivities by Couryard, who covered our accommodation, tours, meals and transport for the trip.''SHARE ON''From San Francisco, an easy day trip is to pop across to the gorgeous town of Santa Cruz, famed for its boardwalk, laid back vibe and surfing opportunities galore. We’ve visited a number of times, and based on our experiences, have come up with a guide to what to do in Santa Cruz.''This guide to visiting Santa Cruz would serve well for visiting Santa Cruz for anything from a few hours (perhaps as part of a''California road trip''?) to a few days. As well as a guide to what to do in Santa Cruz, we’ve also included some extra ideas, resources and links to prepare you for your visit to this lovely spot – however long it may be!''What to do in Santa Cruz''1. Walk on the Wharf''Certainly one of the most popular activities to do in Santa Cruz is to take a walk out on the west coast’s longest pier. It’s just celebrated its centenary, and offers gorgeous coastal views, not to mention sea lion spotting opportunities.''It’s also offers up a good variety of places to eat, many of which specialise in seafood of course. The takeaway fish and chips is a popular option, just watch out for hungry gulls…''2. Visit the amusement park and beach boardwalk''Back on dry land and just next to the wharf is another classic attraction, the Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk. This is California’s oldest amusement park and is free to enter, with payment on a per ride basis.''Sure, you won’t get the white knuckle thrill rides of some of the larger parks in California, but there is a wooden roller coaster and numerous more classic fairground attractions to keep you entertained.''3. Visit the surfing museum on West Cliff Drive''All of West Cliff Drive is worth visiting, as it offers excellent views of the pier and city, not to mention giving you the chance to watch the surfers playing in the waves of “Steamer Lane” down below.''If you want to learn a bit more about the history of surfing though, you should take a moment to drop in at the Santa Cruz surfing museum in the Mark Abbott Mermorial lighthouse, found on Lighthouse Point. This is around a 15 – 20 minute walk from the pier, and features all kinds of information on the history of surfing, from its origins in Hawaii as well as the 100 years or so of surfing history in Santa Cruz itself.''4. Surf!''No guide to what to do in Santa Cruz would be complete without mentioning one of the cities most famous activities – surfing! If a surfing museum sounds a bit dry for your tastes, then just hop into the water below, at the aforementioned Steamer Lane surfing hotspot, which is just below the lighthouse.''Access is easy to this well known spot, and it’s believed that the modern day surfing wetsuit and leash were developed here by Jack O’Neill, who had his shop just nearby.''Beyond Steamer Lane, there are 10 more locations you can surf at in Santa Cruz, including the legendary Pleasure Point, so you certainly aren’t going to be bored, whatever your level.''5. Take in the sunset at Natural Bridges State Beach''Ok, so this was my favourite thing to do in Santa Cruz. Because I like sunsets, natural beauty, and taking pictures of both of those things.''If you continue along the West Cliff Drive Road for a couple of miles, you’ll come to the Natural Bridges State Beach National Park. This is a 65 acre national park, with the highlight being that natural bridge out in the water, which is coated in birdlife, including pelicans and comorants.''There’s an excellent view of the sunset from the vantage point carpark above the beach, but my favourite spot was down on the beach itself looking at the arch, with the sun setting off frame. Bring a neutral density filter for some great long exposure opportunities!''6. And more!''There is of course a lot more to do in Santa Cruz beyond the above. There’s the Mystery Spot, the''Big Basin Redwoods State Park'', hiking, kayaking and cycling opportunities, not to mention the marine discovery center and of course the busy downtown area to name but a few options.''You might in fact decide that you want to stay longer than just a few hours. If so, check below for how to get the best deals on accommodation!''Getting to and from Santa Cruz''Santa Cruz is easy to each by car from San Francisco, either as a day trip or as part of the classic Pacific Coast Highway road trip down the coast. If you want to rent a car for your trip, take a look at''Priceline''for the best deals.''You can also reach Santa Cruz by public bus from San Jose – the Highway 17 express, and there are a number of''Greyhound''options as well.''Where to Stay in Santa Cruz''Santa Cruz has plenty of lodging options, from motels through to bed and breakfasts, vacation rentals, campgrounds, resorts. Pretty much something for everyone. A number of properties have gorgeous sea views, and we’re sure you won’t struggle to find the right property for you.''Our advice would be to check out the''Santa Cruz listings on booking.com'', we find they tend to have the most options when it comes to finding somewhere to stay, and the best prices too.''Where to Eat in Santa Cruz''Santa Cruz has no shortage of dining options – whether you’re looking for laid back road-trip fare like burgers, or more upscale fine dining options.''Some of the best options include Linda’s Seabreeze Cafe, the Chill Out Cafe, Dharma’s (for vegetarians and vegans), the Taqueria Vallarta (for Mexican) and Oswal’s (for fine dining). We don’t think you’ll struggle to find somewhere good though, plus there are a number of options along the wharf which offer lovely views as you eat.''When to Visit Santa Cruz''Santa Cruz is good to visit year round. The Californian climate means that even in the winter months the temperatures are pleasant (and there are less tourists in town). But we think you’ll enjoy visiting Santa Cruz at any time of year.''Further Reading for your Visit To Santa Cruz''We’ve written a number of guides and articles to''visiting the USA''that you might find useful for your trip to Santa Cruz. These are:''A guide to''how much it costs to travel in the USA''Tips for Driving in the USA''A detailed''California road trip''itinerary, which includes Santa Cruz''A guide to driving California’s''Pacific Coast Highway''A''photography location guide to nearby San Francisco''A''guide to nearby Los Osos'', California''Also on the California coast a little further south, a''guide to visiting Cambria''And that’s it for our guide to what to do in Santa Cruz, California! Got any comments, feedback or additions to this post? Let us know in the comments section below!''SHARE ON''We almost didn’t get to spend a day in Tallinn. Waking at 5.00am on a January morning in Helsinki, we looked outside to see flurries of snow and temperatures well below freezing.''A thirty minute walk in the dark to the ferry terminal didn’t seem like a hugely appealing activity, particularly as neither of us had slept particularly well the night before, and the thought of tramping around an unknown city in these conditions wasn’t exactly filling us with joy.''Still, we’d already paid for the ferry tickets, and it seemed a shame to let those go to waste, despite the tempting warmth of our hotel bed. So we prepared ourselves and headed out into the snow for our half hour walk to the ferry station, after which it was an easy two hour ferry ride to Tallinn.''Once there, we got off the ferry and had, well, an unexpectedly wonderful day. Here are some of the reasons Tallinn needs to be on your list, that you could use to create your own:''1 Day Tallinn Itinerary''1. The old town''We headed straight for the old town when we arrived into Tallinn, and I suggest you think about doing the same thing. Dating from around the 15th century, this medieval maze is Estonia’s only UNESCO world heritage site, and is more than worthy of the title.''A maze of cobbled streets, old buildings, city walls, turrets and churches, there is plenty to see and do here, and it can all be explored easily on foot.''Don’t miss climbing to the top of Toompea hill for excellent views across the city.''2. Ye Olde Pubs''Tallinn’s old town has fully embraced it’s medieval heritage, with a number of restaurants and pubs offering an “old world” experience, from the costumes of the waitstaff through to the decor and, of course, food options.''It may sound tacky, but somehow it manages to get away with it entirely.''We stopped in at the III Draakon Pub (Three Dragons Pub), on the town square, where we were fed on elk stew accompanied by a beer in a pewter pitcher. A lot of fun.''3. Ye Olde Pharmacy''You often visit a place which has a claim to being the oldest of something. I think I’ve lost count of the number of oldest pubs in England that I’ve visited.''Still, I’ve never found anywhere claiming to be the oldest working pharmacy in the world, which is what you’ll find on Talinn’s town square. Certainly, no-one disputes that this has to be amongst the oldest working pharmacies in the world, with the doors first opening back in the early 15th century and remaining open to the present day, although the prescriptions do appear to have modernised somewhat.''These days there is an interesting little history set up in the pharmacy, with information on the history and medicines of the old pharmacy, as well as some information on the town. It’s a fun (and free) way to spend an easy half hour of time.''4. The Nunna, Sauna, and Kuldjala Towers''Tallinn’s old town was originally surrounded by 26 towers, and during the 16th century, was the most heavily fortified city in the world. These three towers are some of the few that you can still visit and climb up inside, and even better, you can walk between them on the old city walls to get a feel for what the whole fortification would have been like.''A word of warning – these towers haven’t evolved a great deal since they were built, which means the stairs and passageways are steep, winding and narrow. If that doesn’t bother you (and it shouldn’t!), then you should definitely head up here and take in the towers and the accompanying view over the city! Entry was €3 when we visited, which was more than worth it.''5. The Town Square''There’s something about\xa0 a medieval town square that is just magical. And Tallinn’s town square is no exception. A huge cobblestoned affair surrounded by colourful houses with the town hall taking pride of place.''It’s home to a number of restaurants, including the aforementioned Three Dragons Pub, and plays hosts to live music and markets throughout the year, including the famous Christmas Market. So no, you can’t miss this one.''6. St. Olaf’s Church''There are a lot of churches in Tallinn, and if you like churches you will have no shortage of options to visit. One that should definitely make your short list is St. Olaf’s church, which despite being almost 500 years old is still the tallest building in Estonia. There is a law which says no building can be higher than this, which probably explains it.''Naturally, you can climb to the top, and if you choose to tackle the 200 plus steps you will be rewarded with a quite magnificent view of the old city.''Other churches you should consider visiting include St. Mary’s, which is believed to be the oldest church in Tallinn, if not Estonia, and the magnificent orthodox''Alexander Nevsky cathedral'', pictured below.''7. Beyond the old town''We only visited Talinn for a day, so weren’t able to fully explore beyond the medieval town centre, which entranced us for our entire visit. However, if you are able to stay longer, there is plenty to see beyond the old walls, from the maritime museum to other interesting museums, churches and attractions.''Rather than go into great detail on places we’ve not yet visited, we would advise taking a look at the''WikiVoyage entry for Tallinn'',''TripAdvisor’s recommendations''and the''Tallinn Tourism website''. Between those three you should find plenty of ideas for extending your stay!''How to get to Tallinn and where to stay''We visited Tallinn as a day trip from Helsinki in Finland. Ferries run daily and cost us around €35 per person – prices vary depending on sailing time and availability. We sailed with''Tallink Silja'', on a two hour crossing, which was very comfortable and offered a full food and beverage service.''There are various options available for crossing, depending on time of year. The''Linda Line''offers slightly faster crossing times, although isn’t a year round service, and if there is ice in the sea then crossing times will be slower.''You can also get here by ferry from Stockholm and St. Petersburg, and of course Tallinn airport offers''a great many flight routes''.''If you’re coming from Helsinki, check out the''Helsinki Card''– as well saving you money on''sight seeing in Helsinki'', it also gives a discount on the''ferry crossing from Helsinki''and the''Tallinn card''.''When to visit Tallinn – weather and more''We visited Tallinn in January, and as you can see from the pictures, there was snow on the ground and temperatures were below freezing. The good news was that this gave us plenty of excuses to pop into cafes and pubs to warm up, plus there were very few other visitors. The bad news was that it was cold and got dark fairly early!''In addition, in winter the ferry crossing can be slower due to ice in the sea, although Tallinn is reportedly gorgeous around Christmas-time, and I can imagine the old town must be spectacular, decked out in Christmas lighting! February is usually the coldest, if driest, month.''If you prefer warmth, then the long warm days of summer are for you. The longest day of the year falls in June, so June and July are great months, although expect them to be busier (you can’t have everything!). The midsummer festival falls on the 24th of June, when there are celebrations throughout Estonia. Speaking of festivals, Tallinn has lots throughout the year – checkout the''festival listings on the Tallinn Tourism portal''for full details.''SHARE ON''Visiting a summer town in the dead of winter is a weird experience, and something we experiened when we visited Rauma in winter.''To start with, I’m fairly sure we were the only people staying in the hotel. The town’s streets were oddly, almost eerily quiet, at any time of the day or night.''The exception was after the local team played ice hockey, at which point it appeared to flame into life.''I managed to catch that game – my first ever ice hockey game – which was quite the experience. More on that below.''Not that I am complaining about the quiet. Having one of Finland’s world heritage listed sites to ourselves to wander and photograph at leisure, whilst sampling all that it had to offer the Winter visitor, was quite the experience.''Rauma is way over on the west coast of Finland, around a four hour bus ride from Helsinki. It’s notable for it’s town centre, the entirety of which is the aforementioned UNESCO world heritage site. It’s a beautiful old wooden town, and is the main reason why Rauma is such a popular place to visit.''But there’s more to Rauma than the pretty wooden centre, as we learnt. Here were some of the things we got up to during our three day stay to give you some ideas for visiting Rauma in winter.''What to Do in Rauma in Winter''1. Learn to make Lace''Rauma is famed throughout Finland for lace making, of the bobbin style. I had no idea what bobbin style lace making was before I visited, but luckily some wise lace-making ladies were on hand to help me learn the skills that have been popular in this town since the 16th century.''It turns out bobbin lace making is a time consuming and complicated endeavour, involving many threads, pins and bobbins, that have to be moved around and crossed over each other in just the right way.''I’d like to say I created something wonderful, but the reality is that I moved some bobbins over some other bobbins, whilst a wonderfully talented lace making lady peered over my shoulder, tutted in Finnish and corrected the general tangled mess I created.''Still, we bought Jess some lovely earrings made out of lace, which is the main thing. If you are interested in lace making, you can drop in and learn to make your own lace, or for true lace aficionado’s, come here in summer for the''week long lace festival''!''2. Try helming a tug boat''Rauma has a long history with the sea, being both an important port and ship-building location. The town’s relationship with the sea was explained to us in the''Rauma Maritime Museum'', which is full of sea faring artefacts and interesting exhibits that cover all aspects of this history, from the people who live their lives on the sea to the ships and companies that made the journeys possible.''For those of you who love an interactive exhibit, it also has a fully computerised ship helming simulator, with giant screens, where we had a go at helming a tug boat through stormy seas off the Rock of Gibraltar. Which was a lot of fun, if slightly sea sickness inducing…''3. Get some exercise on a frozen sea''You’d think that it being the middle of Winter and temperatures being well below freezing (not just a tiny bit below!) would preclude us from taking part in outdoor activities.''Well, if you’ve read our previous posts from''our adventures in Finland'', you’ll know that the Finnish people both''love the outdoors''and aren’t exactly afraid of the cold when it''comes to activities''. So it shouldn’t really have come as a surprise when our list of activities included kick-sledding across a frozen sea.''Kick-sledding, for those of you not in the know, is pretty much what it sounds like. You have a sled, which has long runners behind it, and you sort of kick yourself along and glide wonderfully across the ice.''That’s the theory anyway. In our case it had recently snowed, so there was less wonderful gliding and more sticky pushing.''Still, we found a wonderful island in the midst of the frozen sea where we had a campfire and sausages. Fact: you’ve not experienced Finland until you’ve had a campfire with accompanying sausages. And beer.''After these exertions, we naturally needed to relax, which brings me onto our next activity:''4. Experience a quintessential sauna, with ice sea dip''You can’t visit Finland without having a sauna.''Recent research suggests''that saunas contribute to the Finns leading longer lives, and it is an integral part of Finnish life.''When I was in Finland over the summer of 2014 I had a sauna experience as well, but I think sauna is best experienced when it is really cold outside so you can really appreciate the warmth. I would also advise, if you get the opportunity, to try a wood fired sauna rather than the electric version – the feeling is quite different, and in my opinion, better.''Of course, the other advantage (if you could call it that), of taking a sauna in winter is that you can jump into a frozen sea.''Ok, so this might not necessarily appeal. But it seemed to be the thing to do, so after sweating away for a while, I plucked up the courage and ventured out along the slippery pier and into the sea, through the hole that had been cut into the ice.''It was, as you might expect, somewhat cold. Invigorating, yes. Although, having done that, I was fairly happy not to do it again!''5. Take in a hockey game''Rauma sure was a place of firsts for me. Kick-sledding, ice-swimming (ok, maybe describing my activity as swimming is a stretch), tug boat driving, lace-making – lots of new experiences!''So, it made sense, since we were in town, to take in a local hockey game. Ice hockey, for those of you from a country where this is not the primary form of the game.''We were given the full experience of a home game, standing with the most ardent fans, in a game against the local rivals. The atmosphere was tense and exciting, and I have to admit to really having no idea at all what was going on. People got on and off the rink, it seemed perfectly reasonable to skate behind the goal with the ball (I’m told it’s a puck), and every now and again a fight broke out.''It was thrilling to watch, especially once I gave up trying to understand the nuance and just got on with cheering whenever the home team got the puck close to the goal.''Even more thrilling was the fact that the home team came from behind to win with just two seconds left on the clock when the winning shot was fired. As you can imagine, the home crowd were fairly thrilled about this development, and it sure capped off a fun evening of sausage eating and sports watching.''6. Eat, high above the town''Rauma has some lovely restaurants, but the most unusual that we visited was in the old water tower on the edge of the town. After a ride up in a creaky elevator, we were rewarded by fabulous views of the city, accompanied by a lovely buffet lunch.''You can go up and view without lunch for a small fee, or if you have lunch the view is included.''7. Visit a museum or two''Rauma has some nice museums if the weather is inclement or you would like to learn more about the history of the town. The aforementioned maritime museum is very much worth visiting, but we also took in the museum in the old town hall, and the''Marela Museum House''.''The latter is situated in the home of a Rauma shipping company owner, and is a wonderful way to see how a well-off family would have lived when in town.''The museum in the old town hall focuses more generally on the history of the town, which also includes the lace making and shipping.''8. Sample the local crafts''The old town centre of Rauma is home to a series of wonderful arts and crafts shops. We stopped in at the gallery of''local artist Kirsi Backmann'', who creates ceramic art around reclaimed materials.''Her art was really fantastic stuff, and I particularly loved the little plane that she said symbolised the freedom of travel.''9. Wander the old town''Of course, one of the highlights of visiting Rauma was getting to wander around the''old town centre'', which occupies a 28 hectare site and consists of over 600 buildings. Certainly more than enough to keep a photographer like me happy for a while!''Practical stuff – where to stay in Rauma and how to get here''We stayed''at the''Hotelli Vanha Rauma''which was a two minute walk from the town centre and was comfortable and quiet with a nice breakfast. We arrived late in the evening and they kindly left us some sandwiches in the room, which was a wonderful way to start our stay!''You can see''more hotel listings for Rauma''at booking.com, which we find has the best prices on a wide range of accommodation options, from hotels to apartments.''Alternatively, if you prefer an apartment or more of a hosted stay, then''I recommend''AirBnB''.''I’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get''a $25 discount''on your first booking with''this link!''Getting to Rauma''is relatively easy. You can grab an express bus from Helsinki which will take you just over four hours. Buses in Finland were a pleasure to ride, with free wi-fi and usually at seat power as well. Take a look at''journey.fi''to help plan your trip.''Further Reading for your visit to Finland''We’ve visited Finland a number of times in both summer and winter, and have written a number of posts to help you plan your trip.''To start with check out this post Jess wrote, that details the''top 15 Winter Activities in Finland''you have to try!''Next, you’ll probably be wondering what to bring with you. We have a guide to''what to pack for winter in Finland''to help you out.''If you’ve ever wanted to take a multi-day husky sledding safari,''this post''shares what that experience is like''If you’re thinking of visiting Helsinki, we have a guide to spending''1 day in Helsinki''to help you plan your visit.''Want to visit more towns in winter? Check out our''guide to visiting Oulu in winter''in winter for more inspiration!''And that’s it for my experience visiting Rauma in winter! As always, we’re open to your comments and feedback, just use the comments box below to share your thoughts.''Our thanks to Visit Finland and the Rauma tourism board for hosting us during our stay and providing meals, accommodation and activities! Want to know more about visiting Rauma in summer? Read''this post by Adventurous Kate''!''SHARE ON''Binoculars. Truth be told, they aren’t something I have ever really spent much time contemplating. As a photographer I spend a great deal of time peering through bits of glass with one eye, rather than enjoying it with both!''This isn’t to say I’m not familiar with binoculars of course. I grew up on a small island in the Seychelles called Bird Island, which was famous, as you might imagine, for its hordes of nesting seabirds, not to mention being home to many passing migrant species. My parents and many of their friends were avid bird watchers, and I have certainly spent some time with my eyes up against binoculars having the virtues of various birdlife explained to me.''I was also lucky enough to travel to Africa on a variety of occasions, where my parents would also have binoculars to hand for spotting the further off wildlife, which was always very handy.''You could say that between those expeditions and my passion for photography, I have had a good amount of practice at looking at things through polished pieces of glass.''Where is this going you ask?''Well,''Swarovski Optik''recently contacted me to ask if I’d be interested in trying out their''CL Pocket binoculars'', to see how they fit into my travelling lifestyle. These are a super small pair of binoculars, designed for the traveller who wants something they can easily take with them whilst still getting excellent optical quality.''You probably recognise the name Swarovski as being synonymous with well polished pieces of crystal, from giant swans through to jewellery. Well, Swarovski Optik is the part of the business that focuses on making high quality optics, from binoculars to telescopes. Founded in 1949, it built on the experience that Swarovski had developed from polishing the world’s clearest crystals, with the goal of making the world’s finest optics.''That goal appears to have been achieved – if you’re familiar with the world of binoculars or scopes, you’ll likely already be familiar with the Swarovski Optical name.''If you’re like me, you have probable just learnt something, because I was fairly sure Swarovski just made big shiny swans and other things that make Jess go “ooo”.''I said yes, because I was interested to see what a really top quality pair of binoculars was like, and also to see if someone like me would find them useful when travelling. With trips to Finland and California planned out, I was sure I’d find some ways to put them through their paces.''When they arrived, I was straight away impressed by how small they were. They came with a handy carry case that protects them when not in use, and they are light and easy to use, particularly after setting them up properly. Which the included instructions do a fine job of explaining.''Of course, there are two real questions to answer. First – are they any good as binoculars. Second – is there a place in my already overstuffed''digital nomad packing list''for them?''Well, the answer to the first question is a resounding yes. Actually, a slightly awed and mind-blown yes.''I spend a lot of time looking through bits of glass as a photographer, and I use some''fairly expensive pieces''of Canon equipment – much of which is expensive because producing high quality glass that doesn’t distort or create image aberrations is an expensive endeavour.''The quality of the image that these binoculars produce is, in a word, stunning. Bright, sharp, clear – putting these little binoculars to my eyes was an imaging experience like none I’ve had before. They just made the far away objects feel like they were right in front of me. They were just that good. I kind of wish Swarovski Optik would get into making camera lenses actually.''The second question is a bit trickier for me to answer. These binoculars offer staggering image quality, and clearly come from a manufacturer who make things that are designed to last. For a lifetime. And possibly someone else’s too.''The price tag, which initially seems steep at just shy of a thousand US dollars, is to be expected when dealing with pieces of glass that perform like this. Good camera lenses cost, and I wouldn’t expect these to be any less expensive. They are, for sure, an investment, but one that will last you a lifetime, a fact which is obvious from the build quality.''From my point of view, the bottom line is that they fall into the category of “I wish I could justify the outlay” rather than “they need to be in my bag”.''Personally I love looking at birds or wildlife, but my travels tend to require me to do it through my camera, and capture the moments to share with you. So in my personal case, they don’t fit into my workflow. Don’t stop reading yet though, because you aren’t me.''Travel offers us so many amazing things to see, and not all of them are going to be easily in view. From getting a clear view of the close up detailing on high-up pieces of classical European architecture, through to wildlife and far away landscapes, I can absolutely see how a pair of binoculars would easily fit into a traveller’s essential items bag.''In addition, if you are a keen wildlife watcher, then you will obviously want a great pair of excellent binoculars, and you might as well have something light to take with you everywhere.''So if I was going to pick up a pair of binoculars, then these would be the binoculars I would invest in. The image and build quality of the''Swarovski CL Pocket binoculars''make them something I can unequivocally recommend, and I’m fairly sure you won’t be needing to replace them, ever.''Disclosure: I was supplied a copy of the reviewed binoculars for a limited time. Thoughts remain mine.''SHARE ON''Don’t like the cold? Neither did I when I decided to go to Finland for a spot of Winter fun!''On the other hand, I’ve always liked the idea of the northern lights, clear skies and fabulously frosted landscapes. All of which, it appear, seem to require putting up with a spot of chilly weather.''I travelled around various parts of Finland, and I’ve already told you about my''amazing two day husky safari''up near Rovaniemi in the Artic Circle.''Today I want to share with you the winter activities we got up to in Finland when we visited Iso-Syote. This is Finland’s southernmost fell, and the region of Finland that gets more snow than anywhere else in the country. It’s exceedingly popular with locals for its plethora of skiing options, and is wonderful for the visitor because you can do pretty much every Winter activity you had ever dreamed of from one handy location.''When we visited we stayed at the Hotel Iso-Syote, perched atop Iso-Syote hill itself. They also happen to be able to arrange all the tours listed on the page (and a few more to boot!) Here are some of the things we got up to (more on the hotel and what they offer at the end of the post).''Winter Activities in Finland''1. Husky Sledding''That''husky sledding experience''I had was pretty epic, but I appreciate that not everyone wants to spend two days on the back of a sled going into the wildnerness.''Perhaps a nice a relaxing 7km hour long ride under the winter sun is more your style – just enough time to get the hang of it, but not quite enough time to risk losing feeling in your extremities. With a nice cup of hot fire brewed coffee to finish off with? Why not.''So we did the husky sledding experience, which was a lot of fun, and not too strenuous, and unlike my previous foray into the world of being pulled along my dogs, I managed to avoid falling off entirely. Which was nice.''2. Snowmobiling''I’m not going to lie, snowmobiling was far and away my favourite winter activity in Finland. I first got my hands on a snowmobile up in Rovaniemi with Lapland Safaris, and decided then that this was a mode of transport I could get right behind. Not least because of the''heated handle bars''.''Up at the Hotel Iso-Syote, nearly every experience requires the use of a snowmobile in order to reach your destination, a fact I was most pleased about. Husky Sledding? Take a snowmobile to get there. Ice Fishing? Take a snowmobile to get there. Northern Lights safari? Drive around in the dark in a snowmobile chasing the northern lights.''I’m sure you get the idea.''I spent a great deal of time driving a snowmobile during my four days up in Iso-Syote, and loved every minute of it. Even those two times I buried the snowmobile deep into a pile of snow and spent a good amount of time digging the poor thing out. It was, at least, warming.''3. Ice Fishing''Fishing. I’ve done a fair bit of it over the years, and could never quite see the point, especially as you can find perfectly decent fish at most fish mongers without having to go through the hassle of baiting a hook and sitting around wondering if anything interesting is ever going to happen.''In this case though, the ice fishing did require a good long ride on a snowmobile to reach the destination, which was particularly good fun over the snow and slush of the lake. Yes, I did get stuck and take an hour to dig my snowmobile out. No, that wasn’t part of the itinerary.''Other highlights of ice fishing include having a hilariously tiny fishing rod, getting to play with a giant hand drill in order to pierce the ice and cooking sausages over the fire, accompanied by hot, fire cooked coffee.''It basically didn’t matter that we failed to catch any fish at all.''4. Northern Lights Chasing''Ah, those elusive northern lights. I caught a glimpse of them up in Rovaniemi on my snowmobile safari, but it just left me wanting more.''So a three hour snowmobile trek down into the valley to find a dark place and catch the lights seemed like a jolly good idea. And not only because of the thrill of snowmobiling in the dark, also because, well, the northern lights!''Ok, so I didn’t get to see the northern lights. I mention this now so as to save you from any heady anticipation followed by disappointment.''It turns out the northern lights aren’t something you can just see on-demand. There has to be solar activity and flares and a clear sky and various other factors.''I did get a clear sky and a warm campfire though, which at –35C was very appreciated. Plus the opportunity to take photos like the below. Which made it all worth it.''5. Snowshoeing''The only winter activity we did which didn’t require a snow mobile. Boo! Still, strapping on snow shoes and tramping around the massively surreal landscape around the Hotel was still quite the adventure.''Much like many of my other adventures, this wasn’t without mishap. Snowshoeing takes a bit of practice to master, particularly on the up or downhill phases, so there was a spot of stumbling to contend with. It was all worth getting a camera full of snow though, because the views up here, across the surrounding frozen landscape, were quite magical.''Plus those frozen trees are pretty epic looking, I think you’ll agree.''Where we stayed''As I mentioned, we stayed at the''Hotel Iso-Syote'', which was located wonderfully at the top of Iso-Syote hill. This offers stunning (seriously, unbelievable) views of the surrounding landscape, easily the best view from any hotel I stayed at during my time in Finland.''It also turned out, much to my surprise, that the hill was the warmest place to build the hotel, due to the fact that cold air sinks (can’t beat science!). So even when temperatures hit –30C in the valley below, the air around the hotel was a far more reasonable –12C or so. Yes, I appreciate that’s not exactly warm, but it’s still easier to cope with than –30C!''As well as arranging all of the activities that we got up to, the Hotel is also at the top of the ski lift for easy access to the slopes, has a sauna (this is Finland after all) , swimming pool, two outdoor hot tubs and a variety of massage therapies.''Finally, the on-site restaurant offered a truly excellent a La Carte menu, with all the classics you’d expect in Finland, including reindeer and salmon (of course!), or daily buffet options. Accommodation ranged from simple twin rooms up to a gorgeous suite, as well as individual cottages for 4 – 8 people.''If you’re looking for a place where you can experience all the wonder of Lapland from one handy spot that also comes with a bar, excellent restaurant, great views and a plethora of post-activity relaxation options, then we can very much recommend it.''Check''prices on Booking.com for Iso Syote''to get the best price.''How to get there''The easiest way to get to Iso-Syote is by car – it’s approximately a 1.5 to 2 hour drive from the city of Oulu, which is an hour’s flight from Helsinki. There is also a bus connection to Iso-Syote from Oulu.''Further Reading for your visit to Finland in Winter''We’ve visited Finland a number of times in both summer and winter, and have written a number of posts to help you plan your trip.''To start with check out this post Jess wrote, that details the''top 15 Winter Activities in Finland''you have to try!''Next, you’ll probably be wondering what to bring with you. We have a guide to''what to pack for winter in Finland''to help you out.''If you’ve ever wanted to take a multi-day husky sledding safari,''this post''shares what that experience is like''There’s a lot more to Finland than winter activities. Check out''our guide to visiting Rauma''in winter, and our''guide to visiting Oulu in winter''.''And that’s it for our trip to Iso Syote, where we took part in some of the best winter activities Finland has to offer! As always, we’re open to your comments and feedback, just use the comments box below to share your thoughts.''Our trip to the Hotel Iso-Syote and associated activities\xa0were in partnership with Visit Finland, who covered the costs of our accommodation, food and activities. Flailing around in the snow, burying snow mobiles and expressing opinions are all authentically me.''SHARE ON''Today’s blog is a guest post from my friend Monica, who occasionally sends over some wonderful content for me to share with you guys. Today she’s sharing her favourite things to bring back from a trip to Gascony in France. Caution, you might be hungry by the end of this post!''I’m just back from another one of my pilgrimages to Gascony, a region in southwest France that I haven’t been able to get enough of since''first visited in August 2012''. When I go, I almost always go by ferry, so that I can drive my car and load it up with all kinds of local delights.''What can I get in Gascony that I can’t find anywhere else? Fortunately I had my friends Kate, Mardi and Neil on hand to help me answer this question. Kate runs charcuterie courses at''Kitchen-at-Camont'', her French culinary retreat in Gascony. Kate is how I discovered Gascony, and it is thanks to her that I’ve been able to discovery its rich food and drink traditions, from market days at Nérac to Armagnac tasting in Fourcès.''It is also through Kate that I know Mardi, author of eat live travel write. Mardi is a world traveler, French teacher, master of macarons, wife of Mr. Neil, the best Paris tour guide, and a friend I wish I could call “near and dear” but she lives in Canada so “dear” will have to suffice. Neil and Mardi recently bought a house in Gascony that they are converting to a vacation rental. They helped further my Gascony know-how via a bit of walking and wine tasting on market day in Nérac last December.''As this latest trip wound to a reluctant finish, it was time to put a little extra air in the tires and embark on the long journey home.''12 Things to Bring Back from Your Road Trip to Gascony''1. Armagnac''Like Cognac, Armagnac is a type of brandy made from distilled wine. However, Armagnac isn’t produced on the same massive scale as Cognac. Producers tend to be small and as a result, the products are more nuanced. You’ll find Armagnac sold all over the place, but for a real treat pay a visit to Alexandre Ladevèze’s shop in the beautiful village of Fourcès and let him show you how to taste Armagnac properly.''2. Agen Prunes''Mardi says “if someone thinks they don’t like prunes, give them one of these and they’ll change their mind.” It’s totally true. Agen prunes ()pruneaux d’Agen) have been developed to have the perfect balance of sugar and acidity. They are moist, delicious and very addictive. They make perfect road trip snacks, or use them in cooking, as Kate does in dishes like clafoutis with prunes.''3''. Confit de canard''Duck confit is a specialty of Gascony, made with the leg of the duck which is salt cured then cooked in its own fat. Intense. Duck confit can be used in a multitude of recipes, not least of which is cassoulet, another Gascony staple. But you can buy that too…''4''. Cassoulet''This slow-cooked casserole of pork, duck, goose fat and of course the aforementioned duck confit is a true labor of love, taking many hours to make, and many years to master. So it’s worth buying this from someone who’s already done the hard work for you. Cassoulet is easily found sold in cans and jars at markets, grocery stores and charcuteries. But if you insist on learning how to make this yourself, Kate from charcuterie courses at''Kitchen-at-Camont''is your go-to woman.''5''. Saucisson''Yes, three meats in a row. Gascony is big on its meat, and saucisson is no exception. This is a thick, dry-cured sausage typically made of pork and flavoured with, well, flavourings. At the market in Nérac, saucisson options included roquefort, olives, and pimento d’esplette, a specialty of the Basque country and my saucisson of choice to bring back for my neighbours.''6''. Floc''Floc de Gascogne is a sweet aperitif made from local grape juice and Armagnac. It has a fresh fruity flavour with a hint of almonds. Drink it ice cold, as an aperitif or with dessert if you can’t get enough.''7. Wine''As with all of France, you will be spoiled for choice as far as wine is concerned. Côtes de Gascogne is perhaps the most all-encompassing wine-growing district of the region – there are literally more than 20 specific distinct appelations in the greater area.\xa0 I picked up a bottle of''Domaine les Remparts Gouttes de Lune and''Domaine de Pellehaut''Harmonie de Gascogne rouge'', both from Vins et Compagnie in Nérac which has a pretty amazing selection of wines from all over France. Beyond bottles, Kate suggests doing like the French do: buy a box! And it is for that reason I also came home with a box of Buzet, acquired at the epic Intermarché in Agen.\xa0 (Buzet wines are similar in style to Bordeaux, and represent great value.)''8''. Fresh Garlic''Sold at markets in long hand-braided strands, French garlic serves as both food and decoration. Yes I know you can get garlic anywhere, but is it as beautiful as this?''9''.''Oilcloth''These waterproof tablecloths are sold by the meter in French markets and various shops. They’re inexpensive, come in quirky patterns, and are totally brilliant if you do any kind of outdoor dining. They are also great for camping!''10''. Baskets''An essential item at French markets, after all, what else are you going to haul back all your goodies in?''11''. Cheese''Gascony isn’t a major cheese producing region, but you can find some splendid cheese from the nearby Basque Country. Ossau-Iraty, made in the French Pyrenees from unpasteurised sheep’s cheese, is particularly loved. It is smooth, buttery and slightly nutty and is delicious with wines of the region, particularly Madiran.''12. Bee Pollen''Perhaps not a specialty of Gascony – or France for that matter – but Gascony is where I first discovered bee pollen, little balls of pollen packed by worker honeybees into pellets. Some call it a “superfood” for its high concentration of amino acids and minerals.''I just think they’re tasty, and they’ve become one of my favoured smoothie garnishes. Isn’t this why we go to France – or anywhere for that matter? To discover the unexpected and find new things that can bring joy and happiness to our lives even after the trip is over. Bee pollen is my morning reminder of Gascony. (In the evening, I turn to the Armagnac.)''I travelled to''Gascony from Wiltshire, UK, by car and by''ferry, using''Brittany Ferries''to''cross the channel from Portsmouth to S''t Malo''. B''rittany Ferries also sa''ils''to Caen, La Havre, Roscoff, Cherbourg Santander''and Bilbao, all perfect launch pads for your road trip to Gascony.''Monica is a freelance writer and internet consultant who writes about healthy food and travel on her blog,''SmarterFitter.com''. You can find out more about Monica at''monicashaw.com''. Follow her on''Twitter'',''Facebook''and''Instagram''.''Photos in this post provided by Monica Shaw of''Smarter Fitter''and Mardi Michels of''Eat Live Travel Write''.''SHARE ON''Rule one of husky sledding?''Don’t let go of the sled''. Whatever happens – you don’t let go of the sled. How did that work out on my recent husky sledding adventure in Finland? I’ll get to that shortly. Let’s rewind a bit first.''As you might know, I grew up in a warm place. The Seychelles to be precise. And I normally do my best to escape cold places for Winter if I can.''So when I decided to head to Finland for a Winter experience, friends and family were a little surprised.''To be honest, I was a bit surprised too.''But, being a big fan of new experiences, I very much wanted to see how I coped with the cold. I also wanted to experience the northern lights, which was the main reason I chose Finland and more specifically Lapland for my Winter get away.''So it was that I found myself in January 2015 flying up to Rovaniemi from Helsinki, right on the edge of the Arctic Circle and in Finnish Lapland. The first item on the agenda was a two day husky safari including an overnight stay in a rustic wooden cabin in the forests – nothing like getting in at the deep end!''I’m not going to lie, it was damn cold. Leaving the warm confines of the airport into temperatures of around –15, as the darkness started to set in (sunset at this time of year being around 2pm!), was a little nerve wracking. I started to seriously worry that I hadn’t brought anywhere near enough clothes, and certainly not the kind of clothes that would keep me warm enough. I mean, look at this place. Does it look warm?''I needn’t have worried though. After a short transfer from Rovaniemi airport I was being welcomed to''Bear Hill Husky Safaris''by Valentijn, the Dutch owner of the company, who kitted me out with warm overalls, boots and a balaclava. I felt somewhat more prepared.''Then it was down in the gathering gloom to the huskies, who were already harnessed to their sleds and ready for a 30km trek.''A few things surprised me. One, how excited the huskies were to get going. These guys weren’t chilling out or bored – they were pushing against their harnesses, desperate for the off. Of the 70 or so huskies at the farm, we were taking 24, and those being left behind were clearly sad about the prospect of missing a nice long run.''I was also surprised by how different the huskies looked to the traditional blue eyed white and grey furred huskies that you might expect. These fellows were short haired and generally a darker colour, although they came in all shapes and sizes. Valentijn later explained that longer hair means that the dogs can get too hot, so a shorter haired husky often has better stamina and can go for longer. The things you learn.''We were given instruction as to how to drive a husky sled, which, I suspect, was largely to make us feel like we had some kind of control. Other than the brake though, the main thing we were told was to hold on and not let go. This was very much re-iterated – whatever happens, you don’t let go. This didn’t go so well for me, and even less well for my passenger, which we’re going to get to shortly.''Anyway, driving instruction over, it was time for the off. Rule 2 involved the brake, in that we needed to use it when starting, and also to keep the dogs under control. Sleds were for two people, one driver who stood behind the sled on the runners, and one passenger, who was wrapped up in blankets inside the compartment. It was cozy looking, but temperatures below –20C have a tendency to seep in!''The “off” was quite easy. I was in charge of driving for the first half of the run, and as the lead sled went off, with our dogs joyously leaping into action right behind them. I had to use the brake just to stop us from careening into them – I quickly learnt that I had been given the supercar version of a husky sledding team.''I had been a bit concerned over the general lack of directions given in terms of steering and so on, but I needn’t have worried, the dogs knew where they were going and how to get there, and the trail was clearly laid out and easy to follow. All I had to do was hold on and depress the brake every now and again to keep everything in check.''And so the kilometres started to clock by. This being the middle of Winter, darkness had already set in by the time we left, so we zoomed along with the trail lit only by our head torches and the ambient light reflecting off the snow, which was quite bright.''We went up and down hills, across frozen lakes and through forests. Three hours in total across a distance of 30km our dogs pulled us, never wavering or faltering, in fact even when we arrived at our destination they seemed to be capable of doing the whole trip all over again.''I couldn’t quite say the same for myself. The temperatures had fallen somewhat, so we were close to minus 30C, and the second half of the trail had involved me being the passenger in the sled. Despite the many layers of clothing I was wearing and the multiple blankets, the cold was biting, and managed to seep in. So I was more than happy to reach our destination – a warm cabin deep in the forest.''Of course, arrival didn’t mean relaxing. The priority was the huskies, who had to be de-harnessed, fed, wrapped in cosy dog coats and generally set up for the night on beds of straw. This took a while, although the exertion certainly warmed me up.''Then it was time for dinner and, this being Finland, a sauna! This wasn’t my first sauna, but it was certainly the first one with outside temperatures dipping below –30C, which made for quite the temperature difference.''Tired out from all that, it was time for bed, with another full day of sledding ahead. Here’s that sauna incidentally.''The next day dawned clear and blue, with unbelievable light. With a sunrise time of around 10.30am and sunset at somewhere just after 2pm, you don’t get many hours of light, but those hours are truly spectacular.''I have never seen such a phenomenal blue hour, followed by a golden hour that lasted for the entire time the sun was up. Pink never looked so good.''Rapturous colours aside, let’s get back to the day, and my inability to follow simple instructions.''We had a fine breakfast, followed by a good half hour of work harnessing up the dogs and getting ready for the off. I was back in charge of the driving, and this time I had a GoPro on my head to capture all the moments.''Once we were all set up, it was time for the off!''And I made it at least twenty metres before the dogs decided to take a slightly shorter route through a low hanging tree branch.''Now, normally this would be fine, but as we ripped through the branches I became concerned that my GoPro, mounted on my head, might have come loose. So I wisely put up both hands to check on it. Of course, at that moment we bounced out of the tree and the sled turned sharply left.''As the sled went left, I carried straight on, suddenly no longer standing on the sled runners but instead lying in the snow facing up. The dogs, now towing a load that was about half as heavy and with no-one on the brake, stepped the speed up a notch, and accelerated away.''Unfortunately, the sled hadn’t recovered from its sudden cornering, and quietly lost its battle with gravity, tipping over to the side, and rather unceremoniously dumping my passenger into the snow with some momentum.''A photo montage comprising eight seconds of time might be suitable at this juncture. See that tree to the left of the dogs? Yes, that’s where it all went wrong.''Anyway, the good thing was that the only thing to be damaged was my pride. Our guide, Valentijn, was more than wonderful, despite my having broken the first rule of husky sledding quite spectacularly.''In fact, his demeanour throughout the entire trip was nothing short of spectacular – this was not a man prone to becoming vexed. He treated everything with great humour and clearly enjoyed his chosen life tremendously. I suspect it is no co-incidence that the tours they offer have a''100% TripAdvisor rating''.''I am pleased to report that after this little mishap, I didn’t break rule 1 again. Which isn’t to say my trip was accident free. Oh no. I had three more incidents, each perhaps more exciting than the last, with the final adventure involving me being dragged through the snow on my knees for a couple of hundred metres.''But I didn’t let go.''And that’s the main thing.''I can thoroughly recommend''Bear Hill Husky''if you’re up in Lapland and looking for an incredible outdoors experience. We did a two day “''into the wilderness''” safari, which included everything from food to clothes to transfers from Rovaniemi, and I was absolutely delighted by the experience, in particular how involved you get with your dog team right from the start.''I was also hugely impressed by Valentijn and his team, who clearly knew a great deal about husky sledding and helping people to get the most from their experience. If you’re up in Finnish Lapland, don’t miss it!''Further Reading for your visit to Finland in Winter''We’ve visited Finland a number of times in both summer and winter, and have written a number of posts to help you plan your trip.''To start with check out this post Jess wrote, that details the''top 15 Winter Activities in Finland''you have to try!''Next, you’ll probably be wondering what to bring with you. We have a guide to''what to pack for winter in Finland''to help you out.''If you’re thinking of visiting Helsinki, we have a guide to spending''1 day in Helsinki''to help you plan your visit.''There’s a lot more to Finland than winter activities. Check out''our guide to visiting Rauma''in winter, and our''guide to visiting Oulu in winter''.''And that’s it for my experience husky sledding in Finland! As always, we’re open to your comments and feedback, just use the comments box below to share your thoughts.''My trip to Rovaniemi and Husky Sledding experience was as part of the Nordic Bloggers Experience. Falling into the snow and expressing opinions about that remains a skill of my very own.''SHARE ON''Those Roman numerals sure are stacking up aren’t they? Yes, this is the seventeenth edition of the most popular photos from this site’s''Facebook Page''– where I share at least one photo from my travels every day! Currently almost 400,000 people are following along. And don’t forget – all the photos are taken by me.''This round-up, the first of 2015, features photos from all sorts of places. I’ve been travelling in England, Scotland, California and Finland since the last update, plus of course there are photos from my previous travels. Let’s get started – and don’t forget that you can check out the previous entries in the series''right here''.''Train track! Ecuador! This is a shot from the end of the Devil’s Nose Train ride, one of the world’s most scenic train rides. You can read more about''riding the devil’s nose train''here.''When I visited Paris in June 2014, the Place de Concord was filled with scaffolding and other unhelpful non-photogenic contrapations. So I opted for this far away reflection shot instead. It worked out quite well I thought.''This is a beach on the north island of New Zealand, where I have edited the foreground using a (free!) editing technique I shared in one of my newsletters. If you want to learn more about photo-editing, feel free to''sign up to the newsletter''!''This is Castle Rock in the Porongurup National Park of Western Australia, just a few kilometres from the Stirling Ranges. Both are very much worth a visit as they offer fantastic day hiking opportunities, as well as glorious landscape photography locations.''Another one from Australia, this one being on the other side, New South Wales. This is a shot of the Stirling Bight, the longest mobile sand dune in the southern hemisphere. Australia never ceases to amaze.''Here’s an arty black and white shot of the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco, California. I know, the bridge is red, and the shot would probably benefit from that being obvious, but I like to play around in black and white from time to time. Bear with me.''The gorgeous Meteora in Greece just blew me away when I visited in 2014. Check out''more of my photos from Meteora''to see why you need to add this to your travel bucket list!''Sunsets! I share a sunset every Sunday on the Facebook Page, and encourage everyone else to do the same in the comments, resulting in my favourite facebook thread of the week every week! This one is over the River Liffey in central Dublin, Ireland.''Storm clouds gather over the coastal city of Galle in Sri Lanka.''Another one from Dublin – this is the famous Long Room in Trinity College. Spectacular for photography, although tricky to get a shot without people in…''Another one from Meteora. Yep, that’s a pretty place alright.''I’m not obsessed with Ireland, honest. This is a shot of the Cliffs of Moher, used in''one of my favourite films''of all time.''An Eagle in flight over the town of Otavalo in Ecuador. I loved my stay in Otavalo when I was in Ecuador, so much so that I ended up staying for two weeks. Find out why,''here''.''New Zealand is a spectacular country. This mountain range was shot near Wanaka on the South Island. I spent a year in New Zealand touring around and working, and if you are planning a trip, you might want to take a look at the series of''guides I wrote on the subject'', all available for free!''And on to Finland. Here’s a shot from an attempt to find the northern lights when visiting Iso-Syöte. I didn’t exactly succeed, but I had an amazing trip, despite the –35C temperatures. I stayed with the''Hotel Iso-Syöte''(''Book with booking.com''), who also provided all the safari’s and gear, as well as warming campfires under the stars, and will be posting a fuller overview of that trip experience soon!''Finland had just spectacular light, with blue and golden hours that just went on and on. This shot was taken in the morning before sunrise, at temperatures of –20, during a husky safari with''Bear Hill Husky''(100% on''TripAdvisor''!). A full post on that experience will also be coming soon!''To end 2014 I went to Edinburgh and took part in the phenomenal New Years Experience known as Hogmanay. It was, without doubt, the''best New Year’s Eve Party ever''!''I was lucky enough to visit Sri Lanka twice in 2014 as part of my work with the''Professional Travel Bloggers Association''. I was particularly impressed by the wildlife on offer, from leopards and elephants, through to spectacular birds like this one.''And to finish off, my favourite photo destination of 2015 so far – Glencoe in the Scottish Highlands. You can see why by looking''here''.''SHARE ON''Towards the end of 2014 I was contacted by Panasonic UK who asked if I’d be interested in trying out one of the mirrorless cameras from their range – the''Panasonic Lumix G6''– as a part of their''Lumix G The One''programme.''For those of you not au-fait with a mirrorless camera, it offers many of the advantages of a traditional SLR camera – interchangeable lenses, great image quality – in a much smaller and lighter package. Not having a mirror inside the camera body means manufacturers can really trim the fat.''I was of course interested to try a mirrorless system out and see how it fit into my normal travel photography workflow. As you probably know, my''normal photography gear''is kind of bulky and not exactly subtle, so having something light and easily portable as an option was very appealing.''So how have I found it?''Well, let’s have some photos first.''For reference, Lumix sent me the G6 with the standard kit lens, a 14-42mm along with an 80-175mm telephoto zoom. With the 2x crop factor of the micro four thirds, this is the equivalent of a 28-84mm and a 160-350mm lens on a full frame – a good pair of lenses to cover a wide range of shots, from fairly wide to far away subjects such as wildlife.''Bamburgh castle on England’s north east coast. Wonderful evening light let me try out a nice wide landscape shot.''Close up shots work nicely too, giving nice depth of field and sharp detail on the subject. The beer, enjoyed whilst sitting on a beach in Sri Lanka, was also pretty good.''I’m pleased to report that the camera has performed well in even extreme conditions, as cold as –35C, although I’d not recommend stress testing it in your freezer or anything. This shot is from Finnish Lapland in Winter, where the sun vaguely makes it’s presence known for a few hours a day.''Meteora in Greece was one of my favourite destinations of 2014, and you can probably see why – the gorgeous rock formations are a photographer’s dream come true!''The Good''Let’s take a look at some of the things I love about this camera:''Weight''. This camera is light. With the standard lens and battery fitted, it comes in at 485g, or 17 ounces. That’s less than most of my lenses on their own! So you barely know you have it with you most of the time.''Wireless file transfer and control''. With built-in wifi, you can control this camera from your smartphone. It’s even NFC enabled, which means pairing with your NFC capable smartphone requires just a tap, after which it’s very easy to pull images off the phone (see caveat below) as well as remotely control the camera entirely from the phone.''Controls''. The camera has all the automatic scene modes you can want, as well as a niffy panorama app. If you don’t want to leave auto, the camera will do a damn fine job of shooting for you. On the other hand, if, like me, you’re all about taking control, it has full manual control, as well as shutter, aperture and bulb modes. There are also plenty of control dials to get you what you want.''Image quality''. I have to admit, the image quality has impressed me, even shooting with a kit lens. I had a play around with some of the fast Zeiss lenses as well, and those results were even better. I have no doubt that pairing this camera with some of those high quality lenses would result in fantastic images, and I look forward to testing those out soon.''Lens availability''. Unlike a normal point and shoot, this camera lets you switch lenses, and as the micro four thirds standard is well established, there are plenty of great lenses to choose from. Panasonic and a number of other manufacturers, including Leica and Olympus, create lenses for this standard. Everything you might need as a photographer is covered, from fisheye lenses, to ultra wide angles, to fast primes, to super zooms. All in this fantastic easily portable size!''Image Stabilisation''. The camera features lens based optical image stabilisation, which does a great job of helping reduce image blur as a result of handshake, giving sharper images.''Fast burst.''With the ability to fire off up to seven frames a second, I can be sure not to miss a moment of action. Should I take up action photography that is.''Silent operation.''The camera can, slightly creepily, be set to operate totally silently – no shutter noise, no beeping, nothing. This is great for those moments when you don’t want to make it obvious that you are taking photos, or when noise is generally inappropriate''The rotating screen.''This is a feature I got used to very quickly and now hate not having on my Canon! The ability to rotate the screen in any direction allows for some really creative shooting options, such as putting the camera low to the ground and still being able to compose a shot''More about that screen.''Another really handy feature of the screen is being able to touch it to focus, even when looking through the electronic viewfinder – I just have to touch the screen to change the focal point, which is a really neat option.''The Not So Good''Like everything, this camera isn’t perfect. Most of these niggles are minor, but they are worth mentioning.''Wireless RAW support.''Shooting in RAW, as I do and you really should too, means that the images can’t be transferred to the smartphone app as it doesn’t support RAW format images. You have to shoot in RAW+JPG, which takes up excessive memory space, or JPG only. My Canon 6D allows me to shoot in RAW and transcodes these images to JPG on the fly when I send them to my smartphone, so I know this sort of thing is possible. Hopefully fixable with a firmware update.''Inconsistent wake from sleep.''If I am shooting with the electronic viewfinder and the camera goes to sleep, when it wakes up it goes back to shooting using the backscreen. Whilst switching back to the viewfinder is only a button press away, this is counter-intuitive and slows me down.''Noisy at higher ISO.''Low light performance is good, but not excellent, with images starting to be noisy at 1600 ISO and above. Admittedly, I am somewhat spoilt coming from my Canon 6D, so I suspect this isn’t going to be a serious issue for most, but worth bearing in mind if low light photography is a major thing for you.''No built in GPS.''GPS is a super handy feature for remembering exactly where a shot was taken. Admittedly there is a feature where you can use the smartphone app to track your location and then synchronise this with your images, but that’s a clunky solution that I can’t see many people using.''That pretty much sums up my thoughts on the Lumix G6. Here are a few more photos to show you what this camera and I have been up to…''I started off 2015 with a trip around the''incredibly picturesque Glencoe valley''in Scotland, and this was the cosy hotel I stayed at.''16th century Lindisfarne Castle on Holy Island, England, can only be reached at certain times of day when the tide is right.''Yep, Finland at –35C is a cold place.''And that’s it for this post! Thanks to Panasonic UK for providing me with the camera and lens to wander around with – all the photos in this post were taken using the provided camera and lens set up.''LumixGTheOne''SHARE ON''Edinburgh’s Hogmanay is a fantastic three days of fun in Scotland’s capital city, celebrating the end of one year and the start of the New Year. We’ve taken part three times, and loved it every time. It’s also a largely outdoor event, which means that if you are attending, you need to be prepared! In this guide, we’re going to share with you exactly what you need to pack, wear and bring for Edinburgh’s Hogmanay party. Then you can focus on enjoying the fun!''This guide will also be useful to anyone visiting Edinburgh or Scotland in winter, and wondering what to pack and wear.''As well as the New Years Eve party itself, this guide will also cover what to pack and wear for the Loony Dook event. For more information on visiting Edinburgh for Hogmanay, check out our comprehensive''guide to Edinburgh’s Hogmanay'', as well as our guide to the''Loony Dook'', which forms part of our series of''Edinburgh''content.''Now, let’s get started with getting you prepared for Hogmanay!''Hogmanay, Edinburgh Packing Guide''What to Wear for Hogmanay in Edinburgh''Held in Scotland’s capital city in Winter, as you would imagine, you need to be prepared for wintery temperatures. Whilst Scotland doesn’t usually get too cold, temperatures at or slightly above freezing are to be expected at this time of year. Rain is also a possibility, although snow is unlikely.''With the majority of the shows and activities taking place outside, you’re going to want to wrap up nice and warm, with plenty of layers to trap warmth, which you can also remove should you find yourself warming up through dance, or if you go into a building. Here are some suggestions for your Hogmanay packing list.''1. Warm Hat''Keeping your head warm is a key component of staying warm as so much of our body heat can be lost through our heads. A nice warm hat will resolve this issues, plus you can make a fashion statement whilst your about it. Perhaps something''like this for her'', and a''hat like this for him''? There are lots to choose from (see''here''), so you shouldn’t have any trouble finding something to suit.''2. Warm coat''Perhaps the most important part of your Hogmanay wardrobe is going to be your coat. You’re going to want this to be warm and ideally wind and waterproof. We’d suggest this isn’t an area you want to skimp on – a good winter coat is a solid, long term investment. Again –''lots of choices''. We think a jacket''like this for men''and''for women''is a good start.''Or if you want something even warmer, check out this''waterproof down jacket''(similar''option for women here'') which should keep you toasty warm. Down is a lovely warm insulating material – just make sure you find something that is also waterproof in case it rains. Any waterproof jacket will clearly state it is waterproof in the description.''3. Fleece layer''The layers you wear under your jacket are also important. We advise either a layer of fleece material, which will trap air but not moisture, or a wool jumper. Ideally you want to avoid cotton, as this traps moisture and can result in you getting cold should it get wet.''There are loads of''fleece options''for both men and women available online, just make sure whatever you buy or wear isn’t too bulky to fit under your coat.''4. Warm thermal baselayers''If you feel the cold, then we can highly recommend you invest in a good set of thermal baselayers. These are designed to be worn directly against the skin, and come as both long-sleeved shirts, and also as long pants, which you can put your outer layers over.''These come in a variety of different materials, from synthentic to merino wool. They all work the same though – providing an extra warm layer directly on your skin to keep you toasty warm. I personally like my''merino wool baselayer'', and Jess likes a''synthetic layer like this''.''5. Pants / trousers / skirt''Your choice of what to wear on your lower half is really up to you! Personally, I’ve just worn jeans for every Hogmanay I’ve been to, and Jess has worn black pants. However, we’ve seen people in all sorts, including skirts with thick woollen tights, and even onesies! We think that as long as you have a nice warm baselayer underneath, your choice isn’t too important.''6. Gloves''Gloves are really important for Scotland in winter! The extremities of our bodies like our fingers and toes tend to feel the cold first, and this can be exacerbated by holding a cold drink in your hand as well. So you definitely want to protect your hands. I’d advise something wind-proof, ideally fleece lined, to keep your fingers toasty warm.''You can also get gloves that let you operate your smartphone, so you won’t even get cold fingers whilst sharing your awesome time with the world on Instagram. I like''these gloves''which do all of the above, and are available for men and women. There are plenty of options available for''windproof smartphone compatible gloves''.''7. Scarf''A scarf is a great way to keep your neck warm and to stop cold air getting into your upper layers. It also traps heat and stops it escaping from around your neck area. All in all, a good, cost-effective investment for your warmth. I have a scarf''like this'', and Jess has one''like this''.''8. Thick socks''Like your fingers, your toes will often be the first to feel the cold. So wrapping them up nice warm socks is a good way to help combat that problem. There are lots of options – I have a pair of Alpaca wool socks\xa0from''Victory Ranch in New Mexico''that I use when I know my toes might get cold, and they are available for men and women. You can also find''Alpaca Wool Socks on Amazon''.''9. Good shoes''The streets of Edinburgh are a mix of pavement, road and cobblestones. If the weather is bad, these can be wet and slippery, or even icy. As you’ll be on your feet for most of the event, you’re going to want comfortable shoes that you can walk around (and maybe even dance in?) all night. You’ll also want something that keeps the water out if possible, especially if it rains. Hiking boots might be overkill, but a decent pair of comfortable''waterproof shoes''are a must.''10. Something fun''Hogmanay is meant to be a party, and parties are all about fun! So when you’re planning your outfit, don’t forget to add something a bit of fun! This could be anything from a brightly colored bobble item to a onesie – it really doesn’t matter. The goal is to make you and the people around you happy, so pick something that works for you and go with it!''What to Bring to Edinburgh’s Hogmanay''Now you’ve got all your clothes sorted, you’re probably wondering what you should bring along to the actual night. You are allowed to bring small bags with you into the street party, but be aware they will be searched as you enter.''In addition, as per the Edinburgh’s Hogmanay''terms and conditions of entry'', you are allowed to bring alcohol into the street party area, but only in plastic bottles or cans no larger than 500ml (about 17fl oz), and no more than four bottles or cans per person. Glass is strictly prohibited.''Note that alcohol can only be brought into the street party area, and not the special events areas like the Ceilidh or Concert in the Gardens. These areas do have their own bars where drinks can be bought.''So my suggestions for what to bring are as follows:''1. Plastic bottle for drinks''You might want to bring some drinks into the street party area, and if you do, you’ll want a plastic bottle to keep them in. Just a standard''plastic drinking bottle like this will do'', into which you can put your beverage of choice, be that a soft drink, or something stronger!''2. A small bag''To carry your drinks and anything else you might want to bring into the party, you might want to bring a small bag. If possible, we’d avoid bringing a bag so you can avoid the security checks, however, if you must bring a bag then we think a small backpack is likely to be the most comfortable option as you’ll be carrying it around all evening. We really like the''Osprey daypacks'', they’re comfortable, well made, and not too expensive.''3. Smartphone / camera''Obviously you’re going to want to document your fun at Hogmanay, and these days most of us do that with a smartphone rather than a camera. I have a comprehensive guide to picking the''best camera for travel'', which also has a number of smartphone choices.''Just be aware that during the street party, especially around midnight, the sheer volume of people can cause congestion in the phone networks, so it can take a while to get messages or uploads out.''4. Poncho''If you don’t have a waterproof coat, you might want to invest in a''cheap poncho''in case it rains. This will fold up really small into your bag, and will keep you and your belongings dry should the weather turn inclement.''5. Battery charger''You will probably be using your phone a fair bit throughout the festival to stay in touch with friends and capture all the moments. So you might want to invest in a''portable battery pack''to keep yourself charged, and to be sure you can reach loved ones at the midnight moment!''6. Your ticket''This is obvious, but worth repeating. Edinburgh’s Hogmanay is a ticketed event (tickets are available''here''), and to get in to the various events you will need to show your ticket at the entry gates. So don’t forget it!''What to pack / wear for Loony Dook''If you’re planning on attending the''Edinburgh Loony Dook'', you might be wondering what you need to wear for that. Well, if you’re actually going in the water and taking part in the parade, the sky is the limit when it comes to your outfit. The wackier the better!''The only advice from our personal experience is to wear some old footwear during the parade that keeps your feet off the cold ground, and that you don’t mind getting wet. The beach is rocky rather than sandy at south Queensferry, so you’ll definitely want a bit of grip as well.''We also advise that you put a bit of thought into the outfit you’ll be wearing once you come out of the water. You’re going to be cold and wet, and so you’ll want a good towel and a full dry change of clothes waiting for you somewhere close by. Ideally you’ll have friends or family with you who will have this for you on standby when you come out of the water, or at least, close by.''Otherwise, just enjoy yourself and enjoy the event – it’s a lot of fun!''General advice on Packing for Scotland in Winter''Scotland in winter can experience a wide range of weather conditions, from snow through to sunshine, with temperatures usually between -3 and +10 C (26F – 50F). In addition, it can be windy, with the cold wind making it feel a lot colder. So the key advice is to bring plenty of layers that you can put on and take off.''As well as the general clothing items that you will want for Hogmanay, you will also want to consider a few extra items for Scotland, particularly if you are travelling from abroad.''Travel adaptor plugs''Scotland uses the British style three pin plugs, meaning unless you’re from the UK, you are very likely going to need a''travel adaptor like this''. We have one of those, but to be honest, we actually prefer a simpler and cheaper solution''like this''.''Then we suggest you travel with a''power strip like this'', which you can plug into the adaptor you buy. Many places we stay never seem to have enough sockets for all our chargers, so a power strip is usually invaluable.''Skincare''The winter air in Scotland is very dry, and can play havoc with your skin and lips. In particular, we find that we often get dry lips in Scotland. So you’ll want to pack some good moisturiser, and a''chapstick''to protect your lips. These items are also available in the UK, but if there is a brand you particualrly like back home, it’s worth picking them up before you visit in case they aren’t stocked.''Other than that, we don’t think you need to pack anything particularly special for your trip to Scotland in winter. There are lots of shops that cover a wide range of products, so even if you forget something, the chances are you will be able to pick it up on arrival.''Further Reading on Visiting Edinburgh’s Hogmanay and Scotland''That’s pretty much it for our guide to what to pack and what to bring to Edinburgh’s Hogmanay. Before you go though, I wanted to share with you some more resources to help you plan your perfect trip to Scotland.''Our definitive''guide to attending Edinburgh’s Hogmanay'', based on our experiences attending''If you’re in town a bit before Hogmanay, check out our guide to what do do for''Christmas in Edinburgh''Take a look at the official''Edinburgh’s Hogmanay''page, where you can book tickets for all the events and find out what’s going on throughout the event''If you’re interested in attending some of the other festivals in Edinburgh, check out our guide to attending''Edinburgh’s August festivals'', as well as the''official Edinburgh Festivals''website.''Check out our''travel resources page,''which will give you lots of tips and ideas on how to save money on booking accommodation and flights for your trip''If you’re in Edinburgh for longer over this period, there’s a lot going on in the lead up to both New Years Eve and Christmas in Edinburgh.\xa0 Check out my''guide to spending two days in Edinburgh''to keep you entertained for longer!''And finally, check out our pages on''Edinburgh''and''Scotland'', to give you lots more ideas for how to spend your time in this lovely part of the world.''And that’s it! We hope you found our guide to what to pack for Edinburgh’s Hogmany useful – as always, let us know your feedback and thoughts in the comments below.''SHARE ON''I have to admit that 2015 has started off rather well. I spent the New Year celebrating in Edinburgh, at one of the world’s most impressive New Year’s Eve celebrations – Scotland’s Hogmanay. My thoughts and photos from that adventure will up coming up on this blog soon.''After that, I took a road trip with some fellow travel photographers up to the Scottish Highlands, and specifically Glencoe. Marred with a tragic history, this also happens to be one of the most spectacular locations for landscape photography that I’ve ever had the privilege of visiting. Plus, I had some quite wonderful lighting conditions.''I was only in the area for a couple of days, but I managed to get a fair few shots to give you an idea of why you need to fly to Scotland, hire a car, and just visit as soon as you can. Let me know if you agree by the end of the photo essay!''Largely deserted roads, epic clouds and huge mountains. Did someone say photography paradise? I think they might have done. This is the start of the 14 mile road which was used in the''Skyfall James Bond movie''. It was so picturesque it took three hours to drive to the end and back again…''Glencoe is all about brooding peaks and a narrow, oppressive valley. Visiting in January meant I could have been unlucky with the weather, as it was I had two days of nearly perfect light, and a golden hour that seemed to last all day. I’m not complaining.''There are countless hiking trails to take in the majesty of the area, if that’s your thing. I spotted this little trail and bridge from the road, and had to stop to shoot it. Those are the three sisters in the background.''All those mountains and snow, not to mention the occasional spot of sideways rain and sleet, means of course that there are rivers galore. Here’s one of them in full flow!''Did I mention the light was pretty special? Here’s a shot of the light bursting through the clouds over one of the many lochs in the area.''It just kept changing and getting better!''Another brooding mountain with a single track road leading to ever more spectacular sights…''Obviously you have to find a small cottage against a mountain to take a photo of. This one appeared to have been built specifically to pose wonderfully for photos.''Here’s that bridge again, with the three sisters in the background. No trolls in sight, but I wouldn’t have been surprised to have found one.''More waterfalls. It’s quite pretty here.''And the same waterfall, looking the other way. It’s kind of hard to know what to shoot, it’s so scenic everywhere you look!''And to finish off, one of my fellow travellers, Dante takes in the gorgeous scenery of the valley. You can find Dante''on Instagram here''.''My trip to Glencoe was a part of the''#blogmanay''experience, which was part of''Edinburgh’s Hogmanay''and was supported by''ETAG'',''EventScotland'',''VisitScotland'',''Homecoming Scotland 2014''and co-creators''Haggis Adventures''. Created and produced by''Unique Events''. As always all opinions expressed here are entirely my own.''SHARE ON''It’s time for my end of 2014 post! It’s been a heck of a year – starting in Ecuador and finishing in Scotland – with so many moments and adventures in between. It’s not all been highs though, 2014 has had it’s lows as well.''It’s also been a great year for photography, so rather than two separate posts, I thought I’d intermingle my highs and lows of the year with some of my favourite photos from the year, in case hearing me go on about my year is less interesting to you than my favourite photos. It’s ok, I don’t mind.''Read on to find out what I loved, loathed, and took pictures of in 2014!''Meteora''was easily one of my highlights of 2014. From a photography perspective, this part of Greece is unbelievable!''Paris''is easily one of my favourite cities in the world, and this year I was thrilled to lead a photography workshop here. I also had some time for photography, and got this shot for the Eiffel Tower, which was the first photo I’ve shared on my''Facebook Page''to cross the 10,000 likes mark. Which was very gratifying!''High (mostly): I went to a pile of conferences''I’m not sure if a pile is the correct pluralisation of a multitude of conferences, but there we are. This year was slightly nuts in terms of conference and trade shows – I attended six of the things around the world, was delighted to speak at four of them on the subjects of photography and travel blogging, and even helped to arrange and set up''one of them''.''It’s the less glamorous side of the job of course, but it’s necessary to make the connections that make the rest of my adventures possible, and I do love to teach folks about the art of photography.''My first country of 2014, and a new one for me, was Ecuador. This shot is taken at sunrise above Quilotoa Crater, which is almost 4km above sea level.''Another new country for me was Finland, which I visited in August when it was warm and sunny. I got this boat in Helsinki harbour in my last few days. I’m back in Helsinki at the start of 2015 – I suspect it’s going to be a bit cooler!''High: USA Today featured me''Awards are always nice! This year my favourite award was the USA Today Readers Choice award, where I was voted as as one of the world’s''top 10 travel photography bloggers''– in rather illustrious company I am pleased to say.''Athens was a new city for me, and I was delighted to visit twice in 2014. This was atop the Acropolis, a must-visit if you’re in the city.''The first time I visited''Besalu''in Costa Brava, I had enough time to stand at the other end of the bridge and get a few shots. This time round I had a lot more time to explore, and was able to get some shots I was happier with, as well as put together a''guide to the town''.''Mostly Low: I ended a relationship''The sharper eyes in the room will notice a couple of changes in the blog, largely that the About Us has changed to About Me. This is because I broke up with Vera towards the end of 2014. It was a fairly difficult period of time, but something that was right for both of us, so whilst it wasn’t a highpoint of the year, I don’t regret it.''There won’t be much change in the blog content and format, but I thought you should know in case you were wondering what was going on…''Desenzano train station next to Lake Garda in Italy. I visited Milan for the first time this year, and enjoyed it a great deal! Check out some ideas for''things to do in Milan''for your visit.''Ok, so not exactly landscape shot as you might expect. This year I did some event photography, with this particular shot at the Travel Massive event at the TBEX conference in Athens. I love taking pictures of people when given explicit permission to do so, and hope to do more of this sort of thing in 2015.''High: I visited a lot of places, including some new ones''In 2014 I went to 14 countries, including four that I were entirely new to me – Sri Lanka, Ecuador, Finland and the UAE. The latter I visited twice, and Finland is my first destination of 2015 – I’ll be spending much of January there, getting, I suspect, quite cold.''TripIt''tells me that I travelled 114,487km this year and spent almost half the year on the road. Next year I think I’ll focus on doing more at less places, and getting to know locations a bit more in depth. Still, I’m not complaining, 2014 was fantastic for travel!''Dubai was another new city for me this year, and I loved shooting the skyline – for this particular shot I was able to get atop one of the skyscrapers in the Marina area, which was amazing for photography. See more of my''photos from Dubai here''.''High: I worked with some awesome people and brands''2014 has been a really exciting year in terms of partnering up with some wonderful companies and people. I taught a number of workshops and gave talks with the talented Daniel of''Canvas of Light'', and hope to do more of those in 2015. I became a''Vanguard Professional'', and also partnered up with''Trover'',''Yonderbound'',''Panasonic''and more.''I hope to be able to bring more great brands to these pages, and also offer you guys more in thanks for your readership. This year I’ve already given away a top of the range smartphone,''return flights to Dubai'', a''GoPro''and more – next year I want to give you guys even more awesome stuff to win, as well as additional benefits to being a reader. Stay tuned!''Naturally I thought I should finish this year’s wrap-up post with a sunset photo! This is at Berlin’s Tempelhof Airport, my favourite place in Berlin to experience the city. Have a fantastic 2015 whatever you get up to and wherever you are in the world. I can’t wait to share my adventures with you!''SHARE ON''Recently I’ve been doing some work with Panasonic UK, who have kindly sent me their mirrorless Panasonic G6 to play with. It’s a lovely little camera, especially for travel as it is so light.''They also invited me to pop by the Luxury Travel Fair which is held every year in London, where I had the pleasure of meeting one of their resident photographers,''Hugh Hastings''. Hugh was an inspiration to meet – he’s been shooting for decades, and was even the official photographer for Chelsea Football Club for a decade. He was a big fan of the Panasonic gear, and listening to his enthusiasm for photography and the Panasonic gear was infectious!''The other wonderful thing about visiting the luxury travel fair was that Panasonic had a whole pile of their top of the range lenses just sitting out for me to play with. I wandered around the show shooting with their very fun fish eye, and then tried out some more serious contenders, including some super fast 2.8 lenses, which were remarkably light and produced some great images.''But don’t take my word for it. I thought I’d share a few of my images from the show, as well as a few other shots I’ve taken with the camera in the last few weeks to give you an idea of what it’s capable of. A fuller review of my experience with the camera will be coming soon!''That’s me at the Panasonic booth. So many shiny cameras! And a giant TV with a picture of my hands holding my camera. Very Inception.''The main hall of the Luxury Travel Fair at the Olympia London. Did I mention how much fun that fisheye was to play with?''Mmm, fisheye.''It is the luxury travel fair after all….''The magical selfie Christmas baubel.''And because a trade show isn’t the most exciting thing to demonstrate a camera’s capabilities, here’s a photo from Sri Lanka, atop the UNESCO world heritage listed Sigirya, shot with the wonderfully portable 45-175mm lens (90 – 350mm equivalent!)''And a''monastery in Meteora'', also shot with that longer lens. As you can see, this camera is more than capable of helping me get some great shots!''So that was the Luxury Travel Fair with Panasonic. It’s a pretty cool fair to visit if you are looking for ideas and inspiration for an upcoming trip, assuming your budget is towards the higher end of the travelling market. But even if it’s not, you can wander around and dream. More on my thoughts and experiences with the Panasonic Lumix G6 to come soon…''Thanks to Panasonic UK for providing me with the Lumix G6 and a couple of lenses to travel with recently, it’s been a lot of fun. You can find out more about the range at the''LumixGTheOne website'', plus if you head to Instagram or Twitter you can see more photos shot with the camera with the hashtag #lumixgtheone.''SHARE ON''Dubai. I’ve recently visited for the second time. The first time round, I spent a lot of time in a conference hall talking to the travel industry about travel blogging.''My glimpses of the city were snatched from the air conditioned confines of taxis, and my impression was of a shiny land in the midst of a desert, offering a lot of style but not a great deal of substance.''On my second visit, I discovered that that impression was wrong.''Sure, Dubai is a shiny land in the middle of a desert. And yes, shopping is a major pastime. But scratch the surface, and you’ll find there’s more to the city than malls, shiny baubles and impossibly tall buildings. There’s enough here to keep you entertained, and the people who live here are worth investing some time getting to know as well.''Here’s a quick suggestion of:''7 Things To Do in Dubai''1. Go Shopping''Ok, so I said that there’s more to Dubai than the shopping, but if you are into shopping, then this is going to be some kind of wonderland. Dubai is home to some of the largest and most impressive retail malls in the world, where you can buy pretty much anything your heart desires, and lots that it will suddenly think it desires.''If you’re not into malls, then you should visit the souks.''These are more traditional markets that have been in existence for a lot longer than their modern day air conditioned brethren, with each focusing on a specific product. Want spices? Head to the spice souk. Gold more your thing? Head on down to the gold souk, where over ten tonnes of this shiny substance is for sale at any point.''There’s also the covered souk, the textile souk and the fish souk, with the latter requiring a morning visit to see it in action.''2. See the Fountains at the Burj''The Burj Khalifa, at time of writing, is the tallest man made structure in the world, and yes, it’s seriously impressive, particularly as none of the other buildings around it come close in height – the Burj soars above them all.''It holds a whole number of records, from longest distance elevators (over half a kilometre!), to being home to the world’s highest nightclub, restaurant and, of course, most floors, at 163.''You can go up the Burj to the observation deck on the 124th floor, but if you’re pressed for time, then I’d recommend at least taking in the fountains at the bottom, which go off around dusk every day for a synchronised music and water display.''3. Experience the Dubai Marina''Down at the southern end of the long geography that is Dubai is the Marina area. This is home to even more fantastical towers, as well as the, frankly bonkers, offshore island construction in the shape of a palm tree.''It’s an expensive part of town for sure, but it’s very pretty, particularly at night. If you can get above it for a view of the skyline, I can recommend doing so.''4. Learn about history at the Dubai Museum''I’m not usually a big fan of museums, but I have to say the''Dubai Museum''is a fantastic way to quickly learn about the rapid changes that Dubai has undergone.''It’s housed in Dubai’s oldest building, the''Al Fahidi Fort'', which dates from 1787. By Dubai standards that’s seriously antique.''The museum was opened in 1971, and in the intervening years Dubai has changed a great deal. In the museums underground section, you can learn all about those changes, with the history of the city laid out in diorama form, from small trading town through to the discovery of oil and on to the metropolis that you visit today.''Entry is excellent value at around 3AED, so if you have a moment I’d certainly recommend this one.''5. Visit the Heritage Village''To further understand the history of Dubai, I’d also recommend a visit to the Dubai Heritage Village, also known as the Heritage & Diving Villages.''The highlight of this, for me, was the''Sheikh Saeed Al Maktoum''house, where the former ruler of Dubai lived and ruled from.''Now a museum, it shows fascinating photos from the Dubai of old, as well as giving a glimpse of what life was like in Dubai, and how it has changed over the past century.''I would very much recommend hiring a guide for this tour though, as there aren’t many people around to offer advice or insight, and having someone explain why this place is so historically important will certainly help it make sense.''6. Go on a Desert Safari''After my first trip to Dubai, I got a lot of feedback from you guys that I should have done some sort of desert safari experience. So this time round I did just that. This is a half day excursion out into the desert (obviously), where you get to do all kind of deserty things, from dinner under the stars through to camel riding.''The highlight though has to be the dune bashing. This is where you get plopped into a hugely powerful off road vehicle (a Toyota Land Cruiser in my case), and zoomed around the dunes.''Now, I’m a bit familiar with off road driving, having travelled around Australia in my very own Land Cruiser for a year, and I did a whole pile of off-road stuff. So I was prepared to be underwhelmed.''I wasn’t.''This was a whole new world. The drivers here have to do a minimum of six months specialist training to drive these vehicles in the desert, and it shows. It was like being strapped in to a rally car and let loose across a desert. It was fast and exhilarating. I don’t think''Fluffy''would have liked it. Highly recommended.''7. Meet the Locals''All the above aside, what really made Dubai so fascinating to me were the people who lived here. The weird thing is that of the roughly 2 million people who live here, only 10 – 15% are actually nationals – everyone else is an expat. And with representatives from pretty much every country you can imagine, there’s no shortage of interesting people to meet.''Take my guide around the older parts of Dubai for example, Ejaz, who is photographed above in the heritage village. From Pakistan, where his wife and family still live, Ejaz has been living in Dubai for ten years, with the majority of that time spent working in tourism. In my case, he was working for Multiline Holidays, who provided me with the city tour and dune bashing.''He was genuinely enthusiastic about his work, knew pretty much everything about all the sights we visited, and when quizzed about his life in Dubai, was happy to explain why he loved living there – with factors like the low crime rate and cleanliness ranking highly, not to mention the employment opportunities.''It’s worth mentioning of course that not all expats lives are a bed of roses. This was hinted at in conversations I had with various folk, and largely concerned the challenges facing those working in the construction sector.''I spoke to the hotel I was working with about their approach to their staff, and was pleased to find out that they have a policy that their 460 staff (representing 40 nationalities!) are well looked after and treated ethically. They were certainly all very friendly!''Finally, the two tours I took were provided via the hotel who have a partnership with Multiline Holidays. Their tour guides were fantastically knowledgeable, spoke excellent English, and were very friendly. If you choose to stay in the Rotana, then I’d certainly suggest hooking up with these guys for any tour requirements.''And that’s it for my Dubai recommendations! Did I miss anything? Got any questions? Sound off in the comments below!''My trip to Dubai, accommodation and tours with Multiline were arranged and handled by the''Al Ghurair Arjaan & Al Ghurair Rayhaan by Rotana Hotel''in return for telling you guys about them. My opinions remain my own.''SHARE ON''I’m starting to notice I wander a lot. I''wandered in Sri Lanka''. I''wandered through Bologna''. I even''wandered through Wellington''.''I do very much enjoy a good wander, particularly if time isn’t on my side. If I’m limited in that resource, then my first choice will always be to just wander around a location and take some photos, to see if I can get at least a feel for the location – to get my first impression of it.''I recently visited the Marche (pronounced Mar-kay) region of Italy, where I had a two day whistle-stop tour of a variety of sights and experiences.''From wine tasting in a gorgeous villa through to dining on excellent seafood by the shore, visiting an old archaeological site and even taking in a medieval hilltop castle – I sure fit a lot in in my two days. I definitely need to return. In the meantime, here were some of the places I wandered, and my impressions of those, in no particular order.''Let me know where else I should visit next time I go back in the comments!''This is the breakwater in Fano, just after sunset – the so called “blue-hour”. I shot this with a long exposure to soften out the water.''One of Italy’s more famous opera composers turns out to have been from the Marche region – Giachino Rossini. We popped in to the house where he was born,''Casa Rossini'', which now serves as a small museum to his work. If you’re into this sort of thing, then it’s very much worth a visit.''I had big plans to be up for sunrise on at least one of my days in Le Marche. I didn’t quite make it, but this was the view of the hotel I was staying at on the shores of the Adriatic in Gabicce Mare, the''Hotel Sans Souci'', not too soon after sunrise. Great views from this hotel, perched on the hill above the beach, even if you do miss sunrise…''Regular readers probably know I enjoy a good castle. This is the interior of the''Castello di Gradara''at sunset, a medieval fortress situated on top of a hill overlooking the surrounding land, and one of the most visited attractions in the area, for good reason.''There is it again from the outside. Quite pretty I think you’ll agree.''Of course, I saw a couple of great sunsets in my short visit. This was taken just above an olive grove, from where I went to a rather nice villa and sampled some tasty wines from a local vineyard, accompanied by traditional Italian aperitivo.''Yep, you can’t go wrong with aperitivo.''Or with a gorgeous villa in which to have aperitivo. This particular villa is owned by the lovely Andrea Carlini, who set up the vineyard here thirty years ago, and hand produces all the wines himself. He and his lovely wife kindly hosted my aperitvo and wine tasting – you can find out more about the''Tenuta Carlini vineyard here''.''Italian food is not all pasta and pizza incidentally. Being on the sea means that there are copious quantities of seafood to eat. Here is a giant pot of fish stew, made, I was told, from 14 types of seafood. It was absolutely delicious, particularly accompanied by a glass of white wine.''This is a ball sculpture in''Pesaro''. Pesaro is also home to a Ducal Palace, the aforementioned Casa Rossini, a lovely beach upon which to wander or play in the sea, and''plenty of other sights''.''The beach even comes with entertainment.''And no shortage of walking opportunities – it stretched as far as I could see…''Finally, a thank you to my lovely guide, who spent two days showing me as much as possible of her wonderful part of this country. This is her. I can’t wait to get back and discover more of this part of Italy, perhaps for a bit longer than two days!''SHARE ON''Oh Italy. You never cease to amaze.''When I visited Milan earlier on in the year, I wasn’t expecting a great deal to be honest – general feedback was that it wasn’t the most wonderful of Italian cities, being more industrial than some of Italy’s hotspots, with not quite so much to offer the visitor.''I was pleasantly surprised therefore to find that, in fact, I really loved the city. Waterways, cobbled streets to explore, a gorgeous pile of churches, and the feeling that this is a city that is really lived in with people and stories to discover. You can read more on all that in''this post on Milan''.''I was also impressed by how much there is to do in the surrounding area. I spent a couple of days exploring outside the city, visiting Cremona, Mantua and Lake Garda. I’ll be telling you about those first two in an upcoming post. Today I’m going to tell you about Lake Garda, and specifically the town of Sirmione.''Where and What is Lake Garda?''Lake Garda is Italy’s largest lake, found in the north of Italy a couple of hours drive east of Milan. It’s fed by the Alps, which rise up to the north end of the lake.''It’s a popular holiday destination for locals and tourists alike, with lovely towns all around it as well as islands to visit, not to mention a theme park, spas, culture and of course, all that good Italian food. It’s also very popular for water sports, including sailing and kite surfing.''There is a lot to do here, but I would recommend very much that if you are on a limited time frame (and even if you’re not!), that you take some time to visit the town of Sirmione.''What’s so great about Sirmione?''Sirmione is believed to have been inhabited for around 8,000 years, and if it was good enough for our hairy ancestors, it should be good enough for us, right?''Ok, if that’s not a compelling enough argument for you, how about this – rich families from Roman times used to come on holiday to Sirmione when they needed to take a break from wining, feasting and general orgiastic activity.''Yes, it turns out Sirmione has been a holiday destination for two thousand years, possibly more. And those Romans had a whole empire to choose from, so there must be something special about this place, right? Let’s figure out what that might be today.''Well, first, Sirmione is located on a long peninsula that juts out into the lake, making it feel like an island, with the bonus that you can drive here without needing a special floating car. Or in the case of the Romans, a galley of slaves to row you across the lake.''The peninsula is narrow, which means you can see water pretty much all the time, adding to the feeling that you are on an island. But really, it’s what’s on the island that interests you, right? Here are some of the highlights:''Scaliger – The fortified water castle''For me, Scaliger Castle is the highlight of Sirmione. It sits grandly in the centre of town, is gorgeously medieval, is surrounded by water (it is a port fortification after all, one of the best surviving examples in the world), and you can clamber to the top for excellent views. Pretty much everything I want in a castle to be honest.''The ruined Roman villa''“There beneath the Roman ruin where the purple flowers grow” – Tennyson''Yes folks, Tennyson wrote about Sirmione. This particular line from Frater Ave Atque Vale describes the ruin at the far northern end of the island, which has impressed visitors and poets alike for centuries.''It’s a vast complex, known as the Grotte di Callulo, because the excavations are cave-like in their immensity.''It can take a bit of time to explore, and if you are lucky enough to be staying in the town, visit early to avoid the crowds and heat. Also, don’t miss the olive grove above the ruins for a bit of a cool break from the world.''The spas''You don’t think those Romans just came here just to eat, drink and be merry do you? Everyone knows that the Romans loved a good bath, and Sirmione just happens to be a spa town fed by natural thermal springs. Hurrah.''Naturally you can take advantage of these waters at various locations. I stopped in at the''Hotel Olivi'', which was perfectly lovely, and seemed to have everything you could need in a spa experience. There are''lots of options''to choose from at various price points though, so if a spa is what you want, you shouldn’t have any problem getting your thermal fix.''The churches''Of course, this being Italy, there are also churches to explore in Sirmione, varying in age and size. The three highlights are the church of Sant’Anna della Rocca, which is next to the castle, the church of San Pietro in Mavino, which dates from the 8th century and the church Santa Maria Maggiore, famous for it’s frescoes.''The peninsula from the sea''Finally, a great way to get a feel for Sirmione is to take a boat ride around the peninsula, which is particularly cool because you get to go through the castle moat on the way back.''Useful facts''Getting here and away''From Milan you can drive to Sirmione, which will take around two hours. If you don’t have a car though, fret not, you can take a train to Desenzano, then walk down from the train station to the lakeside, from where there’s a regular ferry which will take you across the lake. Desenzano is also worth exploring whilst you’re here – it looks a bit like this:''Fares and timetables for the ferries on Lake Garda are available on''this site'', and you can plan your train journey at the''TrenItalia''website.''Note that sometimes the fast trains sell out in advance, so if speed is of the essence, you might want to book before travelling, or you’ll be on the slower regional train.''Sleeping''If you have the luxury of being able to spend the night in Sirmione then it’s recommended, as the city gets very crowded with visitors in the day, and you will likely enjoy yourself more in the mornings and evenings without the crowds.''There are plenty of accommodation options, both in town and in the towns around – check out this''list of hotels on Sirmione''peninsula to get an idea of prices.''And that’s it for Sirmione! More to come on this region of Italy in upcoming posts – stay tuned.''blogville, expo2015''SHARE ON''When I had a real job that involved me wearing a suit and tie every day, I spent two and a half years living in a major brand chain hotel as a result of a project I was on.''When it got to the point where I was invited to the staff Christmas party, I realised that perhaps it was time to move on with my life. Although I did have some pretty excellent holidays thanks to all the rewards points I’d been able to accumulate, so that was good.''As a result of that experience I was, for a long time, sort of over hotels except in necessity. Give me an apartment, or a funky hostel, or, well, anything which doesn’t have seemingly endless corridors of carbon copy rooms.''Anyway, I was recently invited to experience Arabian Hospitality in Dubai by the nice folks at the''Al Ghurair Arjaan & Al Ghurair Rayhaan by Rotana Hotel''. The name just skips off the tongue. This looked to be a rather nice five star property in the “old” (old being somewhat subjective in Dubai!) part of town.''After my visit to Dubai earlier on in the year, I have to admit that my interest in this city had been piqued, both from a photography perspective, and from an urge to try and understand the place, which I had entirely failed at doing when I first arrived, baffled by the way it exists, improbably sandwiched under scorching skies between the sand and the sea.''So the invite seemed to be a rather handy way to explore a bit more of Dubai, and also to see if I was ready to take on hotels again. Not to mention take a lot of photos of everything.''That rambling introduction aside, I am here to now share with you my experience of the Al Ghurair Rotana. It’s not going to be a review (you can find lots of those on Tripadvisor, long story short, people pretty much love it), rather my thoughts on who the hotel is for and what my personal experience was.''Also, I’m going to be telling you''how you can win flights to Dubai'', as well as''an exclusive offer''if you want to go stay in the hotel. It’s not all about me today.''Let’s talk about the hotel.''Actually, let’s talk about the location first.''Where is it?''If you’re not familiar with Dubai, you might be surprised to hear how spread out it is. There’s that enormous building that you’ve probably heard of, the Burj Khalifa, which is in the business district. There’s also the enormous man made series of islands in the shape of a palm tree, but that’s about 15km south of the Burj, in the Dubai Marina area. That’s where I snaffled this photo:''The Rotana hotel I stayed at is in the Deira part of town, which is neither of the above, and is instead next to the Dubai Creek – the original part of town, and also handy for the airport.''Fifty years ago, this area''was''Dubai – a small trading port based around the creek, with traditional houses constructed from mud. Electricity, running water and concrete were things other places had.''The pace of change since then is fairly boggling, and really interesting to learn about. I’m going to share some ideas for exploring Dubai in an upcoming post, including a visit to the museum and older parts of town where you can learn about this stuff.''Anyway, the Rotana is in the Deira. It’s a good location for shopping (ok, everywhere in Dubai is good for shopping – as far as I could tell shopping is a big thing to do in Dubai), and also for exploring this part of the city, which is arguably one of the more interesting regions, at least in terms of how quickly this place has exploded.''If you’re not the exploring type, then you can just hang out and be pampered. This is not a terrible option, and is likely what I would have been doing if I wasn’t taking photos of everything that moved, and lots of things that didn’t.''The Hotel''A little more about the hotel and amenities. First up, it has the Zen Spa, where I had one of the best massages ever thanks to the talented hands of Cipriano, my masage therapist, who spent 60 minutes with various oils trying to overcome a lifetime of general ambivalence towards skin care. Not an easy task, but he rose magnificently to the occasion.''There’s also a gym and two pools, one for adults and one for kids. Families will love this hotel. More on that later.''It also has two restaurants. The first of these is the Liwan, which offers all day buffet style eating, covering cuisines from around the world, from sushi, to Indian to Arabic specialties. I ate there a lot, and it was always superb.''The other restaurant is a bit more specialist, the Shayan, which focuses on Iranian cuisine, with a talented Iranian head chef who directs operations.''I ate here a few times as well, and the food was spectacular, giving me the opportunity to try a cuisine I’d never experienced before. The set menu options were particularly good, although be warned, you’ll want to come with a very empty stomach to take advantage of the mountain of food you’ll be presented with.''I also took advantage of the room service menu once. I had a giant suite after all, and it seemed a shame not to spend some time in it, enjoying the cityscape view. The room service menu was also excellent, although as a tip, you’ll likely be able to feed two people with a single portion if you order the lamb curry!''The rooms''Speaking of the rooms, they are, as you would expect, rather nice, with six options to choose from in varying sizes and prices. You can read all about them''here''. I took a look at three of the room configurations.''There are three classes of standard room, all of which come with a large bed and bathroom, pretty much what you’d hope for, and which vary in floor space.''Then there are three suite options, which vary in terms of layout and configuration, and certainly won’t disappoint, offering separate lounge and sleeping rooms.''At the top of the range is the Premium suite, which looks like this:''Just about enough room I would suggest. These rooms are particularly popular with families, as they have the option to link up with a standard room next door.''My favourite room though was the one I had, which is the Deluxe suite.''Whilst slightly smaller (apparently), I appreciated the fact that it was the full width of the building, meaning you got views from both sides of the hotel. So I could see the whole creek area and out to the Burj, as well as the other side of town and the sea. Pretty cool.''The suites also come with rather nice bathrooms and of course, that large separate bedroom.''All in all, a great choice of rooms, and you’ll be happy with whichever you choose.''The staff''The title of this post is Arabic Hospitality, and you can’t have hospitality without people, right?''I have to say that the staff of the hotel were what made the stay for me.''Admittedly, I do have the feeling that the staff were perhaps briefed that I was there. It seemed a little odd that all five hundred of them appeared to know my name. That, or maybe the regular clientele doesn’t have dreadlocks and spend their time photographing the lobby lighting installation with fierce intensity.''Anyhow, the staff. Ok, so it’s kind of normal for staff at a hotel like this to be friendly, polite and courteous, checking in on your day and making sure everything is ok.''I’m going to give you therefore a specific example of a staff interaction that made my stay.''On my last night in Dubai I was flying out at the rather depressing departure time of 1am. The hotel kindly let me keep my room as late as I wanted, and I decided to spend my last evening dining in the Shayan restaurant, exploring more Iranian dishes. I know, it’s a tough life.''Anyway, I was dining alone. I’ve done this a lot and it doesn’t bother me. It seemed pretty normal at the hotel too – in the Liwan restaurant when I dined alone they asked if I’d like any reading material.''In the Shayan, I wasn’t sure what I wanted to eat. I asked my server, Kavita, what she would recommend. I explained what I liked, and what I‘d already tried.''Based on this, Kavita went through a whole variety of options, before we settled on a main course of a fish stew, and a spinachy starter. So far, so standard restaurant experience.''Before the meal started, Kavita brought me a yoghurty drink called a Doja (??) *Vera: it might be ‘doogh’*. This is slightly weird, as it has salt in it, so the taste was a little unexpected, but after my palate had figured it out, it turned out I liked it a lot.''It’s supposed to be a palate cleanser, but after I drained the glass quickly, Kavita asked if I wanted more, which came in a Much Larger Glass. I drank that pretty quickly too.''As the evening progressed, there were lots of little touches like that. All the food I received came with a detailed explanation as to the ingredients, and what was special about it, in relation to Iranian dining. Again, all of this was standard.''What didn’t seem like standard service though, was the wonderful conversation we had. We chatted at length about life working in Dubai as an expat (Kavita is Indian, like 50% of the population in Dubai, and an expat, like 80% of the population). We talked about what we did in our spare time, where we had travelled – the kinds of things you chat about when you meet a new person.''I actually felt like I’d made a friend – the genuine nature of the interaction and warmth of Kavita’s personality really shone through, making my last evening in Dubai exceptionally special.''Kind of awesome in a large hotel with so many staff.''On with the show.''Some things to note''Ok, so there have to be some downsides, right? Well, the first one is likely a deal breaker for many people – this is a dry hotel. Yes folks, there’s no alcohol served in this property.''The good news is that this makes for a jolly nice, family friendly environment. Plus, the selection of fresh juice-based drinks is almost enough to make you forget that you’d really like a beer as you’re enjoying the sunset view from the restaurant balcony.''The other things are just minor quibbles. Wi-Fi for example, isn’t included by default. I have no idea why decent hotels insist on charging for this service these days, but there we are. Again, there’s good news in this regard – if you book''the offer I’ve arranged for you guys'', you will get free Wi-Fi as part of the package, as well as a 60 minute spa treatment. Panic over.''Who’s it for?''This hotel would be a great base for anyone looking to spend a bit of time in Dubai in good value five star comfort. It’s particularly handy for the airport, if you’re on a shorter stay, but folks here for longer will find no shortage of things to do, both in the hotel and around. I took advantage of the on-site tour agency for example, and did both a desert safari and a city tour – I’ll be talking about those options in an upcoming post.''I’d also suggest it’s a great option for families. I don’t have any personal experience in that regard, but those folks who were there with kids seemed to be having a good time, particularly in the pool area, and on Fridays where a special kids area is set up by the Liwan restaurant.''If you’re already in Dubai, then I can recommend taking advantage of the restaurants, too. The hotel regularly gives away coupons via their''Facebook Page''where you can save up to 50% on the cost of meal at the all you can eat Liwan buffet, making for some very affordable eating. They also run offers for spa attendance, and other giveaways. It’s a''Facebook Page''that is very much worth a like if you can take advantage of those offers!''A chance to Win A Flight to Dubai with Air France KLM and Rotana!''So that was the hotel. It’s entirely possible you’ve skipped down here because FREE FLIGHTS. I can understand that.''I have two pieces of good news for you.''First, the Rotana are offering a''special package''exclusively to readers of this site''.''If you book that package, you’ll automatically be entered to win a free return flight to Dubai from Air France KLM hubs in Europe.''That package includes:''Buffet breakfast''in Liwan restaurant''15% Discount''at Shayan''Unlimited Internet access''in guest rooms''60 minute massage''or facial from Zen the spa''Check that out here''.''Cool right? Well, that’s not all.''There’s also a''competition to win a flight to Dubai''from Europe with Air France KLM. This is open tor readers of this site and''GoSeeWrite'', a fellow travel blogger.''Enter here!''It’s pretty easy – you just have to''head to this competition page'',''and answer the two simple questions within. Easy! Why not''head on over'', and do that now?''This post was brought to you in partnership with the Al Ghurair Arjaan & Al Ghurair Rayhaan by Rotana, who hosted my trip to Dubai in return for my photography services and telling you guys about my stay, as well as giving you the chance to win a flight to Dubai. The content of this post was produced independently by me, as always.''SHARE ON''As you’ll know if you’ve been following along for the last few years, one of my primary passions is taking landscape photos.''Sure, I enjoy taking pictures of people, and architecture, but really I’m happiest somewhere in the middle of nowhere with my camera gear and a stunning mountain or two to shoot.''In today’s post I want to share with you some of my''tips for helping you to take better landscape photos''. If you find them useful, I’d also recommend''signing up to to receive exclusive photography tips''direct to your inbox, that I don’t share anywhere else. Let’s do this, starting with:''Tips for Taking Better Landscape Photos''1. Composition''Regardless of your subject, the basics of photography don’t change, with''a well composed shot''being vital to taking great landscape shots.''There are a number of composition rules that you should have in mind when putting together your shots. For example:''The rule of thirds:''This basic composition guideline has you think of your shot in terms of thirds, splitting the main subjects into the different thirds.For example, you might have your mountains taking up the bottom third, and the sky taking up the top two thirds. This is far more pleasing to the eye than a half-half split.''Leading Lines / Scale:''Have you ever taken a photograph of a spectacular looking landscape, only to look at it later and realise it somehow doesn’t do the landscape justice? This can be a result of not giving the viewer enough clues as to what the shot is about.A great way to help draw the viewer into your image and subject is to''use leading lines'', such as a path up a mountain, or objects that provide scale, such as a person standing on a piece of scenery or a house dwarfed by the surrounding landscape.''Framing:''Pictures generally look better hanging in a nice frame, right? It helps focus the eye on what we are supposed to be looking at.Well, you can use this technique inside the picture as well, perhaps by framing a road by some trees, or shooting through a doorway or window at a landscape. It draws the eye to the subject and is a powerful composition technique.''Use of Colour:''Landscapes tend to consist of the same sort of colours, so injecting something interesting into your image can help it stand out from the crowd. This might be something as simple as someone in a red jacket against a green landscape, or effective use of fall colours.''2 – Use the right gear''If you want to vex a photographer, the first question to ask is what camera they used to get a shot. The reality being that a camera is just a tool, and a great photo can be just as easily taken on a smartphone rather than a super shiny DSLR.''That said, there are some pieces of gear that I rarely travel without when shooting landscapes.''First – a tripod.''A tripod is an essential part of the landscape photographer’s kit''. When you’re shooting landscapes, you often want to have a good''depth of field'', which means shooting at apertures in the region of\xa0 f/8 to f/16. This means less light is hitting the sensor, which in turn means you are likely using lower shutter speeds, or higher ISO numbers.''Since higher ISO numbers can lead to noisier images, you really want to be shooting at the lowest ISO possible, meaning lower shutter speeds, which means a tripod is essential to keeping the shot stable.''Thanks to Chris Christensen of the''Amateur Traveler''for the above shot of me and my tripod in action in Meteora, Greece.''A tripod is also essential if you want to shoot multiple exposures for getting the best dynamic range in a shot. I also find it helps me think more about the composition of each shot. Check out my''detailed post to why you need a tripod for photography''for more information, plus tips on picking the right tripod for you.''I also recommend that you''travel with a couple of types of filter for your lenses'', that let you do things when shooting that you can’t do in post-processing.''First, I find a polarising filter to be invaluable. This makes blue skies and clouds really pop, and also cuts out glare and reflection on the water. Read more about''how best to use a polarising filter here'', and take a look at the below image to see what it can achieve, without any computer processing, with the polarised version of the image on the right.''Next up, and as you start getting more into playing with various effects, I would recommend a good set of''Neutral Density Filters''.''These act as barriers to the light, allowing you to take longer exposures at all times of day. Particularly useful for really capturing motion, and achieving that lovely fluffy water waterfall look.''In terms of lenses, it’s really up to you and your style of shooting, but I generally find myself using a wide-angle lens for most of my work, letting me get more of the scene in.''If you’re interested in reading more about the gear I use for my photography, you can''read about it here''.''3. Find the best light for photography''Light is really important to photography, given that the whole point of the art is to capture the light. The best times of day to shoot are usually the so-called “golden hours”, that time of day before sunset and after sunrise, when the light is warm.''At other times of the day, particularly when it is sunny, the light can be bright and contrasty, leading to less impressive looking images with harsh, flat-looking images.''Of course, there are ways to get around this, and I do love shooting HDR on clouds days in particular, which can lead to really interesting looking shots. But as a rule of thumb, head out in the mornings and afternoons for the best light.''Further reading''This isn’t the only post I’ve written on photography! Here are some more resources to help you out with improving your photography:''My always expanding series of''Photography Location Guides'', to help you get the best shot in locations around the world.''An overview of my''Travel Photography Gear'', in case you wondered what a professional photographer has in his bag''A FAQ''Beginners’ Guide to Improving your Travel Photos''My series of''Photography Tips'', which I am always expanding and updating with posts like this one''And, if you’re serious about improving your photography, I run an incredibly comprehensive''online travel photography course'', which will teach you everything you need to know about photography. Check that out''here''.''And that’s it for today’s post on improving your landscape photography! Have anything you’d like to add or feedback to share? Let me know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Meteora first caught my eye in April 2014, when a chap wandered past me with an iPad showing some pictures of landscapes that I knew I had to find time to photograph. I asked him where the pictures were of, and he said Meteora.''Fast forward a few months, and I found myself in Athens again doing a whole host of exciting photography related activities, from teaching through to the official event photography for Europe’s largest travel blogging conference, TBEX.''All a lot of fun, but you as guys know that my real passion is landscape photography. Even if taking pictures of beautiful people have a wonderful time does come a close second.''So I was thrilled to be invited after the conference to spend a couple of days exploring Meteora, located around five hours drive north of Athens, and home to some seriously out of this world landscapes.''Obviously, the only way to share my experiences with you is via a photo essay. Let’s do that.''You see those rocks? Back in the 14th century, some enterprising monks thought they’d make a great spot for building nicely defensible monasteries, and over time, 24 of these insanely located buildings were constructed.''I did say insane right? Yep, I have no idea how those chaps back in the 14th century built these places, which at their peak numbered 24. Today there are six left, with the ruins of the others visible in highly improbable locations.''It’s not all about clambering up rocks though. You can just take some time out and sit on a bench instead, enjoying the views of this surreal landscape.''Or you can clamber on rocks.''And take in the rather magnificent views.''I mean… who would look at that rock and decide… yes… this is where I want to build a monastery.''It’s not just about mountains and monasteries of course. The local people of Meteora are open and friendly, and cook a mighty fine pile of food, lots of which I ate, and also failed to take good pictures of. Tip – you’re going to want to eat meat to maximise your waist line when you visit!''Some Practicalities''Ok, so how do you make this happen for you? I’d advise the best way to do Meteora is to hire a car and give yourself plenty of time to explore the region. From a photography perspective there is so much to see and do, with changing light and clouds offering endless possibilities. I will definitely be going back as it wasn’t totally optimal during my brief stay.''I’d also highly recommend hiring a guide for a hiking tour to get you right into the rocks. These vary from relatively easy trails through to more difficult climbs that include harnesses and other climbing gear. Both are better with a guide, as getting lost in the rocks isn’t something you want to do.''You can also take part in group tours that take in some walks as well as the history of the monasteries, which are fascinating too.''The easiest way to find guides / hikes and accommodation is via the''Visit Meteora''portal, which has pretty much all the information you need to plan your trip.''Plan your Accommodation now!''Finding the best deal on your accommodation is an important part of trip planning – helping you to''get the most from your budget,''as well as''find the property that is right for you.''When we travel we usually use''Booking.com''as our first port of call for accommodation.''Alternatively, if you prefer an apartment or more of a hosted stay, then I recommend''AirBnB''. I’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get''a $25 discount''on your first booking with''this link!''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''So. Is Meteora on your to-do list?''My trip to Meteora was in partnership with the''Visit Meteora''folks and arranged via TBEX, who handled the transport, tour and accommodation. You can get in touch with them yourselves of course to find out more about visiting this awesome region!''VisitMeteora, travel, photography''SHARE ON''The Aveyron region in the South of France is ridiculously picturesque – it has mountains and rivers, hills and valleys, forests and gorges, and a combined 900 km of footpaths that can keep you occupied if you’re the type who likes to discover places by foot. It also has ten towns that have been declared to be amongst the “Most beautiful villages in France”, which makes Aveyron the leading department in France in that category.''Conques is one of these villages, though being on the list of “The most beautiful villages in France” is only one of the reasons people are drawn to the place. The town’s main importance stems from having been (and still being) a very popular part of the pilgrimage to Santiago de Compostela for centuries. In fact, the abbey-church of Conques is registered on the''Unesco World Heritage list for the Trails to Santiago in France''.''Still, one wonders how this tiny village (90 residents, go figure) in a pretty remote corner of France became a place that attracts half a million of visitors per year, of which 30,000 are pilgrims. Don’t wonder too long though, my friends, because I am going to tell you (otherwise this would be a rather short post)!''The Beginnings and Evolution of Conques''“Conques” has nothing to do with conkers (maybe I’m the only one to make this connection), but comes from the Latin word “conchas”, meaning “shell”. ‘Aha!’, I thought, ‘because the symbol of St. James of Santiago de Compostela is a shell!’. That was my second misapprehension: the name refers to the town’s position on the slopes above a gorge. Nevermind.''It was this place that a hermit named Dadon decided was ideal to retreat from the world from in the 8th century. He built a little monastery, and it could all have been very peaceful and quiet, but it wasn’t to be. Because in 866, the relics of Ste Foy (we’ll get to her gruesome story later) made their way to the village from the French town of Agen.''Rumour has it that a monk from Conques went undercover as a monk in Agen for almost 10 years in order to get close enough to the relics to –gasp!- steal them. To which Conques dryly states: “The legality of the acquisition is still a contentious issue.”. There’s nothing quite as exciting as a good legal dispute spanning centuries, eh!''However, once the relics of Ste Foy came to Conques, they changed everything. Pilgrims and visitors came in flocks, and Conques became a major staging post on the way to Santiago de Compostela. The reputation of the relic’s miracles resulted in generous donations and thus in an extraordinary collection of medieval gold.''Where do you go from there? You expand, of course! From 1030 to 1130, the Romanesque abbey-church of Conques was built, in order to adapt to the many, many visitors. The rest is history.''And history has been very kind to Conques. Due to its remoteness, not much has happened since the middle ages. The shock waves of major historic events may have hit it, but not as hard as other places. Walking through cobbled alleyways, there are ramparts, fortified gateways, towers, two bread ovens, framed houses, fountains. The buildings here are incredibly well preserved and taken care of, utility lines are buried, and you might as well have stepped back in time.''The Abbey-Church of Ste Foy''This church (as well as a lot of the rest of Conques) gets lovers\xa0 and connoisseurs of Romanesque architecture drooling. Personally, I prefer to drool over chocolate, but there’s more to the church than it being a''Romanesque masterpiece''.''There’s for example also an incredible collection of Romanesque sculpted decorations (did I hear anyone scream “Yay!”?). Let me elaborate: it’s basically a Romanesque 3D stone picture book all over the place. Now, these sculptures are not ‘in your face’ – on first glance, the abbey-church looks pretty bleak, and only on second look, you discover that there are little sculpted ‘pictures’ everywhere.''And surprise, they are really cool! It’s not all religious art, either; you also have knights, mermaids and griffins. However, the showpiece and culmination of this demonstration of artistic skill and heritage is a bit more ostentatious: outside, above the doorway to the church, is a very famous semi-circular decoration called''“The Tympanum of the Last Judgement”''. Spoiler: it looks like the Last Judgement is going to be preeeetty horrific for some people.''Although this particular art work might as well have a PG rating, it is not the controversial bit about the abbey-church. No, that would be – the windows! Yeah, I know, that would have been my first guess, too.''I think the controversy is not about the windows themselves, because they are masterpieces of their own kind and only compliment the church in the way they let the light pass through (more information''here''), but about the person who was ordered to design them:''Pierre Soulages'', a contemporary painter. If you want to know just how contemporary, have a look at a prior post about''him and his museum''in Rodez, Aveyron. Or take my word on that it’s not just a little bit contemporary.''It has to be said that this was a pretty extraordinary collaboration, because Pierre Soulage has always rejected inquiries of churches. Conques though is special to him: “When I was fourteen, it was in front of Conques abbey-church that I made art my sole interest in life. (…) Conques is the site of my first artistic emotions.”. So who knows what might happen to YOU when you visit Conques! Just saying.''The Treasure of Conques''The most important piece of the treasure which is one of the five greatest medieval gold plated treasures in Europe must be the statue of the''Majesty of Sainte Foy'', which contains the relic I have already told you about: the top of the head of the saint. Yes, it’s all not very subtle.''And although this statue as well as other objects were classified as Historical Monuments in 1875, they are still being used by the church. For instance, each year on the 6th of October, it is Sainte Foy Feast Day in Conques, which includes a procession with the relics.''So who is this martyr virgin Sainte Foy (Saint Faith)? She was a 12-year-old girl, born around 290 AD, daughter of a wealthy and pagan family in Agen. Her nursemaid was Christian and the young girl embraced the faith. When the Roman emperor Diocletian initiated the persecution of all Christians in 303 AD, Sainte Foy was brought to trial before the local governor. She was ordered to sacrifice to the goddess Diana, but refused. Thus she was tied onto a metal grill which was positioned over a fire to be burnt alive. When the flames miraculously extinguished, she was beheaded.''Her remains were taken by other Christians and ended up as relics, which were very powerful items back then (and probably still are today for a lot of people).''The reason why the treasure of Conques remains the only one in France that has that many reliquaries even from the beginning of the middle ages is not a coincidence, by the way.''During the French Revolution the convention ordered that the treasures of the church were to be confiscated and melted down to obtain money. Although the people of Conques could not prevent the revolutionaries from burning their archive, they managed to''hide the treasure''. They basically ‘stole’ it from the church and hid it all over the place – in chimneys, sheds, buried in a vegetable garden – and for years and years, until Napoleon came to power, and it was safe again to return them to the church.''Visiting Conques''As pretty much always, I suggest you visit the Tourist Information Centre which is quite central and, dare I say, hard to miss. Not only might you get some material that will help you get the most out of your visit, but there are also a number of inexpensive''guided walks and tours''you can book, be it for the village or for example for the abbey-church uppergallery. We had a lovely guide taking us around (thank you, Anne!) and benefitted very much from it!''If you want to stay overnight, be aware that from April to October it’s ‘pilgrim season’, so booking ahead might be useful.''And the rest is up to you! I hope you enjoyed the post, safe travels and thanks for reading!''Last but not least, a big thank you to the''Aveyron Tourism Board''for introducing us to their beautiful region and hosting us, namely Jackie and Camille. I’d also like to mention that if you’re visiting from the UK, return fares from London with the''French Railway SNCF''start at 140 GBP (do check prices for first class, too – sometimes the difference is just a few Pounds!). Now you know – cheers!''SHARE ON''And we’re in Southern France again, once more in the beautiful Aveyron region. This is the part of the country which sports most of “The most beautiful villages in France”, and one of them is picturesque and idyllic Belcastel, on top of which sits a splendid château.''“Ah, well, with a name like that, how would it not be pretty!”, you say. And you are right, but originally Belcastel didn’t mean ‘beautiful castle’ at all: the name originates from the Occitan language, where ‘bel’ means warrior and ‘castel’ a fortress.''That’s because when it was built in the 11th century, romantic homey châteaus weren’t quite in vogue yet. “Ain’t nobody got time for that!”, as we might say today, because in medieval times castles were designed and built''solely for defense'', and Belcastel was no different. Absolutely nothing was left to chance, from the site chosen to to the way a staircase was built to the tiniest hole in a wall – nothing. Hence, this wasn’t a ‘beautiful castle’; it was a serious ‘warrior fortress’.''And as that, it did really well: although attacked on several occasions, it was never conquered. Which doesn’t mean it effortlessly made its way throughout history unaffected: in the 19th century, it was used as a quarry, and by the time the French Ministry of Culture declared it a''historic monument''in 1928, not much but ruins were left of its former glory.''In fact, Belcastel might never have become one of the “Most beautiful villages in France” and I probably would not be writing this post today if fate hadn’t brought a man to the ruined castle who would change it all:''Fernand Pouillon''.''“Uhm… who?”, you’re asking. Well, I didn’t know him, either, but this guy is not just somebody random: he was a well-known''French architect''and author (born in 1912), and before you start yawning: he did some crazy stuff! At one point in his career, he was sentenced to jail because he had been both the architect and the building contractor in a project, which at that time (1961) was illegal in France (that’s not yet the crazy bit).''So this is not the most exciting reason someone is thrown into jail for, and I wonder if Fernand Pouillon thought that it was also not a very good reason, because after 18 months in prison, he went and tried to''escape''. He staged a hunger strike and pretended to become ill, due to which he was moved to a minimal security wing. There his brother smuggled in a rope during a visit, which Pouillon used to climb out of the window in the third floor once night had fallen.''He managed to properly escape and left France for North Africa. However, in 1963 he came back and proved himself innocent of the crime he had gotten sentenced for in a very sensational trial. The court still ruled him guilty of escaping, so he had to go back to jail, but it was a reduced penalty. Making the most out of the down-time, Pouillon then wrote the\xa0 novel “''The Stones of the Abbey''”, which won a major literary prize. As you do.''Which is just the short version of an excerpt of his life. How Hollywood has not turned this all into a movie yet, remains a mystery. Anyhow, so at a much later time, Fernand Pouillon came to Belcastel, looked at the ruins – and had a vision. Otherwise there is no reasonable explanation for why anyone would have bothered with the''sad piles of medievalish rubble''. But bother he did, and he dedicated his time to turn the site into the home of his dreams.''Which it became, even though it took almost ten years. He first laid eyes on the ruins in 1973, purchased them in 1974, spent years researching the history of the property and ended up restoring a lot of it to its original state, while also turning it into a home for himself. And all the work that was done, was done with – wait for it –''exclusively medieval building techniques''. I kid you not. No cranes, say for the beams; no modern machinery. Right. I told you: dedicated!''In 1982, the Château of Belcastel was finally restored again and it remained the private residence of Fernand Pouillon until his death in 1986. His grave is in the cemetery of Belcastel, and, as it was his wish, is unmarked; just like those of many, many craftsmen before him.''His work also inspired the other inhabitants of Belcastel to transform their village into what is now known as one of''“The most beautiful villages in France”'', and rightfully so.''So this was Fernand Pouillon.''Now to the castle''. Ah, the castle! It’s not very big, you know; in fact, it looks quite cute from a distance. Don’t dig too deep if you want to hold on to that presumption – after all, it was a''serious fortress''and, you know, not-so-nice stuff happened. Look at the pretty flowers instead, breathe in the good air, enjoy the marvellous view, and feel just like you have stepped into a fairy-tale.''It even has a''moat''and a drawbridge! Very romantic, until you learn that under siege, the people of the castle would ‘poison’ the moat with dead animals, blood and faeces to prevent the enemy from swimming across. Which is super unromantic.''Then the''drawbridge''which is short and narrow, therefore easier to defend, especially when the walls have plenty of holes to shoot arrows through, and you can also drop rocks on the heads of anyone who comes too close. That is also probably the main reason why nobody tried door-to-door selling for vacuum-cleaners back then.''Should the assailants have made it into the''courtyard'', they would have found another fortress inside the fortress. Should they have made it into the''inner fortress'', the Lords had one last refuge: the''castle keep''. Once in there, they would have had to wait for help or as long as their supplies lasted.''Then there’s a Knights’ Room which, together with what was once the private chamber of the Lord of Belcastel, exhibits a''collection of original armour from the 15th and 16th century''. Towards the end of the 16th century, when guns became more and more popular, armours were built lighter, so that the fighter was more flexible to dodge a bullet (bullets must have been slower back then). Before that the armours were so heavy that when you fell over in a battle, and the enemy was close, that was it: game over! You could simply not get up again in time. Man, they must have had so much fun back then.''Which brings us to the''prison''. It consists of just one cell, and has a neat small hole in the ground, which might or might not have been used to get rid of the remnants of prisoners who had been tortured and chopped up here. Today it’s one of the rooms that function as an''art gallery''.''That’s right, after Fernand Pouillon’s death, the castle was bought by art gallery owners from New York, and so some of the rooms serve to exhibit''art works curated by the AFA (Animazing Fine Art) gallery in NYC''.''This is lucky, because otherwise we wouldn’t have a picture of the White Lady, the''castle ghost''.''Castles without ghosts just don’t do it, am I right? This one is a bit of a gender-specific one, though: she can only be heard by men. When Fernand Pouillon witnessed her calling and whispering, too, he investigated the legend of the ghost and found it based on an actual incident: it was the wife of one of the castle Lords who had been thrown out of a window for her infidelity.''This is something I think you should know before I inform you that the castle has a''private Tower suite''you can book for your holiday. I hear it’s popular with honeymooners. Probably because the ghost and the legend inspire and set the record straight from the start: “If you ever cheat on me, I might throw you out of the window”- “If you ever throw me out of a window, I’ll haunt you forever”. Aw, love.''Anyway, but there’s another reason that might tempt people to stay for a while: the''hidden treasure''! There is a myth which says there was a''secret tunnel''from the chateau to a guard tower 1 km away, and that inside the tunnel a treasure was hidden, guided by guards. There is also a theory that the treasure might in fact be from the Knights Templar, and that various clues point to the chateau.''Funnily enough, Fernand Pouillon really did discover the entry to a narrow tunnel, and got VERY excited by that, but couldn’t afford to give it priority over other projects. And then he died. …So I’m not sure they would let you dig around in the castle, but apparently the tunnel started in the back wall of the prison. Also, the guards guarding the treasure inside the tunnel are most likely dead, so you don’t need to worry about them. Just saying.''Of course, Belcastel is not just the castle. The village is extremely picturesque, and there are both a''church''and a wonderful''bridge''from the''15th century''; there is the''Blacksmith’s House and Museum'', and last but not least, there’s even a''restaurant with a Michelin star''!''There are also other restaurants and places to stay – I was especially taken with the''communal campsite''right next to the river; such a beautiful spot (and very reasonably priced)!''So yeah, if you have a chance to visit Belcastel, do it! We got shown around the castle by Isi Dardinier (thanks a lot!) and were also given a Historical Guide''The Aveyron region in France is dense with villages holding the title of the “''Most beautiful towns in France''”, but the reason I decided to go on a trip there was that the itinerary foresaw a visit to the contemporary art museum of Pierre Soulages in Rodez.''If you are like “Who? What? Where?” now – so was I. Ye olde Internet was fired up to provide some background information, which let me know that Pierre Soulages is a (super famous) painter who likes the colour… black. Which is really the absence of colour.''So far, so interesting. But then it turned out that this was not some artsy way of saying he uses black a lot; no: it actually meant he paints black pictures. And because I could not quite imagine what that might look like and how someone can get through with painting pictures entirely black and be that recognized, I went on the trip.''That and the itinerary also included a lunch in the Café Bras next to the museum, which is owned by Michel Bras who happens to hold three Michelin stars. How would I miss that, right? After all, cooking is an art, too!''The museum is, like I mentioned before, in Rodez, the county town of Aveyron, which is where Pierre Soulages was born on Christmas Eve 1919. In Rodez, that is, not in the museum. Because the museum only opened this year, in spring.''It is a bit of an unusual addition to this small town whose other main sights consists of historical buildings and matters: these black steel cubes covered by rusty-coloured Corten steel, whose earthy colours resonate with the artist’s work.''And even though Rodez seems an unlikely spot for such a museum, it was his home town Pierre Soulages chose to donate the majority of his works to. In 2005 he and his wife Colette gifted Rodez with around 500 works and documents, estimated to be worth around 35 million Euros. It is probably the most generous donation a living artist has ever made.''But then, Pierre Soulages doesn’t strike me as a man who orientates himself on how things are normally done. He doesn’t have a full formal education as a painter, yet he is France’s greatest living and most successful painter. He was also the first contemporary and still living artist to be exhibited in The Hermitage in St. Petersburg, Russia.''If abstract art isn’t your thing at all, this might still not impress you. There are no references to our reality in his works – even the pictures’ titles consist of numbers, letters, dates, not words. Funnily enough, this was a detail that bothered me: not having a hint with what to go by. But it also means that your own impression of the picture is not watered down.''And the paintings are powerful – if you manage to open yourself up to them, you will connect on a level that is beyond logic. Your brain will tell you that you are looking at something completely random, but your heart will disagree and make a sense, will see a meaning, recognize a message.''I mean, it’s still a museum, but even if I’m going to sound slightly nuts now, I think it can be somewhat of a spiritual experience. In fact, looking at the black pictures especially felt quite meditative.''But that’s me, and I don’t know what you would see, what you would feel. I’d say that’s the beauty of it: you could have a completely different experience than I did.''Soulages himself will certainly not point you anywhere. He doesn’t want to represent anything; he never belonged to a movement. I think this why his art has a kind of timeless quality – you could not tell which years it was from because it doesn’t resemble anything else, really. When he paints (and he still does, at age 94 which does not mean anything to him), he doesn’t know what he will end up with – which he describes as the difference between craft and art. He does have a vision, but if it doesn’t come together, he’ll burn the picture.''And while his art is not the traditional kind, he uses materials that are very grounded; like brushes and scrapers that are used for building, and mostly dark, earthy, natural colours, like walnut stain.''The museum also dedicates a room to another important project he undertook: designing the 104 glass windows for the not far away Abbey of Conques, a UNESCO World Heritage Site and popular destination for pilgrims.''This took him 7 years, including research, and since the Conques Abbey is a bit of a must-see in Aveyron, it’s very interesting to get an idea of the amount of work and thought that has gone into this project. He basically spent four years just baking glass in order to develop the textures that would do the trick. The windows, which are all made of plain uncoloured glass after all, change colour depending on how much light falls through them.''One can imagine that a man who paints entirely black pictures, only using the structure of the paint as a means to reflect light for it to create a work of art, would be well suited for a job like this.''I hope to have given you a bit of an impression of the museum, which will also feature other artists and changing exhibitions, as it was wished by Pierre Soulages, who is – who would have guessed – somewhat opposed to it becoming a static affair. All in all, well worth your time, unless you’re really, really sure you do not like abstract art.''Even then you might feel a tad of sympathy for Pierre Soulages, because it was him who insisted that the menu of the''Café Bras'', which is part of the museum, needed to be affordable for art students. This means you can get a menu from a 3-Michelin-starred chef from 15-30 Euros. You can imagine though, that booking in advance is kind of crucial – I’m talking about at least two weeks in advance.''Another tip''when it comes to visiting the museum: if you''buy your ticket online'', you will get a very good deal: two museums for the price of one (''Musée Fenaille''and Musée Soulages), plus the tickets are valid for a while. Or go to the Musée Fenaille first, get the Combo-ticket there, and save yourself the queuing at the Soulages museum.''If you would like to''learn a bit more about “the painter of black and light”'', his background and motives, these articles might be a good and interesting starting point:''“Pierre Soulages and his all-black canvases”''and''“Pierre Soulages, Painter of Black and Light”''.''Maybe it’ll inspire you to slather your own favourite colour over a canvas! World fame could be just around the corner…''Thank you for reading and thanks to the''Aveyron Region''for inviting and hosting us – it is a ridiculously picturesque part of the world, and everyone we met was most accommodating! A special shout out to Camille, who was our guide/driver/everything and very knowledgeable, very patient, and very kind.''I got to Rodez by train, and if you want to do the same, head over to''SNCF, the French Railway'', where return fares from London start at around 140 GBP. Tip: always check the prices for first class; sometimes the difference to standard is so small that you can upgrade without spending much!''SHARE ON''Milano! That’s where we recently went, because it was… wait for it… Fashion week! Okay, so that’s not at all the reason we went. But although we were told that all through the year Milan is full of fashionable folk (I don’t doubt that – hey, it’s Italy!), we saw some pretty far out people. Actually, some of them might have been aliens. Am I still talking about fashion? So sorry! Let’s get down and dirty with Milan!''The historic city centre which is of interest for tourists and travellers can''easily be explored by foot''. If you want to cut corners or need to save time, there is an''excellent transport system''consisting of the subway, buses and trams in place. It ain’t expensive, either, but make sure to do a tiny bit of''research''– it might still be very worth it to get a 24 hour pass or a Milano Card instead of splashing out on those single tickets!''A''tram ride''may actually be part of your itinerary because a few of the lines are still operating with the original street cars from the 1920s. And if you can’t make it to Milan, try''San Francisco'', where about ten of the Milan vintage trams were delivered to and are still going strong. That’s right, these wondrous trams like to travel!''So what else has Milan got in store for you?''The Duomo''This gothic cathedral is only the largest in Italy, my friends! You can go in, and it’s free, but there’s a dress code watch dog on the way, so make sure you look demure (and I mean demure – I had a skirt that was slightly above the knee and I did not get in that time). While the cathedral’s inside is stunning (and it has mummies), the bit that will really make your day and stay with you is a trip to the Duomo’s roof.''This is not free (12 Euros admission) but it a) has no dress code (yay!), and b): seriously, you’ll forget that and how much you paid once you’re up there. The Duomo took 600 years to built and that still does not seem like a lot of time when you look at the amount of incredible stuff that is up there! I mean, did people have nothing to do? I have an aversion to the term ‘mind-blowing’, but boy, my mind was blown!''In front of the Duomo is, rather unsurprisingly, the''Piazza del Duomo''; a vast square filled with tourists and pigeons. It’s a good place to take some shots of the cathedral, and also a good place to get scammed, so watch it. A fave is to hand you some bird seed and then make you pay for it.''That being said, I felt that Milan does not call for overzealous caution bordering paranoia. There were two spots with scam artists (the Duomo and the Sforzesco Castle), and even there I never felt particularly harassed. I’m sure you can get pick-pocketed in Milan, too (duh), so common sense applies, but it’s no''Paris''.''Museo del Novecento''This is an art gallery right next to the Duomo, covering''Twentieth century art''. Intriguing genius that I am, I lured Laurence in there by telling him that from this museum you get an excellent view of the Duomo. Which was no lie, except for the fact that some constructions were taking place, and so there was no view.''I had not known that and felt a bit bad, but it turned out that Laurence found a contemporary art exhibition and got stuck there. I kind of had to drag him out. Lo and behold!''So yes, this must be my favourite museum in Milan, of the ones I have visited. It features not only Italian artists (like for instance Amedeo Modigliani, Carlo Carrà, Umberto Boccioni), but also international ones (Pablo Picasso, Henri Matisse, Paul Klee…). There are many, many different little exhibitions, and the way they are set up, you are kind of sad when you’re through them all and realise it’s time to leave.''The admission fee is only 5 Euros, which is certainly brilliant value. Two hours before closing time and on Tuesdays from 2pm, admission is free of charge. Now there’s really no excuse left not to go!''San Bernardino alle Ossa''This church is just a 5-minute-walk away from the Duomo, and the reason that makes it worth visiting might also be the very reason why you might not want to visit it at all. You see, in this area there used to be a cemetery, which ran out of space. So the remains of the dead (the bones) were stored in a room specifically built for this purpose.''When I say ‘stored’, I should probably clarify that this refers to a''very neat stacking of the bones and skulls'', with some of them assembled in specific ways so they would serve as decoration. This was all done quite a while ago (we’re talking 12th and 13th century), but the room, which is called an ‘ossuary’, made it throughout the centuries and their challenges.''It is attached to the church of San Bernardino alle Ossa. If you visit, note that the church is closed between 12-1:30pm on weekdays (on week-ends it closes at 12:30pm).''Piazza dei Mercanti''This is the former''medieval centre''of Milan. It is much smaller than it used to be in the middle ages and it is admittedly not crazy spectacular, but it is right next to the Piazza\xa0 del Duomo (albeit not obvious to stumble over) and it does have a certain enchanting atmosphere. Walk the few steps there and decide for yourself if all the travellers who never realised it was there missed out or not.''Galleria Vittorio Emmanuele II''Guess what, we’re still at the Piazza del Duomo (I told you Milan could be easily explored by foot) and you were wondering the whole time what this unusual looking building with the glass roof left from the Duomo is. This, my friends, is one of the world’s''oldest shopping malls''. Nowadays it’s all about the Prada and the, er, other stuff a humble travel blogger can’t afford.''But don’t skip it, because it is after all one of Milan’s historic landmarks and definitely one of the more fascinating arcades you’ll ever walk through. There are also some''renowned cafés''here (like Biffi or Zucca’s Bar), which fall under the category of “You have not really been to Milan if you haven’t had a sandwich/ coffee/ pink smurf juice here”, so that’s something to consider.''And if this isn’t enough tradition for you just yet, fear not, because there’s more! On the floor of the arcades, you’ll find a mosaic of the coat of arms of Turin, which has a bull on it. Now if you take a closer look you’ll notice that this bull’s testicles are not quite what they used to be. In fact you can’t see them at all because there’s a hole.''This is because it is considered''good luck to put your heel in that spot and spin''around. There are many opinions about how it is done correctly (only the right heel is correct; spin three times around; spin one time around; and so on) and there’s even the rumour that –gasp- this is not something any Milanese would ever do; it’s just a tourist thing.''Whatever you do, stay a bit and watch people go for it – the grumpy dad, the excited child, the giggly teenager, the embarrassed boy-friend, the cool lady… it’s fun!''Teatro alla Scala''Do we have some serious opera fans in the house? Because they would know this one for sure: the Scala is the place where the best singers in the world perform. It is also know for its great ballet performances. To get to it, you just walk through the Galleria Emmanuele Vittorio II.''Now maybe it’s a good thing to point out to not expect too much – because I did, and I got to the Piazza Scala and I could for the love of god not find the opera which I imagined to be this really fantastic imposing building. Then I realised it was just there, only it didn’t look like much.''If you’d like to see an actual opera at La Scala while you are in Milan, you are on your own because I have no idea how it all works (but the Internet should help you). All I will do is point out that''there is also a museum''which you can visit, the highlight being that you get to see the inside of the actual theatre.''A great alternative to the Scala experience is the opera in the town of Cremona, an approximate 2 hour train ride away. Once we got a post up on the day trip we did there with more information, I’ll link to it from here.''Santa Maria delle Grazie and Da Vinci’s “Last Supper”''Speaking of places I didn’t really go to, this church is one of them. ‘Great’, you think, ‘that’s quite useful – NOT!’. True, true, sorry for that, but I can tell you why: Santa Maria delle Grazie hosts Leonardo Da Vinci’s world- famous fresco “The Last Supper” from the 15th century. It’s something you really want to see if you get the chance.''However, if you are like me and you do your research shortly before the trip, you won’t be able to see it, because you might''need to reserve your tickets weeks and sometimes months in advance''. You might be able to cheat a little by booking a tour which has the visit included, but don’t count on it.''It’s a very structured visit, too: you’ll need to be there 30 minutes in advance, or your ticket will be sold, and then you’ll only get 15-20 minutes in front of the actual painting.''So maybe now that you have read this, it’ll pop back in your mind when you plan a trip to Milan, and you remember to book a ticket in advance. Or you remember that you can’t be bothered. One of these.''Castello Sforzesco''Back to the less complicated stuff. Which also has some Leonardo da Vinci, as well Michelangelo in it. I’m talking about the Castello Sforzesco. This castle was built in the 15th century on the remains of a fortification from the 14th century. It used to be one of the biggest fortresses in Europe, and nowadays holds around 8 museums without breaking a sweat. Not to mention all the archives and libraries and collections on top of that. So, quite big still.''Now you could wander around the castle grounds, which is free, but you could also visit the museums. As I understood it, the admission (5 Euros) gives you access to a number of museums already (but I don’t think to all of them). We walked the castle and saw everything from art throughout the centuries (paintings, sculptures, frescos…) to weapons and knight’s armors to furniture to musical instruments to household items… seriously, we saw everything.''Suffice to say, this is not something to do in a couple of hours. It is very impressive, but it is also quite a lot to take in. I could imagine that is a reason why they offer a 3 day pass for 12 Euros. If you don’t want to ‘overdose’, you might want to take advantage of the option to spread your visit over those three days.''Parco Sempione''This public park is right next to the Sforza castle and when it was built around 1888, the intention was for it to present the idle wanderer with some panoramic views of both the castle and also the Arch of Peace opposite it.''It is a very nice park, with sculptures and ponds with ducks (and also turtles), plenty of lawn to collapse onto, plenty of big old trees… And while down time in a park is always welcome,''try to visit also on a week-end''when the park seems to turn into one big, relaxed garden party. Vendors with ice-cream carts, drumming circles, hopeful musicians, kids playing, people performing…''Inside the park, but accessible from the outside, is the 108m high''Branca tower'', named after the liquor company, which you can go up for 5 Euros. An elevator will take you to the top, and you won’t be out in the open, but you’ll get an all around view of the city.''Also in the park (with the entry outside the park) is the''Triennale museum for design and architecture'', which we didn’t make it to, but which is said to be very good.''Cimitero Monumentale''When you’re at the Parco Sempione, you could keep on walking and head to the Cimitero Monumentale, which is a cemetery, but also home to a large amount of incredible statues and other monuments. It’s the resting ground of the Milanese elite, and they occasionally seem to have had rather dashing ideas. I mean, there’s a pyramid on this cemetery! Actually, there’s more than one, I think…''This is another one of my favourite sights. When you go in, there is an unobtrusive tourist office on the left. Yes, admission is free, but do go in, because you’ll get a little map which has all the information on it, plus I had a very nice lady who pointed interesting bits out to me.''Next you’ll make your way into the Famedio, which is the Temple of Fame (and not a church, like I thought at first), which is also worth exploring, and then you can visit the actual cemetery. There is the main part, but there are also sections for Non-Catholics and for Jewish people.''The cemetery is open daily from 8am to 6pm, except for Mondays, when it’s closed.''Basilica di Sant’Ambrogio''This is the last church, I promise! It’s not like Milan doesn’t have plenty more, but this one you may not want to skip. The Duomo might be Milan’s showpiece (without meaning to be disrespectful), but the Basilica di Sant’Ambrogio is the church close to the hearts of the people of Milan.''Not only is Saint Ambrose the patron saint of the city, but he also founded this basilica in the 4th century (originally Basilica Martyrum), making it one of the oldest in Milan. It still contains his remains along with those of two other saints, and multiple other treasures. Historically this basilica is of greater relevance than the Duomo, and its architecture is considered to be one of the most important examples of Lombard Romanesque architecture.''It is certainly different from other churches I’ve seen; with its two bell towers and the atmospheric atrium. There are lots of little details to discover and facts to read about (the atrium hosts some sort of small exhibition made up of information panels). Plus, real saints! How often do you get close up and personal with those?!''Navigli district''Indeed, not too long ago this area would have been nothing to write home about, but it is now one of the hippest and best places to while away your evenings and nights. ‘Naviglio’ is Italian for canal, and yes, landlocked Milan had five of them, which were put to good use back in the days. These days go as far back as the 12th century, if you were wondering, when the canals were built as a connection to the lakes.''It is said that Leonardo DaVinci was involved in designing a system of sluices for the canals in the 15th century. And the marble for the construction of the Duomo? Was delivered via the canals as well. They used to be the main means of transportation, but this changed over time, and eventually all but three canals were filled in.''Two of those remaining, the Naviglio Grande and the Naviglio Parvese, form a triangle that is today known as the Navigli district. A lot of work has been put into reviving the charm of the area, which now boasts cafés, bars, restaurants, art galleries, design stores, book shops. It’s a long-term project for sure, and a lot of corners still look rough, but also… promising.''Even if the nightlife is not for you, come to the canals for the sunset and wander around a bit. Who knows what’s gonna happen – maybe you’ll have one of your nicest evenings in Milan!''Roman heritage''“Mediolanum” was the name Milan went by during Roman times, and it used to be one of the biggest and most important cities in the Roman Empire in Italy. Did you know it was here where it was agreed upon to end the persecution of Christians? But before you get all excited: yes, there are remains of the Roman Empire, however, it will take you a bit of imagination to recreate their former glory.''Quite impressive are the''Roman columns in front of the Basilica di San Lorenzo'', which we visited, but there are definitely more things to see. Check out this''Wikipedia entry''for background information and this''pedestrian route through Roman Milan''!''Is that it?''Nope, there’s more. Oh, there’s much more. There are many more churches, there are many more museums, there are countless palazzos. There is the picturesque Breda district, there is the posh Quadrilatero d’Oro where one finds all the haute couture stores… The sheer amount of potential sights is unbelievable. Even''WikiTravel Milan''seems to eventually helplessly drown in all the stuff there is to see and do.''This blog post should have you covered for the most popular bits, though. If you have something to add or a question, happily leave a comment. If you have made it this far – it was quite a long post, wasn’t it? Thanks for tagging along, guys!''Plan your Accommodation now!''Finding the best deal on your accommodation is an important part of trip planning – helping you to''get the most from your budget,''as well as''find the property that is right for you.''Our''current favorite way''to find the''best deals on accommodation''is with''HotelsCombined''. These guys let you search over 100 booking sites at once, including booking.com, Agoda and TravelPony, and nearly always get the best price.''Try them and see!''Alternatively, if you prefer an apartment or more of a hosted stay, then I recommend''AirBnB''. I’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get''a $25 discount''on your first booking with''this link!''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''We were fortunate to be a part of the #blogville project by the Emilia Romagna Tourism Board. This means we got to stay in an apartment, and received a free transport pass as well as free entry to the most important sights. Thank you to everyone involved, especially Simon, who was an excellent host!''Blogville, Travel''SHARE ON''Time to share another series of some of our most popular photos as shared on the site’s''Facebook Page''! We love sharing these images from our travels – and almost 300,000 folks are following along now, which is pretty awesome.''Since the last update, we’ve travelled to Dubai, Milan, Finland and Spain, so naturally photos from those locations have been featuring, as well as other shots from our travels.''Let’s get going with Edition 16 – if you like these, don’t miss the''previous editions!''Also, you can click any photo in this post to be rewarded with a slide show of all of them, if reading text is just too much work.''Thailand to start with – here bats emerge at dusk from caves near the''Khao Yai National Park''. I’ve never seen anything quite like it – there are millions of them, and they form spectacular ribbons in the air as they come out to hunt.''This picture never gets old for me. It’s Mount Taranaki in''New Zealand'', which in my mind is the''most rewarding day hike''you can do in this spectacular country. Read''this''to find out why.''The ceiling of the Sagrada Familia in''Barcelona''is mind blowingly spectacular. It’s the pinnacle of''Gaudi’s creative genius''in this city, and if you only visit one of his works, then make it this one.''A quick detour to the white city of Ostuni in the Puglia region of Italy. Italy is one of my favourite countries in Europe, and I’m hoping to spend more time here in the coming months!''Kicker Rock off San Cristobal Island in the Galapagos was home to the best snorkelling we’ve ever done. If you want to visit these amazing islands, I’ve put together a couple of resources for you, one to help you''plan your overall trip'', the other focusing on''visiting San Cristobal Island as an independent traveller''. Enjoy.''Also in Ecuador, this is a shot from the''Devil’s Nose Train Ride on the mainland''– one of the world’s most spectacular train ride. Heck of a view, I think you will agree.''Earlier on in 2014 I led a photowalk around Berlin. This is from that day, which was a lot of fun.''We were back in Girona ever so briefly this summer! I love the colourful houses by the river, and tried to get a slightly different shot to those I captured last time round.''We are based in France, although you might not know it given how little time we seem to spend exploring around us! We tried to change that recently, with a trip to the Dune de Pilat – the largest sand dune in Europe!''Another one from France, where the skies are remarkably clear it has to be said. If you’re interested in astrophotography and learning how to take shots like this,''don’t miss our newsletter''where I share secrets of capturing shots like this.''New Zealand is reliably beautiful, pretty much wherever you go. This is Mangawhero Falls, on the North Island, part of the Tongariro National Park.''We recently re-visited the town of Besalu in Spain. The first time round, I was only there long enough to grab some shots of the bridge like this one. This time though, we had more time, and have shared our tips for''what to do in Besalu''.''The town of Freiburg in south-western Germany is said to be the sunniest place in the country. I can’t comment on that, but it was certainly very pretty.''Kakadu national park is a must-visit if you’re in Australia’s Northern Territory. These are the Twin Falls in the dry season – imagine what they’d be like in the wet!''This is the a beach in Ireland, at the start of the stunning''Dingle pensinula coastal drive''. At least, I am reliably informed it’s spectacular. When we visited, it rained so much we could barely see anything. Still, it made for some moody shots…''At the end of 2013 we spent''a few days in Rio''. This is a shot of downtown, with the Christ the Redeemer statue on the mountain in the background.''I promised you a shot from Finland! This is a lake in Nuuksio National Park, just a short drive from the city of Helsinki. You can read more of''my experiences in Finland here''.''And we spent time exploring the countryside around Girona in the Catalan countryside.''Another one of those waterfall shots, this time in the Pyrenees foothills of Spain. I’ve been asked a few times how I achieve that fluffy water effect – all I can say is''sign up to our newsletter''to learn our photography secrets!''And we’ll finish this edition on a sunset, this one take over the lake of St. Estephe in the Dordogne region of France. And that’s it for this round-up post. Until the next time…''SHARE ON''I am quite excited because the title rhymes. Most things that rhyme are pretty good, right? Apart from that, you probably don’t have the faintest idea where the heck Besalú is, but guess what: that already makes you smarter than me, because I had in fact been there two years ago and the name still didn’t ring a bell when we went back this summer.''‘What a memorable place this Besalú must be!’, you might be thinking to yourselves now, unaware of my incompetence when it comes to remembering names. Also, when I say that I had already been there, I by that mean: arrived, jumped out of the bus, had half an hour to take pictures of a bridge, jumped back on the bus, off we went.''It is quite the impressive bridge, admittedly, but my disability to remember the name of a place is not tied to the impressiveness of its sights. It’s fair like that, I suppose.''So, Besalú. Besalú is a town in Catalonia, Spain. It is part of the beautiful Costa Brava Region and situated 25km away from Figueres and 30km away from Girona. It’s a designated''National Historical-Artistic Site''due to its medieval-ness (which is not a real word, kids!) and quite frankly, if you’re only coming to look at the bridge, you’re missing out!''Here’s a little guide with just a few things that you could consider when visiting:''Go to the tourist office''…and let the lovely ladies there explain it all to you. Hope you enjoyed the post, bye!''…Okay, maybe not. But I’m making a valid point: when you arrive in Besalú, there is a free parking lot, with free toilets, and a tourist information. I just popped in and found some free information and a free map of the town that had all the sights marked on it, plus a bit of a historical background on the most important ones. It also has the addresses of the restaurants, bars and hotels on it.''Don’t be afraid''Besalú is not a sight-seeing chore. It’s too tiny for that. It has just under 2500 inhabitants, and unless you want to meet them all, you do not need a lot of time to get a good impression of the town and its sights. Which is very relaxing and makes it fun to wander around, explore and get a bit lost in the cobble-stoned alley-ways. Speaking of which: don’t wear heels. Because: cobble-stone. Cobble-stone aaaall over.''Stay longer''So while you could see most of the town in around 2-3 hours, be prepared to experience reluctance when thinking of leaving again. But who says you need to? You can have a nice meal in one of the restaurants, or a cuppa with a treat in a café on one of the squares. You could walk along the river banks a bit, or hike up one of the hills in the surrounding area.''Or you might decide that walking around Besalú has sparked an interest and book a guided tour at the tourism office. One of these will also give you access to buildings you can’t otherwise enter. And if you like quirky things: there is a''miniature museum''which seems to be quite popular!''Get yourself a souvenir''Wow, this is something I don’t say very often! It’s because most of the time when I eye that little trinket that might be suitable to remind me of a really nice holiday, it says “Made in China” on the back – and I am usually nowhere near China.''Well, Besalú is refreshingly different: the souvenir shops here make a point of selling only locally crafted goods. Even if you don’t buy anything, I encourage you to have a look at the beautiful pottery, or woven baskets, or – well, you’ll see! Culinary souvenirs are also available, with a special mention going to the locally made Ratafia (a\xa0 herbal liquor).''Take in the most important sights of Besalú''Ah yes, the sights! One you already know:''the old bridge'', which dates from the 11th century. It has seven arches of which the pillars were built on the existing river rocks. Since river rocks don’t really think about being bases for bridges much, the arches are in a bit of a zig-zag. And it has towers on it and little bays! This is your path into the heart of the town, and, unlike the travellers from the middle ages, you do not even have to pay a toll.''Besalú is also important due to its''Jewish heritage''. In the Jewish quarter, you’ll find the remains of a synagogue from 1264; the Jewish gate, through which the Jewish population had to leave and enter the town, and, most significant, a mikwah. This is an underground hall with a ritual cleansing pool. It is one of only two of that period in Spain, and one of few in the whole of Europe. To visit it, get a ticket at the tourist office.''If you are interested in that sort of thing, Besalú might be worth''some research''. The Jewish community was originally well perceived and lived together with the Christian community. At the end of the 14th century however, the persecution started, and documents state that by 1436 there were no Jews left in Besalú.''Then there is the''monastery of Sant Pere'', of which only the church remains. It’s quite an imposing building, and was inaugurated in the year 1003.''As Besalú used to be a Christian pilgrimage destination, there were several hospitals to accommodate pilgrims, of which one is left: the''hospital of Sant Julià''. You can admire the outer facade from the 12th century, which is quite extraordinary indeed.''These are the highlights, but there are still some more sights, all medievaly (which, again, is also not a real word).''The most important thing is that I have now talked about Besalú so much that I won’t forget the name anymore. At least that’s what I hope…''I also hope you get to visit one day, because it’s a really nice spot in the world. If you’re headed to the Costa Brava, and you’d like to stay in a nice villa – like this one, with a pool and a Jacuzzi:''then check out Loz’s post about''How to stay in a villa for less than the price of a hostel''. Said villas are rented out by Naturaki, the guys we recently stayed with. They are the ones who invited us to Costa Brava and took us around the area a bit – thank you, Carme, Narcis & Co!''As to you, all enlightened how you don’t just take a picture of the bridge and head off again when you come to Besalú: thanks for reading, stay awesome, and see you some time soon!''SHARE ON''When I lived in the UK, friends and I would often band together and go on holidays to giant houses in remote parts of the country, including the Scottish Highlands or the Lake District.''We usually hired extravagantly huge houses for these adventures. I remember one on a 10,000 acre estate which came complete with its own Scottish Loch (prehistoric monster as an optional add-on).''Beyond the optional monster, that one had a 10 mile, hour-long, tremendously bumpy drive between the entrance gate and the actual building, more rooms than I can remember, and an entirely disturbing collection of dead animals on the wall.''I mention this because we were recently invited down to the Costa Brava region of Spain, to meet up with some friends we made a couple of years ago, who run a website which rents out rather charming houses in said region.''Charming houses not entirely dissimilar to the style that I used to holiday in, except with more Spanish weather and less dead animals on the walls. Obviously we said yes.''When we visited last time round,''Naturaki''was a two person affair which had only been running for a year or so – the lovely brother and sister team of Carme and Narcis, who made us feel incredibly at home. So much so that we were absolutely thrilled to head back and hang out with our friends.''Since then, they’ve expanded both the team and their property portfolio – but the personal charm and friendliness of this local company remains the same.''Narcis explained to me that for them to take on a property, it has to be special. It has to have character. And ideally, it has to have a pool. I couldn’t argue with that philosophy.''We stayed in a couple of these houses during our week in Costa Brava. They were:''Can Fort''Can Fort is kind of everything you want in a giant five bedroom property split across two buildings with it’s own pool. I mean, that sentence should be enough to persuade you as to its virtues, but just in case you’re not convinced:''It has its own pool (I may have already mentioned this).''The upper outdoor dining terrace has sunset views to die for. Well, just views to die for. There’s another terrace, which has rather jolly views as well.''If you don’t like views, there’s a billiard table, free Wi-fi, a massive TV and also a fireplace. You don’t have to go outside!''There are two kitchens, in case your group falls out over who is the best chef.''There are five bedrooms and three bathrooms.''There’s an outdoor area as well as a barbeque.''Of course, the property is not the only thing to be excited about. Set in the countryside around a half hour drive from Girona, there is plenty to see and do in the region, including visiting the gorgeous towns of Cadaques, Besalu and Girona itself, not to mention the countless beaches and other attractions in the area. We’ll be writing a post on all those options soon.''Can Martinot''We also stayed at Can Martinot, which is tucked away at the end of a mountain road, around 30 minutes drive from Figueres at the start of the Pyrenees Mountains.''This is a perfect place to get away from it all, particularly if you are into hiking. There are trails heading up into the mountains, and we did a 10 km day hike up one of the nearby hills, ending in a surreal hippie village.''We were guided on our hike by Naturaki co-owner Narcis, and we were particularly lucky in that when we got back to the house he made us his own personal paella, based on a closely guarded secret recipe. As you might imagine, it was rather good.''Obviously, I can’t guarantee you a secret paella recipe, but I can say that if peace and quiet in a tiny Spanish village, in a five bedroom villa set across four floors, with the sound of a river to keep you chilled out, then you could certainly do a lot worse than Can Martinot. Find out more about what Can Martinot has to offer''here''.''Enough talk. Tell me how I stay in these places for less than the price of a hostel!''Ok, ok. That was a lot of words to get to the point of the post, which is how you can stay at these amazing properties for so little money.''Well, it’s easy.''Find some friends''. Let me explain.''You see, somewhere like''Can Fort''is currently listed in peak season, at a price of €2290 per week.''That sounds like a lot. And sure, it is.''For that money you get a five bedroom property spread across two houses, a billiard table, flat screen TV’s, Wi-fi, pool, two kitchens… well, the list goes on.''The other thing is you can sleep up to fourteen people in the property. €2290 divided by fourteen is €163 per person. Or about €23 a night.''And that’s peak season. Come here in the low season, and''you’re paying €15 per person per night!''Let me just remind you here. This is a spectacular villa, with its own pool, masses of living space, five bedrooms, two kitchens… and it’s only €15 per person a night!''Admittedly, you have to find fourteen friends who want to come share with you. And I know the hassle involved in finding fourteen people willing to synchronise their vacation time is not trivial, because that’s how I managed to hire the houses I mentioned at the start of the post. Turns out I’m not super rich after all.''If you tell your friends the price and what’s on offer, you might find them to be a bit more willing. Or find someone with brilliant organisational skills and let them deal with the headache. Pro tip – if you’re in charge of the organisation, ask for all the money up front, you’ll find out soon enough who’s serious!''If that doesn’t work, the good news is that you don’t need to find as many as 14 friends. Naturaki have properties to suit four to twenty people. Find just seven friends (and you!), and you could stay''here''in the low season for €15 a night. Kind of a bargain if you ask me.''The other thing to think about is transport, of course. Properties like this are usually found out in the countryside, and require a means of transport to get to them.''We think the best option for that is just to hire a car. Looking at''Argus Car Hire''for example, you can pick up a reasonably sized car for €50 – €100 for a week in the Girona region. Hardly a bank breaker, especially when you split this cost out between a few of you. Then you can explore at your leisure, which is our preferred way to do everything.''And that is pretty much it for this post! How would you like to stay in a property like this, and did you ever think it would be so affordable? Let me know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Ah, Rio! It’s an amazing city for many reasons, although one of them might not come to mind as easily as, say for example, the beaches. I’m talking about Rio’s street art, which, once you’re there, you’ll find pretty much everywhere – yes, on the aforementioned beaches, too!''I''dearly love street art'', because I appreciate how people make an effort to create something just for the sake of it. After all, they usually are not going to get paid for it; they are not going to get recognition for it (apart from within the community, maybe), and their piece of work only lasts as long as nobody else sprays or paints over it. On top of that, it’s a risky profession, if the space chosen for the artwork is officially meant to be kept plain – which is probably true in most cases.''In Rio de Janeiro though, it’s pretty much possible to do your thing and keep it all legal: in 2009 the Brazilian government passed a law that decriminalises street art if it is executed in consent with the building’s owner. This year another law was passed, taking the legalisation from the private to the public spaces. There are now designated public areas that street artists can legally beautify, such as columns, certain walls and construction sites.''This still does not necessarily mean that most of what you get to see is actually legal, but it certainly means that you get a much bigger variety of creations. It’s a diversity that explodes with colours, ideas, emotions, statements, questions, humour and talent.''It’s about identity, communication and experimenting. Of course, to some it’s still just vandalism, but times are a-changing. For example, see this massive project in the photo below? It’s the largest work of graffiti in Rio and even features in the free official guide to the city! You’ll find it on Rua Coelho e Castro (in Saudé), not far from the art museum. The artist is Tomáz Viana aka''“Toz”''.''Since the side of the building it was painted on oversees a private parking lot, you can’t really get close and personal. We asked the security guard if we could come in and take a picture, to which he agreed, but I don’t think he would have had us frolicking through the rows of parked cars, trying to find other angles.''The picture below on the other hand was taken just across the street from the parking lot, and shows one of Toz’s works with the title “Insônia”.''We stumbled over another legal art exhibition just next to the Carioca Aqueduct (Lapa Arches). This work was called “Status quo Revolucao”, created by Raoni Moreno. I know this because the exhibits had little white stickers with the information at the sides (down on the right), just like in the ‘real’ galleries.''Speaking of Lapa, one of Rio’s neighbourhoods: they have some amazing stuff there! I left Loz at the aqueduct to take pictures, because I had seen a wall that had sparked my interest, but then I saw another painted wall, shutters, poles… So I wandered right into the the core of the district, briefly chatted to some people, before I headed back, only to find that Loz had almost gotten robbed. It’s another story, but always''be safe'', people!''A lot of the art will reflect Rio; its culture, its people.''Other creations – well, maybe not so much….''Then there’s politics…''There are dancing tigers, eagle twins and deadly collages…''There’s even the odd take on the good old classics:''I thought it was quite amazing to find interpretations of classical art works, although I am only able to clearly identify Gustav Klimt’s “Judith I” here. I’m sure the other one is equally famous, but after bestirring Google for like 25 minutes without any success, I thought I’d pass it on to the comment section – you may shine with your knowledge!''This was by the way right next to the favela “Rocinha”. There’s definitely a lot of great street art in the favelas, but even though we were taken on a little tour through Rocinha by our travelblogger friend''Kay'', who had been volunteering there and knew her ways, I still was aware of the controversy that surrounds visiting a favela. So for once I experienced something without documenting it very much along the way.''And since street art is everywhere, I coped quite well!''Heck, even if all that you do in Rio is enjoy some beach time – you’re still going to see amazing street art!''I mean, there’s no end to this, really, but I know about your short attention spans, folks, so I’m gonna let you go… Jokes aside, this post is nothing but a VERY humble collection of street art pictures in Rio. There’s so much more!''If you like to know more about the street art of Rio, there’s a nice article for you''here''.''If you are interested in the different artists, their works, and maybe where to find them, then''this website''is quite helpful.''If you want to volunteer in a Graffiti Project in Rio de Janeiro, then don’t let anyone tell you there’s no such thing, because''there is''!''And that’s it now, for real. Thank you for reading, and have a great time, wherever you may roam! Tchau!''SHARE ON''If you’re visiting Finland, you should definitely set some time aside to visit Helsinki – even if just for one day. There’s plenty to see and do during a day in Helsinki, from food to shopping and sight-seeing.''I’ve visited on a number of occasions, both in summer and winter, and here’s what I recommend you do if you visit Helsinki for one day.''1 Day in Helsinki''1.\xa0 The Cathedrals''Helsinki has two cathedrals. The first is the big white one in the middle of town (top picture in this post), simply known as Helsinki Cathedral – this is the Finnish Evangelical Lutheran Cathedral, representing the main faith in Finland. There’s a huge square here, as well as a nice pile of steps that you can sit on and people-watch from.''The other cathedral I’d recommend taking a look at is the Eastern Orthodox Uspenski Cathedral. This impressive red brick building with gold domes is just a few minutes walk from the other cathedral, and sits impressively atop a hill.''Both cathedrals are free to enter, and differ enough to make them both worth the visit.''2. The Church In The Rocks''Ok, it all seems a bit religious so far! Fear not, we’ll move on to other attractions shortly. But the Church of the Rock, (officially called Temppeliaukio Church) is worth visiting even if you’re a''pastafarian''.''Built (you’ve guessed it!) into the rocks, from the outside the church looks like a UFO has taken up residence in downtown Helsinki. Inside, there is a beautiful harmony of carved out rock and design, with the interior naturally lit by huge skylight windows which circle the copper ceiling. It’s impressive stuff!''3. The Olympic Stadium''You know how I always like to get to the top of somewhere in a city to help orientate myself? No? Well, I do. Don’t worry, you have plenty of time to read the other posts on this blog''where I go up things''.''In Helsinki, the best place to get a view of the city, even if it is a little way north of the city centre, is the Olympic Stadium, where there’s a giant tower, from which you get a gorgeous view of the city and surrounds.''It costs a few Euros to get up the tower, although that does include the elevator ride, which will save your legs. Speaking of saving, if you take the hop-on hop-off bus tour of Helsinki you get discounted access to this (and many other!) attractions, although given the size of Helsinki, it’s only worth the investment if you’re really in a rush to see as much as possible in as short a time as possible. Or if it’s raining.''4. The Islands''Before I visited Finland, I had no idea how much of an island nation this place is. I already shared with you that Finland is home to the''worlds largest island archipelago'', but I also learnt that Helsinki itself is an archipelago of 330 islands!''The islands can be reached easily by ferry, allowing you to explore at your leisure, or if you are pressed for time, you can take a guided tour of the waterways.''I took the latter option, taking a boat tour which lasted around two hours. This featured an audio commentary and lots of information about everything I was seeing. Plus the boat had free Wi-fi as well as a bar, although sadly that wasn’t free.''Still, it was a wonderful way to get a feel for the layout of the Helsinki surrounds, and I can very much recommend it.''Another option is to visit the six islands that make up the''Suomenlinna Fortress''. This is a UNESCO world heritage site and one of Helsinki’s top attractions, so do try and fit this in to your day if you can!''5. The Harbour''The harbour area of Helsinki is a buzzing place to be, with bars and coffee shops galore, not to mention a fairly permanent market (see where to eat a little further down) where you can pick up souvenirs and the like, if that’s what you’re into. Whilst I was there I saw all sorts going on, from salsa classes to people just enjoying the unseasonably warm weather by swimming in the sea.''That all seemed like a lot of work though, so I just wandered around with my camera, trying out coffee shops and taking pictures of interesting looking boats and art installations. Which I think I succeeded at.''Where to eat in Helsinki?''I ate at a number of venues during my time in Helsinki, and was generally impressed by the food, although prices were fairly high.\xa0 I recall two memorable highlights for you to try:''Bar 9''– this was a great value find, serving up big plates of food for around €9 – €14 a go (a bargain by Finnish standards!). The pasta options were particularly good, although I have to admit that the noodles weren’t quite as exciting as they sounded.''The street food –''I know, Helsinki doesn’t exactly have a rep for being a street food capital. But when I visited, I discovered that the street food scene was alive and kicking, serving up local specialties and treats from around the world. I generally ended up with some variation on reindeer or salmon, but you’ll find most cuisines are covered.''Check out the''Street Helsinki Facebook Page''for the latest happenings, or head down to the market square by the harbour (Kauppatori) at lunch time for street food most of the year.''For more eating options, check out this''Like A Local Guide to eating in Helsinki''for ideas, as well as TripAdvisor’s''listings for Helsinki eateries''.''Where to stay in Helsinki?''Like the rest of Scandinavia, Finland isn’t exactly a bargain hunter’s paradise, although there are some great value options in the mid-range, and it’s certainly comparable to other capital cities in Western Europe. Check''here''for a a selection of options for your Helsinki trip.''Save Money in Helsinki''Helsinki can be quite an expensive city to visit, so any way of saving money is a good thing! We’re big fans of city sightseeing passes – if you plan on visiting a lot of attractions, these can often save you money.''The''Helsinki Card''is an excellent value sight-seeing card which gets you in over 28 attractions in the city, plus it includes a free travelcard to help you get around. Definitely one to check out to see if it could save you money on your visit.''Further Reading for your Helsinki Trip''We have some more content on visiting Finland to help you plan the perfect trip. Check these out:''A''guide to visiting Porvoo'', which you can do as an easy day trip from Helsinki''Our guide to''visiting Finland in Winter'', plus''what to pack for winter in Finland''An experience''Husky Sledding in the Arctic Circle''We also have some more cities and towns for you to read about. Check out''our guide to visiting Rauma''in winter, and our''guide to visiting Oulu in winter''for inspiration for your Finland trip.''Check out our post on taking a''day trip to Tallinn from Helsinki,''which is a great option if you want to add Estonia to your list''The''official Helsinki Tourism website'', which has lots of information on what to do as well as upcoming events and festivals.''The''Lonely Planet guide to Finland''And that pretty much sums up our thoughts on spending one day in Helsinki! If you have any more recommendations for what to do or where to eat in Helsinki, let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''If I asked you to name the largest group of islands (by number) in the world, I wonder where you’d think that might be. Pause a moment and ponder.''If you’re anything like me, you’re probably thinking of sun kissed beaches and turquoise waters, with palm trees flapping around lazily in the breeze. Maybe there’s a pina colada somewhere in the shot.''I suspect that on the list of countries and destinations you were considering, Finland may not have popped into your head.''Well, as I learnt recently, the Archipelago Sea off Finland’s southern coast would in fact be the answer. It’s tough to get an exact number, but there are at least 50,000 islands, with over 17,000 of those being large enough to put some kind of dwelling on.''Counting the islands is tricky enough, because new ones keep popping up. This is because the whole region is rising up out of the sea at the rate of a few millimetres a year – enough for it to change noticeably even within the lifetime of a person. Geology on amphetamines, Finland style.''Part of this area is a national park, cunningly named the Archipelago National Park, which is a UNESCO biosphere reserve. It is chock full of interesting wildlife, from huge eagles through to seals. Not to mention all kinds of underwater stuff that would be of interest to those who spend their holidays below, rather than above, the water.''On my trip though, the adventures took place above the water, tripping around and between these islands.''Boat is, without doubt, the best way to explore the area.''We took a ride from Kasnas, a village on the southern tip of the island of Kimito. Here there’s a visitor centre where you can learn all about the Archipelago, from the people to the wildlife and geology.''Our destination for the day was the''Bengtskär Lighthouse'', the tallest lighthouse in Scandinavia. The trip involved us wending our way through the many islands, a task that required an experienced navigator at the helm, as so many of the rocks in the area are hidden just below the surface.''On our way out to the lighthouse we stopped off at a replica Viking Village, where we got to play with chain mail and swords. This was particularly fun for the kids in our group, so if you’re travelling with kids, I can definitely recommend stopping off at the''Rosala Viking Centre''. Just be warned that the chain mail is heavy!''Then it was across to the lighthouse, which is the highest one in the Nordic region, at 52 metres above sea level. It was built at the turn of the 20th century, and has had a rocky past (sorry), being involved as it was in a major battle during the Second World War, when a good number of Soviet soldiers tried to take it from Finnish control.''They failed, but after the war the lighthouse fell into disrepair, only to be saved much later on in the 20th century when an association was formed to preserve it. These days it’s a major tourist attraction in the area.''And for good reason. The guides on the island are knowledgeable, and will tell you all about the history of the island in a nice easy 20 minute chat on the rocks. Once they’re done explaining, you are free to wander, and I highly recommend taking the time to head up the lighthouse steps.''The view from the top of the surrounding ocean is marvellous, even if the climb up to the top is a little on the strenuous side.The good news is that the sea is good for swimming, so if you get a nice day then you can heat up on the climb and then dip in the water afterwards to cool off. Splashing optional, but recommended. We went for the splashing option!''Before we knew it, our fun was over, and it was time to head back to the island of Kimito , where, naturally, a hot sauna was waiting for us, along with a cold beer and an excellent Finnish sunset.''We couldn’t ask for more than that! If you want to do this tour yourself, then the whole thing including the Viking Village and lighthouse is available either by taxi boat between the islands, where you can arrange the different visits yourself, or by booking a specific tour from one of various operators. Whichever you choose, I’m sure you’ll have a fun time!''And with that, I end my trip around the 50,000 islands of the Archipelago Sea off the Finnish coast. Next in this series of posts from Finland I’ll be sharing with you some thoughts on how to spend some time in the capital of this lovely country. Until then – safe travels!''My trip to Finland was in partnership with VisitFinland, who put together our awesome itinerary and sorted out all the logistics. Content remains my own.''SHARE ON''Here are three things I didn’t know about Finland: it’s made up of a lot of water and islands, Finnish people are crazy about the outdoors, and there are almost as many saunas as there are people.''Perhaps these things don’t come as a surprise to you, but this was my first visit to the country, and I like to go to a place knowing as little as possible, so I can be happily overwhelmed by new stuff.''That, or I’m too lazy to do research. I prefer to think of it as the former.''Anyhow, the main focus of my trip was to understand what visiting Finland in summer was like, and to experience the great outdoors of Finland, and I am pleased to report that that mission was a success.''Before getting into that, a little about the Finnish outdoors.''Finland has a fairly unique approach to land, with the concept of trespass being something other countries do. Everyone has the right to explore any land, pick wild berries or mushrooms, fish, and even camp, pretty much anywhere they like.''As long as you aren’t damaging property, disturbing others, or burning things down, then you are free to exercise what is known as your Everyman’s Right.''Pretty cool, especially if you’re into wild camping!''To help you get to grips with all this outdoors access, an organisation called''Metsähallitus''has a whole bunch of resources, from''detailed maps to help you plan your adventures'', through to guidebooks on''getting the most from the outdoors''.''So, armed with the knowledge that I could go (almost) anywhere and do (almost) anything, here is what I did.''Visiting Finland in Summer''1. Go Kayaking''I went kayaking twice, once near Helsinki, where I did some midnight kayaking, and once near the island of Kasnäs, in the Archipelago National Park – a UNESCO world heritage site.''The midnight kayaking was pretty darn special, as you might imagine. We set off with the sun sinking behind us and paddled 4km to a little island, where we were treated to a spectacular moon rise, accompanied by a roaring campfire and a whole host of Finnish treats.''Sound good? You can do it yourself''with these guys'', on''this tour''and I can highly recommend it.''Our other kayaking tour was also in the evening, as the sun was setting over the Archipelago National Park, which is a couple of hours drive south east of Helsinki.''This was more about getting up close to some of the little islands in the area, all of which seemed to be have summer living huts on, accompanied of course by a sauna. We spend a few hours paddling around these islands, thoroughly working our arm muscles which we softened up later on with beers and sauna. It’s the Finnish way.''2. Go cycling''We also took a couple of cycling tours, which are an excellent way to experience a bit more of both the city and countryside than walking would allow.''The first of these was through downtown Helsinki and out into the surrounding countryside and lakes, which was a lot of fun.''We explored the downtown area first, including the harbour, and then headed out past public parks and beaches into the country, where we found lakes and forests galore. It’s amazing how close the country side is to the centre of the city! If you’re in Helsinki, then you can do a tour just like this with''Bike Tours Helsinki''.''Our other cycling expedition was around the town of''Hanko'', a popular beachside destination for Finns, and famous for the huts along the beach, which are particularly photogenic.''That cycle ride included learning about some of the local produce on offer, as well as visiting a local farm which had an honesty box system for fruit and veg. We also even managed to squeeze in a bit of meditation in between cycling stints, which was a lot of fun, before finishing off with a home cooked meal from all the produce we found along the way.''You can find more information on activities and things to do in Hanko on the''official Hanko tourism''website.''3. Go hiking''In case cycling and kayaking weren’t enough, we also did a bit of hiking in the Nuuskio National Park, which is only an hour from Helsinki by public bus.''Here there are well marked trails for hiking, lakes for swimming in, huts (and wood!) for making BBQ’s, as well as many camping opportunities.''We did a little trip on one of the shorter trails, and stopped off to eat some bbq’d sausage on the route.''I thought it was kind of cool that all of this was available so close to Helsinki, and for free to boot!''If you want to learn more about Nuuksio National Park, and national parks in Finland in general, then I can recommend taking the time to visit the''Haltia Nature Centre,''which is next to Nuuksio, and will fill you in on everything you need to know.''4. Go stand up paddle boarding''!''My last self-powered outdoor adventure in Finland was also water based, and also involved a paddle, although in my mind was somewhat more risky – stand up paddle boarding.''If you’ve not got into this yet, it’s kind of like surfing, except on a bigger board, and you stand up. The clue is in the name I guess. I’ve actually tried this once before, in the Galapagos, but I am very far from being either an expert, or in fact, confident in my ability to stand up for a prolonged period of time without an unplanned swim.''Luckily my GoPro camera is waterproof, and the lake was as flat as a mirror, so I managed to get myself around without falling in. Which I think was the overall goal, and was a lot of fun to boot.''Hopefully you can tell from the above, Finland has a whole heap of opportunities for anyone interested in the outdoors and wilderness exploration.''I’d love to have had more time to load a kayak up with camping gear and just set off on one of the many Outdoors Finlands suggested routes, or head off on a longer hike into the forests – options that are remarkably easy to do, and accessible to all fitness levels (and budgets!). As it is, I just got a taste, and will have to go back for more.''Hopefully though, you’re inspired to add Finland to your to-do list, and make some of these activities part of it. Let me know in the comments below which would be your preferred activity in Finland!''My trip to Finland was in partnership with VisitFinland, who put together our awesome itinerary and sorted out all the logistics. Content remains my own.''OutdoorsFinland, VisitFinland''SHARE ON''Maybe you recall that we went to Poznan in Poland recently. Maybe you even remember that it was our second time; our first visit happening last November. Back then we did a''post on the food of Poznan'', covering a lot of options of where to eat in Poznan.''Anyway, you can imagine we were looking very much forward to coming back this summer and eating more of the same stuff again, but that didn’t happen.''It didn’t happen because apparently Poznan in summer means different food than in winter. So this time we went to a few new eateries and places, and while they are just a tiny variety of the joints that you’ll find, we –again- liked each one so much that we’d like to share some pictures of those summery dishes and the places where you’ll get them with you. Bon appetite!''Where to Eat in Poznan''1. Jezyce Kuchnia''This little place is in Jezyce, a quarter of town that lays claim to be the centre of all things hip and cool, and it feels surprisingly homey even though its design is deliberately minimalistic. Whether you opt to collapse into a hammock or a deck chair outside, or gather around one of the big wooden tables inside, you’ll most definitely find something on the menu that sparks your interest, even if you might need a bit of help with the translating from the super-friendly (and super-stylish) staff.''Nice touch: vegan and gluten-free dishes are marked as such on the menu. And of course those fresh flowers on the table. Although you can’t eat those. No seriously, don’t try.''Cold vegan cucumber soup, made with soy yoghurt, apple, mint, and cucumber, of course – incredibly refreshing!''Loz went for a summery salad as a starter.''My main: a tarte, also vegan, if I recall correctly. With white asparagus, broccoli and aubergine puree and pumpkin seeds. Definitely recommended.''Loz chose a meat dish as a main, which not only looked like a little piece of art, but also came with a side of potatoes. It didn’t last long.''Here’s a link with some helpful information for''Jezyce Kuchnia''.''2. Swietlica in the Imperial Castle''The Imperial Castle was among our favourite sights from our last visit, so we were more than willing to go there for our lunch-break. The Swietlica eatery is right under a glass cupola and has a nice open feel to it – and free Wifi! Most people who come throughout the day will perhaps have a coffee and a dessert, whilst reading a book or chatting with a friend. To be honest, that’s what we thought the place was about when we first saw it, but it turns out that they offer a really good lunch here, too!''Again, the staff and the super-nice owner, Boris, are more than happy to translate the menu on the big blackboard behind the counter for you, although it doesn’t make it easier to choose. Can I not just always try everything?''Cold beetroot soup. It’s a revelation. Plus crazy green smoothie for extra healthiness. Loz has got a lemon flavoured soup with meatballs going on over there.''I do like beetroot. And salads.''These salads do not leave you hungry, but just in case, some bread with herbal butter is served alongside, too.''Makes it hard to find some room for dessert, but as we all know: where there’s a will, there’s a way!''Swietlica was a calm and serene little oasis when we were there – if you want a real time-out from sight-seeing, this is your secret alternate universe away from the hustle and bustle. The kind of secret alternate universe that has free Wifi, of course. Duh.''3. Zielona Weranda''“Zielona Weranda” means “green porch”, and by all means: I don’t think a porch can get much greener than this one! It’s like you’re sitting in a luscious garden in the middle of the city. The inside area is also stunning and decorated by talented people who don’t shy away from putting some effort in their vision to create a place where people might feel like they have just walked into a life version of a home decor magazine.''There’s a little deli and gift shop, too, in case you need a souvenir for a special someone – or for yourself. Zielona Weranda impressed me because the people behind it are aesthetes who have their own style, which they are proud of, but while they are true to their vision, they are also very focused on their customers’ feedback and aim to always answer to it in order to improve. I like that. And we also very much liked their food!''Important knowledge: you can never go wrong with beetroot soup. But make it a cold one in summer! Mmmh!''It all tastes as good as it looks, except for the tiny biscuit accompanying the iced coffee – it might not look super exciting, but tastes amazing!''Yup, that’s summer.''Loz chose a raisin-topped pork dish on wild rice with grapes and cucumber.''And here’s''where you find Zielona Weranda''!''4. Momo’s''We didn’t find the time to dine here on our last visit, although our travelblogging friend Agata, who lives in Poznan, recommended it dearly to us. This time we managed to meet up with Agata, who had been on a trip last November, and she took us to Momo’s, because it was the day of the week when they get their fresh fish.''Momo’s has an easy-going but stylish vibe to it. It’s that kind of place where you want to stick around after you’ve eaten your meal, your elbows planted on the table, sipping on a cold fruity tea creation, chatting away to your friends. And there’s the food, of course.''Loz seeks expert advice on the beer; I’ll have the gigantic ice tea with berries and more, thank you very much!''This bread comes with a dip!''I tend to look places up when I write about them, and I saw that some customers said the portions could have been bigger (albeit that the food was excellent). I can’t say I really noticed that, but if big portions are what you desire, you know now. If you come for the taste and the quality, however, you’re at the right place!''We felt very well taken care of and left absolutely satisfied, although without a dessert. That was because Agata hadn’t been yet to the traditional ice-cream shop (can you believe it?!), so we had to take her. Well Momo, we’ll be back for dessert next time…!''Here’s''their Facebook site''for more information.''4. Ice-cream (because, summer!)''Poznan is on the map when it comes to artisan ice-cream, and there’s no need to repeat myself, since I have already written about all the gelato goodness in another post,''“Five reasons to visit Poznan in summer”''. I still have very fond memories of a certain delicious strawberry-champagne sorbet, sigh.''Anywho,''this website here''is your very own guide to the ice-cream stores in Poznan. Use with caution, and if you get brain-freeze, I recommend pressing the tip of your tongue against the roof of your mouth! Yep, that’s me looking out for your brain. After all, you probably couldn’t read our posts without it.''Further Reading for your visit to Poznan''Following our trips to Poznan, we’ve put together a number of posts to help you make the most out of your visit. We’ve also added in some other resources to this list that you might find useful.''A guide to''what to do in Poznan''Everything you need to know about''summer festivals in Poznan''A guide to''the food of Poznan''A guide to''visiting Poznan in summer''An overview of''the street art of Poznan''A guide to the''best beer in Poznan''The''DK Eyewitness Travel Guide to Poland''A big Thank you to Karolina, Wojtek and Jacek from the City of Poznan, who took us out to some of these places, and to everyone who was involved in creating all our delicious meals!''Should you need more inspiration for eating out in Poznan,''this website''tells you everything.''SHARE ON''Early on in 2014 I whizzed across to Dubai to take part in the Arabian Travel Market – a very large travel show where I was speaking on a variety of topics, from working with professional travel bloggers, through to the importance of mobile in today’s tourism industry.''Yep, I do more than take pictures it turns out.''However, as it was my first ever visit to Dubai, I was keen to try and get some photography done so I’d at least have something to share with you from the trip.''In between wandering the maze like halls of the trade show, and alternatively being cooked by the desert air, and being frozen by the excessively enthusiastic air conditioning systems,.I managed to squeeze in a tiny bit of time for some photography, much of which took place from the top of one of the cities skyscrapers. Enjoy!''The above shot was a panoramic of the whole evening, shot over around 30 frames and three hours, and painstakingly edited together afterwards. Worth it I think!''Dubai has an island in the shape of a palm tree. This is it, at sunset.''Dubai is also currently home to the tallest man made structure in the world. There’s a fountain display every night, which is worth stopping by to see.''It’s also good for sunsets.''Yep, in general the sunsets are pretty good, lots of warm colours.''Finally, Dubai was a really odd sort of place – a dream like place that has just risen out of the desert. I wanted to get a feel for that, so I took the above shot which I think conveys how Dubai seems to be most effectively.''I’ve had a lot of questions about how I did the edit of the above photo, and if you’re interested, I’ll be sharing the secrets in my next newsletter – use the link below to sign up for that!''SHARE ON''And so we roll around to version 15 of this post, where I highlight some of my most popular pictures I’ve shared on my''Facebook Page''from the last month or two. I’ve renamed the series to mark the fifteenth edition, but other than a prettier label, the filling remains the same.''Since the last round up we’ve had the pleasure of visiting''Poznan'', Dubai and''Paris'', and of course continued to share various images from our other travels. I’d add something brilliantly witty here, but having now done fifteen introductions to this post, I think you’re probably happier just getting on with the eye candy. Am I right?''One last thing: this post is best viewed in as large a browser window as possible, using Chrome, Firefox, or a mobile browser. Just not IE. I can’t figure that browser out I’m afraid. You can also click on any image for a nice big gallery version of the post.''Light over the lake district in the UK. This was taken a few years back with a little point and shoot, before I lugged quite so much''photography gear''around…''Clouds over Costa Brava, as the sun started to sink.''The town of''Ghent''in Belgium. Well worth a visit!''Sunset over Tempelhof airport in Berlin. I publish a sunset photo every Sunday on the Facebook Page – can’t beat a good sunset!''Fitzroy Falls in New South Wales, Australia. 90 metres of straight down tumble!''Another one from Australia – the Three Sisters in the Blue Mountains of New South Wales, just a couple of hours drive from Sydney.''Another sunset, this one over Tasmania, Australia''I love doorways, even when they are a bit crumbly. Or especially when they are a bit crumbly. This is from the city of''Ayutthaya''in Thailand.''The Taranaki Falls in''New Zealand'', part of the Tongariro National Park. A nice easy three hour hike if you are in the area.''A couple from Dubai now. This above panoramic was put together from around 30 shots across three hours, and was about the most difficult edit I’ve ever done.''And this is the Burj Khalifa, the world’s tallest man made structure (830m). At time of writing, anyway.''Wat Arun in Bangkok. You can climb to the top of this via some dizzyingly steep stairs, or just stand at the bottom and enjoy the view.''Rolling through the Italian region of Molise by train in Autumn. Not a terrible way to pass a day.''One from Poznan in Poland, where the love lock craze hasn’t as yet swamped this bridge to the Cathedral Island – where the nation of Poland itself is believed to have begun.''Khao Sok''is a gorgeous national park in Thailand, where you get to live on little lake houses and relax away from the world.''These rock formations are found in the''Purnululu National Park''in Western Australia. It’s somewhat out of the way, and requires either a four wheel drive or a flying vessel of some description to reach them, but they are much worth the effort. Find out more about them''here''.''Paris''. I had the pleasure of visiting to lead''a photography workshop''here in early 2014, which is when this shot is from. More from that visit,''here''.''Mount Taranaki, in''New Zealand’s''north island, was my favourite of the''day hikes I did in New Zealand''. It’s a tough walk, but the views are worth it!''Finally, a waterfall in''Khao Yai''National Park in Thailand – the only place in Thailand we got to see Asian elephants in the wild.''And that’s it! As always, thanks for reading, and if you enjoyed the pictures from this month’s issue, do feel free to share this post far and wide with the buttons below! If you missed any of this series, you can catch up''here''.''photography,lp''SHARE ON''I’ve been a travel blogger professionally since 2010. I’m often asked what that’s like, how to become a travel blogger, how I started my own travel blog, how we got our travel blogs to where they are today and how we make money as travel bloggers. After all, we travel for a living. It’s the dream, right?''Of course, like any dream, it takes a lot of hard work, frustration, mistakes, and learning. It’s also unlikely to make you rich, except in experience.''In today’s post I want to share some of my observations on what travel blogging is all about, where I think it’s likely going, and of course – how to become a travel blogger. I’m also going to answer a number of questions about travel blogging.''Contents:''What is a Travel Blogger?''How to Become a Travel Blogger''How to get traffic to your travel blog and be noticed!''Dos and Don’ts of Travel Blogging''How to make money as a travel blogger''Useful resources for becoming a travel blogger''What is a Travel Blogger?''Sadly, the Oxford English Dictionary is a little light on the description as to what a travel blogger is. However, if we break it down into its constituent parts, it’s someone who has a “blog”, or online journal, largely focused on sharing the story of their travels.''Being a professional in my mind means two things. One, it means this is something that generates an income. Two, it means that you are in this for the long term, and can be expected to deliver a professional level of service to both your readers and any clients that you might have.''There are all sorts of ways to generate an income, and there are hugely varying opinions as to what a travel blogger *is*, varying from a journalism approach, through to writing more personal stories and tales.''In my mind, if you have your own website that you regularly update with articles about travel, then you have a travel blog. If it’s generating you an income, and you hold yourself to defined standards of conduct and ethical behaviour, then it’s a professional travel blog. Beyond that, we move into semantics, and before we know it we’ll be arguing about the difference between a traveller and tourist.''Let’s not do that, and instead look at my detailed guide to how to become a travel blogger.''How to Become a Travel Blogger''1. Find your passion''If you’re going to be doing something that isn’t going to be generating a tremendous return for a year or two then you need to be doing something that you enjoy.''I’m going to be honest, most blogs on the internet don’t survive very long, with the average life of a blog being something silly like a week, and one post. Travel blogs are no different''This is often''because people aren’t writing about what they are passionate about''. If you’re passionate about something, you will find the time to do it, whatever your schedule, and your passion will come across in the content you create, meaning it will be''engaging and interesting to your potential audience''.''Travel blogging has a whole range of niches, from food, to budget, to luxury, to adventure, to family and more. We focus on photography on this site, because that’s where our passion lies.''Find something you love doing'', that you would keep doing even for zero reward, and build your blog around that.''One more reality check – if you don’t like travel, writing, photography, self-management, the regular feeling that no-one cares, as well as hard work for little reward, then travel blogging might not be for you. Starting out as a travel blogger can be tough, with new blogs popping up every day, and there is no such thing as overnight success.''2. Write regularly, and well''Now, I am far from an expert in grammar, but I do my best, and Jessica and I work together on the posts to try and catch any glaring errors. Getting the basics right is important if you’re going to be seen as a trusted expert on your subject.''It’s also''important to write regularly'', or at least, consistently. There is no hard and fast rule as to how often to post, or even how long your posts should be – you need to''come up with something that works for you''. But you do need to keep at it, and you do need to be consistent if you want to''build up an audience''.''My personal suggestion would be not to overstretch yourself and commit to posting every day, but also keep it to''at least a post a fortnight''. You’ll find the most successful travel blogs tend to have a schedule that has content coming out one to five times a week, although there are naturally exceptions to that rule.''3. It’s all about the content''To be successful, you''need to be putting out high quality content''. As you get into blogging, and read advice on building an audience, you will hear people talking about things like search engine optimisation (SEO), using social media networks to drive traffic, and all sorts of tips and tricks for getting people to your site.''All these things have a place, but the most important thing you can do in order to be successful is to''ensure that your content is the best it can be'', every time you post something, to any network. Don’t just throw something up to meet some schedule you’ve invented. Make it your best, every time.''Keep putting out high quality content, and your audience will find you, they will grow, and they will keep coming back.''No-one is going to keep coming back to a site that has poor content. From your photos to your writing to your video – whatever content you share, always make it your best. No exceptions.''4. Define your goals''One great way to keep yourself on target and turn your blog from a hobby into a business is to set out a series of goals that you can track. The only person you are in competition with is you, and setting goals will ensure that you know you are doing well against your targets.''These goals will vary depending on your focus, but I’d advise setting goals around things like visitor traffic, social media statistics, income, mentions on other publications, and so on.''Make your goals specific, measurable, achievable, realistic and time based (''SMART''!) for best results, and check back on yourself every few months to be sure you are on track and review accordingly.''5. Establish your niche / expertise''It is easier to be successful if you have a specific area of expertise that your blog focuses on, that over time results in you being the go-to place for certain things.''I will admit that we are not the best in terms of practicing what we preach on this one – we focus on our photography content as our niche, but pretty photography isn’t really niche in that way that luxury travel or adventure travel is. Oops.''6. Know your weaknesses''Not everyone is great at everything. You might be a whizz at writing and social media, but terrible at website design or time management. Figure out your strengths, and identify your weaknesses.''There are people out there who are good at the things you aren’t, and you can hire them to handle those things for you.''7. Pick your social media platforms''There are a lot of social media platforms, with a new one seeming to start every day. A trap that many seem to fall into is seeing social media as a way to drive traffic to a blog.''This is of course possible, but in my opinion, every social media platform should be seen as a place to reach a different audience, rather than a funnel. A funnel is only of value if you have something to sell at the other end. Raw traffic numbers mean very little without a reason for them.''Here are the five social media platforms I give the most weight to, in order of my personal preference. Social media can be overwhelming, and you can find yourself spread out, trying to cover too many bases, and not achieving what you want.''I’d advise picking at least three from the list and excelling on them.''Facebook.''Facebook is the most important social media platform, simply because it is where everyone is.I apply what I call the “Mum” test to these platforms – i.e., does my mum use them? The answer for the rest of the platforms on this list is no, which indicates to me that however important we might think they are, the rest of the world probably doesn’t care that much.Facebook is fantastic for reaching a wide audience, provides you with more data about that audience and how you are performing than any other social network, and for some reason, gets a terrible rap from some users about how awful it is as a result.My tip for Facebook is the same as anywhere else – if you’re not getting results, take a good hard look at your content, and ensure it is top notch. I could go on about Facebook, but I wrote a book about it instead, which you can grab''here''for free.''Instagram.''As a photographer, I find Instagram to be a wonderful network. Focused on images, it can be used to share what’s going on in the world around you, or to tell stories from your adventures, both past and present. There’s an excellent guide from Photoshelter for''using Instagram as a photographer'', which you might find useful.''Youtube''. If you do video, you have to be on Youtube. It has a huge audience, gives you plenty of data on that audience, and even lets you monetize your content.\xa0 A no-brainer.''Twitter.''I hold my hands up – Twitter is not my favourite social network. It’s a great tool for conversation and customer service, and is beloved by brands. I find it’s wonderful for asking airlines about late flights, or seeing what my favourite celebrity had for dinner, but as a travel blogger, I’m not a huge fan. Jodi from Legal Nomads is however, and you can see''her tips for Twitter here''.''Google+''. So Google decided to get in on this social media game, by launching their social network called Google+. Whilst I like the idea, and their fantastic photo tools, I remain unconvinced that Google+ has any kind of significant userbase. I’m on it because there are rumours it is good for search engine ranking, but I am yet to see any seriously compelling reason to use it as a primary platform.''Pinterest.''Pinterest is a one of the top drivers of traffic after Google, and is definitely a good place to focus your energies. It’s a very visual platform, where great photos shine.''Finally, another trap that many fall into is''pushing the same content out onto all the platforms''. This isn’t the best way to go about social media, and will not give solid results. Each platform has its own strengths and weaknesses, and you should work to those.''Further reading:''Liz from Young Adventuress has written a great post on''how not to suck at social media,''and another friend,''Laurel Robbins,''leads talks on getting the most out of social media in 15 minutes a day. In addition, Jodi of Legal Nomads has''this excellent piece''on being awesome on all sorts of social media channels.''8. Build a mailing list''Advice I wish I had followed from the start! If you look at the most successful bloggers out there, they tend to focus on two things – a great website with awesome content, and a mailing list of subscribers. Why? Because these are two things that you as a blogger can control.''Social media platforms are all well and good, but the reality is you have no control over them. One day, you could wake up to find they’ve switched the algorithm around, and suddenly no-one is seeing your content any more.''A blog is different. It’s your castle, and no-one is going to be changing the rules on you. A mailing list is the same thing. A reader letting you e-mail them directly is a hugely powerful example of their trust in you, and it’s a great channel to directly contact people. It’s also a good way to sell products, down the line.''The best mailing list service I’ve found so far is Mailerlite. These guys are free up to your first 1,000 subscribers, and are the only service I found which come with an autoresponder system, letting you send automated e-mails, even on the free tier.''Sign up here.''9. Just start already''When I started blogging, I ran''a series of articles''on this blog where I interviewed some of the most popular travel bloggers in the world, and asked them for their tips on how to run a successful travel blog. This was actually a fairly selfish endeavour, as I wanted to learn as much as possible, and asking the experts seemed like a good way to do that. You can check out that series''here''.''Overwhelmingly, when asked if there was anything they wish they had done differently with their blogs when starting out, these experts all expressed the opinion that they''wished they had started earlier.''You can plan something forever – but the only way to make something succeed is to try. So read Jess’s article on''how to set up a travel blog'', get it running, and start getting words to screen.''How to get traffic to your travel blog and be noticed!''So you’ve written a few posts, you’ve shared some tweets and you have a''facebook page''. And your mum has e-mailed you to say how nice it all looks. Other than that, tumbleweed.''Welcome to blogging. You can spend hours on your content, push it out into the cosmos, and then sadly watch as the entire world happily ignores you, instead choosing to watch endless cat videos on YouTube.''Here are some things you can do about that.''1. Learn some SEO techniques''The most important thing you can do for your blog is to''create great content''. I think I mentioned that already, but it bears repeating. Great content will be discovered, and people will share it.''There are however some simple techniques you can use to ensure your posts are found and indexed by search engines, meaning that people will actually find your content if they’re looking for it.''SEO is a complex beast'', and there’s a lot of misinformation out there – largely because the way that search engines actually work is a closely guarded secret.''My tip would be to write your posts well, make them easy for human readers to read through with plenty of paragraph breaks, clear heading titles, and links to other relevant content.''Then, ensure your site is registered with places like''Google Webmaster Tools'', where you will get feedback as to areas you can improve, and of course track your stats with''Google Analytics'', so you can see where your traffic is coming from.''For further reading, check out the official''Google Webmaster blog'', and''the Moz Blog'', both of which have a wealth of useful information, from meta data best practice through to optimising for mobile devices.''2. Become part of the travel blogging community''There is a''huge blogging community''out there, and a lot of support and advice that you can tap into, often for free, sometimes for money.''There are Facebook groups specifically set up to talk about''travel blogging'', or''running your blog as a business''. Some are''focused on newer bloggers'', others on more targeted topics like''photography''.''All of them have many members who will chime in on questions and dispense advice. My advice for anyone looking for free advice in a group like the above is three fold:''One –''read the rules''of any group you join. Breaking the rules with your first post is bound to annoy other community members and is unlikely to result in you getting the answers you need.''Two –''take on board all the advice''you are given, but don’t take anything as gospel. What works for one, might not work for another, so try and get a number of opinions and figure out what applies best to you.''There is no one right way to do anything''.''Three –''try and give back as much as you can''. If you join a group and see an opportunity to help someone out, go for it. Over time, you might even become recognised as an expert in a particular field, and before you know it, you’ll be able to sell your services to other interested parties.''There are other communities as well, including those on''Google''+, content sharing groups on''Triberr'', and those which come as part of association membership or conference attendance, which are tackled a little further down.''3. Get known for something''One way to get noticed is to''get known as being an expert''at something. If you’re looking for a budget travel expert, most people would instantly think of Matt Kepnes, the blogger behind''Nomadic Matt''. Couples Luxury Travel?''Independent Travel Cats''.''Fixing broken blogs''? Chris Richardson.''Story telling''? Mike Sowden.''Carving out a name for yourself as an expert in an area, either through regular participation in groups like those previously mentioned, or by specifically targeting it on your blog or social media channels, will over time''result in you being the go-to person''for quotes, articles and commentary on related activity.''4. Invest in your product''A travel blog is a business, and like any business, you have to''spend money to make money.''This could be anything from''hiring someone to design you a professional looking website'', to a social media manager, to someone to help out with your personal branding, to something as simple as getting business cards printed.''In addition,''don’t underestimate the important of learning''. There are a number of courses you can take to help you take your blogging and content creation to the next level. I’d recommend the following two options:''Nomadic Matt’s Travel Blogging Course''. Matt’s easily the world’s most successful (and profitable!) travel blogger, and what he doesn’t know about travel blogging probably isn’t worth knowing. This course will pay for itself many times over.''My''Travel Photography Course''. Sorry, this is a shameless plug! I truly believe that having great images on a blog make it stand out, and investing in your photography skill is critical to succeeding. I wrote this course to share everything I know about photography, and am incredibly proud of it. Ok, no more self-promotion, I promise.''There are''countless resources and options''out there that will let you''improve both your personal knowledge'', and the product you are offering. Just check around first to be sure that you aren’t paying for information that you might be able to''pick up for free''.''5. Write guest posts''One excellent way to get your name known is to''write posts for other sites''. This is a particularly good way to''get yourself known as an expert''in a topic. I, for example, have written a number of guest posts for other sites on the subject of travel photography, and it’s a topic I have spoken about at various conferences.''Whilst guest posting has had a black mark over it of late due to Google penalising folks for poor quality attempts at building links in order to improve their search engine results (see sponsored posts below), it is still a''good way to reach a new audience''if you find the right blogs to post on.''When reaching out to a fellow blogger,''ensure that they accept guest posts'', and approach them politely with your pitch. Don’t fire off a generic pitch e-mail to hundreds of bloggers and expect a positive response – offer something of value tailored to their audience, and you are likely to get a more favourable response.''6. Attend conferences and travel shows''A great option for upping your game and getting noticed is to''attend a conference or event''. There are two distinct types of event to consider:''Travel Blogging Conferences:''Travel blogging conferences are aimed specifically at travel bloggers, and feature workshops and training experiences to help you improve your skillset in all the relevant fields, from content creation through to social media management and working with brands. They also offer opportunities for networking and meeting with brands.''The largest and, in my mind,''most useful travel blogging conference''to attend, especially when starting out, is the''Travel Bloggers Exchange'', or''TBEX''.''This happens''twice a year'', once in Europe and once in North America, and attracts a great many travel bloggers and brands. The networking opportunities are fantastic, and there are''some excellent opportunities to learn''at the various workshops. I was thrilled to speak at TBEX Dublin in 2013, and will be speaking at TBEX Athens 2014 also.''There are a number of other travel blogging conferences, with some, such as the''PTBA conference'', or the''Social Travel Summit'', offering smaller, more specialised or more advanced topics, for when you want to take it to the next level. But as a starting point, I can''highly recommend TBEX''.''Travel Trade Shows''Travel Trade Shows are enormous events, usually held once a year, and unlike travel blogging conferences, they are''focused on the entire travel industry'', with representatives from travel brands around the world in attendance.''They are''fantastic opportunities for networking''and''getting your brand in front of the travel industry''. Some simple tips for getting the most out of these events:''Dress appropriately''– these are business events.''Plan your schedule''in advance, and''schedule meetings''with the people you really want to meet beforehand.''Take''plenty of business cards'', and''know what your pitch is going to be'', as well as the value you offer.''Be polite, don’t be pushy, but''be clear about what you want''and''what you can offer.''A full and regularly updated list of relevant conferences can be''found at the PTBA website''. I’d generally recommend''ITB Berlin''or''WTM London''as good events to attend.''Dos and Don’ts of Travel Blogging''So that was how to get noticed. I figured, based on my experiences, that you might like a list of dos and don’ts for travel blogging. In no particular order:''Don’t judge yourself by the success of others''This is a really easy trap to fall into, particularly as you are likely going to be spending a fair amount of time on social media.''The only person you should be measuring your success against is yourself''and the goals you have set yourself. There will always be those who are doing better, and those who are doing worse – it’s called life.''The problem with social media is that''people tend to share the more positive things'', and as you participate in the travel blogging community more and more, and start to make friends, your social feeds might start to fill with success stories from those you follow.''Don’t ever let these things get you down.''You might feel left out, or passed over, or that someone less deserving than you has got something that you should have got.''The truth is:''everyone has worked hard to get where they are''. The best thing you can do is be pleased for them, and try to learn from what they have achieved. Then,''get on with doing your own thing''.''Success will come, but it is never overnight, and despite what it may look like on social media,''always comes after hard work''.''Do be professional''The word Professional is in this blog post for a reason. If you want to be taken seriously as a travel blogger, content creator, or whatever, then you need to behave in a professional manner.''If you commit to doing something –''do it''.''If you don’t feel that something is right for you or your audience –''don’t do it.''If you turn up to do work for a client, remember that it *is* work.''You are not on holiday, you are not a celebrity''– you are there to fulfil a function, and are part of a larger effort to meet a goal. It’s not rocket science, but''it is important''.''Don’t abuse the trust of your readers''A travel blogger is''nothing without an audience''– that’s you out there, right now, reading this.''You trust that what Jessica and I write on this blog is based on our opinion, rather than marketing dollars. Sure, we work with companies from time to time. We might get paid to take trips, or share products with you.''But the bottom line is that you have to trust that we are only sharing our honest opinion with you. If something isn’t right for us, or we don’t feel it’s right for you,''then we turn it down''. And we''always disclose any arrangement''where we have received some form of compensation.''If you don’t trust that, then we are essentially of no value to you, and a travel blogger with no audience is of no value to anyone.''Do set out a code of ethics for yourself''Speaking of trust,''a good idea is to set out a personal code of ethics'', and stick to it. This might be things like promising to deliver within a certain timeframe, or always to make it clear up front when something is paid for, rather than hidden on a disclosure page somewhere.''Whatever your personal code of ethics for your blog might be, and whether you choose to share it with your readers, setting one out up front may help protect you from making poor short term decisions that affect the longer term viability of your blog.''Don’t believe the hype''This one is much like professionalism.''When you have been on a hosted trip or two, you will notice that you are likely''treated very well''. You’ll be put up in nice hotels, fed gorgeous food, and taken on spectacular adventures.''You might start to believe that you are special, that you are an important person, that you''deserve''five star treatment.''You don’t.''Of course the destinations and people you work with will want to show you a great time, because if you have a great time, then you are more likely to write good things about where you’ve been. And let’s be honest – it’s not hard to write great things when your job is based around travel.''Sometimes, though, things will not go to plan. The wi-fi might not work. The plane might be late. The activity might not be available.''This is not the point at which to throw a giant hissy fit on Twitter and''demand that your bowl of brown M&M’s''be brought to you Right This Instant Or Else.''Things go wrong, you have to deal with it, and''tackle it as a professional''. Sure, if the service is terrible and the attraction awful, then you owe it to your readers to share that.''Honesty and integrity are vitally important''. But behaving like a spoilt brat when everyone is doing their best will do your profession a disservice, and won’t do your personal reputation in the travel industry any favours either.''Do keep at it''Think of some big names in Travel Blogging. Want to know what makes them stand out above all else? It’s easy. They’ve likely been going for longer than anyone else.''Like anything, building a name for yourself and acquiring a reputation takes time and effort. The longer you go at something, the more likely you are to succeed. It might take one, two, three, or even more years for you to start getting where you want to be.''Don’t give up. The most successful blogs have been at this for a long time, and you’ve got a fair bit of catch up to play.''Do get your own domain name and get a decent website design''If you want to be taken seriously, you''need a nice looking website'', and''your own domain name''.''MyTravelBlog.Blogspot.com isn’t going to cut it I’m afraid – you’ll look like a hobbyist.''Like everything – there are''exceptions to the rule'', but generally, getting your own domain name and a nice website design will''help you immeasurably''.''Do keep learning''No matter how much you know, there is always something new to learn, and new people to learn it from. Thankfully,''the internet is full of advice'', tips and courses on how to do things, from mastering YouTube to photo editing,''much of which is free.''Beyond that there are conferences, groups, classes, communities, talks, books – you name it, someone is likely doing it.''If you want to learn, and however you do that best,''there will be an option out there for you.''How to make money as a travel blogger''Ah, the perennial question!''How do you make money from a travel blog''? The answer isn’t entirely simple, and usually involves a number of factors, depending on your site and your personal skillset.''Here are some ideas''to start you off, followed by some additional reading at the end.''On-site revenue''Banner advertising''You see the ads in this post? Those are paid for ad placements, one of the most common ways of monetizing a website.''Banner advertising rates tend to be''linked to traffic'', so when you’re starting out you won’t be able to charge very much. Programs like''Google Adwords''are likely a good place as any to get started.''Currently we partner with''Mediavine''for display adverts\xa0 on the site, which generates a good income. They require you to have 25,000 sessions per month to qualify.''Affiliate schemes''Affiliate marketing is a system where you recommend a product, and if someone buys that product,''you get a commission''. This works for all sorts of products, from hotel rooms through to goods sold on Amazon.''These can work well particularly if you offer an incentive to your users – for example, if you sign up to''AirBnB''using''this link''– you get up to $100 in AirBnB credit, and I get $25 AirBnB credit. Everyone wins.''Uber''have a similar program –''sign up here and you get $20''towards your first ride.''The best results are for''blog posts which are full of information'', where the visitor is in a purchasing sort of mood, having run a search for something specific in Google for example.''So say someone is wondering about''what gear to take to the Galapagos'', or''what to pack as a digital nomad''– they are looking for answers, and might then want to''purchase directly based on your recommendation''.''Unless you spend a lot of time optimising posts to rank highly in search results though, affiliate programs aren’t likely to generate a huge income, but it all adds up, and some bloggers do have tremendous success with these programs.''Take a look at''Booking.com'',''hotelscombined''and''Agoda'', as well as''Amazon''of course, for affiliate programs that might work for you.''Product placement / partnerships''A growing area for travel bloggers to generate an income is to''partner with a brand and promote it to their audience''. This can be in the form of posts on site talking about the product / brand, sharing content to social media related to the brand, and so on.''As with all partnerships that involve money, I believe it’s important to disclose this to your readers up front – a legal requirement in many countries.''These partnerships are also generally only effective when partnering with brands or products that are relevant''to the blogs audience''– a budget travel blog for example likely wouldn’t offer much of value to a private jet charter service.''See the resources section below for some ideas on where and how to connect with brands, including tools like''themidgame'',''Blogger Bridge'', and the''PTBA''.''Sponsored posts''Another way to generate income is to''run sponsored posts'', or what is sometimes referred to as “''native advertising''”. This comes in two forms, and can be content written by a third party or by the blogger to be hosted on the blog.''The first type of sponsored post takes the form of a blog post, just like any other, which aims to''reach your audience'', with the goal of raising awareness of a brand or product.''The second type of sponsored post has nothing to do with your audience, and is a way of gaming Google in order to improve the ranking of specific search queries in Google’s results.''Accepting money for posts which aim to manipulate search engine results is specifically against Google’s webmaster guidelines, and if caught, the offending blog''runs the risk of being penalised by Google'', and in a worse case scenario,''being removed from Google’s results entirely''.''You can''see those guidlelines outlined here'', as well as some suggestions for best practice. It’s up to you what you do with your site, of course.''Product creation''Finally, and this is a way to create money both on and off-site, some bloggers have created products based on their areas of expertise, which they sell to their readers. These can be virtual products like eBooks or apps, or physical products like clothing or printed books. If you’re creative and have a great idea, you might find your audience will love it too!''Off-site revenue''Speak to many travel bloggers, and you will quickly realise that''the travel blog is not necessarily where they directly generate their revenue''– it’s more like an online portfolio from where work can be generated. Ideas for the type of work are:''Content creation''If you’re running a blog, chances are you have a decent idea on''how to create good content'', be that video, photography or text. These services can be of''tremendous value to brands'', who are always on the lookout for good content for their social media streams or blogs.''If you can''set yourself up as a freelance content creator''in one or more of these areas, using your blog as your virtual “CV”, then you could start to generate a decent income.''Social media leverage and training''Most bloggers, over time, start to become''pretty adept at social media''. This blog’s''Facebook page'', for example, has a highly engaged following of over 500,000 fans. That sort of following is of tremendous interest to brands, for two reasons:''You can''share relevant content''to your audience''You can advise brands as to how to''improve their own social media presence'', based on your experience running your social media accounts''Both of the above offer opportunities for revenue generation.''Speaking''As previously mentioned, I have spoken at a number of conferences and events, including TBEX, TDB Italy and the Arabian Travel Market, a travel trade show in Dubai.''Whilst none of those has been a paid opportunity, if speaking publically is something you are interested in, it is something you can''turn into a fee-earner'', given sufficient experience and expertise in a subject.''Travel advice and tours''Finally, some travel bloggers offer advice to their readers in the form of helping them to arrange travel itineraries.''Nomadic Matt''and''Wandering Earl''offer full tours, helping travellers to experience the places that they have visited, know and love.''Others, such as Jodi from''Legal Nomads'', offer specific tour experiences based on their expertise, with Jodi for example offering food tours to her readers under the brand''Jodi Eats''.''Further Reading on Making Money as a Travel Blogger''Finally, because I don’t know everything, here are some other perspectives on making an income whilst travelling:''Stephanie Yoder writes''how she makes money when travelling''Wandering Earl shares his''long term travel income tips''Talon Windwalker explains''how he funds his long term family travel''Caz and Craig share''how they make money travel blogging''Clelia Mattana shares her''top 3 strategies for monetizing a travel blog''Useful resources for becoming a travel blogger''Whew. That was a lot of information. To top it all off, I just want to include some other posts from some great bloggers, as well as some resources and communities that you should consider joining if you want to take your blog to the next level.''Advice from other travel bloggers''Jess has put together a detailed guide to''How to Set Up a Travel Blog'', from a more technical viewpoint''Liz from Young Adventuress''How not to suck at social media''Kate of Adventurous Kate wrote:''How to Start a Travel Blog''Kia of Atlas and Boots has a more technical and editorially focused guide to''Starting a Travel Blog''I also interviewed nearly 30 leading travel bloggers on this site for their advice on travel blogging. Find those interviews''here''.''Networks and associations to join''I would recommend joining all the free options below and spending a bit of time on each creating a profile. The more of these you join, the higher your chance of finding paid opportunities. I have noted against each one how well they have worked for me, although your results will likely vary.''TapInfluence''– TapInfluence is a network to connect networks with brands. You connect all your networks and share examples of past posts, and the site creates a mini-media kit for you. You can also set your minimum rates for projects. Thus far, this has been the''best free network in terms of projects for me''. Once connected,''sponsors can reach out to you for partnership opportunities''. Free to join for bloggers, so a no-brainer in my mind. Sign up''here''.''themidgame''– this is also a project which aims to''connect travel bloggers with sponsors''and help''monetize their blogs''.''Bloggerbridge''– initially launched as a side project to TBEX, this has now grown to be a standalone database of travel bloggers. Again, you can connect your social media channels and outline your interests so that industry members can connect with you, with the added benefit that it connects to''TripIt''so potential sponsors can see your upcoming trips. Also free to join for bloggers. I have had some free trips from this platform, but nothing paid as yet.''Cooperatize''. I’ve only recently heard of this one. It’s a system for connecting brands with bloggers for paid opportunities, specifically for pushing out sponsored (nofollowed!) content to your audience. It allows you to connect all your social media networks, as well as specify your niche and pricing to ensure a good fit. It’s free to join, and they take a commission on projects.''Linqia''. Another system for connecting brands with bloggers for paid opportunities, to date this been the second best free network for me, with payment based on both reach and results. Free to join.''I would certainly recommend joining all of the above in order to maximise your chances of connecting with the travel industry and earning an income as a travel blogger.''Travel Blogging Courses and online communities''This''suite of travel blogger training courses from Nomadic Matt'', one of the biggest travel bloggers out there, will get you started with everything you need to know. It also comes with a fantastic online community to help you out.''The''Travel Bloggers''Facebook group''We Travel We Blog''Facebook group – smaller group for beginning to intermediate travel bloggers''Miscellaneous''List of relevant''travel blogging conferences''Tips on Twitter success''from Jodi of Legal Nomads''And that is it for my tips on how to become a travel blogger! Sold on the idea? Head on over to my''Essential Packing List for Digital Nomads''so you know what gear to pack for your journey!''Finally, please note that some of the links in this post generate a small affiliate income to me if you use them, at no cost to you. I’ve listed every resource I find useful though, regardless of whether or not there is an affiliate earning.''SHARE ON''I recently spent a very brief amount of time in Sri Lanka, a country I have never visited before, and where I am helping to''set up a conference''with the''Professional Travel Bloggers Association''.''In between zipping from location to location, peering at hotel rooms, inspecting conference venues and bravely trying at least nineteen varieties of curry, I managed to get a few photos.''Suffice to say, I didn’t have quite enough time to get a tremendous handle on the country, other than the fact that the people we met all seemed terribly nice, and curry is the meal you eat for breakfast, lunch and dinner. Both of which were big plusses in my book.''Here are some photos to give you an idea of my experience – I can’t wait to head back out here in November and spend a bit more time behind the lens!''An elephant wanders in Minneriya National Park. Sri Lanka is home to thousands of wild elephants, and it was a privilege to spend the day watching these chaps going about their business.''A man paddles Madugna Lake, near the south of the island. A good place for bird spotting too:''Yep, it’s definitely a bird. If I had to guess, some sort of Kingfisher. If you know, do enlighten me in the comments.''Masks form a big part of Sri Lankan culture. These particular examples are various masks representing disease, with the green fellow in the middle being the vomit mask. I’ll let you guess what the others represent!''Buddhism is the primary faith in Sri Lanka, accounting for 70% of the population. So you see a number of monks wandering around.''The coastal city of Galle is home to a magnificent walled fortress town – the largest of it’s kind surviving in Asia. It’s world heritage listed, and spectacular for a wander. Although, as you can see, the weather wasn’t ideal when we dropped in, so I’m looking forward to spending a bit more quality time here with my camera in November!''This is Pramukshi, who was responsible for showing us around Sri Lanka as part of our tour.''And this is a monkey. Because monkeys are always cool.''The lion is the symbol of Sri Lanka. I found this chap hiding in the ruins of Polonnaruwa, formerly capital of the Polonnaruwa kingdom. This is also a world heritage site, and one of the most impressive archaeological sites in the country''Finally, it wasn’t all hard work. Downtime involved stops at locations like this, the Cinnamon Citadel Hotel in Kandy. I have to admit, it was tough to pull ourselves away!''A big thanks to''SriLankan Airlines''for kindly providing my return tickets to Sri Lanka from Europe, and to''Cinnamon Hotels''for hosting me during my time in Asia, carting me around the country, and giving me the odd opportunity to point my camera at things. I can’t wait to come back!''SHARE ON''Paris is one of our favourite cities to visit, but it does have a bit of a reputation as having a number of common scams. In this post, we’re going to go through a number of common Paris scams so you can enjoy your time in the city, and not worry about falling prey to a scammer.''Don’t worry, with a bit of preparation and foreknowledge, you’ll be well prepared to deal with the common scams in Paris, and focus on enjoying your visit to Paris, perhaps following one of itineraries, like this guide to''2 days in Paris''.''We’ve actually seen quite a few scams happening right in front us in Paris. This have given us a first-hand impression on how these scams are pulled off.''It’s worth mentioning that the majority of the scams in Paris won’t result in you losing a lot of money. The damage is usually that you feel bad, to a point that it significantly overshadows your trip. It changes your perception of the destination and of the people there. Don’t let it.''Seriously, all you can ever do is read up on the scams on a destination so you know what to watch out for. Being prepared is key. You might think you wouldn’t fall for these tricks, or you just wouldn’t give the scammers any money, but don’t be so sure. Scammers are not sleazy, dodgy people. The ability of the scammer to make a genuine and trust-worthy impression on you is probably his or her most important capability when pulling off a scam. That’s why even experienced travellers are not immune.''Here are four of Paris’ most common scams, that we’ve seen executed right in front of us. One would definitely have gotten us had we not read about it!''Common Paris Scams''1. The friendship bracelets of Sacre Coeur''Sacre Coeur is a beautiful basilica on the top of Montmartre. On the stairs leading up the hill, many vendors try their luck and offer cold bottled water, or all kinds of souvenirs, laid out on blankets that can be lifted up and put away in a few seconds when security approaches.''And then there are these other guys. They are all smiley and seem really nice. They walk towards you, stretching out their hand, almost like they are about to congratulate you for something. It is a bit confusing, but okay, if it makes them happy, why not shake their hand? It’s not like you can’t walk away after that, right?''Wrong. Because they very quickly tie a few strings around your finger once they’ve got hold of your hand, and start braiding a little friend-ship bracelet, chatting away, and hinting at a compensation for their efforts.''It would have worked with me, because I would have shaken one of the guy’s hands, just to be friendly, and then I would have given him a Euro or something because it’s easier than picking a fight. Don’t fall for it though. You don’t have to give anyone any money for an unsolicited product, so just walk away.''Tip:''Put your hands in your pocket when these guys approach you.''2. The golden ring along the banks of the river Seine''We were walking along the Seine, on our to see an exhibition. In front of us were three people, one woman and two guys, engaged in a conversation, wandering along. They looked totally casual and harmless, but every now and again, one of them would separate from the others, checking the ground, bend down and eventually go back to his/her friends.''That reminded me of the ring scam, and indeed, it didn’t take long until an elderly couple examining a map were approached. I just saw them shaking their heads when the woman showed them something (for it was her who had approached them) and so she went away again.''But this is how it goes. You walk along, minding your own business, when someone near you suddenly bends down to pick something up. Then they come over and say something like: “I just found this golden ring – did you lose it by any chance?”. Chances are you say no. They will then tell you that the ring looks genuine and give you a reason why they cannot keep it, but they offer it to you. Once you have agreed to take it, they ask for a little compensation. The ring is of course worth nothing.''Tip:''It’s sufficient to just firmly say “No!”, but if you can pull it of, you can of course also act very pleasantly surprised: “Oh my gosh, thank you so much! That’s my grandmother’s wedding band she gave to me just before she passed away; I would have been so sad to lose it! Thank you, thank you, thank you!” – and walk away with it.''3. The cup and ball scam at the Champs-de-Mars park behind the Eiffel Tower''Well, I’m sure you know this one, but it obviously works, because they are still doing it! There’s a guy with a little table, or a rug on the floor, and on it are three upside down cups, and a ball. He puts the ball under one of the cups and then moves them around quickly. When he stops you have to guess under which cup the ball is.''Of course there is money involved. You can bet on finding the ball, and if you’re right, you’ll get double your money back.''This scam works because au contraire to what you see, the cup-and-ball guy is not by himself. The people gathering around him watching the spectacle are partly made up by his accomplices. One of them will pretend to try to play the game. You just stand there because it’s fun to watch. But then this stupid guy loses his money because he never gets it right, although it is completely obvious to you where the freaking ball is.''Reassured that this is a piece of cake, you step forward to win some money, only to suddenly have the cup-and-ball guy move the cups in a speed that is impossible to keep up with. And now you have lost your money, too.''I would not fall for this one, because I have seen it a million times. However, this was the first time I concentrated on the crowd around this guy, wondering which of these people were in on the scam and which weren’t.''Ten minutes later, I saw the whole group behind a bush, planning their next show, I guess. Maybe six people, quite mixed. Impossible to tell apart from regular spectators, especially if you haven’t watched any “Sherlock Holmes” yet.''Tip:''Just don’t get tricked into playing, but also bear in mind that watching the cup-and-ball game might in addition serve as a distraction while you’re being pick-pocketed.''4. The activists at the Tuileries Garden''Ah, yes, that one happened to me in Brussels. I saw a group of women walking around with clip boards, trying to get a petition signed. I totally dig petitions, and it was something about education for young girls in who-knows-where, so yeah, I signed it. But that wasn’t it. The woman who had approached me went on to say that now I had to donate, and an amount of 20 Euros would probably be good.''This is the moment when every one reading this thinks “Just walk away”, but I didn’t. I was taken by surprise by this follow-up donation demand, and then I felt like a hypocrite for willingly signing something but not going through with the ‘good deed’ as soon as money was involved. So, I gave her money (at least not 20 Euros), because I felt so uncomfortable about the whole situation and just wanted to get away.''Tip:''Just firmly say no, or ignore them completely.''So these were four of the common Paris scams to watch out for. If you google this topic, you will find that I have not even covered the tip of the iceberg. Do yourself a favour and read up on scams before you travel to Paris, or, as a matter, anywhere else (''wikivoyage’s''Stay Safe section is always a good start!). While researching, be prepared that some people will paint a very dark picture of the destination, because they let a scam poison their whole holiday.''It is very hard not to get emotional when you get scammed, but I’ll say it again: don’t let it get to you. It’s not your fault. It happens to everyone. It does not mean that the destination where it happens is bad; it does not mean the people who live at the destination where it happened are bad. It does not mean that you’re an idiot. It just means you have met someone who has gone down an incredibly low road in order to get a few bucks.''Remember: scammers are just people. They do not have the power to ruin your holiday, so never let them.''Further Reading for Visiting Paris''We’ve written a fair amount about Paris to help you plan your trip beyond avoiding the common scams! Here are some posts and other resources you might find useful:''To help you plan your Paris adventure we have a''2 Day Paris Itinerary''as well as a''3 Day Paris Itinerary''Our guide to the''Best Photography Locations in Paris''A''Paris Photo Essay'', to inspire your visit''A full''review of the Paris Pass'', to help you save money on your visit, as well as a review of the''Paris Museum Pass''A guide to the best''afternoon tea in Paris''A guide to''choosing the best Seine Boat River tour''And finally, if you need a guidebook, we highly recommend the''Rick Steves Paris guide''!''Thanks for reading and safe travels!''SHARE ON''Paris'', is, quite frankly, a wonderful city. Stuffed with sights, cafes, and baguette wielding locals, it’s no surprise that it’s one of the most visited cities in the world.''Today’s post is a photo essay from a weekend I spent in Paris recently. We had what could best be described as “variable” weather, but we managed to get out and see some of the sights and get some photos all the same!''Here are ten of my favourites from the trip, starting with the shot above of the River Seine and Notre Dame, and moving on to:''The Wall of Peace, or Mur pour La Paix This is a modern art installation at the far end of the Parc Du Champ Mars, by the Eiffel Tower, with the Military School visible behind it. The wall has the word peace inscribed on it in 32 languages, and when we visited, had just the right light on it!''Speaking of the Eiffel Tower, you can’t visit Paris without spotting her at some point. A handy view is from the Trocadero, which put her into perspective nicely. She’s tough to shoot differently, given how many photographers have captured her over her lifetime, but I did my best!''Speaking of hills, this one in Paris has one of the best views in the city. Plus the basilica on the top isn’t too bad, either. It’s Montmartre of course, with this shot being of the Sacre Coeur. It’s a fun neighbourhood, with lots to see and do, and is a particularly fine place to watch the sunset.''A popular option for sight seeing in Paris is to take a ride down the River Seine. It’s also a good way to get around the city, as there are a number of stopping points along the river.''The love lock craze has had Europe gripped since the early noughties, and Paris is certainly no exception, with the Pont Des Arts bridge near the Louvre actually starting to crumble under the weight. This bridge, behind Notre Dame, has also succumbed, with locks attached to locks. Still, it’s nice to know there’s a lot of love in the world!''We didn’t actually go in to the Moulin Rouge. But we stood outside and took a picture. It’s more impressive in the movie.''Pere LaChaise is one of the most famous graveyards in Paris, home to such celebrities as Jim Morrison and Oscar Wilde. Getting in to the place is pretty tough these days if you’re dead, as space is limited (over a million people are buried in the main cemetery). It’s a calming place to wander, and worth a visit if you’re in town.''Ah, the Louvre. A gorgeous glass pyramid encircled by miles of art stuffed corridors. Ok, so I’ve never been in. But I do like to peer from the outside.''Finally, all those dramatic skies of course meant that we had our fair share of rain during our stay. But Paris is still rather nice, even in the rain. Here’s the view across the city from the top of Montmartre.''Well, those were my photographic reasons to visit Paris. If that’s not enough for you, take a look at this great post from some fellow bloggers, who outline their''top things to do in Paris''. And, if you’re visiting Paris for a little while, do''check out the''Paris Pass''. It’s a great way to save money on attractions and transport during your stay. Find out more about the different types of passes and which work for you in''this post.''SHARE ON''Cities change throughout the seasons; that’s nothing new. And although travel guides always debate the “best time to visit”, in the end they often admit that each season has its own benefits, its celebrations, its food, its fashions.''We fell in love with Poznan''during our first visit last November, but we weren’t prepared to find the city so different from that when we returned this summer!''It inspired us to write this post about Poznan in summer, and give you five very good reasons to check out Poznan in the summer time. Let’s get started!''What to do in Poznan in Summer''1. The ice-cream''Obviously! European cities go crazy for ice-cream in summer, and Poznan is no difference. The most popular gelateria in Poznan is “Wytwornia Lodow Tradycyjnych” (meaning “Manufacturer of traditional ice-cream”), which has two shops in the city. It was those guys who kinda kick-started a legitimate ice-cream culture in the city, when they appeared on the scene a year ago, with artisan ice-cream in ever-changing and sometimes unheard of flavours (Guinness ice-cream, anyone?).''There are queues in front of that store. And I’m not talking about 10 people in the afternoon; I’m talking about a queue that goes down the whole block, and it doesn’t matter which day of the week or which time of the day. They used to sell coffee, too, but had to give that up because they were just too busy. Hell, they even have ice-cream parties! On their “Nights of the ice-cream eater” they offer a discount from 8pm to 2pm, or until they run out; whichever comes first.''They keep it clean and simple, don’t have too many flavours (around eight), but all of them are always intensely good, and they even sell a bit of merchandise, once you’ve realised that ice-cream is your true passion, really, and you need to express it. They also do ice-cream for some restaurants in the city.''The success of “Wytwornia Lodow Tradycyjnych” encouraged others to open artisan ice-cream stores. Drama unfolded when one of these hopefuls opened less than 50 metres away from the main original artisan ice-cream store, advertising the very same concept and carrying a confusingly similar name. Which is a bit presumptuous, but then again: isn’t imitation the sincerest form of flattery? Exactly.''So if you are into ice-cream, you sure have a mission in Poznan, trying out all the different little shops and changing flavours during your stay! The City of Poznan has an''excellent website''where they list all the different ice-cream shops and provide you with a map as well. Bon appetit!''2. The festivals''We already have a''post up that is dedicated solely to the summer festivals in Poznan'', but they definitely earn a mention in this post, too.''All these festival events just mean that when you visit during summer, there’ll always be something going on, which makes for nice surprises when you find yourself wandering past and then joining a crowd listening to a concert or participating in a little work-shop. But maybe you get really into the vibe and end up meticulously studying the festival schedule and going to art film cinemas in the evenings…''3. The parks''Poznan has a lot of parks and green areas, which may sport lakes, fountains, benches, bridges, eateries, and, for the young (of heart), playgrounds. Which is perfect because parks are the place to be in the summer time! They are ideal to relax a bit, meet up with friends, read a book, go for a walk, feed some ducks or watch the world go by.''In Poznan each park has something that makes it special, like for example the palm house in Wilson Park, but the quirkiest park has to be the''Stare Zoo'', the Old Zoo. It was one of Poland’s first zoos (established in 1874), and the city has built a new one since, but here you can still wander around the fairly old pavilions and ye olde-world style enclosures.''Nowadays these are empty, only every now and again used as a background for''a music video''or model shoots, but in other corners of the Stare Zoo some animals remain – a few monkeys, reptiles, birds, and the usual faces of a petting zoo. It’s a place that has a timeless quality, a little oasis preserved by people who care.''You’ll find the Old Zoo in Jezyce, a little quarter of town that is worth a visit, anyway, with its many old houses, some renovated, some still bearing the bullet holes of WWII, and, on a more uplifting note, cute cafés and stylish eateries.''Which brings us to reason #4:''4. The Summer Cuisine of Poznan''I was not at all prepared for the discovery that our''food in Poznan in summer''would differ so much from that of our visit last November. There is in fact a proper summer cuisine in Poznan! It’s all about delicious cold soups and big tasty salads, accompanied by cool drinks with lots of fruit in.''I really always get the feeling that in Poznan people enjoy doing everything that comes with running their businesses. This can for example mean that the cafés and restaurants you visit or walk past are a pleasure to look at, as they are decorated with a lot of love. The result is a very nice atmosphere, which is still only one of the factors that make your meal times in Poznan special.''5. KontenerART''You probably can’t call it an insider tip, as everyone in Poznan knows about it, but if you are visiting and don’t know about it, you won’t accidentally make it there, so maybe it is an insider tip after all!''KontenerART is a an area at the river bank of the Warta river, where some creative folks took a bunch of shipping containers and a lot of sand and built a super cool place to spend your time at.''There’s a bar, there’s a stage, there’s a beach volley ball field, there are deck chairs and furniture built out of wooden pallets, and there are funky art installations all over the place.''If you want to get there, you need to walk down Ewangelicka street in the direction that goes away from the city centre and towards the river, along a wall that is decorated with the street art of an artist from Poznan who goes by the name of Noriaki Kasai (which is also the name of a Japanese ski jumper).''KontenerART is open from the beginning of May to the end of August, daily from 10 am to 11 pm. Don’t miss it while you’re in Poznan!''So there you have it! Five summery reasons to visit Poznan, although I did cheat with one: if you are desperate for the ice-cream, you’ll find that the “Wytwornia Lodow Tradycyjnych”\xa0 is open the whole year round, due to its popularity. …Maybe the queues are shorter then. There’s always hope, right?''We’re wishing you a splendid summer, anyway (for all who are on the Northern Hemisphere; otherwise a splendid winter) – enjoy and have a good time!''Further Reading for your visit to Poznan''Following our trips to Poznan, we’ve put together a number of posts to help you make the most out of your visit. We’ve also added in some other resources to this list that you might find useful.''A guide to''what to do in Poznan''Everything you need to know about''summer festivals in Poznan''A guide to''the food of Poznan,''as well as the''summer food of Poznan''An overview of''the street art of Poznan''A guide to the''best beer in Poznan''The''DK Eyewitness Travel Guide to Poland''We would like to thank the City of Poznan for inviting us and especially Karolina, Wojtek and Jacek for showing us around. Even though they got us hooked on the darn ice-cream and we kept running back to get our fix. That was a tough good-bye.''Sigh.''SHARE ON''“Where you from, friend?”''An earnest looking chap called to me from his stall, one of countless lining the road between the beach and the town centre. It was filled with trinkets, but cunningly had an incredibly cute cat asleep in the midst of the trinkets.''“England”, I replied, tickling the cats ears. “Vera’s from Germany.”''“England, eh! Nice. I can sort you out with some weed. Any amount. Lots of weed in fact.” The cat woke up, and knocked a great pile of trinkets onto the floor as she stretched.''“Oh, gosh, thanks. Tell me, do you know a cafe with wifi round here?”''An arm was extended to indicate the building opposite, and we parted ways amicably. The cat went back to sleep. The owner started picking up trinkets, a task I felt he might have undertaken many times before.''So went my introduction to Montanita, the surf town on Ecuador’s coast which is known for being the home of amazing surf and lots of party people. Like, lots and lots of party people.''Even in November, the off season, the place was fairly buzzing. I could hardly imagine what it would be like in peak season, December – March, when the world and their dog appear here, craving parties, sun and the perfect wave.''It’s not hard to see the allure, to be honest. English is widely spoken. The streets are narrow and car free. You can buy, as far as I could tell, literally anything to get your party on. There’s a long stretch of lovely beach, with food and drinks for sale all over the place.''We didn’t stay in Montanita, though. We stayed in a tiny town half an hour’s walk down the beach, called Manglaralto, in a five room guesthouse called Tagua Lodge. I happened across it as a result of some random internet searching, and after exchanging telephone calls with the owner Luis, we booked in for a week. Because spending some time in hammocks with sand underfoot was pretty much my first plan of action when arriving in Ecuador.''After a three hour bus ride from''Guayaquil'', we were standing on the side of the road in Manglaralto. Luis had said we could ask for directions from anyone in town, so we did. The first shop we found, I asked for Tagua Lodge, and the lady smiled, said “Luis?”, and showed us the way.''And how pleased I was to have stumbled across this spot! Gorgeous rooms, all individually decorated, often by previous inhabitants with an artistic flair. A candle lit hammock area. Two large outdoor seating areas, and even an entirely outdoor kitchen.''It felt like home as soon as we walked in the door, made even more so by Luis, the welcoming owner, who lives on site and clearly loves this place, opening it to friends from around the world.''Manglaralto seemed to be like that; a homey place, about as far from Montanita as would seem possible, at least, when we visited.''In the evening, there was a lady selling rice and beans by the side of the road, with a choice of bbq’d beef or chicken from the charcoal grill set in a sliced open oil drum. Volleyball nets were strung across the streets by kids. People introduced themselves because they seemed genuinely interested to say hello, and didn’t seem to want to sell me weed.''Not that I have anything against party towns. Quite the contrary. I just like being able to dip in and out, with a half hour stroll along the beach all that lies between me and my party, or me and my bed. And who wouldn’t want a stroll along the beach before bed? Manglaralto is the perfect place to get away from it all, and at the time of our visit, Tagua Lodge didn’t even have wifi. An island of calm in a world of connectivity.''For reference, we’re not getting anything for writing this post, and we paid our own way on this one. We can recommend''Tagua Lodge''for those looking for something a little bit different and maybe a bit more peaceful, just down the road from Ecuador’s beach party central, where you are guaranteed a warm welcome.''Wifi was installed shortly after we left, and generally up to date prices can be found on their website, although it’s best to ring or e-mail to check. Note that it’s not on the beach (a couple of blocks back), the road next to it can be noisy sometimes, and if the sound of dogs barking upsets you, bring earplugs!''Finally, if you’d like a beach town that’s a bit less party focused, then''Canoa''is also a great choice when in Ecuador.''SHARE ON''In Europe, summer time is of course also festival time. There is – pardon my French – a crap load of festivals, and people will travel a long way to attend them. Some of these festivals have become a cult thing to go to, some have disappeared again despite having been popular, some are tiny and only known by word of mouth, some take over whole cities.''Most of these festivals are music festivals, but there are others, too: street festivals, festivals of art, food, film, literature, sports, culture, theatre… You’d be surprised around which themes a festival can be organized! One thing they all have in common though is the festival spirit: an atmosphere of happiness and excitement about sharing experiences with like-minded people.''Just thinking about attending a festival in summer puts me into a good mood! If that is true for you, too, read on, because in this post we’re going to put Poznan in Poland on the map as a very legitimate festival city. This year, three of their different festivals overlap, so when we were there, we managed to get glimpses at two festivals within our five-day-stay.''Why Poznan?''Poznan is very much worth a visit, anyway, festival or not, but when summer time comes and the outdoors are where it’s at, the city sure makes the most of it, with its parks, the ice-cream shops all over the place, cafés in gardens, special summer dishes, and cool outdoor bars like Kontener Art at the river bank.''If on top of that you get to see concerts, listen and dance to DJs, do some yoga or tai chi, visit an alternative theatre, and pay very little or nothing at all for it, then the only question that remains is: why are we not all there?! Let’s get the word out and introduce some of Poznan’s festivals, so that you can decide if they are for you.''Summer Festivals in Poznan''1. Malta Festival''Whether you’ve heard about it or not, this festival has been around for a while: it is just one year short of its 25th anniversary! Also, it lasts for as long as three weeks (finally a sensible length for a festival, right?). Its origins lie in performances like street theatre around Lake Malta (an artificial lake close to the town centre), from where it evolved and grew into what it is today: a platform for visual and innovative arts, for music, for dance, for theatre.''For you that means you have a great choice of stuff to do: from 10am to sometimes as late as 12am, the festival program suggests things you can do and there are about''300 events that take place on a daily basis between the 9th and the 29th of June''.''The heart of the festival is at Liberty/Wolnosci square 5 minutes away from the old town square (called the Generator Malta). All events that take place here are free! Yes, the capoeira session in the morning (or zumba, or yoga, or tai chi) is free, as are the concerts and the silent disco after the concerts.''You can get food and drinks, information on the festival, buy tickets for events that cost money and take place somewhere else in the city, or just hang out on deck chairs and hammocks.''This year’s theme is “Latin America”, which reflects in the art, the artists, and even the food, without falling back on the use of clichés. During our stay, we saw the Mexican DJ Rebolledo during the inauguration of the festival, sadly missed the concerts of upcoming bands like the Polish “Ryba and the witches” or the folky “Mighty Oaks”, a Berlin-based international trio, but went to a theatre play, which was brilliant.''It was called “Fairy tales of moss and lichen”, represented by two actors (Janek Kochanowski and Leszek Bzdyl), one of whom got naked (win!). It was quite abstract, quite physical, and also quite funny.''Malta Festival might be''one of the most important European Festivals when it comes to performing art''. It’s the result of a collaboration of many like-minded and talented spirits. It’s very much about trying out new things, supporting new artists, experimenting, bringing in and mixing ideas from everywhere, all whilst aiming at a high yet playful quality.''And it’s completely up to you what you make out of it. Maybe you just want to see some cool concerts, maybe you go to see a show with a world-famous choreographer because you read about it in the festival program and it sparked your interest, maybe you want to try out laughter yoga. Your call.''Malta Festival is pretty chilled and attracts a good crowd without getting too busy. The organisers have put up''a really great website'', where they cover everything, from each day’s program to introducing the different artists to how to get to the locations of the shows. The beauty for the tourist/traveller lies in the fact that it’s very easy to immerse yourself and participate, even if you’re visiting Poznan for other reasons.''I didn’t quite know what to expect, because Malta Festival is so diverse, and at the same time specific with its focus on alternative performance art. I thought that maybe it was not for me because I don’t know enough about these things, but I found it is as much for me as it is for someone whose passion has been contemporary choreography for the past 10 years. It’s everything but an exclusive affair – it’s the meeting point for anyone who is interested; the curious as much as the well-versed.''2. Ethno Port Festival''Ethno Port is a''world music festival''. Sure, there are also other events during the duration of the festival, such as visual arts, dance, theatre and cinema, but the main focus is on music from artists all over the world, often not definable in genre, but exercising a mix of genres and traditional styles. Ticket pricing is absolutely reasonable, and there are also quite a few free events.''We saw the opening act, Dhafer Youssef, a very versatile Tunisian musician, performing together with four other musicians. I cannot for the love of god put it down to one genre – it’s like Dhafer Youssef told us stories out of his life, using the elements that would help express himself best, whether they were jazzy, rocky or ethereal, but it was a very impressive performance.''The concert took place at the Zamek Cultural Centre which is located in Poznan’s Imperial Castle, and afterwards we went around the corner to the castle courtyard to look at a free concert and traditional dancing which the audience was encouraged to participate in until the whole crowd was dancing.''Although this year’s Ethno Port Festival is already over by the time of writing (12.-15.06.2014), it is maybe something that you would consider to attend next year. I’m pretty sure you will be hearing music you have not heard like this before – I did!''For your information:''The official Ethno Port Website''.''3. Enter Music Festival''The Enter Music Festival is a little''open air jazz festival''which has also already happened for this year (17.-18.06.2014), but maybe you’re starting to see now that it would be a good idea to take next year’s June off completely and just spend it in Poznan…''4. Animator Festival''The''Animator Festival''is an International Animated Film Festival; the most important one in Poland. A feature that lets the Animator Festival stand out is its focus on music. Many screenings will be accompanied by life music, whether it’s by a band or a DJ or an orchestra.''There are of course also competitions, exhibitions, concerts, meeting the artists and other events. From the''11-19/07/2014''in different venues.''5. Transatlantyk Festival Poznan''The Transatlantyk International Film and MusicFestival focuses on film and (film) music, and is again an affair that showcases works and artists from the whole world, be they young and new, or already known and established.''It was founded by Oscar-winning Polish composer Jan Kaczmarek, who calls Poznan his home. Although it is relatively new (first edition 2011), it already attracts the big names. This year’s festival dates are:''08-14/08/2014''.''6. The Good Taste Festival''From the''14th to the 17th of August''you will find more than 100 stalls on the Old Market Square, offering''the best of Polish cuisine'', but also foreign specialties. There is of course also a stage, mainly for culinary shows and demonstrations by Poland’s finest chefs, and in the evening, for concerts.''You can participate in work-shops and up your cooking skills or learn about regional dishes, or, if you are already past that, participate in a cooking competition. Oh dear, now I’m hungry…''7. Dancing Poznan''The name might have given it away: Dancing Poznan is a\xa0festival dedicated to dancing! Well, dedicated to getting YOU to dance, really. This year marks the 21st time of the''International Modern Dance Workshops'', and from the''16th to the 23rd of August''you can participate in learning (or improving) one of the 39 dance techniques on offer, taught by teachers from all over the world.''One class consists of seven units that each last 1.5 hours, and the whole shebang sets you back 370 Zloty (around 90 Euros). There go all your excuses! So what’s it gonna be? Ballet, Salsa, Hip hop?''8. More Festivals in Poznan''It’s a can of worms when starting to talk about festivals in Poznan – I am coming to the conclusion that I’d have more success trying to find out when there are no festivals happening. The festival-free times probably add up to, uhm, maybe a week per year? Well, I basically mean to say that there are more festivals throughout the year in Poznan, and this is just a summery choice of some.''For me all these festivals fit very well my overall impression of Poznan: it is a very hospitable and open city, it is not afraid to try new things, it loves quality and style, it is proud and has traditions without letting them become dogmatic – it just has a really good attitude!''Tips for Visiting Poznan''Getting to Poznan''Within Europe Poznan is quite accessible. Direct flights are plentiful and mostly operated by budget airlines. You could also come by train: for instance, it’s a three hour train ride from either Berlin or Warsaw.''Accommodation in Poznan''We stayed at the''NH Hotel''like we did the last time, provided to us by the City of Poznan, but booked another hotel when we decided that we wanted to stay longer – not because the NH isn’t fabulous, but because our budget is not quite as fabulous.''Like always, we went through''Booking.com''and found loads of''very reasonably priced options'', ranging from hostel rooms, to apartments and hotel rooms. In the end we stayed at''Kamienica Bankowa Residence''which was quirky and nice and new, and, like most places, included a good breakfast.''Useful information for your visit''The currency in Poland is the Polish Zloty (PLN). Prices are quite competitive compared to other European cities, which is a great bonus. Polish people (who for me are the people of Poznan, because I have not been anywhere else in Poland yet), are open, friendly and very helpful.''Do learn a few words of Polish like “Hello”, “Thank you” and whatever you find useful, but whenever you get stuck, people will either immediately switch to English or someone else will help you out. At least this is what we found.''Further Reading for your visit to Poznan''Following our trips to Poznan, we’ve put together a number of posts to help you make the most out of your visit. We’ve also added in some other resources to this list that you might find useful.''A guide to''what to do in Poznan''A guide to''the food of Poznan'', as well as the''summer food of Poznan''A guide to''visiting Poznan in summer''An overview of''the street art of Poznan''A guide to the''best beer in Poznan''The''DK Eyewitness Travel Guide to Poland''We very much thank the City of Poznan for having us, and especially Karolina, Wojtek and Jacek, who showed us around and were there for us the whole time! We also thank Mikolaj Bylka from the Malta Foundation for meeting with us and telling us more about Malta Festival, as well as providing us with tickets (and a very nice volunteer, Anna) for our alternative theatre experience!''SHARE ON''Beaches! I love them. So much so that the''last post''I did on this site was all about beaches. And that''wasn’t even the first''.''Being as I am keen to share my knowledge with you folks on the subject of photography, via both''tips and advice''on this very blog, and through the medium of the spoken word at''the odd workshop'', it seemed sensible to put together a post all about how to take better beach photos.''Which I just did. Although I actually did it as a post for a site that talks all about beaches pretty much all of the time, which seemed like a good fit.''So, if you want to find out all about taking photos on the beach including:''How to get the basics right'', including tips on composition.''Putting the story together'', and how to improve your photos so they’re more than just holiday snapshots.''Picking the right gear''– beaches can be treacherous places for cameras, so you need to pack wisely to avoid mishap!''Finding the light –''all that white sand and shiny water can make beach photography really challenging – learn how to use the light to your advantage!''Then''head on over to the post'', and get your learn on!''SHARE ON''The Irish city of Galway has many enchanting properties, and although I hardly spent a full day there, it was enough to make me decide that I’ll definitely be back one day; hopefully sooner than later. While I might not be able to list everything there is that you can see and do in Galway after my brief stint, I sure can share some of the reasons that might make you want to visit – and stay longer than I did! Here they are:''The longest promenade and a wall for venting''The''Salthill Promenade''in Galway is Ireland’s longest seaside promenade. It has beaches and bits with glistening pebbles and even a diving pier, as you can see in the picture above. Judging from said picture, it also attracts some hard-core sea lovers who will go for a swim all throughout the year. I, on the other hand, needed a hot chocolate (or something stronger) just watching them.''Luckily, an opportunity arose to warm me up (and let me release my frustration for not getting my hot chocolate): on the promenade, there’s a wall just for kicking. And you kinda have to kick it, because it’s a local tradition and because it’s for good luck. In a world where you always have to kiss or touch everything for good luck,''kicking a wall''makes for a refreshing change!''So that’s where the Ring comes from!''I’m sure you are familiar with the design of the ring in the picture below – I got one like this from my best friend back in high school, as a friend-ship ring. Well, it might have been a little less fancy, maybe. You know. But in Galway, you’ll find these everywhere – whole shops dedicated to making them, in fact. Because… this ring comes from here!''It’s called a''Claddagh ring'', after a village just outside of Galway, and symbolizes friendship (the hands), love (the heart), and loyalty (the crown). The design is as old as the 17th century, and you can wear the ring in different ways to indicate your relationship status. Yes, that’s what life was like before Facebook, people. But you just made it work, you know? You just did.''Galway is also a good city to go on a shopping spree, since we’re talking about rings in shops. In that regard Galway sports something that sounds bizarre but is actually pretty cool: the''Eyre Square Shopping Centre''is built around the''old city walls''. The historic value of the walls is slightly lessened by that, I guess, but I’m sure the walls appreciate being dry and proper and in a cosy environment after all the centuries with the sieges and stuff. I would.''History lessons in a pub''It seems the inhabitants of Galway realised that you up your chances of people visiting historic sites when you combine them with an attractive optional reason to come. Which is not only true for the Eyre Square Shopping Centre and the city walls, but also for''“The King’s Head Pub”'', which is located in a building that is around 800 years old. It is a really, really cool pub, effortlessly combining a modern decor with the traditional style.''Here you can enjoy a nice pint and “have a craic” (which translates to having a good time if you’re not familiar with the Irish expression), while contemplating the fact that you’re in the house that once belonged to the Mayor of Galway, only some 360 years ago, who was forced to give it up when the English came and took over.''I did notice that most of the stories in Ireland do not end well, but are rather dramatic. Fear not, though: the only drama you could get involved in is that you have positioned your butt on the wooden throne in the first room and are not willing to give up your seat to anyone else.''The King’s Head’s owner, Paul Greglish, is most dedicated to his pub and not only works together with and seeks advice from historians and archaeologists, but has even created a''YouTube channel''where he showcases a few clips from and about\xa0 his pub.''Hidden gems''I would have liked Galway one way or the other, but we got treated to a tour sampled by a guy who knows his town inside out and further still: Neil from from the''“Gore of Galway”''. He introduced us to some of the sights you will also be able to find in the guide-books, like''St. Nicholas Church'', where Christopher Columbus himself came to pray to, or''Lynch’s castle'', and told us a lot of stories surrounding these places, some of which were true, and some, uhm, maybe a little less.''But Neil also got us into a few other places! At one point he lead us into an inconspicuous backyard, and knocked on a door that did not necessarily look like guests were expected. We were taken into a workshop full of instruments in all stages of perfection, where''musical instrument maker Paul Doyle''unleashes his magic together with some employees.''Paul comes from a family of instrument makers, with the business having been founded back in 1890 by violin maker Frank Doyle Senior. I personally find it always very special when you get a ‘real’ view of how crafts are made, and when you are able to meet the people who make them.''We also went into a very fancy looking hotel – just walked right into the lobby- and Neil explained that this was the''Meyrick Hotel'', where many, many famous people have stayed since it opened in 1852: royalty, politicians, sport stars, writers, and, the only names I can ever remember, actors. Fred Astaire, John Wayne, Maureen O’Hara, Jack Nicholson, to name a few.''The hotel is right at the John F. Kennedy Memorial Park, which is also know as Eyre Square. It’s where John F. Kennedy held a speech during his visit of Galway in 1963, and I think Neil has the whole thing memorized!''If you want to discover places you would not necessarily find by yourself or feel comfortable walking into, or if you want to hear all the spooky stories just waiting to be told at every cornerstone in Galway, or if you just want a really good city tour with a highly motivated guide who loves his town, than Neil is your man. He was so sad that we only had little time and kept saying that there was so much more to see! Highly recommended.''Really good Irish coffee''I was going to say “The best Irish coffee”, but since I haven’t really exactly drunk gazillions (I’ve had a few, though!), it just remains the best Irish coffee I personally had. Nevertheless, I’ll tell you where I had it: in the''Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa''. If you are staying there and can drink it as a night cap, even better!''Final words''And thus these were a few impressions I got while visiting Galway. And even though it constantly drizzled while we were there, I quickly understood why people get a dreamy expression on their face when talking about this city: it’s gorgeous, it’s vibrant, it is arty, but it also puts a bit of well-measured roughness from the sea at Galway Bay into the mix. So I shall end this post with the wise words of the terminator: “I’ll be back!”. Maybe see you there? In any way: thanks for reading and safe travels!''This experience was part of my post-conference trip of TBEX 2013 in Dublin, so thanks to TBEX and everyone who collaborated to create this amazing little journey!''SHARE ON''Looking for photos of gorgeous beaches from around the world? Look no further! In today’s post I share 10 of my favourite beach photos from our travels. Enjoy!''Ok, we’ll start off with a country perhaps not as well known for its beaches as it should be –''New Zealand''. This is Tolaga Bay beach on the east cape of the North Island. It’s home to a 600m long wharf – the longest in the country!''The Seychelles. When it comes to beaches, the Seychelles are, in my opinion, second to none. Admittedly it’s a pricey destination, but if you love to have a fabulous beach to yourself, with pure warm waters to swim in, they are tough to beat!''A country that is well known for its beaches – Australia! And with 30.000km of coastline, you have no shortage of choice. I did a whole post on the gorgeous beaches of this country, which you can find''here''.''The Twelve Apostles in Australia are part of the Great Ocean Road – one of the more spectacular drives you can do in Australia. So much so that I did it twice! Read more about''exploring Australia''in our comprehensive guides,''here''.''Thailand''is perhaps the quintessential beach destination. Here, the sun rises over Hua Hin, one of the more popular beach towns for locals, who pop down here from Bangkok for R&R.''Ecuador might not spring immediately to mind when you think of beaches, but it has some fantastic coastline and hundreds of tiny beach towns to choose from. Our favourite was Canoa, captured in this photo at sunset, and you can read all about that,''here''.''Rio de Janeiro is a city which takes its beaches seriously, and with over forty of them to choose from, you’ll never be short of an option. Whilst Ipanema and Copacabana are the most famous, we also liked the slightly quieter vibe of Sao Conrado, pictured here.''Barcelona''is another city with a gorgeous beach, letting you get a break from the hustle and bustle of city life and dip your toes in the sea. We visited early in the year, when it was a bit cool and less busy, but we hope to go back and enjoy it at a busier time of year some time soon!''Finally, one from Italy, and in this case, Brindisi. Italy has a mix of private and public beaches, like many Mediterranean countries – this particular beach was a lovely publically accessible beach near the town of Brindisi.''SHARE ON''Athens! When I landed, I have to admit to feeling a frisson of excitement. It was my first visit to the city which essentially sparked the beginning of the western world as we know it, and I couldn’t wait to get my eyes on some of the sights that I already felt I knew so well.''As luck would have it, I arrived in the middle of the night and had an aisle seat, so my first sight of Athens was a glow of orange glimpsed between the head and shoulders of my fellow passengers. Not exactly the first impression I had hoped for.''All that excitement about exploring the cradle of civilisation was then put on hold after I discovered that the cradle of civilisation came with some rather fine beaches. I guess if you’re going to opine on the nature of life, and fire up democracy, you might as well do it with a cocktail and a magnificent view of a sunset.''As it was, I therefore largely ignored the centre of Athens for a couple of days, and spent some time exploring the gorgeous''Vougliameni region of southern Athens'', which I told you all about''here''.''Finally, I got to the end of this introduction, and got into Athens proper. Based on my explorations, here are some experiences you shouldn’t skip out on when visiting Athens for one day!''1 Day in Athens''1. The Acropolis''So you basically can’t visit Athens without visiting the Acropolis. As it sits on a rocky outcrop above the centre of the city, it’s pretty hard to to miss when wandering, but spending some time actually up here is highly recommended.''The most recognisable part is of course the famous Parthenon, which is the pillared building in the middle, but the whole ancient citadel is worthy of your time, from the open air auditorium to the smaller temples. Plus the view of Athens and surrounding area is pretty good, if not quite as good as the view suggested lower down this page.''It was built around 2,500 years ago, and started life as a temple, evolving over time as various empires came and went. You can find out more at''the Wikipedia page''and save me from massacring actual knowledge in the name of a pithy blog post.''I visited in April, when the temperatures were pleasant and the crowds weren’t intense. Be aware that in summer this place gets very hot, with temperatures pushing forty degrees, and serious hordes of people, which can leave you not exactly impressed, as happened to my friend''Amanda from A Dangerous Business''.''If you can, visit in the cooler hours, perhaps earlier in the morning before the rush. Bring water – it’s going to be thirsty work!''Ticket wise you can get a ticket for €12 which gives you single entry to the Acropolis as well as five other attractions in Athens, which is an excellent bargain. To save queuing, you could buy this ticket package at any of the other locations which are likely to be less busy than the Acropolis. Check out''this guide to getting tickets''to Athens historical sites from a fellow blogger for more detailed information on what that covers.''For even more information, including advice on getting here, up to date opening hours, and days when it’s free to visit, see the''Athens24 website entry here''.''2. The Markets (and taking Tours with Locals)''Athens has some excellent markets to explore, with the highlight being the Athens Central Market. This has everything from piles of colourful spices and olives (of course!) through to the rather graphic meat market. The latter might not go down well if you’re sensitive to learning where those bits of meat actually come from!''I did a food walking tour with''Dopios'', who offer local experts to show you around, and our tour included access to a number of shops and the sampling of local foods, as well of course as the tour of the above markets. Certainly recommended.''Another tour I did was through the excellent “''This is MY Athens''” programme. This is an initiative of the Athens tourism board, and matches up visitors with locals for free tours of the city based specifically around your interests. It’s a fantastic way to get a truly local insight to life, and I highly recommend setting that up in advance''via the portal, here.''3. The National Archaeological Museum''Ah, museums. To be honest, I’m not normally a big fan, unless they are of the variety that involve a lot of buttons you can press with lights that light up upon the pressing of those buttons.''Add this to the fact that Athens is basically one giant living outdoor museum, and, well, maybe I’m not the best person to give museum advice. Even if I did somehow end up in around five of the things during my time there.''One that stood out though was the National Archaeological Museum, which makes sense, as it’s the largest museum in Greece, and the most popular of all of Athens’ museums.''The display that particularly caught my eye, amongst the many incredible items on display ranging from 2,000 year old statues to frescoes from the islands, was the Antikythera mechanism. This is the oldest known mechanical computer, which I thought was pretty cool. Find all the information you need on visiting, from pricing and opening hours, on the''official website, here.''4. Mount Lycabettus''The problem with going to famous locations with a view like the Acropolis, is that whilst the views are indeed marvellous, they are missing that vital iconic bit of landscape that would signal immediately where they are. Take a picture of Athens from the Acropolis, and your friends back home will probably have no idea where you were.''Unless they’ve been to Greece themselves, of course. But you get my point.''Much like Paris therefore, where the best view in my mind is actually from Montmartre and includes the Iron Lady, the best view of Athens is one that includes the Acropolis. And for that, you need to head up Mount Lycabettus.''This is the highest point in Athens, although at 277 metres above sea level, isn’t a terribly taxing climb. If it sounds taxing though, then there is a funicular which will whisk you to the top in no time at all.''The views from the top are magnificent, from the mountains around Athens to the sea, and the city filled plains in between. No doubt experienced best at sunset or sunrise for photography, rather than the middle of the afternoon timing I ended up with, but the view is wonderful at any time of day.''5. The cafe culture''Athens has an amazing cafe / bar culture. At any time of the day or night, we found locals and tourists spilling out into squares and alleyways, usually drinking coffee concoctions, including the Greek version of frappe. Coffee appears to be the lifeblood upon which your average Greek person survives.''A couple of places which seemed particularly popular were the squares and streets around Kerameikos station (also the LGBT friendly part of town), and the Plaka area.''The Plaka area is the historic centre of Athens, filled with winding back streets, steep staircases, taverns, cafes and restaurants. You’ll find happy crowds of people enjoying the scene and knocking back a frappe or two, all in the shadow of the Acropolis. Suffice to say – this is an excellent spot to explore or just to soak it all in from a table as the world wanders by.''Some hints for Athens''Getting there and around''Athens is easy to get to by air, with multiple airlines offering flights from Europe and beyond. There are also recently re-opened train services in and out of Greece, as well a ferry port which services multiple destinations.''If you arrive by air, the airport has both bus and rail links into the city, with prices in the region of €5 for the bus and €8 for the train.''A taxi from the airport is a fixed fee, at the time of writing this was around €35 in the day and €50 at night (after midnight) – make sure the price includes the toll and any other fees when planning your trip.''There are also private hire companies. If you arrive late you might be able to negotiate a deal with a limo driver to take you into town for a fixed fee as they also want to get home – I did this and got my own limo all the way down to Vougliameni\xa0 1am for €50.''Getting around Athens is very easy. A lot of the city is walkable, although in the heat of the summer this might not be an enjoyable experience. Depending on how many of you there are, your best options are likely to be a taxi, which are very reasonably priced, or the relatively recently (2001) opened metro, which costs €1.40 for 90 minutes of travel. You can also get a one day pass for €4 for 24 hours of travel. Note that neither of these metro options include the trip to the airport.''Where to stay in Athens''For my first few nights in Athens I had the pleasure of being hosted by''The Margi Hotel''in collaboration with luxury travel portal''Destsetters'', which was in a wonderful location on the Athens Riviera, some kilometres south of town.''If you’re looking for somewhere a bit away from the hustle and bustle of town and near some lovely beaches, with quite superb on site fine dining, then I can certainly recommend them.''Otherwise, Athens itself has no shortage of properties to meet every need. Check out our current favourites for finding the best deals –''Our''current favorite way''to find the''best deals on accommodation''is with''HotelsCombined''. These guys let you search over 100 booking sites at once, including booking.com, Agoda and TravelPony, and nearly always get the best price.''Try them and see!''Alternatively, if you prefer an apartment or more of a hosted stay, then I recommend''AirBnB''. I’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get''a $25 discount''on your first booking with''this link!''And that’s it for Athens. Have you visited this city? Share your experiences and tips in the comments below!''SHARE ON''“Oh, you’re going to the Galapagos!”, a friend of mine emailed me. “Reminds me of all the stuff I had to learn in biology, you know, about Darwin and so on, but hey: that is so exciting!”''“Loz,”, I asked my better half, “what has Darwin got to do with the Galapagos?”''A glance of disbelief caught me. “Are you serious? You don’t know?! That is the reason why the Galapagos are so famous: because Darwin based his evolutionary theories on his visit to the islands!”''Woops.''Nope, never heard of that. Of Darwin, sure. Of his theories, yes. But never about any connection to the Galapagos. Which is indeed a bit unbelievable in hindsight. I have since asked many, many people if they know about Darwin and the Galapagos, just to justify my lack of knowledge by finding someone I share it with, and I have found ONE person. One. It did make me feel better, though.''So that would be number 1) on my list:''1) Darwin + Galapagos = Theory of Evolution by Natural Selection''Darwin visited the Galapagos on a voyage of discovery in 1835 and later used his findings to base his ground-breaking theories on them, you know, survival of the fittest and all that, after noticing that the same species had slightly different features, depending on which island it was living on. That meant a species could evolve, it could change, and had not necessarily been plopped on earth picture-perfect by God. It is not known for sure if God was impressed by Darwin calling him out on the matter, but the church was not so much.''You see, all I knew about the Galapagos was based on vague memories of a classmate of mine sending me a post-card in 6th or 7th grade when she went there with her parents. Something about islands, beaches, big lizards. Good for her. I imagined it as a beach resort with big hotels and the possibility to visit a national park.''Forward some 20 years, and Loz and I got the opportunity to participate on a 10-day trip in the Galapagos. Which got everyone around us very excited. An ornithologist friend of Loz even urged us to smuggle back a blue-footed boobie (I actually don’t think he was kidding), and people kept talking about the incredible wild-life – the birds, the iguanas, the sea-lions, the underwater world…''The Galapagos islands are basically one big national park (97% of the islands), and the different islands have animal and plant species which are endemic to them, meaning they are nowhere else in the world to be found, not even on one of the other islands. Since the Galapagos are a bit remote (1000 km from the coast of Ecuador, to which they belong to), not much has changed for quite a long time. It’s like entering another world, and to make sure it stays that way, authorities keep an eye out that the number of visitors per year is restricted.''All very interesting, isn’t it? But if you ever had a vague interest in the Galapagos (or have a better general education than I do, apparently), you probably knew that already. Still, I have another nine things of which at least…err, some must be news to you! If you haven’t already been, that is. Brace yourself, here they come:''2) What’s with the people?''Nobody ever mentions the people of the Galapagos, but yeah: 4 of the 18 main islands are inhabited, making for an overall population of circa 28,000 people. So you’ll find regular towns with laid-back islanders, plenty of eateries, souvenir shops, little hotels. The locals mostly live from tourism, but not for tourism. Which I find nice.''It’s not one of these destinations where you get the impression tourism is a highly oiled machine, working smoothly to comply with the glossy picture everyone has of it. The Galapagos are quite real, with real, down-to-earth people. There’s even a university on one of the islands (San Cristobal)! Fancy a semester abroad?''3) Murder, mystery, love triangles!''The Galapagos have a pretty bloody and violent past. It’s seriously horrific. The fact that it used to be a hideout for pirates is probably the least gruesome one. But then there were the whalers and the seal-fur hunters, who slaughtered several species, including the giant tortoise, close to extinction. Convicts were brought to the island and forced to work on plantations, under inhumane conditions, which resulted more than once in violent uprisings and assassination of the plantation owners.''There was also a penal colony on one of the islands, where the prisoners were forced to built a massive wall (the “Wall of Tears”), for no reason at all. Other than to make them suffer, of course. Which they did, extensively. Mission accomplished.''And then there’s the story of the “Baroness”, who came to Floreana island in the 1930’s with her two lovers. It’s a story so twisted and crazy that you can’t believe it’s not made up. It includes a web of lovers, murder, people disappearing, people being poisoned, people starving to death, and nobody being able to say what exactly happened. The only right thing to do was to turn it into a movie/documentary. Which was released in April 2014 and I shall leave you with the title that sums it all up:''“The Galapagos Affair – Satan came to Eden”''.''I could use a picture of a cute, innocent sea-lion baby right now.''4) It’s not fancy.''Ah, the Galapagos! Stunning islands, incredible wild-life; a one-of-a-kind experience! Also, not known as a budget destination. But just because it’s hard to visit the Galapagos on a budget when you already have to pay 500$ for a plane ticket to get there from Ecuador mainland, doesn’t mean that it’s a luxury destination.''You pay for the great privilege of visiting these very special, very remote islands, not for access to top-notch accommodation or five star restaurants. You ain’t gonna find those here.''5) It’s got fancy coffee.''Right, I guess there’s one product that could fall under the category of luxury goods: the organic, fair-trade and gourmet blend coffee that is produced here. Who knew the Galapagos had a long history of growing coffee beans? We got to visit a plantation and wrote a whole''post''about it, and found that Galapagos coffee makes for a great souvenir – especially when you would pay about 8$ for a cup of that coffee at Starbucks at home!''6) The Galapagos served as a US military base.''There are two airports in the Galapagos. One on San Cristobal island, the other one on Baltra island. It was Baltra island where the US army constructed a military base in 1942 in order to protect the Panama Canal. After WWII had ended, the base was turned over to the Ecuadorian government, which also uses it as an official military base, as well as a commercial airport.''It might not be the most interesting bit of information, but for me it added up to the pile of stuff that was completely unbeknownst to me. And there’s always a lot more to it, if you dig a bit deeper. But I leave the digging to you!''7) If you want to become a Galapagueno, you need to travel back in time''Pretty much everywhere I go, I ask myself: “What would it be like to live here? How hard would it be to get permanent residence?”. The answer to the second question is usually “Definitely not easy, yet not impossible” for most countries. Ecuador has several types of visas that allow foreigners permanent residency, but the Galapagos are not part of that scheme. In fact, not even mainland Ecuadorians can just move to the Galapagos anymore.''After the population (and tourism) grew exponentially to a point where social and ecological problems started to occur and the UNESCO put the Galapagos on their list of endangered World Heritage Sights due to overcrowding, officials severely tightened the immigration laws in 2009. That means it has become close to impossible to obtain permanent residency.''As for visiting the National Parks, you are by law required to have a guide. Guides must be locals and are always fully trained. There are precise schedules for tours to ensure that there are never too many people on one spot. Galapagos tourism is quite an interesting operation, and the measures taken after the UNESCO issued their warning have paid off: it was removed again in 2010.''8) You can skip the boat''Well, almost. If you want to go between islands, you will have to rely on boats to get you around. Unless you are willing to spend a bit more, because then you could also charter a plane. Entirely up to you and your wallet.''Anyway, what I mean is: most people think you have to stay and sleep on a boat when visiting the Galapagos, but you can also do a''land-based tour''like we did. This means you will get to sleep in hotels and have a bit more freedom to roam around once the tour-part of the day is over (or before it has started – if you’re an early-riser, brrr…).''For us it was definitely the right thing. Maybe for you it’s the boat after all – but know that you have the option (more information here:''“What is a Galapagos Land Tour?”'')!''9) Disabilities needn’t hold you back''On our tour we snorkelled, hiked, walked along beaches, canoed, visited various centres, rode bikes… It was pretty active. So we were quite surprised when we found Tim, one of the owners of the tour company that invited us, fiddling around with a wheel-chair. That was after our tour, when we stayed on San Cristobal for another nine days just by ourselves.''“What’s with the wheel-chair? Has something happened?” – “No, not at all. We are just going out on a little canoe trip, and one of the clients is in a wheel chair. These here –“, he pointed to the wheels, “- can drive in sand. Do you want to come?”''So we did. The clients were a couple and the guy’s father, who was 83, along with the father’s girl-friend, who was 78. Both the father and the girl-friend were in a canoe each with a guide in the back who did the paddling and assured everything was alright, while the younger couple and us each shared a canoe.''That’s how we learned that GalaKiwi also do trips for disabled people. As Tim said: “If you’re up for it, we’ll do it.”. They have all the necessary equipment – they even take you snorkelling!''What I want to say is: if it is your dream to see the Galapagos, and you think you can’t do it because you are disabled, or maybe because you think you’re too old: don’t let it hold you back!''10) Volcanoes and lichen''(Sea lion) Babies and (blue-footed) Boobies get most of the Galapagos glory, but geologists and botanists are drooling all over the place, too! Because it’s not only the animals that are fascinating, no, there is also the fact that the islands are a baby in geological terms (the oldest one is only around 5 million years old), with the youngest islands still in the process of being formed. So you can count the Galapagos in with the world’s most active volcanic centres. Makes for some pretty epic landscapes, I’m telling you!''As for the plant species: much like the land, many of them are still in an evolutionary process. And, of course, they too are endemic (nowhere else in the world to be found), more than 30% of them, at least. Just to give you an idea: there are around 600 documented lichen species, 400 of which were only discovered very recently (in 2005!).''I will admit that a sea-lion is cuter than lichen, though. Much. Sorry, lichen.''Right. These were ten things I didn’t know about the Galapagos. Out of many more. It’s really the gift that keeps on giving: the novel “Moby Dick” for example is based on the voyage of a ship called “Essex” that was sunk by a sperm whale, which happened after the “Essex” had left the Galapagos, where the crew had caught around 360 tortoises, and (admittedly accidentally) set fire to Floreana island, thereby destroying it completely, plus wiping out the odd species in the way. What an achievement. Team Moby Dick.''Anyway, I hope you got a glimpse at how diverse a visit to the Galapagos can be; not just in terms of the animals, but also historically or politically or socially or environmentally, etc. Thanks for reading, and hey: it’s still okay if you just come for the sea lion babies…!''A special Thank You to''GalaKiwi'', who invited us on their 10-day-adventure tour and made it pretty much impossible to not love each bit of it. The inability to tell a Great from a Magnificent Frigate bird after all the enthusiastic explanations by our guide however remains entirely my own.''…''SHARE ON''Towards the end of 2013 I had the good luck to spend a couple of days in Bologna, on my way between Dublin and Rimini – a small Italian beach side town that was hosting a travel conference.''I’d never been to Bologna, and whilst a couple of days wasn’t exactly a huge amount of time to explore everything on offer, I did have the advantage of being accommodated by the “BlogVille” program. This is an award winning initiative set up by the Emilia-Romagna tourism board, where bloggers such as myself are offered lodging and access to local tourism sights, with the hope that we’ll write wonderful things about the city and encourage lovely folks like you to visit.''And eat bolognaise.''Which was of course the main reason I visited Bologna.''Anyway, these nice people of “BlogVille” helped me figure out the best way to spend my time that would let me take lots of pictures, climb the tower (the most important part of visiting any new city in my mind), eat gelato, and of course, find the best place to eat the pasta sauce that is world famous.''Whilst that amount of time wasn’t really enough for me to give you a pile of thoroughly researched recommendations for your own trip to Bologna, it was at least enough to take some pictures, and come up with some ideas for your adventure. Without further ado, let’s take a quick walk around Bologna’s attractions, via the medium of the photograph.''These are the famous two towers of Bologna. Bologna was once home to almost 200 towers, although the reasons for this number aren’t quite clear. Maybe when you were rich in Bologna in the 12th century, you just *needed* a big tower.''There are fewer than 20 remaining now, with these two being the highest, the larger topping off at 97m. You can climb up the taller one, an activity I highly recommend if you’re feeling slightly fit, as it will present you with a fantastic view of the city.''Here’s that tower from the inside.''Lots of stairs. Nearly 500 of them, in fact. If you go up, keep an eye out for the plaque which points out when you’re higher than that''famous leaning tower in Italy''.''Another thing Bologna is famous for are its porticos, or covered walkways. In fact, Bologna has the longest covered porticos in the world. These provide respite from the heat in the summer, and from the rain when, well, it’s raining.''Lovely door knockers, of course.''And this being Italy, naturally there are scooters everywhere!''That was my brief experience of Bologna – a city that clearly warrants further attention next time we’re back in that area. I did eat excellent gelato and feast on fine bolognaise, although as you’re probably all too used to by now, I didn’t get any photos of those events.''All I can offer you is a glimpse of the menu where we ate, to give you an idea for your next trip…''And that’s it! Have you been to Bologna? Any tips for others planning a visit, or for what to see on our inevitable return? Let us know in the comments below!''travel,blogville''SHARE ON''“That’s a big camera!”, exclaimed the Captain. Leaning in, he conspiratorially whispered:''“Would you like to go up the mast?”''I peered up into the sky, into which the mast disappeared like a beanstalk. I looked back at the Captain, wondering if this was some sort of practical joke.''“Sure, why not”, I replied, not clear as I did so who was more surprised, me, with my general fear of heights, or the Captain, whose bluff I was fairly sure I had just called.''As it turned out, the most surprised of all was the organiser of our trip, who, upon hearing of the plan, turned a rather pale colour and started murmuring in a concerned fashion about insurance.''We should probably rewind a tiny bit for context.''I had the pleasure in April of this year to visit Athens for a few days, to attend a local travel trade show and put together some content for the upcoming''TBEX Travel blogging''conference.''I spent the first few days in the''Vougliameni''region – think fast cars, big boats and gorgeous beaches, with a side order of recession – an adventure that I''told you about here''.''After that it was into Athens proper, where I saw as many of the sights as I possibly could whilst finding time to fill my face with a giant pile of tasty Greek food. Naturally, a post filled with pictures of the Acropolis is en route.''In addition to that, another adventure that was arranged for me was a day on the open sea with luxury yachting firm''Brama Yachts''.''This seemed like a jolly fine way to spend a day, particularly as I’ve never suffered from sea sickness, so despite the weather on the designated day being towards the blustery tempest end of the wind scale, I was excited to take part.''Last time I sailed in these waters''after all, I had a most magnificent time.''Our vessel for the day was a four bedroom Catamaran, naturally featuring loads of space, both for living and for getting a lovely view as the horizon gently lurched from side to side. To help with the horizon lurching, there was a table loaded up with local treats, including both wine and beer. Yes indeed, a fine way to pass a day.''Unfortunately, as mentioned, the sea was a little rough and the wind a little strong, so we couldn’t explore quite as much as we had hoped, as the ride was a little bumpy. We went up and down the coast though, admiring such sights as the old port, the vista of Athens from the sea, and various point of historical interest. Greece has quite a lot of those, it turns out.''It was around mid way into our adventure when the conversation at the start of this tale took place. I was wandering the deck of the catamaran with my camera in hand (to see what caught the Captain’s eye, check out our''photography gear post here'', full of essentials for getting sent up a yacht mast), and well, before I knew it, I’d agreed to something possibly quite dangerous.''Still, the Captain seemed convinced of his brilliant idea, and I was committed. Before I knew it, a deckhand was helping me into a worryingly flimsy looking chair, and instructing me that, whatever I did, I should not let go of the mast. Doing so would cause me to swing about all over the place above the deck, which would be A Bad Thing.''My fellow travel companions looked at me in the way that people look at people whose bits they might have to scrape up in the imminent future.The trip organiser was clearly already envisioning the paperwork.''I wondered how I was going to take photos whilst clinging desperately to the mast, because one hand clinging seemed like A Bad Idea.''The boat lurched all over the place in the sea, oblivious to the fact that this was going to make my adventure just a little bit more exciting.''All of the above happened in pretty much an instant, because the next thing I knew, someone was pulling a rope and I was going up the mast.''Some things you should know about masts. They are not obstacle free poles. They are surrounded and coated in all sorts of wires, bits of communication equipment and vital pieces of metal. The rope that was pulling me up was coming down right from the top of the mast, and it was important that this didn’t get tangled with all these bits, otherwise I’d probably get rather stuck.''I didn’t want to get rather stuck. I was starting to wonder if perhaps everything would have been better if I’d stayed on dry land with a nice cup of cocoa and a copy of some newspaper. A basset hound could be relaxing at my feet, a warm fire could be crackling in the distance.''As it was, I clung onto the mast as it yawed to and fro through the sky, with the sea really getting quite into the whole going up and down thing, and gently inched upwards, attempting to not break anything crucial as I went up, and still wondering how I was going to take any pictures.''It might be worth pointing out at this juncture that I’m not terribly good with heights.''Up I went though, camera dangling, until I was about half way up the mast. A voice wafted up on the breeze, enquiring as to whether or not I’d like to go higher. I risked a glance down, at the dots of the people below, and concluded that, no, thank you very much, I was doing just fine where I was.''The voice came back, to say that they would leave me up there until I was happy with the pictures I had taken.''Ah yes, the pictures. I wrapped my legs around the mast, clung on with one hand, and went for the one handed camera operation technique.''One of the tips I give to people when''teaching photography''is the importance of knowing exactly how your camera works. You don’t want to miss a shot because you couldn’t quite remember that setting for that particular scenario.''Whilst my camera doesn’t exactly have a setting for shooting whilst dangling from a mast in high seas with one hand, it certainly helped that I knew how to use it properly at this point. Good to know that tip is valid.''I fired off a few shots, and peered at them. At which point I got quite into the photography part of things, and sort of forgot where I was. After all, how many times does one get to have these opportunities presented? Whilst I would have killed for a fish eye lens, my''17-40 wide angle''did a pleasingly good enough job. As hopefully the photos show.''Finally, I hollered that I was all good, and no, whilst the offer was generous, I really didn’t need to go any higher, and if it was quite alright, I wouldn’t mind being lowered back down.''And so I was, and before I knew it, I was back on the ground, still alive, and very much pleased to be so.''When I got back down to the ground, the deckhand responsible for my hoisting pointed out that my seating technique had not been perfect. He motioned towards the mast climbing chair device, and said I had been leaning too far forward. Most of my weight, he said, had been taken up by two flimsy looking buckles. Good thing, he said with a grin, I didn’t weigh too much.''Anyway. The rest of the trip went very well. I had a bit more wine. We docked at an incredibly fancy port, where we saw the world’s most expensive and technically advanced sailing yacht – the''Maltese Falcon''. Yours to hire for €400,000 a week. Plus expenses of course.''All in all, a rather exciting day. Tips for anyone given this opportunity:''Get some decent instructions as to how to position your body in the chair so you don’t risk death''Hold on to the mast. A lot. Like it’s your new life partner.''Take a fish eye lens. Or go really really high.''Have a strap so your camera is safely around your body.''Something like this''.''If your lens has a zoom lock, engage it, as many lenses exhibit zoom creep when pointing straight down''Take a lot of pictures. You probably won’t want to do this again.''Go as high as you dare.''And that’s it! Safe travels!''SHARE ON''As a big fan of killing two birds with one stone (figuratively), I am always pleased when travelling to a location coincides with something else I had wanted to do. Like visiting a friend or relative who happens to live there, or attend a conference or a work-shop, or go to see a favourite band in concert.''Sport events don’t feature highly on this list, and neither on Loz’s, which is probably a good thing, since we started going out in 2010, when''England played against Germany''in the Fifa World Cup. That could have gone wrong.''But it didn’t, and we lived to see the next World Cup about to begin in Brazil, which we only visited for the first time about six months ago. We spent three days in Rio de Janeiro, where they had just started to launch the campaigns to gain attention for the big event. If I was into football, going to Rio during the World Cup would probably be about the best thing ever, but even without the football, I can assure you that Rio de Janeiro is a quite an amazing city.''So if you have the chance to spend some time there, by all means: take it! In this post, we want to introduce you to some of Rio’s most popular sights and answer some general questions; either for a short stay, or just to get you started. Kick-off in 3-2-1 – let’s go!''Top Sights in Rio de Janeiro''The Beaches''Rio de Janeiro has more beaches than I have fingers on my hands, so you could do quite a bit of exploring, but make sure you visit at least Copacabana and Ipanema. Named after the districts they connect the ocean with, they won’t fail to provide you with a working of Rio’s magic.''Walking past the famous Copacabana Palace Hotel while sipping the juice out of a fresh coco-nut from one of the vendors along the promenade should suffice to check the beaches off your list, you might think, but don’t be so sure. The different times of the day attract different people, and if you return in the late afternoon after having been in the morning, you find everything completely changed.''Whatever people might possibly do after work – relax with a glass of wine, meet up with friends, go for a run or to the gym, play some volleyball – in Rio de Janeiro they’ll come to do it here, at the beach front. You could wander along Copacabana beach in the late afternoon, making your way over to Ipanema beach, past the Copacabana Fort. Facing the ocean, head to the little hill on your left, and watch the sunset with a variety of like-minded people. It’s a real high-light.''The statue of Christ the Redeemer''He is relatively young (completed in 1931), but quickly became an icon for Rio de Janeiro. Whether you perceive him as a symbol of Christianity or one of the largest Art Deco statues of the world: the guy does have presence!''I, for example, have a selfie-quota of basically Zero, but I was planning on doing one with Christ the Redeemer in the background, as a souvenir. I mean, I REALLY wanted to do that. And then I completely forgot. Because I had to take so many pictures of the statue. And then of the view. And then again of the statue. The vicious circle was only ended by a guard who told us it was closing time, which in this case equalled “Too late for a selfie”-time. Bummer.''But seriously, it’s a truly great sight. Due to the angle of all the pictures I had seen of it prior to coming to Rio, I had a totally different idea of its location and size, though. It is not in the middle of the city, and you can’t see it from anywhere, like I had thought, but this discovery took nothing away from it, let me assure you. And if you get confused as to how to get there, it’s your lucky day: we have already written a''detailed blog post''on that!''Sugar Loaf Mountain''This sight will give you many (many!) more stunning (stunning!) views of Rio. A cable car takes you to the top of the first hill, from where you can also charter a scenic flight, if you feel so inclined; but first take the next cable car ride to Sugar Loaf Mountain.''I hope you charged your camera battery. I hope you brought a spare camera battery, too! Because even when you’re back on the flat, there’s a tiny charming beach nearby which makes for some nice shots, and if you walk a bit on the coastal walk along the hill, you might spot the tiny Marmorset monkeys who live in the forests there.''They do like you more if you have a banana on you, it has to be said. All the details on this sight, as in how to get there, how much it is, what to expect, are provided for you in the already mentioned''blog post''.''Selarón’s Steps''After countless beaches, a gigantic statue and a luscious mountain with spectacular views, I bring you – a staircase! Made of tiles! But there’s no reason to be underwhelmed: it features 215 steps covered in over 2000 tiles by the Chilean artist Jorge Selaròn. He started his project in 1990 and didn’t really stop until his death in 2013.''Over the years, visitors started bringing tiles from their home country, and it’s the most random thing when you discover that of all these often beautiful and sometimes hilarious tiles on a staircase in Rio de Janeiro, many are from towns that you know very well! It’s both a colourful and powerful work of art. And it’s fun. And sporty (because you have to climb all these stairs). Basically the only thing missing is the chocolate.''The''Selaròn Steps''are in the''Lapa district'', and there are two other sights nearby that I would like to mention to you. One of them is the''Carioca Aqueduct''– that is just around the corner, not even a five-minute walk away. The impressive arches were built in the 18th century, and served to transport water from the river Carioca to the city. There is a big space in front the aqueduct where I was told people meet in the late afternoon to practice Capoeira, the Brazilian martial art form. I would have liked to see that, but we didn’t have enough time. Apart from that, Lapa is not the safest place.''The other sight is the''Cathedral of St. Sebastian of Rio de Janeiro''. Mind you, Rio has no shortage of churches and monasteries which you can visit, but this is the only one that looks like an alien space ship in the middle of a city (even more so at night, all lit up in neon colours). Which might not have been the intention of the architect, Edgar Fonceca, whose design was inspired by a Mayan pyramid. While it certainly gets mixed reviews from people with Christian faith, I thought it was stunning.''These sights are all free.''Honourable mentions''The Maracana Stadium''This open-air stadium was built for the World Cup in 1950, and is the biggest one in the whole of Brazil and South America. Although we aren’t sport fans, it’s a sight that was dearly recommended we visit, so we took a cab (but you can easily get there by''public transport'') and went to Rampa A for the tickets.''Unfortunately, the next guided tour in English was only in another three hours, when our research had made us think it was hourly. As I still can’t find any decent information on this on the Internet I suggest you inquire at the place you’re staying at and maybe ask them to call the Maracana customer service to make sure you’re going at the right time. This is the''official\xa0 Maracana website''.''The Favelas''‘Favela’ basically means ‘slum’. In Rio de Janeiro, various of these have grown around the city throughout the years. I had heard about them, and about drug lords, crime and violence. Didn’t really sound very intriguing. But then I read a fellow travel blogger’s post about''her stay in a favela'', and, in combination with the great and colourful pictures, suddenly it looked not at all ‘slummy’, but like a place that I wanted to visit, too!''We were very lucky to get to meet yet another travel blogger,''Kay'', while we were in Rio. She not only showed us the city, but also one of the Favelas, where she had been volunteering for months. We entered a world of colourful houses, steep and narrow roads, chaotic wires, splendid views, and a lot of people who looked at us with a bit of curiosity, but friendly. It was very special to see another side of the city, but bear in mind that a lot of controversy comes with what is essentially called ‘slum tourism’.''If you would like to go, make sure to do some research as to how to do it or who to go with, or at least inquire at the tourist office for a tour company/guide officially approved by them. Whilst in the Favela, we accidentally overheard a tour operator telling his group not to look anyone in the eye or it could end bad because people are very dangerous here. You do not want to be on a tour like that.''Miscellaneous''You won’t have trouble making your time in Rio work for you. There are many green areas and parks, including a National Park (''Tijuca National Park''); a big heart-shaped lagoon (Lagoa Rodrigo de Freitas), and countless look-outs. There are museums, galleries, churches and old forts. There are shopping centres, city tours, and a vibrant night-life.''For more detailed information,''WikiTravel''is a good resource, and of course, the''TripAdvisor community''has''plenty to say on Rio''!''Last words and further reading''WikiTravel will in fact help you out with most of your questions, like how to get around, or what to eat, or which districts might apply to whom when it comes to accommodation. Whatever you do,''please read up on the''Safety Warnings''before you go''! Rio has not won any awards yet for being the safest city on earth, so it’s good to be prepared and know how to react when something happens.''Speaking of accommodation''– we recommend checking out Rio’s listings on''Booking.com''or''TravelPony.com''– between those two we usually manage to find a great deal on accommodation without going crazy spending hours looking at booking sites!''Furthermore, get ready to''practise your Portuguese''! It’s very useful (like anywhere, really) to know a few words of the local language, like “bom-dia” (good day), “obrigado” (thank you), “Desculpe, eu nao falo portugues” (Sorry, I don’t speak Portuguese), “Voce fala ingles?” (Do you speak English?). We survived very well on “Bom-dia” and “Obrigado”, and pointing on maps and pictures.''Of course, we also had the wonderful Kay of''The Kay Days''show us around, who learned to speak fluent Portuguese after coming to Rio from America in order to study abroad. Thanks a billion, Kay!''So now you should be a bit equipped for your time in Rio. Even if you don’t go anytime soon, you can annoy your friends when you’re watching the World Cup together, by knowing more about Rio de Janeiro’s sights than they think you should.''Have a good time, everyone, and thanks for reading! Also, if you want to add another favourite sight of yours in the comments, please do!''Plan your Accommodation now!''Finding the best deal on your accommodation is an important part of trip planning – helping you to''get the most from your budget,''as well as''find the property that is right for you.''Our''current favorite way''to find the''best deals on accommodation''is with''HotelsCombined''. These guys let you search over 100 booking sites at once, including booking.com, Agoda and TravelPony, and nearly always get the best price.''Try them and see!''Alternatively, if you prefer an apartment or more of a hosted stay, then I recommend''AirBnB''. I’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get''a $25 discount''on your first booking with''this link!''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''SHARE ON''I recently had the pleasure of popping down to Athens for a few days, ostensibly to take part in the''Travel Trade Athens''show, but also to have a bit of fun exploring this city.''Since it’s the place where Western civilisation started and one which somehow I have never visited, I leapt at the chance to explore, and even tacked on a few days to my itinerary to take in a few more sights.''Conveniently, a lovely hotel in the Vougliameni region asked if I’d be interested in staying with them for a few nights during my time in Athens. Which seemed like a match made in heaven.''Ok, so the Vougliameni region, being 20km or so outside of Athens itself, is perhaps not the best location for city centre exploring if that’s your prime focus. It is however spectacularly beautiful in of itself, and makes a great base for seeing more of Athens and it’s beautiful surrounds.''I spent my first couple of days just wandering around Vougliameni with my camera, before heading for the city to see what that was all about. Wandering about with a camera is just about my favourite thing to do anywhere, but even more so when the scenery looks like this:''So I was quite happy. And relaxed. Two important things for any trip!''A little about Vougliameni.''It’s rich. Like Croesus. Well – for the most part. The Greek economic troubles of the past few years have certainly left their scars, with entire resorts, restaurants and buildings just walled off, graffiti’d and crumbling away. See that lovely looking resort in the shot below? Yeah, that’s surrounded by barbed wire, warning signs, and a general air of abandonment.''But the rest of Vougliameni appears to be doing just fine. Expensive cars pootle on by. Private beaches appear to be the norm, offering immaculate umbrellas and carefully raked sandy experiences. The restaurants that are open are sleek and tempting affairs. And the marina is home to some frankly insanely expensive looking yachts.''My wanders took me along some less private beaches (having grown up on a beach, I have an aversion to paying to get sand in my camera gear) and out to the headland, past the aforementioned marina, a wonderful place with a collection of deeply abandoned concrete structures and views of a water so blue it nearly exploded my brain.''Wildflowers lined the roadside, and a fleet of yachts scurried by, clearly in a rush to get somewhere. I scooted around, shooting in the midday day, scouting for a handy sunset location.''It turned out, happily, that that day-time location of above was pretty good in the evening as well.''Bonus point if you can spot the fisherman in either shot.''So yes – a great deal of wandering, a great many photos, a lot of reflection as to how an area so clearly well off could also be home to such abandonment. And a lot of relaxing.''Speaking of which, a few words about the hotel I stayed at in Vougliameni, the''Hotel Margi'', who were kind enough to put me up for three nights.''This is a rather luxury style spot, two minutes walk from a couple of jolly nice beaches, with its own pool (although April was a little early in terms of giving that a go) and a truly excellent restaurant.''At the latter I ate a pile of delicious things, none of which I photographed, because I am really bad at remembering to take pictures of the food I am eating. Suffice to say it was delicious, and featured plenty of good locally sourced produce, in particular seafood and lamb.''Location wise, it was a 25 minute taxi ride into central Athens, at an average cost of €25 each way. A public bus was also available, but that took a fair bit longer. There were plenty of places to eat nearby also, including a fantastic place for some classic Greek style treats such as souvlaki, which the concierge was happy to recommend. All in all – a good spot to stay – I suspect there is a reason they are''ranked #1 on TripAdvisor for hotels in Vougliameni''!''Overall, I really enjoyed my time in Vougliameni. I got to know a region of Athens that I’d likely not have visited otherwise, and got to both relax and have some time along with my camera and gorgeous scenery. Which is pretty much everything I need in a trip.''Next – I’ll be telling you all about my other experiences in Athens, including my adventures scaling the main mast of a yacht under full sail and my thoughts on visiting the Acropolis. Check out the subscription options below to be sure you don’t miss any of that good stuff!''As I hopefully made clear above, my stay at the''Margi Hotel''was complimentary, although I paid for all extras including that excellent dinner myself. If you’re visiting Greece and want somewhere near some beaches, with friendly staff and a pile of luxury, all within a 25 minute taxi ride of town, it’s a good pick! Check out what other travellers think on''TripAdvisor'', or, find more hotels like this via the''Destsetters portal'', who list some really quite lovely hotels across Greece''and many other countries''on their site.''SHARE ON''Having spent three months in Ecuador, we thought we’d put together an Ecuador travel guide full of tips and information that we accumulated while travelling throughout the country.''Maybe not everything will apply for you on your travels in Ecuador – after all, there are differences between the various regions and the way they do things, differences between the cities and the country-side, differences between budget and fancier travelling-, but I’m sure there’s something useful for you in it.''Ecuador Travel Guide''What to Bring to Ecuador''1. Sun-screen''Ecuador is on the equator (hence the name), and that means it’s closer to the sun. In other words: you should put''sun-screen''on any bits of skin that are exposed, no matter where you are, no matter if it’s cold or cloudy. Bring a nice big bottle of a least factor 30 sun-screen with you, because sun-screen is not as commonly available as you might think, and it’s quite expensive, too.''2. Tampons''They are not an item you will find in every shop, so save yourself the hassle of an exciting (and, depending on the location, fruitless) hunt for this sanitary product, and just bring your own supply.''3. Books''As we regularly frequent hostels and guest-houses, we have integrated book-swaps into our travel rhythm. We’ll bring a book and just keep on swapping during our travels. In Ecuador this doesn’t work as well – here (English or other foreign) books are more valuable, so if you are used to getting by with book-swapping, be prepared to pay. Hence you might want to bring some books along from home – or''stock up your Kindle''.''4. Ear plugs''Ear plugs''can easily be bought, but some people (including me) swear on a special kind. If you are one of these people, bring your own set of ear-plugs, because Ecuador can be quite a noisy place all in all.''Language in Ecuador''Prior to the trip, I read somewhere on the Internet that although Ecuador is a Spanish-speaking country, one could get by with English. This turned out to be wrong. You will indeed find many Ecuadorians who speak English, and the ones who do, speak it very well, too, but you cannot rely on that.''So make sure you have a cheat-sheet with the most useful words and phrases, or bring a little dictionary (you can also install one as an app on your phone). And then just wing it. We experienced Ecuadorians to be really relaxed about us mumbling and waving our hands. You will have to deal with the disbelief of some, though: “Que, you don’t speak Espagnol? But how is this possible?!”.''Money in Ecuador''So the Ecuadorian currency is the US Dollar, which is handy, I guess. Just be prepared that you might encounter troubles when you want to take money out of an ATM with your credit card. With some machines, your card won’t work (and for reasons of suspense, the ATM will tell you that right''after''five minutes of concentrated button pushing). It might not even be your card, the machine might just be out of money.''Other machines will not let you take out big amounts, so you might need to take out US$ 100 three times instead of US$ 300 once. Not so funny when you pay fees on top of each interaction. Some smaller towns/villages will also not have ATMs/banks, so be prepared.''But hey, you might be fine throughout your whole journey, just know that there can be issues and don’t panic when you encounter them (like I did when I tried to get money out upon our arrival and it didn’t work).''Also worth knowing when travelling in Ecuador:''change is useful''! I was relieved that the ATMs mostly give out US$ 20 bills, which I thought were reasonably small, but that turned out to be still too big. A lot of vendors will have trouble changing a US$ 20 bill when it comes to purchases that are below US$ 5. Mind you, they will run some place and get change, but if you appreciate a smooth interaction, have the coins ready.''Facilities in Ecuador''1. Toilets''One area where the coins come in handy, for example, are the public restrooms. The attendant usually asks for 5 Cents for men and 15 Cents for women to use the facilities (this may vary, of course), and the ladies will be given some toilet paper. However, not all restrooms everywhere have toilet paper, so having some tissues on you might be a good idea. It’s also possible that there is a toilet paper dispenser o u t s i d e the toilets, so keep an eye out.''In addition, said toilet paper goes into a bin, not in the toilet. I personally have never a problem remembering that as I’m terrified of the idea that I’ll block the toilet by throwing paper in, and then someone will have to come and fix the mess.''2. Tap water''The tap water is not drinkable. We usually buy big water containers and pour the water in our refillable bottles/camel bags, but we met a couple who have been travelling South America for over seven years now, Karen and Eric from''TransAmericasJourney'', who converted us.''They''use a Steripen''; a device that makes water drinkable through UV light. This is definitely the right thing to have when you don’t want to leave a trail of plastic bottles behind, and for our next journey to a country with undrinkable tap water, we’ll get one.''3. Beds''Not always, but sometimes, the beds in Ecuador were a bit shorter than what we are used to. I am 1.80m (6 feet) and that was just about okay, but if you are taller than that [I always had to think of my brother, who is 2.05m (6.7 feet)], be prepared to curl up!''4. Noise''By Western standards, a lot of places in Ecuador are really noisy, the night time being no exception. And it’s not just a thing of the week-end or areas with a lot of night-life. But we heard that it is rude to ask someone to turn the noise down. So, when I said, bring your ear-plugs, this is where you might be really glad you got them with you.''5. Laundry''I did not see a single launderette in Ecuador, but there’s always laundry services, and they are cheap and quick.''6. Restaurant tables''All tables in Ecuador wobble. Well okay, maybe just 98%. Nevertheless, this fact makes the list, and there’s nothing anybody can do about it.''Food & Drink in Ecuador''1. Food''Rice with meat or fish features highly on the menu, but you will also find Western food. The traditional Ecuadorian dishes are the cheapest. They become more expensive when the restaurant is nicer/in a nicer area, or the portions are bigger. Western food is also pricier.''Food is served when it’s ready, so if you’re eating out with other people, just start eating when you’re served, and don’t let your food go cold!''Popcorn is a popular appetizer. Dried plantain chips sometimes take the role of croutons in soups. And soups are a solid staple in Ecuador, our personal favourite being the encebollada, a hearty fish soup. Limes and a squeezer accompany most meals, and there is hardly a table without a little bowl containing a home-made sauce (salsa picante), a condiment that greatly differs in spiciness throughout the country.''A wonderful thing are the “almuerzos”: lunch specials. They start at around US$ 2.50, and you’ll normally get a soup, a main dish, and a juice (batida or jugo). Tasty and good value!''2. Drink''Most\xa0 “batidas” (shakes) and “jugos” (juices) are made of fresh fruit and taste incredibly good. Just remember that it is advised to be careful when it comes to consuming raw unpeeled fruit or vegetables in countries where the tap water is not safe for drinking. That being said, we ate and drank everything and lived to tell the tale.''Also worth knowing: soft drinks are called “colas” which sometimes leads to confusion, when you order a coke and the waiter keeps asking what kind.''3. Coffee''Ordering a coffee can mean that a cup with hot water and a jar of instant coffee is put before you. This version is cheap and does the job, but if that’s a deal-breaker to you, verify before you order.''4. Alcohol''We’ll let you find out everything about the alcohol by yourself, but do know that you can’t buy it in shops on Sundays. We kept forgetting that, but if you really got to have your fix, you can have alcohol in a restaurant, as long as you order food with it.''Accommodation in Ecuador''We had no trouble finding accommodation everywhere we went, at reasonable prices. Usually a private double could be had in the region of 20-30 USD per night for two, which normally included hot water and wifi. In the larger cities like Quito, accommodation tended to be a little more expensive, in the region of 40-50 USD per night for two.''We didn’t usually book in advance, but when we did, we generally used''Booking.com’s Ecuador listings''. It’s our go-to site for finding good value accommodation, and the short notice cancellation policy can be really handy.''Getting around Ecuador''We used mostly''overland busses''to get from town to town or across the country. Apart from one time, there was always one leaving just after we got to the bus stop/station.''While you often just hop on, choose a seat, and wait for the driver’s assistant to come around and collect the fare, in the bigger bus terminals you’ll buy your ticket at the complying company’s booth. It’s possible that you get handed an additional piece of paper, a tax receipt, which you will need to get into your terminal, so hold on to it.''Buses in Ecuador are comfy, and often come with music or a television. Vendors will hop on and off with food and drinks, and don’t be surprised by those guys who stand in the front of the bus and give proper speeches about diets and other stuff, in order to sell supplements, chocolates, or anything, really. We even had a comedy duo on a bus once!''Alternatives to the big busses can be''mini-busses''or''inland flights'', although these connect mostly the bigger cities. For longer trips (5 hours plus), do a quick research on the Internet beforehand to find out if there’s a difference between bus companies – you don’t want to be on the bus that takes 8 instead of 6 hours if you don’t have to, right?''There is a''train''line between Quito and Guayaquil but it’s more or less a tourist train – it doesn’t have a regularly scheduled service.''Safety in Ecuador for Travellers''Rumour has it that in Ecuador one needs to seriously look after their belongings. That is exactly what we did, and in contrast to other travellers we met, we got away with no negative experience at all, although I’m sure, a bit of luck was involved there as well.''Travelling with company is definitely a bonus, whether it’s your partner or a friend. Together, you look out for each other and are therefore not the ideal target.''One way or the other, you want to make it as hard as possible for anyone to steal from you. Read up on''common scams'', so you don’t easily fall for them. Always know exactly where your valuables are and keep them safe and out of sight. In that regard: don’t bring anything valuable that you don’t really need with you in the first place.''We took that to a level where we didn’t bring and wear any jewellery, or watches, and avoided taking our phones or cameras out when it wasn’t necessary. None of our clothing was new or fancy, either. When you are travelling around, you really don’t need to dress to impress in Ecuador.''We always asked at the place we were staying at about safety, and got relevant advice. Thus we knew if it was safe to stay out at night, which area to avoid, which place not to walk but take a taxi to, and if we could wander around with our cameras on display or not.''Public transport within cities did not get the thumbs up from anyone we met, so we avoided that. Also we had been warned that on overland busses, someone might slit your backpack between your feet from the seat behind you, so we kept our backpacks on our laps (or made sure it was impossible to access them from the seat behind).''In that regard you should also wear your day-pack in the front when in crowded areas.''What else?''The stamps are bloody expensive! …I have to mention that. You see, when I’m abroad for longer, I write postcards. Like, at least 50. For which you would need 50 stamps. Which always adds up, but this time it went to a whole new level: the postage for a regular postcard cost me US$ 2,50 in the Galapagos, and US$ 3 on the mainland. So if you are an avid postcard writer – start saving!''And that was it! We hope you’ll leave the page having found something useful. If you have already been to Ecuador, and have an additional tip, share it in the comments below! Thanks for reading and safe travels!''SHARE ON''Fourteen posts in''this series''. Who’d have thought it? In that time the''Facebook Page''of this site has grown somewhat, with us about to cross the 100,000 fans line. Naturally we’re delighted about that.''Still, not everyone uses Facebook, and even those of you that do probably aren’t on it every minute of the day. So, in case you missed any of the photos we’ve shared there over the last couple of months, here are some of the most popular ones for your visual enjoyment!''The long room in Dublin’s Trinity College is a highlight of any''visit to Dublin''. Even if getting a photo without anyone it it is a bit of a challenge.''Another one from my''trip to Ireland''last year. The scenery in this country is just spectacular.''This is where the composer Grieg lived for a good portion of his life, just outside the picturesque town of Bergen in Norway. If you’re visiting Bergen, we have some ideas for''things to do right here''.''The Wave Rock in''outback Western Australia''is really quite remarkable as a geological structure, looking as it does like a five meter high frozen wave of rock. Naturally, a picture of oneself surfing said rock is de riguer when visiting…''Oh,''New Zealand''. So pretty. This was a sunset on the North Island in the Tongariro National Park, where we were lucky enough to be based for a few months during our year in New Zealand. A country you have to visit.''Also New Zealand – this time down on the south island. Check out my series of''guides to New Zealand''to get more inspiration for your trip!''Berlin.''Barcelona''has everything – food, architecture, mountains and more. And even a beach. It’s possibly my favourite town in Europe. Sorry''Venice''.''I whizzed through Belgium last year on a whistle stop tour of Europe. We spent more time in''Ghent''than in the capital, but we did manage to get a few photos during our time there. Enough to convince me that we need to go back anyway..''Ah, that Costa Brava coastline. A handy place for a nice sunset after a''long day of cycling''…''Greece! I’m actually just back from spending a few days in Greece, but I snaffled this shot last year at the end of''a yacht race I was lucky enough to take part in'', from Brindisi to Corfu. I’ll be sharing a lot more from my recent visit to Athens in upcoming posts, stay tuned!''While I was''in Berlin'', I was able to spend a bit of time exploring parts of the city''I’ve not visited before'', as well as''meeting friends''to enjoy sunsets like this one, at the magnificent abandoned Tempelhof airport. If you only do one thing in Berlin, make sure it’s a visit to this city centre airport at sunset. Ideally with friends, and beer.''I already mentioned''Barcelona''. It’s hard not to visit without popping in to see at least''one of Gaudi’s works'', and the Sagrada Familia is a pretty good choice. Over one hundred years in construction, and still counting, rumours are that it might be finished in the next couple of decades. I’m not holding my breath, but in my opinion, it’s pretty spectacular as it is. If you’re looking for more ideas for filling your time in Barcelona, check out our''suggested itinerary for a day in Barcelona''.''When we visited Ecuador in the Winter of 2013/14, my first goal was to spend some time near or on a beach. The town of Montanita sated that need for a week or so, even if we later decided that''Canoa''was our''favourite beach town in Ecuador''.''New Zealand again''! Yep, it’s a stunning place. We need to get back out there with more photography equipment! This shot is taken near the end of the Routeburn track in the''Fiordland National Park''.''One of the things I love about living in non-tropical climates are the variations in the season, with Spring being a real highlight, particularly when everything is exploding into blossom. So here’s a photo from France of that very thing happening!''And finally, a last shot from my recent trip to Athens. Like I said, I’ve got a whole host of photos from that week long trip to share, so watch out for some posts coming your way soon. Check the links in italics below to find out how to subscribe so as not to miss any of those, and as always, thanks for reading!''SHARE ON''After we finished up our''10 day tour of the Galapagos with GalaKiwi'', we independently stayed an additional nine nights on San Cristobal island, exploring all the options that it had to offer.''In this post we’re going to go through everything you need to know about visiting this island, and the Galapagos in general, as an independent traveller. We’ll cover all the highlights of San Cristobal as well as how to get to and from the Galapagos, where to stay on the Galapagos Islands, budgetary considerations and so on.''We’d recommend reading this post in conjunction with our “''Preparing and Planning for a Galapagos Trip''” post, to ensure you are fully prepared!''a''San Cristobal is the perfect island in the Galapagos for the independent traveller. Unlike the majority of the islands in the Galapagos, it has a good number of attractions that you are allowed to visit without a Galapagos National Park guide – although there are of course some attractions that you do need a guide for.''It also has a wide choice of accommodation options and is directly connected to the mainland by regular flights. If you want to visit the Galapagos independently, then this is the island we recommend you base yourself from.''How to Travel to the Galapagos Independently''Getting to and from the Galapagos Islands''Getting to San Cristobal''from mainland Ecuador is easy as there is a relatively new airport on the island with flights from both Guayaquil and Quito with Aerogal, Tame and LAN. Flight costs vary from $400 – $600 return depending on time of year. You need to buy a return ticket unless you can prove you have another means of leaving, but changing the return date on your ticket is not a big challenge.''You also need to buy a specific visa for the Galapagos, which you can get at the airport you leave from at a cost of $10. When departing, you’ll go through a special part of the airport where they scan your bags for agricultural products – obviously it’s a good idea to avoid having any in your bag before heading out!''Finally, upon arrival into the Galapagos you have to pay a $100 park entry fee per person. Bring cash to cover that.''Getting around on San Cristobal''is easy. There are countless taxis, and a ride from the airport to the main town, Puerto Baquerizo Moreno, will take about five minutes and cost around a dollar. It’s also easily walkable, taking around twenty minutes, but if it’s hot and you’ve got baggage, a taxi will be easier.''Once you’re settled in, most locations are in easy walking distance, with a few spots best accessed by bike. If you want to head up into the highlands or across to Puerto Chino on the other side, then you can grab a taxi, or, for the truly fit / deranged amongst you, cycle.''Accommodation on the Galapagos – San Cristobal''The main town of Puerto Baquerizo Moreno is where you are likely to be basing yourself as this is where pretty much everything is. There are other villages on the island, but they are predominantly just farming communities.''There is a''variety of accommodation''on offer. We found that price varied from a minimum of around $40 a night for a double with en-suite and air conditioning, and went up to around $100, based on two people sharing.''There is a high season, which falls between November and February, and we were advised that whilst prices don’t really change, the availability will. This can also be said for June to August. Nearly all the hotels are locally owned and operated.''If you want to stay longer, there is also the option to rent a room or an apartment, or take part in a homestay with a local. Lots of people have spare rooms available and love to host international guests. Prices for these options vary, but are likely to be $10 – $15 a day, which might include some meals. The easiest way to find these is to just ask around when you arrive, but you can also check out websites like''homestay.com''or''AirBnB''.''During our trip we stayed at a couple of places –''Casa Blanca''(pictured with the dome), and''Hostal Casa de Laura''. The former was a little more pricey because that was their best room, but it did offer a great view. The latter was excellent value for money. Note that at the time of writing, both these properties have to be booked directly via their websites.''Food in the Galapagos''Finding food on San Cristobal is easy – there are plenty of options to choose from – and if you’re into seafood then you’re in for a treat.''Prices vary. You can easily pick up a locally oriented breakfast of fish soup (encebollado) or a lunch deal consisting of soup, main dish with rice and juice (almuerzos) for $3 to $4. If you want more options, then there are plenty of places to choose from, ranging from''this popular seafront spot''to the San Jose Grill, the latter of which is awesome for BBQ’d specialities. For seafood, we particularly enjoyed''Descanso del Marinaro''.''Of course, you pay more for these options, with prices ranging from $10 – $20 per item.''Finding a Tour operator in the Galapagos & Gear Hire''The operator we were visiting the Galapagos with,''GalaKiwi'', don’t offer single day trips as they specialise in multi-day tour packages. However, they were kind enough to recommend the following operators for day trips and diving from San Cristobal:''Islanders Galapagos''. We did a day trip with these guys at a cost of around $125 per person up to Punta Pitt. This was a full day tour and included lunch, gear hire and a guide, and was very much worth it. More on day tours in the''what to do''section below.''If you’re into diving, then we were advised to recommend''WreckBay''. We don’t dive, however they are the firm that''GalaKiwi''use if they have clients who have diving needs, and we trust their opinion.''Finally, if you’re looking to hire gear, from snorkelling equipment to bikes or surf boards you will find that these are available from many places at hourly, half day or daily rates. Just check the equipment is in decent condition before setting off.''Other essentials in the Galapagos – money / health / safety / shopping''Money –''When we visited, there were three ATM’s available, one of which had an actual bank branch (Banco Pacifico). Unfortunately none of these ATM’s would dispense us money, which wasn’t an entirely uncommon theme in Ecuador where only certain bank branches worked with our Visa credit card. Luckily, the bank branch itself would give us money, although this did cost us a bank transfer fee.''Health –''There is a clinic on San Cristobal, but any serious medical emergency will likely require you to be taken to the mainland. We always recommend having good medical insurance with evacuation cover wherever you travel in the world, and the Galapagos is no different.''Safety –''The Galapagos islands are very safe, we walked around with our cameras out at all times of the day and night and felt perfectly safe. In that respect, it’s a marked difference from cities like Quito or Guayaquil. Obviously you should always keep a close eye on your belongings wherever you are, but we felt very safe here.''Shopping –''Along the main boardwalk there are some little shops and souvenir stands. A few blocks back from this are a couple of reasonably sized supermarkets, although be aware that things do cost a bit more here than mainland Ecuador. There is also a truly excellent bakery at the north end of town.''What to do on San Cristobal in the Galapagos''There is a lot to do on San Cristobal. Unlike many of the other islands in the Galapagos, you can do a great deal on this island without needing a Galapagos National Park ranger, although some attractions do require taking a tour. In no particular order, here are some ideas for passing your time on this wonderful island:''1. Las Loberias Beach''At the other end of the airport, and around a 5 minute taxi / 15 minute cycle / 40 minute walk from town is the beach of''Las Loberias''. It’s a picturesque little cove where you can get up close with marine iguanas on rocks, and snorkel with sea lions. It’s a really nice place to pass a few hours.''If you’re feeling like a slightly longer hike, you can take a walk on past the beach and along the cliffs, which offer some spectacular views of the coast and the unspoilt island wilderness. Very much worth it in our opinion.''2. Visit the''Treehouse'', as part of a trip to a gorgeous beach, Giant Tortoises and a Crater Lake''Regular readers might be aware that we spent one of our nights in the''Galapagos sleeping in a treehouse''! This may not be for everyone (it’s open air, and the highlands get their fair share of bugs), but it’s open throughout the day, and you can visit for a nominal fee to see this marvellous construction.''This would be a good excursion to combine as a full day trip across to''Puerto Chino'', the beach on the other side of the highlands, as well as visiting the tortoises at''Galapaguera''and the Laguna El Junco crater lake walk way up in the highlands.''For this trip you’re looking at at least five hours, and so you’d be best off hiring a taxi for the excursion. This would cost in the region of around $50 to do so – arrange the price in advance.''3. Drink coffee''Before we visited the Galapagos, we had no idea that these islands were home to some of the most sought after coffee in the world. At Starbucks, if they have it, a cup of Galapagos coffee can set you back as much as $8 a cup.''Or, you could drop in to the Mockingbird Cafe on San Cristobal, operated by the chap who oversees the main coffee plantation on the island, and get a cup for much less, safe in the knowledge that it’s entirely organically produced with a seriously low transport cost!''We were lucky enough to have an''exclusive tour of the coffee plantation''set up for us. This isn’t generally available to the public, but if you’re nice to the owner of the''Mockingbird Cafe'', maybe you’ll be able to figure something out! Or, you could''read our post''on the subject instead.''4. Take a Tour to Punta Pitt''As previously mentioned, you can do a great deal on San Cristobal island entirely by yourself. However, there are two experiences that we absolutely insist you do, both of which will require you to take a licensed tour operator.''The first is a ride up to Punta Pitt. This is at the far eastern end of the island, featuring a crazy volcanic landscape that you won’t find anywhere else on the island. It’s also home to all three species of booby, in particular the harder to spot red-footed booby, which we were lucky enough to spot during nesting season.''The visit requires you to take a boat to the end of the island (there’s no road), followed by a walk which is just under 2km. It’s not overly taxing, but there is a bit of uphill, there’s little shade, and the Galapagos is a hot place. So bring sunscreen, a hat and a water bottle! For more on''preparing and planning for a Galapagos trip'', take a look at our''detailed post on that subject''.''5. Take a Tour to Kicker Rock''We’ve spent a fair amount of time snorkelling, including time in the''stunning Similan Islands of Thailand'', but we’ve never had a snorkelling experience like that at Kicker Rock off San Cristobal.''Within seconds of getting in the water we were following a three metre wide manta ray, before becoming distracted by a pod of dolphins who wanted to say hello. Shortly after, we were snorkelling between the walls of the sleeping lion (named so by the locals for the shape of the rock), where there were turtles, reef sharks and countless fish.''Then there were eagle rays, sea lions and a gigantic ball of fish to swim through, before the day topped itself off with an encounter with at least a hundred hammerhead sharks.''So yes –''Kicker Rock''. If you do only one day trip on San Cristobal, make it this one. If you are lucky, you might be able to find a company doing a day trip that includes both Kicker Rock and Punta Pitt in one full day adventure, which would be a truly unforgettable experience.''6. Watch the Sunset at Punta Carola''There is nothing we like better than watching the sun set over the sea, and San Cristobal offers some good locations for this – the best of which is''Punta Carola'', also known as Lovers Beach.''A popular spot with locals,visitors and sea lions alike, this little sandy cove offers gorgeous sunset views as well as great surfing. Yes, the Galapagos are also a surfing destination for the well heeled surfer. Who knew?''You can either watch the sunset from the beach, or take a walk up Cerro Tijeratas hill, as mentioned below, for a great view from above.''Getting to''Punta Carola''involves a walk – you can either head past the interpretation centre (see below) or through the interpretation centre and follow the path. It’s not hard to find, and anyone on the island will be able to point you in the right direction if you lose track of where you’re going. On the way you will walk past Playa Mann, the closest beach to town which gets very popular on the weekends and is great to cool off either on the way to or back from Punta Carola.''7. Visit the Interpretation Centre''One of the main reasons you’ve come to the Galapagos is to learn about the history of the islands, from the wildlife through to the geology and also the human inhabitants. And, after visiting a few locations on a number of the islands, we concluded that the best place to learn about all of the above was the''Interpretation Centre''on San Cristobal.''This building contains everything you might need to know about the islands, without being too overwhelming. Handy displays walk you through how the islands formed (and continue to form: the Galapagos are still actively volcanic), how the wildlife came to be and its importance in our understanding of biology, as well as the history of the people of the islanders.''The latter was fascinating – the history of the Galapagos people is often a story of tragedy and desperation, of people battling to survive in a land which was deeply unwelcoming. Plus, there are tales of murder, mystery and intrigue. Even better, the Interpretation Centre is entirely free to visit. We highly recommend you visit early on in your stay to get a good feel for where you are. It can be found a short walk to the north of town, or a 2 minute taxi ride from the town centre.''8. Walk up Frigate Bird / Cerro Tijeratas Hill for a spectacular view''Around the back of the Interpretation centre is a loop trail which takes you to Punta Carola as well as up to Cerro Tijeratas Hill, from where you can get very close to Frigate Birds, as well as get a great view of the island, Kicker Rock, and the sun setting into the sea.''It’s not a particularly challenging walk, although the last section does require you to go up the hill via a staircase. If you’re feeling fit, the trail carries on along the ridge and to another gorgeous beach which is rarely visited.''Below the hill there’s a cove which is excellent for snorkelling and is also home to a statue of Charles Darwin. This is believed to be where he first made landfall on his historic voyage to the islands. From his statue you can see blue footed boobies as well as frigate birds wheeling overhead.''9. Hang out with Sea Lions''Saving the best for last! Without doubt, our highlight on San Cristobal were the sea lions. These guys are literally everywhere, in far greater quantities than on any of the other islands, lying on benches, in the road, on boats… yep, generally everywhere you can imagine.''They are very used to humans (although you aren’t supposed to get within 2 metres of any animal in the Galapagos), so are easy to take photos of. They are also endearingly, unbelievably cute. We visited in December, which happened to coincide with sea lion babies being everywhere. And if there’s anything cuter than a baby sea lion wobbling across the sand, I don’t know what it is. So yes, sea lions. You can’t miss them.''Summary of an Independent Trip to San Cristobal Island, Galapagos''Before I visited the Galapagos, I wondered if it would live up to expectation. And the answer, is yes, yes they do. Although we were invited on a tour with GalaKiwi, we paid for our own flights to the islands as well as for our subsequent nine days of independent exploration and accommodation on San Cristobal. And we would go back in an instant. They are just that marvellous of a place.''We would very much recommend doing an organised tour if you have the budget. We went with''GalaKiwi'', who gave us an amazing experience, took care of all the logistics, made sure we learnt everything we possibly could about the islands, and basically''filled every day with awesome experiences''.''However, if your budget doesn’t quite stretch to it, or you really prefer doing things yourself, or you just happen to have some free time after a tour, then we can highly recommend basing yourself on San Cristobal for your trip, and exploring from here. It has everything you could want to experience, is easy to get to, from, and around, has plenty of accommodation options, and is far less busy than Santa Cruz with more to do.''Further Reading for your Independent Galapagos Adventure''Want to know more about''planning a trip to the Galapagos''? Check out this''comprehensive guide''we wrote, which contains tips on things to bring, how to get between the islands, and an insider’s guide to going to the loo on a boat.''We also have a series of''other posts from our Galapagos adventures''to inspire you,''here'', plus a guide to''what to pack for the Galapagos''. Enjoy!''SHARE ON''Cnoc Suain. A name that rolls gently down your tongue… Just not my tongue, I’m afraid; no, sorry. We’re in a part of Ireland where the street signs are Irish only, and I might need a Guinness before I even dare to try to pronounce anything that is on them. But alas, there’s no Guinness, because we are on a bus and on our way to some historic cottages, known by the name of… Cnoc Suain. Which is Irish for “restful hill”. –Yes, yes, that was unexpected, I know. I thought it was a dish. Cnoc Suain. But maybe I’m just nibbly.''Anyway, Cnoc Suain is NOT a dish, and it’s in Western Ireland, more precise: in Connemara, just a half-hour ride from the city of Galway,''home to those hookers''. It’s not a shabby half an hour, either, noses pressed against the window, but when the bus stops and we walk a up the gateway to the cottages, we see a landscape that is the culmination of our trip here: simply rugged and beautiful.''A bit reluctantly we turn our backs on it to step through a bright red door into one of the pretty white houses with a thatch roof, where Dearbhaill Standún awaits us. She and her husband Charlie Troy own this homestead – and the 200 acres of land that belong to it. They have restored the buildings from the 17th century that had lain deserted for more than 50 years, and the result is impressive.''It’s here where you get a good chance to learn about and experience traditional Irish culture; be it the language, the history, the music, or the relation-ship of the people to the land and to nature. Although the setting might be historic, Dearbhaill bridges past and present easily. For her it’s not about remembering the old times; it’s about customs that are on the decline. Customs of great value that do in fact have a place in our modern world; practices that were part of life for hundreds of years for very good reasons.''Well, maybe not all of them, admittedly. For example, the reason why there are little windows in this cottage is because windows used to be taxed heavily. A policy that understandably did not go down so well with the people, who coined it “daylight robbery”, and sometimes even resorted to brick their windows up.''Indeed, there were a lot of things to keep in mind when you were planning to build a house. You needed building permission, but not from anyone, no. The ones who needed to be consulted in this matter were “the Good People” – fairies! So when you had found a good spot for your cottage, you would put four stones down on the ground to mark your chosen place, and then leave them overnight. Were they knocked down on the next morning, it meant that they were in the way of the Good People, and you should built your house somewhere else. Obviously you do not want to get in the way of fairies; I think we all know that much!''Dearbhaill also talks about the importance of music to the Irish. Instruments used to be hard to get. In the beginning of the last century, a lot of young teenage girls emigrated to America and would sent home parcels with money, clothes, food – and instruments.''Today you can easily buy musical instruments, but they don’t play the role they used to, back in the days when people visited each other all the time. Dearbhill also sings a song for us: it’s just her voice in the cottage, different tunes from what we’re used to but strangely intriguing and beautiful, even though we don’t understand any of the words, which are Gaelic.''The Irish language is in fact something that is very close to Dearbhill’s heart. There are three Irish speaking communities in Ireland today: Donegal, Connemara, and Kerry/Cork. Under British rule it was forbidden to speak or learn Irish, and during the Great Famine a significant part of the Irish population died or emigrated, dealing the language another blow.''Today a lot of effort is made to maintain the Irish language: every child learns it at school and has to pass an exam, too. Dearbhaill stresses that Irish needs to be spoken, and not taught like a dead language, which is how they started out with when they reintroduced it into the schools.''We learn about the secrets of the seemingly bleak landscape, which is in fact full of plants, many of which are only rediscovered today. They are not only good as food, but also as medicine, beauty product, cloth, dye… We are offered to try a traditional dessert, made of milk and …algae! Algae has always been on the Irish plate, but suffered from the reputation of being a food for poor people after the Great Famine. With the popularity of sushi the little versatile plant has found its way back into the light, and it’s hard to believe it had ever been shunned.''Dearbhaill even prepares a soda bread for us, but then Charlie takes over. He brings us to another room with many samples of greenery and other stuff, a microscope and posters on the wall. His mission: teaching us all about the bog. Probably most important: a bog is a preserve, “So don’t drop your dead bodies there!!” – good thing I learned that before falling for the temptation! A book about “Bog bodies” makes the round, and yes, point made – they don’t dissolve. Charlie passes a little animal bone around that he keeps in a jar with bog water, and sure enough, the bone feels and bends like it is made of rubber.''But the bog can do more: the peat from it can be cut out in pieces, dried and then burnt. This comes in handy in a country where there aren’t exactly dense forests everywhere, providing wood to heat your home. So even today people burn peat in their ovens, although it’s not necessarily hand-cut anymore, but taken out by a digger. Charlie is not a fan of this method, as the digger destroys the living layer of the bog, causing all sorts of problems.''To lighten things up, he recommends a session in the “bog spa” which will definitely give you a great permanent tan (due to the tannins) and is supposed to have anti-wrinkle properties. Somehow none of us runs out to immerge themselves in the bog… But there are people who do it, no kidding – hey, you can even go for bog snorkels! While we are still contemplating how you snorkel a bog, Dearbhaill asks us to follow her to another house, where Steve awaits us.''Steve is a musician, but the Irish kind, which means he’s a proper entertainer at the same time. He introduces and plays various instruments, tapping his feet and throwing in plenty of little jokes for good measure. He talks about pub music culture and sessions, about songs that have been passed on over 500 years, mouth music (also known as lilting) and finally urges Dearbhaill to join him with her violin for a little duet.''Seeing our heads bobbing along, he declares that of course in Ireland music comes with dancing, and wouldn’t we like to give it a try! Dearbhaill explains the choreography (“It’s like an American square dance!”) and we’re doing pretty well – at least that’s what we think before we realise that Steve has been playing extra-slow for us, because he’s getting a lot faster all of a sudden. Our limbs do not appreciate the tempo change and declare themselves too disoriented to go on without breaking a leg or at least embarrassing ourselves very much.''So we thank Steve and follow Dearbhaill and Charlie outside, where they take us on a last little walk to the remaining cottages which you can rent for a holiday. They talk about future projects, all which aim to integrate old knowledge into the present and show people how rich Gaelic culture is.''I think they’re doing pretty well – the hours we spent here flew by and I have the suspicion that what Dearbhaill and Charlie shared with us is just a fragment of their knowledge. I’m not surprised Cnoc Suain has won numerous awards, and I certainly wish them many more, as I think it’s a great thing they’ve got going on.''If this is the sort of thing that sounds interesting to you and you would like to visit, check out''Cnoc Suains website'', where you can find a contact form, and also learn more about Dearbhaill’s and Charlie’s background and their property in the''About Us''section. Slán go fóill!''Our trip was part of the travel blogging conference TBEX in Ireland, and was made possible by Fáilte Ireland, Tourism Ireland and Cnoc Suain. Thanks a lot to everyone involved. The inability to pronounce Cnoc Suain properly to this very day remains entirely my own.''SHARE ON''Nearly three years ago, I''rounded up some of my favourite apps for travel''. Well, three years is a long time in the tech world, so that list is long overdue a refresh.''Let’s see what’s changed, and what’s stayed the same in that time. We’ll start with:''Maps With Me''(new entry!)''I’m not going to lie, for a long time Google Maps was my go-to mapping companion, as I outlined in''my previous app round up''. Unfortunately, over time it seems to have become less and less useful, with features being mysteriously taken away, apparently in the name of a stream-lined user experience.''When I was in Ecuador, my friends Karen and Eric of''Trans-Americas Journey''recommended I give Maps With Me a go, and I’ve not looked back. Sorry Google.''A couple of key features stand out – one is the ability to download maps for offline viewing, which is a major benefit when travelling. In an ideal world of course we’d be connected all the time – the reality is that we aren’t. And in some countries (I’m looking at you,''New Zealand''), data is bogglingly expensive. So being able to have maps available offline is a major benefit. Sure, Google lets you download parts of a map for offline viewing, but in my experience this tends to be buggy and the maps occasionally vanish exactly at the point you need them.''The second fact that made Maps With Me stand out when travelling in Ecuador was that it actually had maps for the areas we were visiting. Let me give you an example, using the''lovely little town of Otavalo''as an example.''Here is a Google Maps screenshot of Otavalo:''And here’s the Maps With Me equivalent:''As you can see, Google doesn’t believe that Otavalo really exists.''Now, obviously, this coverage varies, but certainly I have found that on multiple occasions, Maps With Me seems to beat out Google Maps, and if it doesn’t beat it, then it at least equals it.''Other features that you’d expect from a mapping application include of course built-in location support, letting you find yourself on the map so you can get your bearings and figure out what’s around you. It’s also very fast and easy to use.''Maps With Me comes in two flavours. The free version has nearly everything the Pro version has. Notable exceptions include not being able to save locations or search for places offline. Since those are both handy features, I paid for the full version.''There is one main disadvantage that Maps With Me has compared to Google Maps, and that is a lack of routing, although Google Maps does need a data connection for that.''Available on''Google Play''for Android, and the''iTunes store''for iOS.''ConvertPad''Hanging on for three years as a stalwart of my travelling toolkit, Convertpad lets me convert from one series of units to another. As a traveller it’s most handy for the up to date currency conversion rates, but you can also convert nearly anything else, including shoe sizes, length (ever wondered how many twips are in a metre?) and many more units that you have certainly never heard of.''Available on''Google Play''for Android (ad-free and paid versions),''similar tools''are available for iOS.''TripIt''(new entry!)''If you travel a lot, then keeping track of itineraries, flight numbers and train times can be a bit of a headache. Enter TripIt, which connects to your e-mail accounts, keeps an eye out for booking confirmation e-mails, and puts them all into a travel itinerary, including details like your booking reference, seat number and so on. It’ll even tell you the\xa0 forecast weather for your trip, and can pop all your trip details into your calendar for you.''The standard version is free, but you can also subscribe to the service for a yearly fee of $49, which includes a frequent flier points tracker and real time flight alerts, which are handy for notifications of delays or changes to your flight times''Available on''Google Play''for Android (ad-free and paid versions), and the''iTunes store''for iOS.''Triposo''(new entry!)''If Maps With Me is the perfect offline mapping application, then Triposo is its equivalent offline guidebook app. Pulling data from crowd-sourced travel sites like''WikiVoyage'', Triposo lets you download country or city guides to your device for use offline.''Being crowd-sourced, it is only as good as the data the users put into it, but I’ve found it handy for finding the main attractions in a new city, as well as insights on how to get around and where to eat. Plus, at the price of free, it can’t be beaten!''Available on''Google Play''for Android, and the''iTunes store''for iOS.''Prey Anti Theft''The amount of information that we store on our smartphones these days is quite amazing, making the loss of one a potential serious security risk, particularly if you don’t have a PIN or other security feature enabled. Imagine a thief not only having access to your shiny device, but also full access to all your e-mail, social media accounts, cloud storage… the mind boggles.''That’s why Prey remains on my essential travel apps list. It lets you remotely lock, wipe and track your device should the worst happen. Google now offers Android owners the''Android Device Manager'', which has some of the functionality of Prey, and should definitely be activated, but Prey has additional features, including SMS activation, that make it a more powerful alternative in my mind. Free for up to three devices, which includes laptops.''Available on''Google Play''for Android, and the''iTunes store''for iOS.''Onavo Extend (new entry!)''Data! This page has focused a lot on apps that work offline, but sometimes you just need to be online, and WiFi isn’t quite available worldwide just yet. In those cases you need data, which is usually billed based on usage.''Enter Onavo Extend, a handy app that runs in the background and compresses all the data you use, saving you money (because you use less data) and time (because there is less data to download). A truly essential app for getting the most from your data allowance when on the road. And even when not! Plus, it’s free.''Available on''Google Play''for Android.''Google Translate''Google Translate made our list the last time round too, but in those three years, it has added some significant features that have made it even more valuable to the traveller. Top of the list of these new features is the offline functionality (Android only), which lets you perform translations offline! No more pesky data connection requirement. It also now features handwriting recognition, and will translate text taken by your phone’s camera.''The offline feature does require the download of the dictionary data for the languages you’d like to translate between, which are not of insignificant size, but if you’re travelling somewhere where you aren’t sure what your network connection is going to be like, it is a fantastic addition, and has ensured that this app stays firmly in our travel toolkit. Free.''Available on''Google Play''for Android, and the''iTunes store''for iOS.''Snapseed''(new entry!)''When you’re travelling, you’re likely going to be taking pictures of your adventures to share with friends and family. We highly recommend the easy to use Snapseed editing application to give your photos that extra bit of pop. It’s got everything you need for photo editing on the go, and happens to be free to boot. I wrote a''full guide to Snapseed here''– once you’ve tried it, you won’t need any other photo editors!''Available on''Google Play''for Android, and the''iTunes store''for iOS.''SHARE ON''We did get very high in Ecuador’s capital Quíto, my oh my! 2,850 metres above the sea level. That makes Quito the second-highest capital in the world, right after La Paz in Bolivia (3,640m). But Bolivia cheated with the title, because they have several capitals (I see, how convenient!). There. Team Quito.''The altitude''If you were disappointed about me not keeping up with vague drug references I might have made in the title: not so fast! Because this is some serious altitude we’re talking here, and it does have a few funky effects. In fact, it is recommended that you ease into the altitude, and go up gradually.''This is of course not always possible, for example when you’re flying into the country. We did both: once we came up from the coast with a bus (and up it is; up, up, up!) and the other time we flew in with a plane. In our case there wasn’t a big difference. We definitely always felt the altitude, but we never had any serious problems because of it.''In fact, it was quite an adventure: there’s less oxygen in the air, and boy, going up a tiny flight of stairs feels like climbing Mount Everest. I constantly felt like I had just worked out and was very proud of myself. Oh yeah, that’s the other side effect: feeling a bit dopey. Hence I failed to acknowledge that going up ten steps of stairs is not really a massive achievement. So I might have been mistaken, but I was happy. Yay altitude.''Another great thing about the altitude is that you can blame everything on it. Which we did. Extensively. A bit of a headache? “Must be the altitude!”. Thirsty all the time? “That’s the altitude!”. Feeling a bit nauseous? “It’s the altitude!”. Dry lips, eyes, throat, skin? “Ugh! That altitude!”. Discovered a pimple? “Oh altitude!”. Running into a lamp post? “Because… the altitude!”.''All in all, it actually just means that you feel a bit “off”, and you want to make sure to keep well hydrated and to listen to your body when it tells you to take it easy.''So we pretty much moved about like snails. Slightly confused snails. We couldn’t walk as fast as we normally do, we needed double the time to achieve anything, we had a bit of a difficulty concentrating. Which was probably a blessing in Loz’s case, because due to his luggage getting lost, we had to check out all of Quito’s shopping centres for partially quite specific replacements. And Loz does''not''enjoy shopping.''Although it wasn’t too bad, because we mainly went to outdoor and technic shops. At least we can now totally recommend the shopping experience in Quito – the malls are really nice!''Safety''But usually mall-hopping is not on our list when we come to a new place, and sure thing, we had some time left to check out a few of the sights Quito has to offer. Which brings us to the next point: Quito does not have a reputation for being a very safe city. So we were not only dazed and confused snails wandering around, but also slightly paranoid snails. Best combination, really.''We were told to be careful with our belongings, and put them away safely (for example no wallet in your back pocket). This included that we should only take our cameras out when we wanted to take a picture – nothing valuable should be on display. Furthermore we were advised to not use public transport. While overland busses are okay, inner-city busses have a reputation to apparently mainly carry pickpockets. So we walked (we were pretty much in the city centre, which was walkable), or took a cab (which are not as easy to flag down as you would have thought) – it’s affordable.''Last but not least, we heard that we shouldn’t be out after dark – which really is not much of a problem, because Loz usually needs to go to bed by 7pm. …I kid, I kid, it’s 8pm… We did pretty well on that, apart from two naughty exceptions where we stayed out til 10pm (gasp!). Yes, I know, crazy.''But although I’m making a bit of fun of the situation here, and we did not experience''any''inconvenience of this sort during our three months in Ecuador, we took the advice serious. You see, you will always be warned about major cities, pretty much all through the world. But while you normally have all these bad little stories passed on to you by someone who “heard this happened to someone here”, and you never meet anyone who has actually been a victim, in Ecuador we met several travellers throughout the country who had been pickpocketed themselves.''It’s not a sole traveller thing, though – the locals suffer from it, too. And now imagine walking through your purple haze altitude daze, with a firm grab on your bag, your eyes scanning your surrounding for the vicious pickpocket who will probably not look like you expect him (or her!) to anyway, while also taking in all the sights. Damn, it’s hard!''The sights''But we still managed to see and be thrilled by the most popular sights – well, the sights that we deemed the most popular. These are all pretty close to each other, located in the''Historic Centre of Quito'', which is also a''UNESCO World Heritage Site''. Here you can just wander around the streets and squares and take in the well-preserved and beautiful buildings. There are many museums and squares, cathedrals and churches, theatres and cultural and art centres.''We were somewhat overwhelmed by the sheer amount of churches, which all have something significant that makes them stand out, be it a famous painting, statue, altarpiece… We sneaked a look whenever we walked past an open one, admiring the opulent decorations of gold and carved wood, but were aware that here in Ecuador these are still rather places of worship than touristic sights: there were always people praying, and there are masses held throughout the day.''One of the churches made it on our list, though: the''Basilica de Voto Nacional'', a Neo-Gothic cathedral from the 20th century, which has a tower you can climb up, and which offers great views of the city. The climbing up part leads you past a nice cafe and souvenir shops, different platforms, steep ladders, a boardwalk above the ceiling of the cathedral – we happily occupied ourselves for several hours here – a fantastic cathedral!''From the Historic City Centre there are stairs leading up to a tall statue of a winged Virgin on a hill, called “''El Panecillo''”. The hill divides the city into north and south, and this particular spot was used as a ritual site by ancient cultures. Going up the stairs made for a serious work-out. It shouldn’t be a big deal, but add the altitude, and you end up very red-faced. As it turned out, we could have also ended up mugged – our''homestay''host lady’s face dropped when we mentioned the stairs, and she basically said something like: “Are you mental? These steps are''not''safe!”. So guys, don’t take the stairs, take a cab.''“El Panecillo” offers really nice views, and you can even go up inside, past two floors with little exhibitions.''Since our theme here seems to be great views, let’s mention another sight that you will want to include when you are in Quito:''the cable car going up the Pichincha volcano''right next to the city, taking you to a height of 4,153 meters above sea level. Unfortunately, while we were there, this bit of scenery was always disguised by clouds, and we could never follow our homestay lady’s advice: “When you see that it’s clear over there, make your way to the cable car immediately!”.''But there’s so much more to discover, anyway: the Quito region is very diverse, and if you wanted to explore the surroundings of the city, you could take an array of day-trips to all sorts of destinations – mountain peaks, valley lakes, cloud forests… We only did one day-trip, and went to the Equator line at Mitad del Mundo ( = middle of the world), only an hour’s drive from the city centre.''Accommodation''If you plan to take some time getting to know the Quito surrounds, we spent a night at a lodge that would make the perfect base, as it is incredibly cosy and quiet, situated on a volcano slope and overlooking the valley, in amidst a nice garden with plenty of hummingbirds. It’s in a “better” area of Quito (Tumbaco), as our driver never failed to mention whenever we drove through it, and closer to the airport.''We stayed there when we''came back from the Galapagos'', and had arranged to have dinner in the evening, which was excellent. The breakfast in the morning is included, and we had it together with the owners of the place, an Ecuadorian-Swiss/German couple, which is an option they offer their guests, and which gives you an opportunity to enquire about the collection of artsy and cultural objects all over their homey lodge. The name of the place is Ilatoa Lodge, and you can check out''their TripAdvisor reviews here''.''And that was it; a bit of an introduction to Quito! We thank Suse and Reno from the Ilatoa Lodge for inviting us to stay with them – my inability to not take a decent picture of a hummingbird at their property remains entirely my own.''allyouneedisecuador,travel,photography''SHARE ON''You know what’s nice? Sunsets. And you know what’s even better than sunsets? Sunsets across the ocean, enjoyed from a fine beach, preferably with a cocktail or chilled beer in hand.''During our time in Ecuador, we were privy to some rather fine sunsets, but the only place where we really got our sunset-with-beach-with-cocktail-in-hand vibe on was the laid back beach town of Canoa, about two thirds of the way up the Ecuadorean coastline.''Canoa offered us sunsets the likes of which I’ve not seen since leaving''New Zealand''. Which is saying something, because the sunsets there were''pretty darn spectacular''.''It also offered a seemingly endless supply of empty beach to wander along, frigate birds that came so close we could almost touch them, and of course, those aforementioned cocktails. Naturally, we stayed as long as we could. And I took a lot of photos:''Which I thought you might like in the form of a photo essay. Enjoy!''When it’s sunset time in Canoa – head to the beach. It’s where the best views are. And the bars.''For optimal sunset viewing, time your visit for when it’s low tide at sunset. That way you get amazing reflections to go with your sunset.''Ah yeah, Canoa was the best place for Frigate bird viewing we visited after the Galapagos. The local fishermen clean their nets in the mornings, and the frigate birds behave like seagulls, diving and fighting for food. Only, three metre wide seagulls. This has to be seen to be believed.''They get really close. Like, really really close. Best not experienced if you have a fear of bird with giant sharp beaks.''Yeah, those reflections were pretty epic.''Ok! That was most of them. Extra photo of beach bar further down. To finish off though, I just want to bring up our accommodation in Canoa, which we found after reading a series of reviews online, and was another one of the many reasons we ended up hanging around in Canoa for as long as possible.''Unlike most, we stayed a few blocks back from the beach, at the''Hotel Macondo''. This meant it was a bit quieter during the party hours (although quiet is a very relative term in Ecuador!). We enjoyed our stay there especially because of the owner, Felix, who went way out of his way to make sure our stay was awesome, from cooking whatever we wanted for dinner and breakfast (the pancakes! the mango salsa coated swordfish steak!), to regaling us with fascinating stories of his life, and providing insights into the local culture.''It cost us $10 per person per night, which included WiFi and hot water, although prices vary based on the season. The hotel also features a roof terrace with the best view in town. Recommended!''Finally, to address the question raised at the start of the post. I have no idea if Canoa is really the best beach town in Ecuador. For us, it was perfect. If you want something with more of a 24 hour party vibe, you’ll probably want Montanita. If you want perfect surf, well, there are umpteen towns up and down the coast vying for that title.''But if you just want to chill out and enjoy a sunset with a cold beer in hand, on streets that are still made of sand, head to Canoa. It’s perfect for that.''SHARE ON''Otavalo in Ecuador is a pretty little town, a couple of hours bus ride north of Quito. It’s largely famous for its market, which, to be honest, didn’t totally blow us away. It was very nice and all, but it wasn’t exactly a reason to visit this particular town over many others in Ecuador and South America which also have very nice markets.''That said, we did end up spending nearly two weeks in the picturesque little town of Otavalo. Part of that was due to the fabulous view our room came with (more on that later), and part of that was because we found so much to fill our time with exploring.''Here’s a run down of why you need to spend more than a day or two in Otavalo, Ecuador and everything you can do here!''What to Do in Otavalo, Ecuador''1. Visit Peguche Waterfall''Waterfalls! One of our favourite natural phenomenon. After sunsets perhaps. And beaches. Ok, so we like a lot of natural stuff.''Anyway, Otavalo is home to a fantastic waterfall, about a forty-five minute walk from the town along the old railway tracks. It’s worth the walk, but you can also grab a taxi if you’re feeling time pressed.''The waterfall is set in an area of religious significance to the local people, and there is a lovely path to the falls from the car park, through picturesque woodland.''The falls themselves are 18 metres high, and very photogenic. Plus, handy for cooling off it’s a hot day. You can climb up both sides of the falls via trails for different perspectives, plus there is a series of caves behind the falls that you can explore. Plenty to do, and entry is free, with a donation box at the entrance to contribute towards upkeep.''2. Go to the Otavalo Condor Park''Up on the hills about 4km outside of town is the Parque Cóndor, or Condor Park. Offering a spectacular view of the surrounding volcanoes and valleys, this Park is also home to a number of spectacular raptors and other eye catching birds, all of whom, as far as we could understand, had been rescued from illegal captivity or trafficking, or were recovering from injury.''The highlight of the visit is without doubt the twice daily raptor display, at 11.30 and 15.30, where you will see these massive birds wheeling and soaring above the valleys below, as well as right over your head. Truly impressive stuff, and well worth the entrance fee.''Getting to the Condor Park is easiest by taxi, and should cost around 4USD. More information, including up to date opening times and days, (in Spanish, Google Translate is your friend) can be''found at their webpage.''3. Hike around Cuicocha Lake''There’s no shortage of beautiful crater lakes in the Otavalo region, but perhaps the most beautiful, and also the most easily accessible, is the Cuicocha crater lake under Cotocachi mountain.''This is a relatively simple bus / taxi ride from Otavalo, and is very much worth it. The lake is a gorgeous blue colour, with an island in the middle said to resemble a guinea pig. Hence the name of the lake.''You can either just look at the lake from the informative visitor centre, or you can hike around it, which takes around four hours, depending on fitness, and offers spectacular views.''4. Peer at El Lechero, the sacred tree of Otavalo''Not too far from the Condor Park is a sacred tree, known as El Lechero. This tree is part of local mythology, believed to house the soul of a cursed lover, who fell in love with a chap from a rival family. His fate wasn’t exactly wonderful either, as he was turned into the nearby San Pablo lake.''Tragic lovers tales aside, the tree is in a wonderfully photogenic location, and is clearly very old. You can either get here from Otavalo by taxi, or you can walk here from the Condor Park in around half an hour. It’s not exactly well signposted, so you might be better off asking for directions on your way.''5. Eat the Best Pie in South America''If there was going to be one reason to visit Otavalo, it should be the pie shop. Home to, without doubt, the best pies in South America. And I’m not talking savoury pie here, no, I’m talking classic fruit pies, ranging from blueberry to apple to pineapple and beyond. Sometimes there are as many as twelve flavours to choose from.''We visited here on multiple occasions, with a number of American friends, who all stated that this shop was home to the best American style pie they’d had outside of the States. I can certainly say it was the best damn pie we’d eaten in a long time. It’s right on the main market square, Plaza de Ponchos, and is called “The Pie Shop”. Obviously.''6. Walk around the Laguna de Mojanda''Up in the hills to the south of Otavalo town are a series of beautifully coloured crater lakes, which are lovely to wander around. At least, this is what we were told by our hostel owner. When we visited the cloud was firmly on the deck, and I suspect the magical colours of the lakes were not in full effect.''Still, if you have better luck with the weather, I am told that the three lakes are truly gorgeous, offering different colours as a result of their chemical composition. You can hire a four wheel drive pickup taxi to take you up to the lakes. It’s about a 45 minute – 1 hour drive each way, and the whole journey is likely to be 3 – 4 hours. Arrange the price with the driver beforehand. A guideline price of 25USD for taxi hire is standard – go in a group to spread the cost between you.''7. Visit the Otavalo Market''Ok, so I know I said the Otavalo market wasn’t reason in itself to visit Otavalo, but it’s still worth a bit of a wander, particularly the live animal version on a Saturday morning. There’s plenty of *stuff* to see, from presumably authentic local artefacts, to entirely authentic Angry Birds hats. I’m still waiting for the day I actually see someone wearing one. Anyway, the market. Go to it.''Practicalities for visiting Otavalo, Ecuador''Getting there and away''Otavalo is easy to reach from Quito, you just grab a bus from the north bus terminal. It takes 2-3 hours depending on traffic and road works, and will cost in the region of 5USD per person. If you’re driving, then you just follow the Pan-American Highway north until you get there.''Otavalo does have bus connections with a number of towns, but you’ll probably find you’ll have to go via Quito to get anywhere south of the capital.''Where to stay''We found a little hostel called''Hostal Chasqui'', set a bit back from the market and downtown, and offering spectacular views across the town from the roof top terrace. Particularly special was the welcome from the owner Roberto, who spent half an hour with us (and every new arrival!), explaining the sights of the town via a hand-drawn map and the view from the roof top terrace.''We were particularly spoilt with our room – being given the roof top room with panoramic view of six volcanoes was too tempting, and we ended up spending two weeks here. It costs''in the region of 12-15 USD per person''for a room with private bathroom and hot water, which also includes free WiFi, use of the kitchen, the DVD library, and even free self-service laundry, plus sunset views like the one below. Highly recommended.''Eating in Otavalo''There were a good selection of places to eat in Otavalo, from the aforementioned Pie Shop through to street vendors and reasonably priced cafes and restaurants. The further away from the town market one gets, the better value the food becomes.''We found a place at the southern end of the main street (Bolivar) that served up cheap seafood with rice, encebollado (fish soup usually served with fried banana and popcorn) and a soft drink for around 3USD for example.''Safety in Otavalo''We felt safe in Otavalo, happy to use our cameras and generally carry them in public places. The hostel owner said it was a generally safe town, but he advised us to take a taxi to the Condor Park rather than walk the 4km as this wasn’t thought to be quite as safe. Still, overall, basic safety precautions like being wary of pickpockets, particularly in crowded market spaces and on public transport should be enough overall.''Further Reading for your visit to Otavalo, Ecuador''We decided that we weren’t going to take a''Lonely Planet to Ecuador''with us, on the basis that every other country we’ve ever travelled to has had them falling off the book swop shelves off the first hostel we walked into. And also, because the internet, right? Who needs guidebooks!''It turns out, us. Also, I don’t know what’s up with travellers in Ecuador, but the only copies of any guidebooks we ever found on the hostel swap shelves were from the 1970’s. Whilst this was very enlightening stuff, it wasn’t entirely relevant to our trip.''So if you are going to Ecuador, we’d recommend stocking up on an''actual guide book'', printed on real paper. Or''on e-ink'', whichever works. We like''the Lonely Planet''. You might want something else. You should also check out our other content on''Ecuador''and the''Galapagos'', to help you plan the rest of your trip.''Other than that, the''WikiVoyage entry for Otavalo''has some information, although not much more than you’ll find here. For hotels, if Hostal Chasqui doesn’t sound like your cup of tea,''here are some more ideas''.''And that’s it for Otavalo! Have you visited and fallen in love with this little town in the Ecuadorean Andes? Let us know your favourite sights, places to eat and places to stay in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Packing! It can be the most difficult part of travel. Deciding what to take, what to leave behind, what to wish you’d brought with you. With this in mind we’ve put together our ultimate list for travel packing, based around our experiences from years of adventure. We’ve also sprinkled some photos in from our travels, to help inspire you to go beyond just making the list!''This list is aimed at folks travelling for a little longer, and hoping to do some work from the road. Hence the snappy title. It should act as a great master list though, from which you can pick and choose based on your destination and specific trip type.''List updated August 2017 with latest products and recommendations, as well as the latest discount codes where I’ve been able to source them!''Now, let’s get started with:''Camera Gear''With photography being the thing we do as our main stay, our photography gear is pretty extensive, so much so that we have a''whole post about it –''check that out for more detailed gear recommendations, including lightweight tripods and SLRs.''For the long term traveller looking for maximum performance for minimum weight though, we recommend the following:''Camera:''Sony’s Mirrorless A6000''. The A6000 is the mirrorless travel camera to beat, featuring an awesome sensor in a portable package and a great selection of lenses. We’ve been using its predecessor, the NEX-6, and can’t imagine travelling without it. Newer models have been released, but the prices are higher, so we still think the A6000 is the Sony to get. Get it on''Amazon US''|''UK''Action camera:''GoPro HERO5 Black''. The go-to choice for all your action, sports, underwater or just general messing around on the beach camera. Go Pro cameras are the standard for a reason, and if your life requires you to capture action stills or video, you need one of these. Get one on''Amazon''Tech Gear''If you’re going to be working on the road, you’re going to want something to work on. Here’s our definitive list of tech gear to get your work groove on, as well as keep you entertained in between work sessions.''Laptop'': A''powerful Ultrabook''. We’ve had a lot of positive experiences with the Dell XPS line, with the the''Dell XPS 13''being our pick for 2017 travel notebook.''Get it on''Amazon''Smartphone'':''Nexus 6P''. The Nexus series of smartphones rocked the boat when Google launched them, offering flagship performance at a seriously reduced price compared to the competition. The prices have since readjusted, but these are still the best Android smartphones out there, featuring the latest specs and regularly updated software. A smartphone is so handy for travelling with, being everything from an entertainment device, to a map, to a torch, to a dictionary. Invaluable, even without a SIM card.''Get it on''Amazon US''|''UK''.''External Hard Drives:''Transcend StoreJet 2TB USB 3.0''. We’ve tried a variety of portable external hard drives, from brands including Western Digitial and ADATA. The most reliable to date have been these StoreJet models, which offer military grade shock resistance, loads of storage and a fast USB 3.0 connection. Reliable and sturdy. Just what you need for your data on the go.''Get them from''Amazon US''|''UK''.''External Mouse:''Gigabyte Compact Bluetooth Laser Mouse.''If you’re planning on being productive for prolonged periods of time, you’ll need an external mouse. We recommend a Bluetooth model as it won’t waste a USB port with a radio received. This model from Gigabyte is portable with all the features you need.''Get it on''Amazon US''|''UK''.''Portable Power Pack:''Anker PowerCore 10000''. All these tech devices use up a lot of power, which means a portable power pack might be just the thing you need. Anker are a leader in external battery packs, and this is one of the smallest and lightest 10,000mAh options out there.''Headphones:''Shure SE215''. The outside world can be a busy place sometimes, and you might want to retreat into your own peaceful sanctum. These headphones from Shure are just perfect for that, offering a sound isolating design and comfortable over-ear fit. They also work perfectly for running, and the linked version comes with a mic and remote cable for making calls, too. Get them from''Amazon US''|''UK''+''cable''.''eReader'':''Amazon’s Kindle Paperwhite''. Books! So 20th century. They take up space, they’re cumbersome, and the hostel’s book swap collection is likely to send you to sleep. So, get a Kindle, and carry the equivalent of a modest library around with you instead. The new Kindle Paperwhite even works in the dark, so you can keep on reading with the lights off. It’ll change the way you travel, and the way you read! If you do go for a Kindle, then check out the''Kindle Unlimited 30-Day Free Trial''– letting you try out Amazon’s awesome Kindle Unlimited program, with access to over 1 million ebooks!''Get the Kindle Paperwhite direct from''Amazon US''and''UK''.''Power strip'':''Belkin SurgePlus 3 Outlet Protector''. With all the above tech gear, you’re going to need plenty of power points, and these aren’t always as easy to come by as you might think. This handy adaptor from Belkin features three normal plug ports as well as two fast USB charging ports, and is surge protected to boot. Pair it up with a''world travel adapter'', and you’re ready to rock.''Available on''Amazon US''and''UK''(similar product from Masterplug to fit UK sockets).''Portable speaker:''Ultimate Ears Roll Bluetooth Wireless Speaker''. Sometimes you want to be able to share the tunes, and this compact speaker from Ultimate Ears is the best portable speaker I’ve come across with great sound from such a portable device. It features a ten hour battery life and bluetooth connectivity, meaning it’s just plug and play from your smartphone or laptop, plus it’s waterproof!''Get it on''Amazon US''|''UK''(Roll not currently available in UK, Mini Boom is the previous version)''Luggage''You’re going to want to put your stuff somewhere, and over our many years of travel we’ve tried everything, from giant backpacks, to wheeled luggage systems, to a collection of “inbetweeners”. Below our are current recommendations for all types of travel.''Day pack:''Osprey Ozone 35L''. We’ve used Oprey packs since 2010, and they are yet to let us down. Fantastically built with just enough storage space for everything we need when out and about doing everything from hiking up a mountain to photographing a city. Plus, the warranty is outstanding. Highly recommended!''Cabin luggage only'':''Osprey Ozone 35L / 46L''. If you’re flying on a budget airline, you’re probably aware that the cheapest way to go is with carry-on only. This 36L wheeled pack from Osprey is well inside the limits of those budget EU airlines, and 36L is more than enough for a short break. There’s also a''46L''version available for US flights. If you’re going for longer, you’re likely going to need to pack more anyway, in which case this stays convenient as a carry-on option if you’re not the backpack type.''Hold luggage:''Osprey Sojourn 60L''.''We’ve been moving away from backpacks in our travels, and towards wheeled luggage, which are generally easy to cart around and suit 90% of destinations. The Osprey Sojourn offers the best of both worlds, with a world-class wheel system for most situations, and the option to carry it like a backpack when the going gets tough. 60L is perfect for any trip – any more and you’ll overpack, any less, and you’ll likely find all the gear in this list will result in unsightly bulges!''Get it on''Amazon US''Packing assistance:''GobiGear Hobo Roll''. Before the Hobo Roll, my packing system was… well, it didn’t exist. Thankfully, thanks to the Hobo Roll, I can now get all my clothes and squishable items into my bag with ease, with this super lightweight packing roll, designed for nomads. As a bonus for you guys, you can''save 10% on GobiGear –''just use the code''FINDING10''on checkout on''this site''.''Clothing''Ok, so that’s all the fun stuff out the way! Let’s talk clothing. Generally we pack with enough clothing for 7-10 days of travel, and wash as we go. Naturally you’ll want to vary what you travel with based on your destinations climate, but if you’re travelling longer term, you’ll want to be ready for a fairly wide range of climates, apart from extreme cold, which usually requires very bulky gear that isn’t worth carting around for the rest of your trip.''Travel Vest:''Scottevest Travel Vest''(also for''Women''). Whilst vests like this aren’t our usual attire, we’ve found the Scottevest travel vest invaluable for, well, travel. Particularly on those low budget airlines which have seriously restricted luggage. The pockets in these things are unbelievably handy for keeping inside your carry-on allowance, if you’ve slipped up and packed a tiny bit too much.''Available on''Amazon US''| not currently available in UK.''Hiking pants:''or trousers as we Brits call them. Something that dries quickly, maybe with''those handy zip off legs''that let them turn into shorts. One or two pairs, depending on how much hiking you want to do / how outdoorsy you want to look at all other times.''Smarter pants''for evenings or more formal occasions. At this point many packing lists will rail against jeans as being bulky, a poor choice if it rains, and generally Not Good For Travel. If you want jeans, take jeans. It’s your life.''Shorts:''like pants, but shorter. For when it’s warmer. I’m not sure a full description is entirely necessary. Again, a couple of pairs should suffice.''Swimsuit:''for all those exciting water based activities you might get up to. Laurence just travels with one pair of board shorts. Jess has a couple of bikinis. Because a girl’s got to have choice, right?''T-shirts:''we generally travel with two or three of the fast-drying hiking variety that''wick moisture'', and two or three slightly more normal options for when we don’t want to look like we’re scaling a mountain.''Actual shirts''– Laurence usually has at least one short and one long sleeved shirt, just in case the circumstances require a slightly smarter turn out.''A dress''– Jess travels with a couple of dresses that can be worn on both smarter occasions, and for cocktails on the beach. Versatility is the key to long term lightweight travel!''A thin fleece:''for locations where it is cooler in the evenings or at higher elevations. Just the one will do.''A''thicker fleece'':''for when it gets colder. We’ve always used and liked''North Face''gear. Some of it is over ten years old now and still going strong.''A''lightweight raincoat'': for when the weather turns inclement. This should fit on top of all your other gear, and keep the wind and rain out.''Running shoes'': if you’re going to be walking a lot around cities, your feet will thank you for putting them in a lightweight pair of decent runners. We’ve tried multiple brands, and believe that the most important thing is a good comfortable fit.''Sandals / flip flops / Jandals:''whatever you call them, you need something for the beach / casual wear in warmer climates''Smarter shoes'': you never know when you’re going to need to hit up a conference / attend a swanky sky bar. It helps to be prepared.''Scarf''– Some sort of scarf is always handy. We swear by our''Keffiyeh scarves'', they are awesome in all kinds of scenarios and are massively versatile.''Your unmentionables''– underwear, socks, sports bras: those things. Take as many as you feel will last you between washes. We won’t judge. We just might choose not to sit near you. Load them all into your HoboRoll. Job done.''Sunglasses:''For when it’s sunny. Or you need to pretend to be a celebrity. Your call.''Other Essentials''You’ve still got room in your bag, right? Here are a few more bits and pieces that we always travel with, and recommend that you do, too.''A micro-fibre travel towel'':\xa0 Laurence loves his micro-fibre towel because it packs small and gets the job done. Jess prefers to use a sarong because it feels nicer, and can be used for all kinds of things beyond mopping up moisture.''Toiletries:''you know,''sun cream'', medication,''insect repellent'',''toothpaste''. All that kind of stuff. Although, bear in mind most of this stuff can be bought anywhere in the world, so don’t stress about it too much. Also, if you’re travelling carry-on only, don’t forget to put it in one of those''handy zip-lock bags,''at airplane regulation size.''Rehydration salts:''dehydration can be a major issue to travel, and has affected both of us to varying degrees on our travel. For that reason we always travel with''rehydration salts'', which can fix you up in no time. Read all about our tips for''recognising the signs of dehydration and dealing with it, in this post.''Pens / paper / notebook:''You’ll need pens because you’ll inevitably have to fill in forms. Some sort of''notebook''may also be useful for, well, making notes.''Paper copies of your essential documentation:''We always travel with photocopy of our passports, travel insurance, and flight information, which we keep in a separate location to our real copies. We also have electronic copies stored securely in the cloud. If the real ones get stolen, these should at least help out.''Basic medical kit:''Whilst you can get medical supplies pretty much everywhere, we find a''travel medical kit''to be a handy thing to travel with, particularly\xa0 for out of the way locations. There are a variety of options online depending on your needs –''this option''is fairly comprehensive for example. Get one on''Amazon US''|''UK''Handy to Have''The above are what we consider to be the essentials. We also find the below to be useful, but your particular trip needs may not require them.''Water purification'':''Steripen Freedom USB''. Not all the water everywhere in the world is exactly good to drink, and usually the alternative is to plough through environmentally unfriendly bottled water. The Steripen solves this problem by killing off the germs in the water you can find, and making it safe to drink. This version is USB chargeable, meaning it’ll go forever, and will purify half a litre of water in under a minute.''Available on''Amazon US''and''UK''.''Multi-tool'':''Leatherman Charge TI''. There are many options for multi-tools, but I’ve been using this model of Leatherman for years, and it has never let me down. It has a tool for nearly everything, and it’s got me out of a pickle on multiple occasions, from fixing a broken winch in the depths of the Australian outback to tripod maintenance on a photo shoot. In my mind, essential.''Available on''Amazon''Water carrying'':''Camelbak Water bladder / bottles.''Even if you don’t get a Steripen, then you can still be more environmentally conscious by buying larger bottles of water and decanting them into water bottles or bladders. For hiking, we always carry 2 litre water bladders with us – our day packs have special pouches to carry these, and it makes hydration so much easier.''Available on both''Amazon US''and''UK''.''Footwear'':''Scarpa leather Hiking boots''. Ok, so only useful if you plan on doing serious hiking, but man, these things will make those hikes so much more pleasurable. Laurence has owned his pair of leather Scarpa’s for over a decade, and they have proven themselves through sand, up mountains, and across rivers. They may cost more than cheaper options, but the investment will more than pay for itself. Whilst these are available on both''Amazon, we would advise you go to a specialist to ensure you get the right fit.''Dry Bag:''Coleman Dry Gear''bag. In the future, tech gear will be naturally water proof and immune to dust. Until then, we make do by packing a dry bag, which keeps everything safe in the event of a sudden tropical downpour, or the need to hop in and out of boats in the Galapagos.''Available on both''Amazon US''and''UK''.''Duct Tape:''Essential!''You will always need some of this. We’ve used it to repair everything, from bits of a Toyota Landcruiser to backpacks and trainers. Truly amazing in its ability to hold everything together. Available from every hardware store on the planet, as well as''Amazon US''|''UK''Head torch'': Whilst Laurence is generally happy to use the flashlight on his smartphone, Jess swears by her''headtorch''for hands free lighting on the go. And to be honest, Laurence is pretty happy she brings it with her!''Padlock / bike lock:''If your travel is likely to involve dorm rooms, then you’ll want a way to lock your stuff away into a locker. We also travel with a lightweight bike lock just in case we have to lock something to something else.''This 3 Dial TSA Lock and Cable from Eagle Creek''is a good choice, offering the best of both worlds.''Available on''Amazon US''Tiny sewing kit:''Sometimes stuff goes wrong that can’t be fixed with duct tape. Well, ok, so it likely''can''be fixed with duct tape, but you might look a bit weird duct taping your shirt closed. In these instances, a tiny sewing kit can be a life saver.''And that’s it! An exhaustive list of nearly everything you need to travel the world. Not exhausted enough? We recommend taking a look at Jodi Ettenberg’s extensive''world travellers resource page''over at''Legal Nomads''for even more knowledge and ideas.''SHARE ON''There are not only cute sea-lions and impressive landscapes in the Galapagos, there are also 25,000 really nice people. Like typical island-folk, they are rather laid-back and friendly, and most make a living through tourism or fishing. One of them was a bit more ambitious and built something that is now the first visitor sight on the Galapagos created by a person: La casa del Ceibo, a tree house on San Cristobal Island.''Since we ended up spending some time on San Cristobal, we were keen on exploring the island properly. I had heard about the tree house before, but couldn’t really tell from the information what exactly it was. So we walked into the GalaKiwi office by the pier (the guys we did''our tour''with), and asked the person who we knew knows it all: Emilee! Emilee works for GalaKiwi, is originally from the US and has been living out here for quite some time. And indeed she immediately told us what we wanted to know. Well. Almost.''The tree house actually belongs to the family of two of GalaKiwi’s guides, the siblings Pepo and Jessica. While Emilee is a big fan of the tree house and regularly spends a night there, she didn’t spill the beans: “You have to see it for yourself!”. She arranged a taxi for us to take us there (it’s a 10-minute drive from the town to the village El Progreso) and on the next afternoon, off we went!''The cab dropped us off in front of a colourfully painted gate, and kind of startled, we looked at the gigantic tree that was before us, with what looked like a cabin comfortably set in its crown, and a suspension-bridge with moss-covered wooden planks leading the way to it. Wow.''We entered the property – a beautiful garden full of bright flowers, various sculptures made out of wood and metal, ducks teetering around – and were welcomed by a very friendly dog, which brought us to a lady who joyfully shouted: “Hola!” and smiled at us broadly.''Although we don’t speak Spanish, we had by then cultivated the art of making sense of random words and gestures, so we understood that the lady was a friend of Pepo and Jess’s mom, and was just helping out watching the property and taking care of visitors today. She told us the dog’s name (conveniently Ceiba, like the tree, and therefore easy to remember) and encouraged us to check everything out.''So we wandered around the garden first, sniffing flowers, trying to make friends with the ducks (who did not care very much to be befriended), and looking at the ropes, poles, swings and hammocks all over the place.''Every now and again, visitors turned up and inspected the sight, children and adults both amazed that someone had built this tree house and brought a dream to life – and by the looks of it, a tree house seems to be everyone’s dream. He who yearned for more, could visit even another curiosity: a little room, dubbed “the pirate cave”, hidden under the tree trunk, accessible by ladder.''And finally (save the best for last), we too walked up the planks of the suspension bridge to a little platform, from which a ladder led into the tree house. It was NOT what we had imagined. It was like a real little house, up in a tree! It had a sitting area, another ladder leading to a loft with two beds, a kitchen, and even a bathroom with a shower and a toilet – with proper plumbing! Quite a serious tree house. Tarzan would be jealous.''We would have loved to haul our little suitcases up right then, and observe the world from this little tree palace, but the visiting hours did not end before 6pm, so we went for a walk around El Progreso, and afterwards had a coffee and a piece of banana cake at the little restaurant. The restaurant was quirky as well: the walls were made out of bottles. We realised that we wanted to know much more about this place, so a few days later, we met up with Pepo over a couple of milk-shakes, and he told us the story of the tree house.''It was Pepo’s dad who some twenty years ago bought the property with the tree on it, with the plan to construct a tree house. Together with a few friends, he did exactly that, and within a period of four months, “Tarzan’s house” was built.''In the beginning, it was just a holiday house; your not-so-average week-end-getaway, although Pepo recalls that his family even lived there for a while when he was around eight years old. Four people can easily sleep there, and on one occasion, they made it work for nine people, using mattresses and hammocks.''Since it turned out to be a good spot to bring people together, Pepo’s dad had another idea: he was going to open a little restaurant with a bar on-site! To build the bar, he took an environmental approach and used recycled glass bottles to make the walls. So ten years ago, all the people from the island contributed, handing over their empty bottles for this project, until the bar could open.''After that, Friday and Saturday night was disco night at the tree house, and on Sundays you could have food at the family restaurant. Once the kids had grown up and started studying and working, they couldn’t help out anymore, and those busy week-ends were given up.''The tree house remained an attraction, though, and is still open for visitors. Pepo’s dad bakes his famous banana cake every day (it is really good), which goes well with the organic coffee. Other snacks and little souvenirs are for sale, too. And you can stay over-night, of course – it’s probably about the cheapest accommodation on the island as well! It even has Wi-Fi!''On average twenty people a day visit the tree house, and Pepo’s dad’s dream and goal is that it will be included as an official Galapagos visitor site. The Ceiba tree, also known as Kapok tree, is thought to be at least 300 years old and might have been planted by early settlers, who would have brought their own animals and plants to ensure they would have enough to eat. This particular specimen is 40 metres high and has a circumference of 17,80 metres at the bottom. It is definitely not a tiny tree.''When the last visitor had left, the tree house was all ours. The night fell and sitting in our tree we felt a little bit surreal, like being part of a story from a book. We showered, just so we could check off one item of our to-do-list, “Shower in a tree house”, and, since El Progreso is a bit inland and lies higher, went to bed with our fleeces on. Cockerels confused each other during the night by declaring dawn (obviously a mistake), but we slept very well over-all. Down at the bottom, Ceiba (the dog) was guarding us.''The next morning, we got up early, said good-bye to Ceiba (the dog), and took a taxi to''El Cafetal, the nearby coffee plantation'', where we would meet a man called Nicholas for a little tour. Not too long after our departure, Pepo’s mother would have come, to open the tree house to visitors from all over the world for another day, and to serve the banana cake Pepo’s father would have baked the night before. That banana cake alone is worth a visit. Seriously.''If you want to visit “La Casa del Ceibo” while you’re in San Cristobal, just hail a taxi and let them take you there. The visit will cost USD 1,50, and opening hours are roughly from 8am to 6pm. You can walk around a bit in El Progreso as well; there’s a memorial and a look-out, for example.''If you want to stay over-night, it is probably best to book in advance. You can call the number 05-2520-248 for that, and it’s currently USD 20 per person per night. Obviously you will have to respect the opening hours for visitors, so if you don’t want to hang out too much before you can settle in, don’t arrive too early! Bring a fleece as it can get cooler in the highlands and insect spray because the cabin is not sealed.''We thank the Cornejo-family for having us in their fabulous tree house for a night, and GalaKiwi with helping us arrange our visit as well as the meeting with Pepo! The reluctance to use the firemen pole as a means to get off the tree house remains entirely our own.''SHARE ON''Trains! I’ve already expressed my love for their intrinsically romantic nature in''this post'', and had the luck to experience some fantastically scenic journeys in my life so far. Suffice to say, I’m a fan of the train as a means of getting from A to B, even if the activity upon arriving at B is to remount the train and return to A.''There is a saying that the journey is more important than the destination. In the case of the''Devil’s Nose Train''(known locally as the Nariz del Diablo) in Ecuador, this is definitely the case, because the destination is ultimately the starting point. So if spending nearly three hours travelling to your starting point isn’t your thing, maybe you can skip this one.''If on the other hand, spending three hours learning about one of the greatest rail engineering feats in the world whilst marvelling at spectacular Andean scenery is your thing, you should probably give this train ride a go.''A quick summary of what it is then, before we go on. The Devil’s Nose train ride takes you from the town of Alausi on a forty five minute ride down to Silambe – a journey through gorgeous mountain scenery in which time the train descends nearly a vertical kilometre in height. Not bad given it was built at the turn of the 20th century.''Back in the day, when health and safety was something other countries did, the Devil’s Nose train ride was a steam powered affair where the passengers were allowed to sit on the roof of the train’s carriages. This was, I am told, tremendous fun. It was also somewhat dangerous, what with those huge cliffs on the side of the track. Inevitably, a number of fatalities resulted, and today’s journey is confined to the interior of the train.''It’s not all bad news though. The carriages are brand new and very comfortable. And the windows, thankfully, can be opened, meaning that if you’re taking photos you don’t need to deal with nasty reflections. Plus you can get those lovely views of the train curving ahead and behind you.''So, what did we think of our experience?''We took the 8am train, as this part of the world tends to start off sunny and then cloud over as the day progresses. We were rewarded for this decision by spectacular weather, which made for a stunning ride.''As I mentioned before, we’ve been lucky enough to experience some quite gorgeous train rides, with our trip on the Flam railway down to the fjords of Norway being a real highlight.''This was easily as spectacular as that ride.''The train spends 45 minutes winding down the hillside from Alausi, and you can often see the tracks below you where you’ll be riding soon. There are waterfalls and rivers and gorges, and vertigo inducing drops. The actual descent of the Devil’s Nose is incredible, as the train has to switchback on itself twice in order to get down the, once thought impassable, hillside.''The views are incredible, and as per usual, I’ll leave it to the photos to do the talking.''At the bottom, you are greeted by a group of traditionally dressed locals who entertain you with some dancing, before being shown around the museum, which has all the information you might want on the construction of the rail line. The price also includes a light snack and a drink.''There’s lots of time to take photographs of the train, the train line and the beautifully dressed locals, before you clamber back on board for the ascent, which takes half an hour. Presumably the driver puts his foot down to get up the hill.''Overall, at $25, this is a relatively pricey experience, especially as of the 2.5 hours that the trip takes, only an hour and fifteen minutes are spent on the train itself, covering 12km in each direction. Still, the views and experience are very much worth it, and so we would firmly recommend this to anyone who likes to experience spectacular scenery, or has any kind of interest in trains.''Where to ride the Devil’s Nose Train?''At the time of writing it was only possible to ride the Devil’s Nose Train from Alausi, a small town around 2 hours bus ride from Riobamba. Tickets can be purchased at the train station in Alausi, which when we were there was open all day. Seats are reserved, and you’ll want to ask to sit on the right hand side for the best views when buying your ticket.''There is a also a train running between Quito and Guayaquil that takes in the Devil’s Nose, but it’s a specific tourist train rather than a scheduled service. It may be that a scheduled service between other destinations and the Devil’s Nose will open up in the future, so the best option is to ask at a Tren Ecuador office when in country, or check out the''Ecuador by Train''website for the latest information.''Is there anything else to do in Alausi?''Alausi isn’t that big, but if you’re planning on catching the early morning train as we did, you’ll probably want to arrive here the day before. If you do, there are a couple of things worth doing to occupy your time.''One,''check out El Puente Negro''. It’s a short walk (about half a kilometre) from the train station in the direction that goes slightly uphill. Follow the tracks, and you’ll find this fantastic old bridge, which spans 103 metres, and is 19 metres high.''If you’re feeling brave, you can also walk across the bridge. This requires a fairly steady foot and strong nerve, because there are no railings, and it’s just rails and wooden sleepers with large gaps between them.''Note: there are signs warning that walking across the bridge isn’t allowed, and clearly if the train service ever becomes regular in this area, it would be a dangerous thing to do as there is no way of stepping to the side to avoid the train.''Two,''visit the statue of St. Peter''. Standing on a hill near the town centre, this huge statue is hard to miss. He’s both photogenic, and offers a great view of the town and surrounding valley without too much effort required.''Getting to and from Alausi, and where to stay''Alausi is quite easy to get to, being as it is on the Trans Americas Highway. You can either get a bus directly to the town from Riobamba or Cuenca (2 hours and 5 hours respectively), or you can take any bus that travels between Riobamba and Cuenca and ask to be let off on the highway. This latter option does require you to walk down into town from the highway though, roughly 1.5km in distance.''We stayed at the''Hotel Europa in Alausi''. This was both reasonably priced and very central. Plus, the bus stopped right outside, which made it easier. There’s not a great deal of choice in town, but''there are a few options'', and it won’t take you long to find them all if you’re of a mind to wander around and check them out.''trenecuador,train,ecuador''SHARE ON''Okay, let me get this straight off your dirty minds: a Galway Hooker is a boat, people; a boat! Now that we cleared that up (and had 95% of people leave the site immediately), I would like to get back to the topic, and that is Galway, which is the name of both a city and a county in the west of Ireland.''By the time of our visit, I had the feeling that almost everyone apart from me had heard about Galway before, so nothing new here. I didn’t even know the apparently fairly popular song “Galway girl” (which has nothing to do with a Galway hooker, by the way, which is still a boat).''But despite of all that, the city of Galway had me hooked pretty much right away, I have to say (okay, I’ll stop now with the “hooking” – and you stop rolling your eyes!). It has got a lot of layers, and I am most certainly going to write about them, but I’m going to begin with one that actually took us out of Galway city, and on an adventure that started at a place which is about an hour’s drive away: Kilkieran.''An hour was the right amount to build up a good amount of anticipation for a ride on a Galway hooker (it still does not sound quite right, does it? Oh dear.); an appropriate distance to get into the right mood for a little adventure that would take us back to the olden days. Cattle demanding right of way on the roads that lead us there reminded us that the country-side here has different rules, but we had all the time in the world and got in fact quite excited by the little “cow jam”.''The Galway hookers have been around for a while in Galway; at least 200 years. They were used as a fishing boats and are perfect in the shallow waters of the area. They were also used as cargo boats for turf and… people! Yes, these hookers can get you to places, even though you should probably not say this in public. You know.''The beauty we had the pleasure to take a trip on had the typical pitch black body and beautiful rusty red coloured sails of its kind. She was quite an old lady, originally from 1860, but stunningly well restored. Owner Warwick was rightfully proud of her, and watching his crew and his daughter Emer, who has been sailing with him ever since she’s been a child, as the kids in this area do, I wondered if maybe this is the life: they seemed so content and well-balanced out on the water, so very much one with the boat and the sea.''Ah, the sea! There I was, staring thoughtfully out in the mist, vaguely perceiving outlines of green hills in the distance, and it was a bit of a surprise when we slightly changed direction and the next wave consequently saw it fit to – well, there’s really no other way to say it: hit me in the face and wash all over me! And over fellow travel blogger Robin, who had been sitting beside me. So when they tell you to bring water-proof clothing, don’t laugh that away, because the sea totally has the last laugh, and it’s quite a wet one. Then again, if you didn’t get wet, what’s the point? This is a hooker, dammit! This is the real deal!''For some magic reason though, nobody’s camera or phone got wet. Which was a nice gesture of the sea. But it clearly liked the hooker better than the little motor-boat which accompanied us. On it stood Sean, who is a photographer and part of the company that organises these trips, with some really impressive photographic gear. Normally he is the guide and will come aboard, but we already had Emer, the captain’s daughter and also a guide, and Therese, our Ireland Wild West trip guide with us, so Sean could seize the opportunity and take pictures of us.''Since he usually takes pictures mainly on-land, Sean didn’t have any special cases to protect his cameras, but his excitement was bigger than his worries that his gear could suffer from the moisture. The sea on the other hand could not just let that kind of behaviour pass – “What! Are you not taking me seriously?!” – and hissing and spitting around like a venomous snake, it made sure to apply just the right amount of wetness to the cameras until it finally took a toll on their work flow.''Sean though didn’t let this bring him down, which we were glad about, because during the time we got to know him, he turned out to be a really nice, happy, funny and interesting man who was passionate and full of knowledge about this part of Ireland. Clearly not someone whose cameras you don’t mind being destroyed. Most of his pictures turned out as they should (he posted them in a''blog-post'', too!), only the last ones didn’t make it, and the cameras were ordered to undergo a dehydration treatment.''We had hardly gotten wet enough not to be a bit sad that we already had to get off our vessel when we finally reached the pier again. Also, it meant that the time of all the hooker jokes had to come to an end. We felt that although we had put our best efforts in it, this area had not been sufficiently exploited yet. How can it ever be.''If you too want to make a lot of bad jokes (or have other reasons to board this Galway gem – I’m sure there are plenty!), it is very possible to book a hooker tour with Walking West – yeah, yeah, a''G a l w a y hooker tour'', yadda yadda ya. They also offer a variety of walks, be it along the coast and beaches, or up hills, or past bogs, and if you want to discover this beautiful part of Ireland, doing so with a local guide will give you so much more insight into the land and the people; count on it. Check out''their website''for more inspiration, but don’t blame me if you can’t decide which of the walks and tours you should pick, because they all look pretty awesome…''By the way,there’s one thing I didn’t do while I was in Galway. You see, “Galway hooker” is also the name of a beer from here, and I wonder how that works: do you go into a bar and order “A hooker, please!”? And if you do, will other guests throw comments at you and make fun of you, while the bar man, who has heard it all a gazillion times before, wishes he was somewhere very far away? …It shall remain a mystery – for now.''So maybe the “Galway hooker”, be it the beer or the ship, is something that could ‘float your boat’ when you’re visiting Galway… Whatever you’ll end up doing, I’m pretty sure you’re going to have a really good time! Slán go fóill!''Our trip was part of the travel blogging conference TBEX in Ireland, and was made possible by Fáilte Ireland, Tourism Ireland and Walking West. Thanks a lot to everyone involved. The inability to come up with any g o o d hooker jokes remains entirely my own.''Thanks for reading our''Travel and Photography blog''! You can always catch up with the latest articles on the site @''Finding the Universe''. Plus you can find us on both''Facebook''and''Twitter''.''SHARE ON''The Galapagos''! Yes, I think I will start every post about the Galapagos like that. They are just such an awesome place to visit! Which was something we recently had the very distinctive pleasure of doing, on a 10 day adventure tour with''GalaKiwi''.''The thing is, when you tell most people that you are heading to the Galapagos, they’ll assume you’re taking some kind of cruise. Because to be fair, taking a cruise is what most people do to get around and see the sights.''But it turns out, you don’t have to take a cruise. You can do an entirely land based tour, sleeping in actual hotels that don’t go up and down, and doing a combination of land and sea based activities. Which was what we did. Oh, and we saw lots of sea lions being cute. Hopefully it’s ok if I keep throwing photos of them at you.''When someone says “adventure tour”, you expect it to have some adventure. And our GalaKiwi tour did not disappoint. We hiked, biked, kayaked, snorkelled and generally adventured our way from one side of the islands to the other. Here’s what that looked like:''Cycling on the Galapagos''Cycling is actually a fairly popular way to get around the islands, with bikes available for hire on three out of the four inhabited isles. We cycled exclusively on San Cristobal, where there are some great opportunities to get out and explore.''Our GalaKiwi trip saw us take a truck up to the top of the island, around 10km inland, to the cooler highlands, and then cycle back down. Because to be honest, downhill cycling is the best kind of cycling.''The road was part paved and part dirt, which made for a lot of fun as we zoomed down the hill. On the way we stopped off for naturalist talks to learn about the flora and fauna we were passing, admired the gorgeous scenery opening up around us, and finished up at the lovely La Loberia beach where we met sea lions and marine iguanas.''Not a terrible way to end a cycle ride, I think you’ll agree. We even managed to avoid falling off.''Hiking the Galapagos''Hiking! In serious heat! Up volcanoes? Sounds like a recipe for disaster, right?''Well, the good news is that up in the highlands of the Galapagos, it’s actually often quite cool, particularly if there’s a little bit of cloud. So it can be a very pleasant experience.''As our hike turned out to be. We were hiking up the Sierra Negra volcano, one of the largest volcano calderas in the world, on a day hike of around 20km total distance.''Now, that might sound like a lot of hard work, but fear not. Much like the cycling, the hiking also started with a drive – almost to the top of the volcano in fact. So we just had to ascend the final 300 metres of height through lush vegetation, and then the rest of the walk was largely around the quite magnificent rim.''At 10km in diameter, this would have been view enough, but our adventures took us off the other side of the rim and onto an other-worldly lava landscape that looked, as so many writers have no doubt said about this sort of landscape before me, just like the surface of the moon. With cacti. A cacti filled moonscape in fact. Science fiction heaven.''Then it was back the way we came, to finish off the day with cocktails on the beach. Because no adventure hike is complete without cocktails on the beach, filled with the sense of having truly earned them.''Kayaking the Galapagos''It’s probably about time I told you about something we did in the water, given that the Galapagos are home to one of the most spectacular marine environments on earth.''Our kayaking experience was on Isabela island, home to gorgeously turquoise waters, sea lions, and the Galapagos Penguin, which was the real highlight. This is the only penguin to be found on the northern hemisphere, and Isabela island is the best place to see it.''We geared up on the white sandy beach and took off, two of us to a kayak. If there’s one thing that kayaking is *really* good at, it’s testing your communication and co-ordination skills with your chosen partner. I’d like to say that Vera and I passed with flying colours, but I think the reality was a little way from that. Still, no-one got hit with a paddle, and that was the main thing.''We did get up close and personal with blue-footed boobies, sea lions and penguins during our hour long kayak though, so mission accomplished on that front!''Snorkelling the Galapagos''We snorkelled on multiple occasions in the Galapagos, but without a doubt the best snorkelling of our trip was the few hours we spent at Kicker Rock, a few kilometres off the shore of San Cristobal island.''It started as we arrived near the rock, and the boat’s captain spotted a three-meter-wide manta ray just off the bow. Usual courtesy and decorum went out the window, and there was a mad scramble for snorkelling equipment as people threw themselves into the water. The first thing I saw when entering the water was the ray just gently floating past me, a couple of metres from my nose.''From that point on, unbelievably, the experience got better. Seconds after the ray left, a pod of dolphins turned up to greet us. Then, as we snorkelled around the actual rock, we saw turtles, sea lions, black tip reef sharks, eagle rays, and a whole lot more. So much fun was had in fact, that we were all pretty exhausted when we got back in the boat and peeled off our wetsuits.''Except that wasn’t the end. Just as we’d all sat down, the last person out of the water shouted that a swarm of hammerhead sharks had turned up. Dispending with the wet suits, we all threw ourselves back in the water again, to experience the truly magnificent sight of hundreds of these oddly shaped sharks coming up from the depths to say hello. Quite the day of snorkelling indeed.''In summary''Whew! That was a lot of activity for one post. Worth mentioning in summary was that everything was optional. If you found the cycling to be a bit tough, you could ride down in the truck. If hiking a volcano doesn’t sound like your kind of gig, you could hit up the beach instead.''The activities were well matched with breaks for sharing information and snack times, so that no one ever felt exhausted, and at the end of the day we had all seen and done so much that we had a really good sense of achievement. And yes – we really had earned those beers by the end of the day…''If you liked this post, check our our series of posts from the''Galapagos'', which include more''gorgeous photos''and a''planning guide''to help you ensure you are ready for''your own trip to the Galapagos''.''Our Galapagos experience was in partnership with GalaKiwi, who run an awesome tour. All opinions remain our own.''#ecuador #travel @GalaKiwi''SHARE ON''Yes, it’s me again, the German lady who doesn’t like beer, and I am going to talk to you about… beer! No, I still don’t like beer, but I gained a whole lotta respect for beer culture, and I thought I’d spread the word.''Okay, I’m saying that like I ever thought there was such a thing as beer culture, which I didn’t. In Germany, you mostly drink the regional beer, god forbid you order a beer from somewhere else (don’t worry about not noticing the faux-pas you’ve committed; it will be pointed out to you). But how is this interesting, really?''And many places are like that. I remember Australia, where I mentally added the ‘right’ beer to each state or territory on the Australian map, just to not endure lengthy sermons about finding my way to the proper brew.''I’m not saying that I don’t get that it also has something to do with loyalty to where you are coming from, and feeling you belong, because you share a preference – I dig that, that’s cool. But if you ever feel bored by the choice of beer in your local pub and you want to have a serious beer adventure, I urge you to find your way to the wondrous beer haven that is the town of Poznan.''I’ll hereby introduce you to five pubs/bars that we visited and thought were awesome, and after that it will be up to you to discover the rest of them. All our readers drink responsibly, of course, so I don’t even need to say anything in this regard, but I will remind you to make sure you have eaten well beforehand (there’s a''Poznan food post'', if you need inspiration)!''Best Bars in Poznan for Beer''1.Basilium''This cosy place serves only Polish beers, and only from micro-breweries. They claim to have at least 150 different types! You can basically tell them what taste you are into or would like to try, and they’ll suggest a few beers you can then choose from. It’s pretty impressive.''It’s also a pretty small bar – depending on how busy it is, you will need to have made a reservation. I kid you not.''2. Setka''This pub certainly holds a name in Poznan, but you’d probably walk past it if you weren’t looking for it. But then you’d miss out! Sure enough, it’s in a basement, and sure enough, it seems to have a bit of a rough vibe, but that’s because it’s an unpolished diamond.''The really cool owner and the friendly staff are true beer sommeliers (they even have a beer menu with specialties), but don’t call them that, because fancy words are not what it’s about here – it’s about the beer, dammit! With the over 300 different beers from all over the world they sell here, I tend to agree.''3. Brovaria''We talked about this one in our''Poznan Food Post'', because apart from being a micro-brewery, it’s also a restaurant. And a hotel. To be honest, we never went into the bar (which was on the left side of the corridor), because we had dinner in the restaurant (which was of the right side of the corridor).''We did drink the beer, though: they brew and sell Pilsner, wheat beer, and… honey beer! Hot honey beer! Revelation! This place is the poshest of our selection, and very popular with expats and business travellers, and – us!''4. Klub Dragon''Yes, there’s beer here, lots of room, alternative art, music, and a crowd of potential new friends to have a fun evening with. And you will always find your way back to the bar, because there’s a gigantic dragon head coming out of the wall above it – why don’t they have that e v e r y w h e r e? So smart.''Okay, admittedly by that point of the tour I had already had a few beers and chose having another hot mulled beer while enjoying the atmosphere over investigative bloginism. Sue me. Party!''5.''Lot Chmiela''Decent choice of beers aside: this place is so stylish! And it’s not the kind of stylish that makes you feel that you’re not stylish enough, if you know what I mean (of course you don’t. You’re always stylish.).''A lot of vintage items have found their way here and team up with the funky modern interior to create a nice homely atmosphere. And I’m not even using the word “homely” lightly: we saw people play Monopoly here! Monopoly!! While drinking beer. Because this is a post about beer.''6. Bonus: The Communist pub.''There are at least two reasons to check out a “Communist” pub:''1) they are cheap (not that that the other pubs are very expensive compared to Western Europe’s standards)''2) they are an experience''We went to one as our last stop on a little pub crawl (‘t was the''PRL'', FYI) – and got seriously stuck. So if you accidentally step into one of these pubs and are stunned by memorabilia from the Soviet era, asking yourself where the heck you have landed – do not walk out! It’s all good fun. I found the decorations pretty darn fascinating. Also, did I drink too much? Yes. Yes, I did.''So these were our favourite Poznan Bars for Beer which happen to include all the pubs we went to. By which I mean to say: if you like pubs and beer, you are not only going to love Poznan – you’re are probably going to move there. We only went to a few pubs and they were all awesome, but we also walked past countless other little places that all looked funky and inviting.''And now it’s up to you, guys! Go to Poznan to not only discover your many new favourite pubs but also to unleash your own inner beer nerd. And if micro-brews and -breweries deeply frighten you, despair not: Poznan also sports the Lech Brewery, one of the largest breweries in Poland! But that’s something for another time.''Further Reading for your visit to Poznan''Following our trips to Poznan, we’ve put together a number of posts to help you make the most out of your visit. We’ve also added in some other resources to this list that you might find useful.''A guide to''what to do in Poznan''Everything you need to know about''summer festivals in Poznan''A guide to''the food of Poznan'', as well as the''summer food of Poznan''A guide to''visiting Poznan in summer''An overview of''the street art of Poznan''The''DK Eyewitness Travel Guide to Poland''Our stay in Poznan was hosted by the City of Poznan – a big thank you to Kamil and Wojciech for introducing us to Poznan’s beer and nightlife! The ability to get up early for sight-seeing after an evening of drinking remains our own.''SHARE ON''Planning on spending just one day in London? Sure, it’s not very long, but you’ll be able to see a lot of London’s highlights even in such a short space of time. This is a great way to start a''longer trip around the UK'', or to see some of London’s top sights if you have a few hours stopover in one of London’s airports.''And that’s exactly what today’s post is going to help you do. We’re going to take a look at some of my favourite sights in London, capital of the UK and a spot I was thrilled to call home for a couple of years before I set off on my travels, which would make for the perfect day exploring London.''This post is set up to help you see all of these key London sights in one day and I’ve ordered them in the way that I’d recommend you go about doing that.''One Day In London: An Itinerary''1. The Tower of London''History! If you like the TV show''Game of Thrones''(and who doesn’t?), then you’ll love the Tower of London. This place was home to so much plotting, scheming, death and betrayals that it almost makes George’s epic tale of Westeros seem pale in comparison. Queens, princes and archbishops died here, and history was literally made on the grass underfoot.''Admittedly, there are less dragons in London.''Expect to spend a least two hours here, exploring all there is to see, from the tower, to the execution block, to the crown jewels themselves. At the time of writing adult entry was in the region of £21, with''full ticket pricing information here''. It’s free for holders of the''London Pass''too.''While you’re at the Tower of London, you might as well take the opportunity to pop across the Thames on Tower Bridge, easily the most famous of London’s bridges, and for good reason!''2. The South Bank and London Eye''Once you’ve crossed over Tower Bridge, you’ll find yourself on the South Bank, cunningly named because it’s on the south bank of the river Thames. As you walk west along this lovely bit of pedestrianized river way you’ll find yourself passing such sights as HMS Belfast\xa0(one of our favourite''military museums in London'') and London’s City Hall.''If you’ve picked up a''London Pass'', you can drop into HMS Belfast for free, which is well worth doing.''You’ll also be walking past the recreation of Shakespeare’s famous Globe theatre, the Millennium Bridge which leads to St. Paul’s cathedral and the quite magnificent Tate Modern Art Gallery, all of which are likely to tempt you in. Go on, I won’t tell anyone.''Once you’ve made it past all these attractions, and maybe grabbed a bite to eat at Borough Market just behind London Bridge, you’ll find yourself coming around the corner, with the Houses of Parliament swinging into view and the giant Ferris wheel known as the London Eye looming large.''If you want a spectacular view of London, take a spin in the wheel, and marvel as the city unfurls beneath you.''Pricing and ticket information here''.''Note that if you’d prefer not to walk from Tower Bridge to the Houses of Parliament, you can also take a river bus from either Tower Pier or\xa0or London Bridge City Pier all the way down the river to Wesminster Pier. It’s a nice way to see London from the water, and prices for the river bus are pretty good value. See our''guide to getting around London''for tips on the different public transport options in the city.''3. The Houses of Parliament''After your London Eye ride, walk or boat ride (whichever you opt for!), you’ll want to pop across the river to take in the Houses of Parliament, home to the English lawmakers and the bell known as Big Ben. This is one attraction that is easy to see from the outside, but not many people know that you can also drop inside if you want to, and go on a guided tour.''Tours aren’t quite “turn up and go in”, as they only run on certain days, but with a bit of research and forward planning (and by''visiting this site''), you should be able to visit the English home of power and authority without too much trouble.''If it is too much trouble though, fear not. The building is very impressive from the outside, and you can sate your thirst for history quite easily by popping to Westminster Abbey, which happens to be just behind the Houses of Parliament.''Westminster Abbey has played host to some of the most important historical events of the last thousand years in the UK, hosting 16 royal weddings, around 50 coronations and a host of memorial services, including that of Diana, Princess of Wales.''It is also home to some of Britain’s most famous dead, including Charles Darwin, Isaac Newton, notable royals, and many more. Very much worth a visit, although it is a little pricey at £20 per adult at time of writing if you book in advance (it is free for holders of the''London Pass'').''Full details on pricing and opening hours here''.''4. Buckingham Palace''Ah,''the Queen''. Depending on you who you talk to in the UK, she’s either a lovely old dear who the country needs, or a tragic waste of tax payers’ money.''Whichever, she does happen to have a number of rather lovely houses to live in, the most famous of which is of course Buckingham Palace. Here you can peer through the railings to watch the changing of the guard and wonder as to how the other half live, and wave frantically at the windows on the off-chance that someone waves back.''On our itinerary, you’ll likely miss the Changing of the Guard (see when that happens''here''), so you would need to move things around if that happens to be a priority for your visit. Missing it isn’t the end of the world though, as it gets really crowded at that time of day.''You can also visit and actually go inside Buckingham Palace in very narrow windows of opening during the summer, with full details of pricing and opening hours available on''this website.''Of course, whilst you’re at Buckingham Palace, you should probably take a moment to explore some of the other local attractions. A quick stroll down the Mall will take you past the pretty St James’s Park, home to a number of pelicans, and out onto Trafalgar Square, where you can enjoy seeing the lions, Nelson’s famous column and sate your art appetite at the excellent, and free, National Gallery.''5. Trafalgar Square and the West End''From Buckingham Palace you could either stroll up the Mall, or head back towards Westminster Abbey, and go up Whitehall. I’d advise the latter, and not least because one of the''Harry Potter London locations is nearby''.''Going up Whitehall takes you through the heart of government in Britain, and you’ll pass right by 10 Downing Street. Don’t be upset if you miss it though, you can’t actually see the famous door from the street.''As you walk along Whitehall you’ll find yourself passing the Cenotaph, one of Britain’s most well known war memorials. You’ll also pass the Horse Guards, where you can get photos of the, well, Horse Guards atop their horses, before finally arriving at Trafalgar Square. This is home to Nelsons Monument and the National Gallery, and a photo with one of the lions is pretty much mandatory. From here, you’re an easy walk to the West End, where you might want to take in a show to round off your day in London!''6. Visit a decent London Pub''It’s not all hard work and sight-seeing, you know. When you’re in London, you really should take the time to experience a truly British experience – a pub. Enjoy a pint of something exotically named hand-pulled from a wooden handle, and marvel as to how the decor is likely not to have changed for a good couple of hundred years.''If you’re hungry, try out an English classic like fish and chips or steak and ale pie, and rejoice at how much of London you were able to see in one day.''Some practicalities for your one day in London''For the day as described above, getting around by foot is entirely feasible – contrary to public opinion, central London is perfectly walkable. If you’re not so into walking though, then London is very well served by public transport.''The cheapest way to use that is with an Oyster card, a pre-pay system which works out much cheaper than paying for tickets, and available at nearly every transport hub. Find out more about''using the London transport network here''.''In terms of visiting attractions, a number of London sights are free, including some of the top museums.''However, places like the Tower of London, Westminster Abbey and St. Pauls Cathedral aren’t free, and if you think you’re going to be visiting a few sights, then you will likely be able to''save money with a''London Pass'', giving you access to over 60 top attractions.''Check our our''full review and guide to the London Pass''to see if it’s for you.''What about a walking tour of London?''If you’d prefer to have a guide for all or part of your day in London, who can share with you some of the history of this city as well as more local knowledge and insights, then we can recommend this''London in a Day tour''.''This tour covers nearly everything we have in our one day London itinerary, including the Tower of London, Tower Bridge, the Changing of the Guard, and Westminster Abbey. It’s a full day tour, but we think is one of the better options if you would prefer an escorted experience and the input of a guide.''We’ve used “Walks” for walking tours around the world, and have always had a positive experience, and are happy to recommend this tour.''Where to Stay in London''If you’re planning on spending the night in London, you have no shortage of accommodation options, from hostels to luxury five star properties.''For this itinerary, we’d suggest placing yourself fairly centrally if you can, to minimise travel time. For a short stay like this, we’d definitely recommend using booking.com to book your property – whilst we love apartment rentals, we think they are less sensible for a whistle stop visit.''For examples of properties at different price points that are centrally located, here are some options:''The Walrus Bar and Hostel''– A well reviewed centrally located hostel''The Z hotel in Shoreditch''– excellent value in a lively and popular part of London with great dining options''The''Nadler Victoria Hotel''– a well reviewed and centrally located hotel offering excellent value for money''The Savoy''– true luxury as close to the city centre as you can get!''Generally when searching for somewhere to stay our first choice is booking.com. They’re easy to use, usually have the best prices, and have everything from''hotels''to''hostels'', guest-houses and even''apartments''.''Try them for London and see!''Further Reading On Visiting London''We have plenty of further reading to help you plan your trip to London, both content we’ve created based on our experiences, and third party content we think you’ll find useful.''The official''TfL website'', which will give you information on tickets, routes and any updates to services in the forms of delays or cancellations''Jess’s detailed''guide to the London pass'', which will help you decide if this is a good way for you to save money on your London sight-seeing. The London Pass has a package option to include a Oyster Card and currently also includes Hop-on, Hop-off bus passes, which can be a great transport option.''Spending more time in London? Check out our itinerary for spending''two days in London'', as well as our detailed''six day London itinerary''A guide to''public transport options in London'', as well as''the best ways to pay for public transport in London''Harry Potter fans will want to check out our guide to the key''Harry Potter filming locations in London''Jess’s guide to a''1-day walking tour of the highlights of London''.''A detailed''London packing list''to help you pack''A guide to''getting into central London from all London’s airport''s''The''Eyewitness Travel Guide to London'', which has all sorts of information within, including more itineraries and ideas for your trip''Rick Steve’s London''guide, the #1 bestseller on Amazon for UK travel guides, and always an excellent source of relevant information''And that sums up our idea of the perfect one day in London! Have you visited London? What would your perfect day look like. Let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Lucky number 13! Time for another round up post of some of the most popular images that we’ve shared on our''Facebook Page''over the last couple of months.''Since the last post we’ve been busy touring''Brazil'',''Ecuador''and the''Galapagos'', so naturally we have photos from those adventures in this collection – as well as a random collection of images from previous travels.''We generally share one photo a day on the Facebook page which means we can’t fit them all in here – so don’t forget to head on over to the page once you’re done here so you don’t miss out on the rest. Otherwise – enjoy!''One thing that surprised me a little bit about Rio was quite how much greenery there was, with hikes through verdant jungle available right in the middle of the city. One of our walks lead us to these monkeys, one of whom was not a fan of the camera!''Of course, no visit to Rio is complete without popping up to see Cristo, or Christ the Redeemer, who peers out across the city magnificently, with the view as seen in the shot below. We were incredibly lucky to visit on a rare quiet day, and we had quite the sunset view from the top!''In 2013 I spent a week in Brindisi in Italy, where I was delighted to capture some rather lovely pictures. Read more about my experiences, and see more photos from that trip, in this''series of posts.''When I posted this one, folks couldn’t quite work out which country it was taken in. I can confirm that it is in fact Australia, in the Cape le Grand national park. Oh Australia. I need to come back and visit you again!''Just a little bit to the edge of Australia and you’ll find''New Zealand'', where we spent a year working and travelling. This shot is the quite spectacular Mitre Peak in''Milford Sound''. If you’re visiting New Zealand, this has to be on your to-do list!''Girona was home to the first travel blogging conference I ever visited. It’s also a rather spectacular town, very much worth a visit if you’re in area. Also, this photo was the most popular photo on the Facebook Page in the last couple of months, with nearly 1,000 likes.''Home! Well, almost. I spend five years growing up on this island in the Seychelles. Not a bad way to spend a childhood 😉''A mere stones throw from Milford Sound, relatively speaking, are the Fox and Franz Josef Glaciers. Absolutely spectacular, and also must-see. See''more reasons to visit these, right here''.''And back in Australia for the 12 Apostles, the highlight of a road trip along the Great Ocean Road in Victoria.''Another one from''my trip to Brindisi''. Possible my favourite sunset capture from 2013, although the competition is tough!''At the beginning of 2013 we took a rail trip across Europe, ending up at''Bergen''in Norway. We weren’t there for too long, but we fell in love with this charming little Norwegian town – and vowed to return!''Berlin! Home to the first''Lightmoves Creative workshop of 2014''! If you’re interested in learning how to take photos like the ones on this page – sign up now!''Ecuador is home to a whole range of impressive mountain scenery. This shot was taken in Otavalo, a gorgeous little town in the Andes where we ended up spending nearly two weeks.''A short journey from the town of Otavalo in Ecuador is Cuicocha lake, a volcanic crater lake with islands in the middle said to resemble guinea pigs.''And another one from Otavalo – I’m looking forward to writing all about this town in a future blog post – there is so much to see and do here! This was taken up at the Condor sanctuary, home to many species of spectacular birds.''Back in Europe with this one, and this is an evening capture of a part of''Barcelona''’s magic fountain. It’s a lovely sight at any time of the week, but is particularly special when it becomes “magic”, and is displayed with a sound and light show!''And finally for today, Ko Tapu islet in Thailand, home to the James Bond movie “The Man with the Golden Gun”, and now a popular spot for visitors to the region. It’s crowded for sure, but still worth the trip!''That’s it for today! If you liked this post, don’t forget to head on over to the''Facebook page''for the site to get more of these in your newsfeed every day, or check out''the rest of the series''for more images. As always – thanks for reading!''#photography #travel''SHARE ON''I’m not saying you’ll have a hard time finding souvenirs to bring home from your trip to the Galapagos, what with the shops on the bigger inhabited islands. But maybe you suspect T-shirts saying “I love Boobies” (referring to the famous bird you can spot here, the blue or red footed booby, of course) are hilarious in the Galapagos, yet not so much once you’re back in your hometown.''Maybe you are the kind who prefers more natural gifts, and who likes to collect some shells as a souvenir, a bit of dried coral, fill a little flask with sand, or press and dry a pretty flower in the book you brought along on your holiday.''Sadly, unless you want to risk being fined and maybe even jailed, attempting to take out organic materials from the Galapagos is not a good idea. But wait, there is an exception: you could bring home coffee!''Yup, that’s right, there are coffee plantations in the Galapagos, and they produce an organic gourmet blend that is for example sold in selected Starbucks stores, for a whopping $8 a cup. And although the Galapagos might not be a budget destination to get to, the same cup of coffee costs you $1,50 locally. The money you’ll save!''We were actually quite surprised to learn that the Galapagos Islands have an agricultural side. So when we then got the chance to get a little tour through the first and biggest coffee plantation on St. Cristobal island, we gladly took it. Later we found out that the estate is actually an ecological sanctuary and a UNESCO “Patrimony of Humanity” site, as it provides a sustainable resource for the people of the island!''Coffee was introduced to the Galapagos in 1886, with the first coffee plantation being established on the island of St. Cristobal. Two generations later, the “Hacienda ‘El Cafetal’” is still going strong. The man who manages the plantation for the owners, and who has been employed on it for about 20 years, is called Nicholas. He was also the one who showed us around the plantation, claiming to not speak English very well, and defying that by answering each of our questions extensively.''I really wanted to see what a plantation looks like that grows coffee organically, and it was pretty cool, because it did not look like a plantation at all. In fact, it felt more like walking through a regular forest, with different kinds of trees and bushes, flowers, mushrooms, wildlife… Admittedly that also included some “carmelitos”, little black flies, which were only too delighted to see us; a feeling that was not necessarily mutual.''Nicholas explained that the property is 500 hectares big, of which 300 hectares are used to grow coffee trees. Per 8 hectares there are around 1000 coffee trees, which are between 50 and 150 years old. The type they grow is Arabica, and the Arabica trees can grow up to 4-5 metres. The company tries different approaches for the cultivation: normally the trees get cut every 30 years, but some they let grow, and others are burnt down so they will regrow.''In terms of the organic side they use the “under shade” system where the coffee trees grow under big trees that are up to 25 metres high. All the pests that occur in this chemical-free environment have to compete with each other and keep themselves balanced, like nature intended it. Compared to non-organic methods, it’s an easier system that requires much less work, with the only disadvantage that the productivity is also less.''In fact, twenty people suffice to deal with everything on the property. This changes only during harvest time, when 100 to 150 people come to hand-pick all the ripe coffee-berries. During a good harvest, they can manage to end up with 200 tons of dried coffee beans. A thing to keep in mind here is that it takes the weight of five dried beans to equal the weight of one fresh bean. And if you want to figure it all out now mathematically (because I am most certainly not going to), here’s an extra fun fact: 52 beans are needed to make a cup of coffee.''After the picking, the berries have to endure some quality tests: they are put in a basin with water, where the floating ones are taken out, then they are sorted out further by hand on big tables. Here another 3-4 % don’t make it, either because they are too green or too ripe or too big (latter are seriously called “monster beans”!). Another run through a machine follows, during which beans that are too hard or not hard enough get sorted out. A last floating test concludes the procedure.''Finally the berries are washed and the fruit is removed from the beans (which are really seeds, and only got their misleading name due to their resemblance to beans), after which the beans are laid out to dry. By the way, the berries are quite tasty: on our walk through the plantation we ate a few – strictly for quality control, of course.''For the roasting the green beans are shipped to Guayaquil on the mainland. It’s quite a detour because the roasted beans then get transported back to the Galapagos so they can be sold to tourists, but the roasting is simply too big of an operation with too much machinery needed to be done locally. The only exception: Nicholas owns the “Mockingbird café” near the pier in St. Cristobal, and the coffee he sells there has been roasted right at the premises.''So what makes Galapagos coffee so special? A sack of coffee that weighs 47 kg is normally worth 150$, yet the Galapagos coffee gets sold for 600$ per sack – not exactly an irrelevant difference! I guess it’s because it’s organic (the plantation possesses the certification to label their product ‘organic’\xa0 for exports to the USA, Europe and Japan), because it has a high quality (due to the rich soil and the ideal climate of the Galapagos), because of the rarity of the Galapagos bean, and, last but not least, also because of its really nice taste.''The taste of coffee is made up by the combination of its body, its acidity and its aroma. The better the balance between these three, the smoother the coffee. Galapagos coffee is very balanced and therefore considered ‘gourmet’. Some people even say it’s the best coffee in the world! I’d say that makes for a good gift to bring home from your travels, don’t you? And if you don’t know any coffee-lovers, don’t panic: I don’t think the souvenir-shops will run out of the “I love Boobies”-shirts anytime soon. Phew!''Our visit to the coffee plantation was organised by the wonderful Emilee from GalaKiwi, the land-based tour company that invited us to the Galapagos. This kind of visit is not normally part of their tours, but they are happy to arrange it on customized journeys.''SHARE ON''The Galapagos Islands off the coast of Ecuador are the kind of place you are thrilled to get to visit once in your life, like we were, over Christmas and New Year of 2013/14.''Visiting once means you want to get it right in terms of what you take with you, the kind of trip you do, and what to expect when you arrive. Planning a Galapagos trip properly is key to having an amazing time.''So this post is a little cheat-sheet to help you prepare for your trip, based on our experiences, which will ensure you get the most out of your adventure, covering everything from picking a tour through to getting around, food, and other practicalities.''Our experiences are from a''ten day adventure tour with GalaKiwi,''which included hiking, biking, snorkelling and kayaking – after which we tacked on a couple of weeks of time to the end of the tour where we largely planned our own activities and''travelled the Galapagos independently''.''Contents:''Planning a Galapagos Trip''Pre-trip knowledge for the Galapagos''Practicalities on the Galapagos''How to Get Around the Galapagos''Food and Drink on the Galapagos''Further Reading for the Galapagos''Planning a Galapagos Trip''Pre-trip knowledge for the Galapagos''I chatted with the guys who run the 10-day GalaKiwi tour that we did, and also spoke with other folks on our trip, and the one thing that really came out in terms of enjoying a Galapagos trip was to do the pre-trip research and know what to expect.''Accommodation on the Galapagos''The Galapagos is a wilderness and wildlife destination with accommodation to match. The prices are generally higher because of the remoteness and uniqueness of the islands, not because they offer five star pampered luxury.''On the islands most of the hotels are comfortable, with air conditioning, clean rooms and hot showers. They’re places to get some sleep and wind down after a day of adventuring. There are some more upmarket places with pools and the like but this is the exception rather than the norm – and if that’s what you’re after, make sure you book on a tour which features five star accommodation.''Activities and choosing the right Galapagos tour''Beyond accommodation, it’s really important to know what to expect from the tour that you book (a tour is by far the best way to see the islands, letting you get the most out of your trip with the minimum of hassle).''Our''10 day adventure tour with GalaKiwi''for example\xa0 had a''detailed itinerary''on the GalaKiwi website, so we knew exactly what to expect on a day by day basis. Expectations in terms of lodging and food were also laid out on the site, and we were even sent a packing list. Pretty thorough stuff, and something you should expect from any decent operator.''Naturally an adventure tour involving volcano hiking, mountain biking and kayaking isn’t going to be for everyone, but there will no doubt be a tour and company that will exactly meet your needs and interests – just make sure you pick carefully and know what you’re signing up for to avoid disappointment!''Practicalities on the Galapagos''Water''The Galapagos is hot (apart from in the highlands where it can be quite cool), so staying hydrated is essential. See our''guide to dealing with dehydration''for more information on that subject. The water in the taps isn’t drinkable, so you’ll need to drink bottled water.''Our GalaKiwi trip offered unlimited drinking water from large water containers – as did all the hotels we stayed in. We recommend you take re-usable water bottles with you to minimise waste on the islands.''If you’re more serious about your water packaging, then a hydration system such as those from''Camelbak''may be the way to go. I find them essential for hands-free water consumption without needing to think about it!''Money''As with the rest of Ecuador, the currency in the Galapagos is the United States Dollar. ATMs are available on San Cristobal and Santa Cruz, and usually accept all major foreign card types including Visa and Mastercard.''ATM’s in Ecuador can be a bit picky in terms of giving you money though, so if you have any problems, you might need to go into a bank branch with your passport, and withdraw money with a teller. Check with your bank before heading out what the fees are for withdrawing via an ATM or a teller to avoid bill shock when you get home.''Finally, everything in the Galapagos costs a bit more than the mainland, with beer running around $3 – $4, and meals in the region of $7 and up. If you shop around though, you can usually find daily lunch specials (Almuerzos) from small, local spots, which will usually be a soup and a main dish. These will normally be meat or fish based.''Tipping''Tipping in Ecuador isn’t mandatory, although it’s always appreciated. Sometimes it will be automatically added to the bill at 22% – 12% of this is tax, with 10% being the tip. If it’s not added to the bill, then tipping in the region of a dollar per person at your table will do – depending on the meal this will usually work out to 10%.''For tours – on a day tour you should probably tip in the region of 10-15 dollars. On our GalaKiwi trip, all tips were taken care of apart from for the tour leader, for whom a tip of up to 10% would be reasonable.''How to Get Around the Galapagos''One thing that I think surprised most of the folks I know when I told them about my trip to the Galapagos with''GalaKiwi''was that it wasn’t a boat based trip – we did the whole thing staying in hotels on the four islands we visited, just using a boat to get between them and for snorkelling excursions.''Four of the islands in the Galapagos are inhabited, and if you are particularly adverse to boats, you can even charter private planes between three of them for fairly reasonable prices.''Boats are tough to avoid though – particularly if you want to go snorkelling or diving, to visit the uninhabited islands, or to get between the major islands (around $30 per person one way, trips vary from 2- 4 hours depending on distance and weather).''Tips for making the boat ride as comfortable as possible include:''Go to the loo before you board –''whilst most boats have a loo on board, if the seas are choppy then you will be trying to “go” into a target which has a desire to regurgitate everything from previous occupants all over you. Yes, in the name of research I had a face full of what I hoped was “only” wee. No, it wasn’t fun. Go before you board, and then try and hold it in if you can – or only go if it’s calm weather!''Sit near the back for a smoother ride –''the further to the back of the boat you sit, the less bumpy the ride will be if the sea is choppy. The front of the boat will crash over the waves, meaning that the further forward you are, the more up and down you go. You are likely to get much wetter at the back though. You can’t have everything!''Prepare for sea-sickness –''If you get motion sick, then take the necessary precautions. Pop those pills, wear those wristbands, apply the patches, take a plastic bag just in case. I generally find that just staring at the horizon and avoiding activities like reading is the best option for staving off motion sickness. You’ll also want to avoid heavy drinking the night before – being out on a boat with a hangover is a sure-fire recipe for turning green!''On the inhabited islands themselves, getting around is easy, either walking (distances aren’t very far), hire a bike, or grab a taxi to reach further away destinations.''Food and Drink on the Galapagos''The Galapagos is a popular destination, which means that on the three larger inhabited islands, you generally have a decent choice of places to eat, from more traditional Ecuadorean cuisine (sea food features heavily!) through to Western style food including pizzas and burgers.''If you’re a vegetarian then it would be wise to learn the appropriate words so you can express what you will and won’t eat. If you’re vegan, or have other dietary requirements, make sure the restaurant / tour operator is well aware of this, and maybe get it clearly translated into Spanish and written down so you can make yourself understood if you don’t speak Spanish.''Drinks are widely available from bars and shops, including beers and cocktails, as well as a variety of milkshakes (batidos) and juice based drinks (jugos). We drank these all around Ecuador and the Galapagos and had no stomach problems – your mileage may vary.''Generally in countries where the tap water is not safe to drink, it is recommended to avoid any food items that may have been washed in the water, such as salad or unpeeled fruit, as well as the ice in drinks as you don’t know what it was made from. Again – we were fine, but it’s a risk you have to decide to take for yourself!''Further Reading for the Galapagos''Now you’ve got your packing list sorted, you’re going to want to know more about your trip. We have a number of posts to help you plan your trip, including:''Our detailed''packing guide for the Galapagos''A review of our''10 day adventure with Galakiwi in the Galapagos''A guide to visiting the''Galapagos as an independent traveller''Photo essays of the''Galapagos wildlife''and the''Galapagos landscapes''to get you excited for your trip''And that’s everything you need to know to help you plan the perfect Galapagos trip! Have you visited the Galapagos islands – or are they on your bucket list? Let us know your thoughts and feedback in the comments below!''SHARE ON''L’Aquila is the capital of Italy’s Abruzzo region, 100km from Rome. It’s a beautiful town, set high up in the mountains, and it dates from the twelfth century.''On the 6th April, 2009, an earthquake struck L’Aquila in the middle of the night, killing 308 people, damaging around 11,000 buildings, and rendering 65,000 people homeless.''The city has not recovered.''Words, I find, struggle to do justice to what remains of the city. Huge sections of it are fenced off, with buildings supported by scaffolding, and vegetation starting to take over. Military police patrol, to ensure no-one endangers themselves by entering the red zone. Graffiti appears on some of the walls, but it’s not particularly enthusiastic, as if even the artists don’t see the point.''There’s a sense of sadness, of a city falling into ruin around it’s inhabitants, tens of thousands of whom have left, unlikely ever to return.''Somehow though, there’s also a sense of optimism, coming through from those who refuse to leave, who believe that this city has survived through a total of 11 earthquakes, the latest just being another statistic to deal with, and what’s one more?''In fact, over the last 800 years, over 10,000 people have died in earthquakes in Aquila. This latest one, in the overall scale, wasn’t hugely significant.''What is significant though, is the worrying lack of help that seems to be coming L’Aquila’s way. There don’t appear to be major plans to restore the damaged town, even four years on. Political will, we were told, was the main culprit. That, and money, the two being inextricably linked. Italy has struggled as much as any other country with the recessions of the last years, and rebuilding a city that is likely to be hit by another quake does not appear to be a priority.''So should you still visit L’Aquila? Absolutely. In fact, the people here, it was made clear to us, would love you to. There are still businesses to support and places to spend your money that can really make a difference. The surrounding scenery is breath-taking, with four of the mountains around the city topping 2,000m in height.''Sure, the majority of the ancient part of the city is fenced off and unstable. But there’s still a market in the town square. And the surrounding villages and area are undeniably beautiful.''It’s just the centre of town that looks like a series of bombs went off.''Plan your Accommodation now!''Finding the best deal on your accommodation is an important part of trip planning – helping you to''get the most from your budget,''as well as''find the property that is right for you.''Our''go-to choice for finding the best deals is usually''Booking.com''. We generally find them to offer the best value of all the search engines, plus many properties offer a no-fee last minute cancellation policy.''Check out their''L’Aquila listings here.''We have also heard good things about''Agoda.com''from fellow travellers and readers.''Can’t decide between the above two? Try''HotelsCombined'', which lets you search both of the above at the same time, as well as a number of other comparison sites, in order to get the best deal.''With these options, you should find the best prices for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''My trip around L’Aquila and surrounding area was arranged by the nice people at TBD Italy, the tradeshow I was thrilled to speak at.''SHARE ON''A good friend of mine recently spent a few days in Marrakech, and asked if she could blog about it here on Finding the Universe. I was happy to say yes! So read on to find out more about what Monica and her Mum found to do in Marrrakech, and when you’re done, check out Monica’s awesome food blog,''smarterfitter.com''.''My mother recently came to visit me in the UK from the USA and whenever she comes to stay, we always try to take a side-trip to another country. Before she arrived, we chatted on the phone and I brought up that we hadn’t made any such plans yet.''Fifteen minutes later (and one declaration from my mom that “I love everything Moroccan!”), we had flights booked to Marrakech. Our other travel plans meant we’d only have three days and two nights in the city, but three days is better than zero and we were fuelled by the buzz of spontaneity and the promise of a new experience, vowing to make the most of those three days – and we did.''The trip proved that even a short visit to Marrakech is worth the effort to experience this incredibly vibrant and diverse city (I’m reminded of a souk seller who said to me, “Smile! You’re in Marrakech!”). Here’s a few things that made our trip all the better, plus a few lessons in what we’ll do differently next time.''What To Do For Three Days in Marrakech''1. Stay in a centrally located riad.''One of the best things we did in Marrakech was to stay somewhere central to the main sites. We found our base at''Riad Tizwa''in the central Medina, walking distance from the historical main square of Jemma El Fna and the souks.''A “riad” is a large traditional house built around a central courtyard; in Marrakech many of these riads operate as guest houses and provide a much more intimate experience of the city than a traditional hotel. Such was the case with Riad Tizwa, a beautiful palatial home scented with local perfume and full of light, greenery, fruit trees and flowers.''Our room on the ground floor had a beautiful free-standing bathtub equipped with luxurious handmade soaps and – important but rare in sweltering Morocco – air conditioning! However our favourite part of the stay wasn’t the room but the breakfast on the rooftop terrace.''The terrace itself was its own hidden oasis, overlooking the city and a great place to relax over coffee and breakfast, which was in every way perfect: fresh mint tea, fruit, yogurt, pastry, jam and fresh juice. I loved that they put avocado in their fruit salad.''Everything was so fresh and the staff so friendly; the breakfasts made us smile and gave us much-needed energy for the day’s adventures beyond the riad.''There are plenty more accommodation options in Marrakech of course – see a''full selection of listings here''to find one that is right for your tastes and budget.''2. Eat a traditional Moroccan feast''When we first arrived in Marrakech, it was evening and we were hungry but totally clueless about where to go for dinner. Fortunately, Riad Tizwa came to our rescue and booked us in at a nearby restaurant,''Ksar Essaoussan''. We had no idea what an epic feast awaited us.''To our collective vegetarian delight, meals started with a selection of cooked and raw salads, but not salads as I’m used too. These were more like little tasting plates of vegetables in various chopped, grated or pureed form. As a result, you didn’t quite know what you were eating until you tried it, making each dish an exciting surprise.''Memorable salads include a celery and tomato diced salad with herbs which reminded us of tabbouleh without bulgar. We also had some amazing cooked peppers and tomato seasoned with paprika, cumin and garlic. Spices. Spices were used across the dishes in all kinds of crazy unexpected ways (tomato and cinnamon, for example, and it works).''Main courses were less of a surprise, but I think this is largely due to the vegetarian thing. Everywhere we went we got couscous and tagine, all delicious and wonderful, but with surprisingly very little variation. Carrot and parsnip were par for the tagine course, with the occasional cauliflower or green pepper. Only once did we get chickpeas in our tagine.''We kept talking about how good the tagines were, but how much we wished they had more of this or that, particularly cauliflower (my mother and I both are cauliflower fiends). But a glance at the city’s food markets made it pretty clear that these people were working with a pretty limited selection of ingredients, purely dictated by what was in season at the time. But isn’t that the way it should be? In a way, this makes the tagine the ultimate seasonal stew.''3. Don’t only eat traditional Moroccan feasts''Being in Marrakech, we felt compelled to eat as much Moroccan food as possible, and had another amazing epic dinner at''Le Tobsil''on our second night. However, in hindsight, mom and I both agreed that we would have rather left our feasting to one meal, and perhaps think outside the box for our other meals.''Marrakech is brimming with amazing food, not only traditional Moroccan; you’ll also find French and Asian influences aplenty throughout the city.''One of our favourite meals was at Cafe de la Poste, where we enjoyed an amazing trio of antipasti with delicious bread, followed by salad with fresh burrata and a cheese and herb omelette that mom decreed the best omelette she’s ever had: “That omelette blew me away…. unreal creamy texture, yet browned parts.\xa0 Incredible… it will be my quest to make an omelette as good as this!”''Later, just before our flight back the UK, we found the ultimate “snack” at Cafe Elite: a stupendous avocado, date and almond smoothie. This on its own would have been far too healthy, so we got one of their ice cream sundaes to share on the side.''4. Haggle at the souks''It wasn’t all food and feasting in Marrakech – after all, we had to work off the calories somehow. We did much of this in Marrakech’s famous souks, a literal maze of shop vendors selling, well, a lot of everything: spices, bags, scarves, baskets, carpets, shoes, lamps, perfumes, clothes, socks, fruit, beads.''There must be hundreds of these sellers in the souk, and it’s all incredibly overwhelming and chaotic, but an essential rite of passage in going to Marrakech. Haggling is expected, and it’s worth having a go at it just for the experience and sheer spectacle of the place. Expect to get lost. Be prepared to say no. And take lots of water breaks (drink only the bottled stuff!).''You can also hire a guide to take you around and keep you from caving to one of the many people who will vie for your attention (sometimes grabbing your arm or chasing you down the passageways if you’re not careful!). Mom and I agree we will definitely be hiring a guide for next time.''5. Use taxis''There’s no way we would have found Riad Tizwa were it not for the taxi driver we organised through the riad. The place was hidden down the maze of the Medina’s side streets and located behind an unmarked door.''Word to the wise: if your riad or hotel offers airport pickup, take them up on it! It’s also worth taking taxis around town to save time and to help you find other hard to find places like restaurants and shops.''6. Get out of the city centre''It’s worth getting out of the central Medina and into other parts of Marrakech, where it will feel a bit like you’ve entered a different city. Mom and I spent our last day in the Gueliz quarter, the modern area of Marrakech where we found a refreshingly more relaxed atmosphere for shopping and dining. Gueliz has a good number of high-end shops where you can buy quality Moroccan wares without ever needing to haggle. Who would ever have thought that a price tag could be so reassuring?''Gueliz is also home to the aforementioned Cafe de La Poste and Cafe Elite, both of which I highly recommend.''As a testament to the lure of this great city, mom and I are already brainstorming our next trip back to Marrakech. A weekend alone was only a taster (albeit a very generous taster!). Still, there are more neighbourhoods to see, restaurants to try and poufs to buy, not to mention a world outside of Marrakech to explore.''Further Reading on Marrakech''Thanks to Monica for providing such an informative post! If you’re looking for more reading on Morocco check out the following:''Jess’s guide featuring the''12 must-see sights and activities in Marrakesh''My''photo essay on Marrakech''My thoughts on our''10 day tour of Morocco'', to give you some ideas for travelling beyond the city''This''travel guide to Morocco'', for something to read and get you excited about on the plane ride over!''SHARE ON''When we went to a travel blogging conference in Dublin last year, we met some folks of an interesting new company, who built a website that lets you find and book homestays all over the world via the internet. But they are not just a search engine –\xa0 their unique approach is that all the hosts they work with have been certified through them, either by a local partner, or internally. As we are always keen on adding another form of accommodation to our list, we asked them if they would let us try it out, and they said yes!''Since we were headed to a three-month trip around Ecuador, we decided we would stay with a woman called ‘Cecilia’ in the city of Quito, Ecuador’s capital. Big cities can feel disorientating and overwhelming, and Quito in particular has a bit of a reputation with tourists, so staying with someone who you can trust and who knows the city well and can give you advice sounded like an excellent idea.''The brilliant''Homestay.com''website had already given us lots of information about our host and our stay –\xa0 Cecilia’s place was in a safe and quiet area of the city, we would stay in a twin room, breakfast was included, other meals could be arranged. Cecilia had pets, had listed her hobbies, had uploaded many pictures and even stated the house rules which were mostly about not leaving the tap running and not to get drunk in the house. We had already suspected that wild and crazy parties might not be on the plate when seeking a stay with a local family.''We arrived in Quito at the bus station and took a taxi to Cecilia’s house. She came down from her apartment on the third floor, opened the door and welcomed us warmly. We all went upstairs and she showed us around. It was then that we realised that Cecilia only spoke Spanish.''Oh.''I mean, we had already travelled in Ecuador for a month by that point and accepted that the information I had found on the Internet prior to our journey, being that you could get by with English in Ecuador, was not exactly accurate.''Some people speak English, and of these people a lot speak it very well, but most people don’t. Which is not exactly outrageous – really, we should learn Spanish, anyway, but as it is, we rely mostly on pop culture with any linguistic abilities when it comes to Spanish (“Hasta la vista, baby!”, anyone?).''Cecilia didn’t blink an eye. She showed us the bathroom, reminded us of the tap, explained that the bathroom door had to be closed always, introduced the dog to us (Camila!) and then let us unpack in our room. And that was the beginning of the Spanish miracle. Because during our stay with her we ended up talking about all kinds of things, from our families to politics and sight-seeing. After each conversation, we went back to our room, slightly confused as to what had just happened – how had we managed to share all that stuff?!''I guess us knowing French did help a lot, both Spanish and French being Roman languages and therefore slightly similar. And I’m not saying that we conversed very elegantly, but it was an amazing experience. Cecilia has also been a host for about twenty years. When I got curious about a German Christmas-card on her drawer, she told us it was from a German guy from Berlin, who had stayed with her for two years while studying and working at Quito university!''There is also a Spanish school nearby, and I think, many people come to her to be able to learn or improve their Spanish while staying in a Spanish-speaking household, so she is a pro with mumbling stumbling foreigners.''She would sit with us during breakfast and converse a bit, and the times we opted to have dinner at her house, we had it together and also talked about all kinds of things. She has two daughters and a son – one daughter is a biologist and lives with her (she speaks excellent English); the other kids are out of the house. Her son Osvaldo is a painter, and Cecilia’s apartment is like a little gallery, full of his pictures.''Homestay.com had treated us to four nights, but we ended up staying for another night, and, when we returned to Quito some weeks later, we came back again.''Cecilia helped us with lots of things, did our laundry, gave us advice regarding the city, lent a self-sown bag (with Snoopy on it!) to Loz so he could carry his camera around incognito during our explorations, and also introduced us to her friend Edwin, a driver, with whom we ended up taking a day-trip to the nearby equator line.''I generally have no preference for a specific type of accommodation, but I had never really considered a homestay before; maybe because I thought it to be something for students or younger people, and also more of a longer-term thing. Now that I have experienced it, I get why it is becoming so popular.''The difference between Homestay.com and other accommodation services we have already used, like Wimdu, Roomarana or AirBnB, which also let you stay in peoples’ homes, is that Homestay.com focuses on the role of the host. It’s not so much about having a place to stay at, it’s more about the people you are going to meet.''Which means you get a much more personal and social experience on your travels, a chance to work on your language skills, live the local life, maybe to even become friends with your hosts. Cecilia has asked us to keep in touch (well, there is Google Translate until I’m totally fluent in Spanish!) and that’s something very nice to take away from a holiday, isn’t it?''Of course a homestay is not for everyone. You are in someone’s house, and therefore more of a guest than just a client. There might be house rules, or in general some things to respect, but funnily enough it’s these rules which will make you feel at home more, because following them means you’re part of the household. And I’m just talking about obvious things here, like making sure the water tap is closed, and keeping the noise down when you come back late.''A homestay is also not necessarily a four-star hotel. Cecilia’s bathroom for example is a bit older, and the water takes a while to heat up when you’re showering, but everything is clean and nothing is missing.''I am really glad we got to experience this sort of stay, and I have actually already started looking for other places with homestays (I admit I like looking at other peoples’ homes, anyway…). If this is something that could be interesting to you, too, then I encourage you to visit''Homestay’s website'', which reflects the spirit of their product really well and offers lots of information, including testimonials and blog posts – maybe you find it’s something you have always wanted to be part of your travels, and now it’s finally there! In that regard: may your travels be good, however they are made up – take care and until next time!''Our first four nights of accommodation with Cecilia were covered by Homestay.com – we covered our own costs for the subsequent five nights. If that’s not a glowing recommendation – I don’t know what is!''#ecuador #travel @homestaycom''SHARE ON''So, landscapes are all well and good, but really, what you want to see from the Galapagos are cute baby sea lion photos, am I right?''Finding cute baby sea lions was definitely *not* a problem in the Galapagos, particularly on San Cristobal island, where we practically fell over them all the time, draped over pretty much everything in sight.''It’s not all about the sea lions, though. The Galapagos is home to a pretty fantastic collection of wildlife, some of which we captured in pictures during our tour with''GalaKiwi'', and we’re going to share them with you today. Although, there will be the odd baby sea lion photo or three thrown in just for good measure…''Just… don’t call them seals. Mmkay?''Sea turtles! Not the same as tortoises. Unless you’re German, in which case your transgression is forgivable, because the word for both is the same in German.''When two hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not, hmm? This one’s a tortoise. They live on the land. That’s the difference.''I have no idea at all what this thing is. It was crawling around on the beach, distracting us from cute sea lions. If you know what it is, shout in the comments please!''It’s a Sally Lightfoot crab! Great name, eh? It’s also called a red rock crab. For reasons that are possibly apparent. The males get red, as far as I recall.''This is a marine Iguana. As you can see, he is unimpressed by our camera toting efforts. These guys tried evolution, but stopped a while ago, happy with where they got.''A quick break from our normal programming to deliver a couple of smiling sea lions. It’s not a tough life, to be honest. A lot of sleeping, a bit of messing around in the water, and likely some food. You can see what they’re smiling about.''Yes! The Galapagos also has flamingos. And if you keep looking under there, you’ll find them too. Honestly, I could swear I left them round here somewhere.''I have a feeling that this is one of those finches that started the whole thing with Darwin off. Naturally I have no idea which finch it is – they all look different. This is, apparently, the point.''Blue footed boobies. Looking all serious. Probably because of the name. Dealing with the jokes must get tiresome. Still, at least they have blue feet to make it all worth it. Right guys? Right? Hmm. Maybe this will cheer them up.''Awww. Doesn’t that just make everything better!''These are male frigate birds doing their mating display, which involves puffing themselves up like balloons, and then getting terribly excited when a female flies past, often to the point of falling over that giant balloon.''In the time we watched, none of the female frigate birds seemed particularly impressed by these two. Still, it must work.''There was an excellent collection of lizards in the Galapagos too, of all colours and sizes. Again, I’m not really sure what this chap was called.''In case you were wondering, our GalaKiwi guide was fantastic in terms of knowing what everything was. My brain just failed to remember. After attempting to explain the difference between a Magnificent and a Great Frigate bird to our group for around the umpteenth time, I think he had a crisis. Poor chap. Anyway. This is a lizard.''And this is a red-footed booby! Our mission to find them at Punta Pitt on San Cristobal was a success! Hurrah!''This is a baby sea lion sleeping on a rock. It doesn’t look totally comfortable if you ask me.''And another giant tortoise! These guys differ in species between the islands, and actually look remarkably different to one another. It’s fascinating stuff.''The bird life is kind of incredible, and so is how close you can get to it. Of course, I have no idea what kind of bird this is, but does that matter? Probably.''This one I do know. It’s a yellow warbler. Hope is not yet lost for my ornithological prowess.''This is a male frigate bird not on display. Amazing how that balloon tucks away!''And here’s a male frigate bird floating on by. Did I mention how close you end up being to everything? It’s pretty amazing. I shot this at the wide end of my super wide angle lens, and still managed to miss the wing tip!''And we’re coming to the end. Here are a couple more marine Iguanas looking spectacularly impressed by us.''And we’ll finish this particular photo essay with this cute pair of baby sea lions. They had quite a lot of important business to be doing, but stopped for long enough for us to take some photos of them.''Finally, we also encountered a whole host of more aquatic creatures whilst in the Galapagos, which I summarised into this ten second video for you guys with short attention spans. Enjoy!''And that’s it for some of our favourite shots of the animals we encountered in the Galapagos on our tour with''Galapagos experts GalaKiwi''.''To be honest, we have enough photos of cute animals to do another post just like this – if you guys want that, just let us know! Otherwise, we’ll be bringing all our thoughts on the GalaKiwi tour, the activities we got up to, and some tips for planning your perfect Galapagos trip to the blog very soon! Subscribe below so you don’t miss out.''#ecuador #travel @GalaKiwi''SHARE ON''So we usually don’t do this, as avid readers might be aware. We don’t really talk a lot about restaurants and food on the blog. But I assure you, we do eat. And we enjoy it very much. And for reasons unknown to me, I more often than not document what we’re eating. Turns out that that was lucky, because we decided we needed to dedicate write a whole post on where to eat in Poznan. Yup, the food impressed us that much.''Not that it was foreseeable. When we innocently asked what a typical and traditional Polish food was, we got the following answer (twice!): “Well, that would be… the kebab.”. Which is really less of a typical Polish meal, and more of a dose of Polish humour, but there is absolutely no need to make fun of your cuisine when it’s that good! Don’t undersell yourself, people! Unless the kebab is in fact simply breath-taking, and I missed out because I didn’t get the hint. In that case: “Oh.”.''And now: our recommendations for the best places to eat in Poznan (kebabs not featured)!''Where to Eat in Poznan''1. Toga Restaurant''This is definitely my personal favourite. Because the food was nothing short of amazing. Set in a cellar, but well lit and originally decorated, this kitchen is all about slow food, seasonal food, organic food. The shopping tour to the markets in the morning determines the choice on the menu from noon on, and the owners choose good, because it’s incredibly flavourful food they serve you.''And since they are members of the Greater Poland Culinary Heritage Network, you might very well get to try a variation of a dish that was once served at the Polish Court. And who doesn’t want to eat like a king? Note: their website is only in Polish, but you’ll easily find their email-address in case you want to book a table. Situated at Plac Wolnosci.''2. Vine Bridge Restaurant''The smallest restaurant in Poland. Yes, it only has three tables, and the kitchen is in the same room. Sounds odd? Oh, but these guys pull it off! The staff consists of an award-winning chef and a waiter who deserves an award as well, and together they bring you the New Polish Cuisine, arranged on the plates to look like pieces of art.''In the warmer seasons (or whenever you want to book it), the whole restaurant becomes an outdoor-affair as it is moved onto the bright red and picturesque bridge next to the Cathedral Island. Anything but average! A booking is recommended.''3. Dark Restaurant''It has the same owner as the Vine Bridge Restaurant, and the same head-chef – but is nothing like it except for even more quirky! Here you eat in complete darkness and I assure you, you will see absolutely nothing. You are taken to your table and your food is brought to you by your waitress who wears night vision goggles.''There is a choice between meal types (“Mood food”, “Bizarre food” or a standard menu), and you will be asked for foods you don’t eat or are allergic to beforehand, but that’s about as much information as you’ll get. Now it’s up to your taste-buds to decipher what’s on your plate, and boy, will they fail you (with the deciphering; definitely not with the savouring)! This is a unique and tasty experience, and very well executed by the staff. We advise you to book in advance.''4. Brovaria''Right on the old town square, this building contains not only a restaurant, but also a hotel, a bar, and a micro-brewery. And as far as I could tell, they aim to have every branch of their business up to top notch. The stylish restaurant is small to medium size, and the extensive menu even contains some beer snacks, as you probably would expect from such a place. For dessert I had ice-cream with beer caramel – might just be my favourite form that beer can come in! We advise to make a booking.''5. ‘Under the goats’ Inn''If you are looking for typical but also regional Polish foods, served the traditional way, this is where to go. This restaurant is central (right on the old town square), good value, and has a nice rustic atmosphere. I had my first Borscht (beetroot soup) there and it remains my favourite so far, and they offer the famous pierogi galore. Word is that the Inn’s Pierogi Master can make 500 pierogi in one hour, and I so wanted to try more variations, but these stuffed dough-pockets are much more filling than they look!''So these were five places we ate at in Poznan that we wanted to tell you about. There are many more we would have liked to try, so this is just a personal recollection, not an official list by any means!''In fact, our travel blogging friend Agata who lives in Poznan, but was in New Zealand at the time of our visit, wrote us her own list of recommended places to go, and we hardly made it to any of them, so there’s definitely a lot more out there!''While we found the above mentioned places really good value, compared to what you might pay in other European cities, we do have a tip for the serious budget-minded who also want their fair share of Polish food: the''‘milk bars’'', canteen-like establishments, offer exactly that. We didn’t try one (next time, next time!) but to give you an idea, here’s our friends’''Dalene’s and Pete’s experience''. To help you find one in Poznan: we spotted one opposite the fountain on Plac Wolnosci.''Food Specialities in Poznan''Last but not least, it’s worth it to enquire if there’s anything special going on at the time of your visit. Throughout the year, there are various traditional festive days, which often come with a special dish. When we were in Poznan, St. Martin was coming up (which for one meant goose on the plate), and from one day to the other, every bakery and patisserie was selling the “rogale swietomarcinskie”.''This pastry looks like a croissant, and when Wojciech, who showed us around, told us that he would have one of them for lunch because they were quite filling, we smiled indulgently. Sure. One croissant for lunch. Then we bought two for ourselves to try. They turned out to weigh about a freaking kilogram combined! A freaking kilogram of tastiness, that is, but yeah: one will do, folks – one will do.''It’s an amazing sight, though: bakeries sell nothing but St. Martin Croissants at this time of year. People walk out the stores with bags full of croissants (a task which can be considered a serious work-out), and everyone will have a favourite place where he or she gets their croissants from.''There are even official and unofficial rogales, distinguished by their title (we found both kinds delicious and failed to taste the difference). The full name, “Rogale Swietomarcinskie”, can only be advertised when the bakery has a certificate. But don’t worry if you have missed the St. Martin celebrations in November – I heard you can buy the croissants throughout the year now, if you’re really keen on trying them!''Further Reading for your visit to Poznan''Following our trips to Poznan, we’ve put together a number of posts to help you make the most out of your visit. We’ve also added in some other resources to this list that you might find useful.''A guide to''what to do in Poznan''Everything you need to know about''summer festivals in Poznan''A guide to the''best bars in Poznan''A guide to the''summer food of Poznan''A guide to''visiting Poznan in summer''An overview of''the street art of Poznan''The''DK Eyewitness Travel Guide to Poland''And that’s it, folks: so much Polish food, and not a single kebab… Eat yourself silly and thanks for reading!''A big thank you to Karolina, Kamil and Wojciech, who showed us around and answered all our questions and invited us to most of these restaurants on behalf of the City of Poznan!''SHARE ON''Berlin! It’s one of my favourite cities in Europe for wandering around with a camera, snapping photos of such iconic landmarks as the Brandenburg Gate and the East Side Gallery.''So when the time came to pick a location for the first''Lightmoves Creative''workshop of 2014, Berlin seemed to be the obvious choice!''Wind backwards a moment. What is''Lightmoves Creative''you ask? Well, it’s a collaborative project that I’ve launched recently with two wonderfully talented photographers, Daniel Nahabedian of''Canvas of Light'', and Dustin Main of''Dustin Main’s A Skinny Escape.''These guys are two photographers whose work I’ve enjoyed for a long time, so when the chance came along to pool our talents and launch a project together, naturally I leapt at it. Our goal is simple: doing more photography focused endeavours together, which, I’m pleased to say, includes teaching what we know to you guys!''We started off in Dublin in the Autumn of 2013, where Daniel and I led a photo-walk around that gorgeous city, and also spoke at Europe’s largest travel blogging conference,''TBEX'', on the subject of photography. Since then Daniel has led workshops in Thailand, Spain and Africa, whilst Dustin and I have been busy gallivanting around South East Asia and South America respectively.''Between us we have three very different styles, but we all share the same love for photography, and we’re really excited to have the opportunity to share that with you!''After the success of our photo-walk in Dublin, we’ve been asked if we would do more similarly themed events, with the focus on teaching the art of photography. Naturally the answer is yes!''Our experience has taught us that small groups offer you the best chance to learn, with the emphasis on getting as much one-on-one time with us as possible.''For our day in Berlin, the plan is to spend the whole day out and about in the city, with Daniel and I leading a group of no more than ten people in total. This will work out to no more than five people per photographer, and will give everyone plenty of time to learn as much as possible.''And speaking of learning – the workshop will be tailored to your photography goals. Want to learn more about what you can do with your camera? The basics of composition? Or maybe you want to learn about shooting for HDR? Whatever your gear or skill set, the size of the group means we can teach based on YOUR needs, so that you get the most out of the day.''Finally – we’re not really thinking of this as a photo-walk or photo-tour. This is going to be a mobile workshop, where we can teach you everything you want to know about photography – with the city streets providing the classroom!''We firmly believe that hands on teaching in the real world is the best way to learn about photography, where you can instantly apply what you’ve learnt, and we can give you real-time advice and feedback.''So if you are in Berlin on''Saturday the 8th of March'', or know someone who will be, and would like to spend the day with Daniel and I, wandering around this gorgeous city and learning all about photography, then''head on over to our signup page''to get involved, where you will also find more details about the day.''SHARE ON''I spent a couple of days exploring the Abruzzo region following on from the TBD Italy travel bloggers conference. I’ve got a post coming shortly about my experience visiting the shattered town of L’Aquila – but first I’m going to share a couple of highlights from my wanders in this region.''First, sheep.''Now, let me be clear. I was born in Wales, and spent a year living in''New Zealand''. I’ve already seen my fair share of sheep. Some would say maybe even more so. So being offered the chance to sit in a trailer and get pulled up a mountain to visit some sheep didn’t exactly sound like it was going to rock my world.''The good thing though was that the sheep in question were at the top of a mountain, which meant there might be some half decent views of the surrounding area. And since the Abruzzo region is not a place where views of the surrounding area are to be sniffed at, I figured what the hell, let’s give the tractor a go.''Ok, so I didn’t actually have a choice. But I like to find the positives.''Tractor rides, for those of you not in the know, are difficult places to take photos of things from, what with them being all bumpy. So whilst the scenery on the way up to visit the sheep was very pretty, I don’t really have much in the way of photos of it. Here instead is a picture from a previous trip to Abruzzo, which didn’t feature a tractor. As you can see, it’s a pretty place.''Luckily, the scenery at the end of the tractor ride was rather good, and I’d wager, worth the ride up.''Also, there was a funky pair of enormous dogs at the top, with whom I spent an inordinate amount of time attempting to photograph.''So much time in fact, that I forgot to take any pictures of the sheep. Or the shepherds. Or anything like that in fact. Still – dog. Pretty cool, right?''And then it was back down the mountain in a tractor trailer, in the dark. I have a photo of that, in case you wondered. Apologies for the blurry cam.''We were supposed also to visit a castle, but time ran out. Luckily I have a picture of said castle from my previous trip, so you are not afflicted with the same level of disappointment that infected my fellow travellers, who were going to miss out on one of National Geographic’s top 15 castles in the world.''So yes, if you are in the area, definitely make time to visit this castle. It’s totally worth it. The sheep are also actually worth it, despite what you might feel from reading this – they belong to a way of life that dates back a great length of time, and\xa0 which is worth finding out about. I was just grumpy to miss the castle this time round. Next time – for sure!''Following on, from my tales of Abruzzo, we visited a gorgeous hilltop village, where we were to find some witches.''Witches, I have to say, are pretty cool. Floating around on broomsticks, always impeccably dressed in swishing garments. Sure, there’s the minor point around stealing your children and casting spells on you, but I liked to think that maybe the witches we were visiting were going to be the good kind.''Naturally, I was wrong.''The witches in question were the baby stealing kind. And the village carries out a performance once a year, lasting all night (the night of the witches, cunningly enough), to explain what the witches got up to, and how the village would ward off said witch attack. Other towns may practice fire drills, but up in the hills of Abruzzo, they practice witch attacks. Ok, I may have some of these details mixed up. Witches can do that to a guy.''Anyway, we wandered around the candle lit streets of Castel Del Monte. Witches were to be found in every nook and cranny. Some were stealing babies. Others had been nailed up in doorways (this looked quite painful). Some were possessing the souls of children. Yet more were counting broom bristles.''That last one, incidentally, is how one mostly deals with witches. Scatter some brooms around, and the witches will feel compelled to count the bristles. This task apparently confuses the heck out of your average witch, who will spend all night losing count, and forgetting her baby stealing child possessing intentions. As the dawn arrives, she will flee into the rising sun, and you’re safe for another day.''This event, by the way, is totally worth seeing, if the brief taster performance that we were treated to is anything to go by. It happens once a year on the 17th of August, and is called''La Notte delle Streghe'', or The Night of the Witches. The village it is held in, Castel Del Monte, is rated as one of Italy’s most beautiful. So yes, worth your time to visit.''That about wraps up my two day experience in the Abruzzo region, which featured a broken city, witches and sheep. I fell in love with Abruzzo the first time I visited in 2008, and this visit, in partnership with TBD Italy and the Abruzzo region tourism board, just re-inforced that. It’s a gorgeous part of Italy, barely known, and full of history and fantastic landscapes. Visit, I urge you, you won’t regret it!''SHARE ON''I often get asked what camera gear I use to take pictures. Obviously, a camera is no good without a photographer, but the opposite is also true!''I’ve been shooting with Canon SLR’s since I was around 12 years old, when I started my photography journey with the''film AE-1''. It’s still in the attic actually. Maybe one day when I have a burst of nostalgia for shooting film, I’ll dust it off and bring it down. In the meantime, this is what I’m currently packing.''You might find that this is a bit overkill for you, in which case you’ll find my''guide to the best travel camera useful''. Enjoy!''My Travel Camera Equipment''Body – Canon EOS 6D (''Amazon US''/''UK'')''After a long while shooting with a crop sensor Canon digital SLR (the 400D, an amazing bit of kit for it’s time), I figured it was time for an upgrade, and I went down the full frame sensor route with the Canon 6D.''This camera is a stunning bit of kit, with spectacular ISO performance, built in GPS and wi-fi, and outstanding image quality. It is missing a few features of its bigger brother, the''5D mk3,''but really, for the price difference, you’re unlikely to notice. I carry two, to save on lens changes.''I wrote a full review of this camera from a travellers perspective''here''.''Body – Panasonic Lumix GX8 (''Amazon US''/''UK'')''I haven’t switched to a mirrorless setup yet, but I do love this mirrorless Panasonic Lumix GX8. It has incredible image quality in a relatively compact form, as well as a host of features, from an innovative 4K Photo mode, through to WiFi, sensor-based image stabilisation, a touchscreen LCD and a host of manual controls.''It’s perfect for when I don’t want to stand out too much in the crowd, and the silent shooting function is amazing for street photography. For examples of photos I’ve taken with this camera, check out''these posts''.''Wide Angle Lens – Canon EF 17-40 f/4 L (''Amazon US''/''UK'')''I love taking landscape shots, and also photos where I can really play with perspective, and get everything in shot, and this lens delivers that in spades. Also good for interior shots, shots of buildings, and for taking pictures of people that make them look totally insane.''Canon also does a''16-35 f/2.8'', which is heavier, more expensive, and faster, but as I generally shoot from a tripod for this kind of photography, I’ve not found a need for it yet. They have also just released (June 2014) an''f/4 version of the 16-35'', which packs image stabilisation, and might be the one to go for instead, it’s reportedly incredibly sharp.''If you’re on a crop Canon body, then I can highly recommend the''Canon EF-S 10-22mm''. This was my absolute favourite lens for two years, and to be honest, I found it every bit as good if not better than the 17-40 I currently have. It just doesn’t fit on a full frame body.''Prime Lens – Canon EF 85 1.8 (''Amazon US''/''UK'')''Shooting with a prime lens is a great way to make you think more carefully about your photography, and also comes with the benefit that these are often a lot faster (read, the aperture goes bigger and lets more light in), meaning you can shoot when there is less light.''This lens is perfect for portrait work and night shooting, that 1.8 aperture both letting plenty of light in and giving fantastic depth of field. Almost too much depth of field at 1.8 to be honest – it’s worth stopping down a bit to 2.2 so everything you need is in focus!''If you’re on a crop body, then you need to buy the''Canon 50mm 1.8''. It’s the cheapest and lightest lens that Canon makes (under $100), and there is no better value Canon lens. For portrait work on a crop sensor it is outstanding, and that gorgeous aperture makes low light photography possible – even if it can struggle a bit to focus if it’s particularly dark. It’s also not very robust – so don’t drop it!''Telephoto Zoom lens – Canon EF 70-200 f/2.8 IS II L (''Amazon US''/''UK'')''This is the latest addition to my gear line-up, and boy, is this a bit of kit! Widely regarded as the best telephoto zoom lens that Canon makes, it is incredibly fast all the way through the focal length and sharp as a tack. Four stops of Image Stabilisation make my tripod almost unnecessary, and it’s my go-to lens for anything that needs that bit of extra reach. It shines for portraits, event work, wildlife and sports – pretty much everything really.''It does weigh an incredible amount, and the price is fairly eye popping too, but fear not, Canon has a host of other lenses in this focal range to meet every need and budget, including''the original version''as well an''f/4''and an''f/4 without image stabilisation''.''Walk around lens – Panasonic X-Series Lumix 12-35 f/2.8 OIS (''Amazon US''/''UK'')''With a focal equivalent of 24-70, and an aperture of f/2.8, this lens is an absolute beauty, and the perfect lens for just wandering around, offering a real sweet spot of focal lengths, from slightly wide through to slightly zoomed in. Combined with my wide angle and telephoto lenses on my Canon gear, I have the perfect collection of lenses for 95% of the situations I find myself shooting. I only have the one lens for this camera, and I am so glad it’s this one!''Waterproof Camera''–''GoPro Hero 4 Silver Edition (''Amazon US''/''UK'')''I love my SLR, but it’s not particularly fond of more extreme photography or video. For that, I pack a GoPro. I love the compact size, incredible quality it produces, and the fact that it goes everywhere.''Other bonuses are that it charges via USB, can be controlled via wifi from a smartphone, and this particular edition comes with the waterproof housing and remote. Recommended if you’re doing anything at all that requires a bit of rough and tumble, or environments you wouldn’t want to risk your SLR. We use the Hero 3+, but would recommend the Hero 4 Silver as it has a number of improvements over the previous version, including a built-in touchscreen.''Drone –''Mavic Pro''Despite not doing a lot of video, we have invested in a drone because it lets us get photos that would otherwise be impossible. It’s incredible how small and light this drone is, and how stable it is. Learning how to fly it has taken a bit of time, but it’s a remarkable tool, and one that we love having in our toolkit.''It can even shoot in RAW, which gives us a lot of control over the images it produces. If you’re looking for a drone, we can highly recommend the Mavic Pro, or, if you’re on a tighter budget, the smaller and lighter''Mavic Air''.''360 Camera''–''Insta360 Air''Sometimes it’s fun to get a different type of shot, and I love to play with my 360 camera, which lets me create all kinds of interesting shots, from tiny planets to fisheye shots. I use the''Insta360 Air''which works with my Android smartphone, there’s also an''iPhone version''.''Camera Accessories''Strap''The strap that comes with your camera is generally ok, but it is a bit limited in terms of carrying options. I prefer a sling style strap, and have tried a variety of options. My first choice was a brand called Carry Speed, but unfortunately they have gone out of business.''Currently I use the excellent''Peak Design''straps, which are tough, flexible, backed by a lifetime warranty, and let you choose how you want to carry your camera. My Peak Design equipment currently consists of a Peak Design''Slide Camera Sling/Neck and shoulder strap'', a''CapturePRO camera clip''and a''hand clutch strap''.''If that all sounds a bit much, or your budget is a little tighter, I have also had great first-hand experiences with the''Focus F-1 sling strap'', which also has solid reviews on Amazon, and is my fall back sling-strap in a pinch.''Bag –''Vanguard Alta Sky49''I often get asked what camera bag I use to cart all this gear around. I’ve tried a lot of options, from standard backpacks with a''camera bag insert''through to shoulder bags.''Right now though my go-to camera bag is the excellent''Vanguard Alta Sky 49'', which replaces my trusty''Vanguard Heralder 49''– a bag I also loved.''The Alta Sky 49 has an incredibly well thought out design, and it lets me carry all of the above gear, with lenses attached, plus a tripod, and I’ve worn it for hours at a time with no discomfort. It’s been up hills, in the mud and rain, and survived everything I’ve thrown at is around the world. It’s a fantastic bit of kit, and very much recommended if you have a fair bit of kit and want to fit a few other handy items with you as well.''If you don’t need quite this much storage space,''Vanguard''have a variety of other bags at different price points, so do check them out.''Filters''All that expensive glass on the front of your lens needs protection, and I always recommend that you pop a UV filter onto the front of your lens to protect it from scratches or damages. Clear UV filters come in all shapes in sizes, but they aren’t created equal. I’d advise against putting a cheap filter on your expensive glass – currently I use the''B+W 77mm XS-Pro MRC UV filter''which is easy to clean and has little to no impact on image quality. Other''B+W''filters are available for other sizes of filter thread.''I also use a polarising filter a lot for my landscape photography – it brings out the skies and makes clouds really pop! They can also be used to reduce reflections, and make portraits less “shiny”. Very much worth the investment. I use a''B+W 77mm''polarising filter.''Finally, to achieve those lovely fluffy waterfalls, mythical cloud shots and to just give you a lot more control over the light coming into your camera, you will probably want to consider some neutral density filters, which let you reduce the light coming into your lens. These come from all sorts of brands, with''Tiffen'',''Singh Ray''and''Lee''being known as creators of quality filters. Budget is a factor as with anything, and I personally use''Haida ND filters''– a lesser known brand who have received some solid reviews. I picked up''a kit which came with a 3 stop, 6 stop and 10 stop filter'', which can be stacked to give me up to 19 stops (!) of light reduction.''If you want to know more about filters and why / when to use them, check out this''post on filters''I wrote.''Tripod – Alta Pro 2+ 264CT (''Amazon US'')''A tripod is an essential piece of photography equipment, although your back muscles may disagree. Holding your camera still isn’t a trivial task, and for landscape photography at higher apertures, you absolutely need one.''It also comes in handy for night-time photography, including capturing images of the stars, time-lapse photography, and has the added benefit of making you really think about the composition of your shot.''I’m a Vanguard Ambassador, which means Vanguard sorts me out for my gear. After a lot of research, I settled on the award-winning''Alta Pro 2+ 264CT''as being the lightest (and most solid, thanks to the carbon fibre construction) option in their range for the weight obsessed pro photographer.''I pair that up with a''Vanguard BBH-200''head, which is Arca compatible, meaning I can get my gear on and off the tripod super quickly.''If you are keen on a tripod, but the Alta Pro 2+ 264CT is a bit pricey, then I can highly recommend the Vanguard VEO line. I’ve travelled with and tested both the''carbon fibre''and''aluminium models''of the VEO and updated VEO 2 line, and they are excellent for travelling with, as they are light and easy to assemble. Plus they have an integrated ball head, so there’s no extra expense.''Vanguard do a whole range of products'', from tripods, to heads, through to bags and optics – you are sure to find something you’ll like. A tripod is an essential piece of photography gear, so don’t skimp on the cost as you’ll come to regret it later!''Even better, with my''discount code you can get 20% off''everything in the Vanguard US store''. Just enter the coupon code FindingTheUniverse (all one word, case sensitive) at checkout to get the discount!''Wireless remote –''Pixel TW-282/N3''When shooting longer exposures where even the press of the shutter can cause a wobble, for taking pictures of myself, or for time-lapse, a wireless remote is the way to go. This lets us control the camera wirelessly from up to 100ft away, and is perfect for all sorts of shooting situations.''Memory Cards''Shooting in RAW takes up a lot of memory space (but you need to be doing it!), so I use 64GB memory cards. I’ve always found SanDisk to be a reliable brand, and are currently using the''SanDisk class 10 45MB/s extreme cards''. There are''faster cards available'', but as the camera can’t write to them any faster, there’s no point wasting money on them.''The GoPro uses microSD cards, and I use class 10 64gb cards in that as well –''Amazon US''link here..''Miscellaneous Travel Photography Equipment''Spare batteries''Running out of battery power at a critical moment in shooting is not cool, so I always carry at least one spare battery for each camera. For the''Canon 6D'', that’s a''Canon LP-E6''. For the Lumix, that’s a''DMW BLC12e''. And for the drone, that’s the''DJI Intelligent battery''.''Hard drives''Shooting in RAW takes up a lot of hard drive space, more than''my ultrabook''has when on longer assignments. Plus, having my photos in only one place is a serious risk in case of technical failure or theft.''For this reason I travel with three''ruggedised external hard drives''. Having tried a variety (including some from ADATA which turned out not to be quite so rugged), I’ve found the''USB 3.0 Transcend 2TB''to be both reliable and very fast.''Dry\xa0 Bag''Ok, this might seem a bit odd, but when you’re out shooting all day in places where the weather isn’t always so reliable, or you want to take your gear on''boat trips in the Galapagos'', or up waterfalls in Thailand – keeping it dry is important! For this reason I travel with''relatively inexpensive dry bags''that keep my gear totally dry in all conditions.''Photo Editing Software''All the above only counts for half of my photography workflow. Post-processing is a critical part of digital photography, and for that I recommend''Adobe Lightroom'', which comes as a package with Photoshop – an excellent deal and everything you need for your photo editing.''Photography Learning Resources''And finally, having all this camera equipment is no good at all if you don’t know how to use it. That’s why I decided to write my own''travel photography course''– to share everything I’ve learnt, and provide one-on-one feedback, tuition, guidance and support to help you take your photography to the next level. I’ve had amazing feedback from all the students on the course to day, and would love to help you achieve your photography dreams. Find our more about that, right''here''.''SHARE ON''Over Christmas and New Year 2013 we had the pleasure of spending nearly three weeks exploring the incredible Galapagos islands, thanks to a collaboration with''Galapagos tour experts GalaKiwi''.''I knew that the wildlife of the Galapagos was going to be epic (post featuring cute sea lions to follow!), but regular readers of this site will know that my passion is for landscape photography. And the Galapagos, I am pleased to report, did not disappoint.''In addition, being on a''land based tour''meant that we had more time to experience these incredible landscapes (although you’ll notice the odd boat based shot as you go!).''Today’s post is a round up of some of my favourite sights from our adventure across four beautiful islands of the Galapagos. Enjoy!''San Cristobal Island, where we spent nine days after finishing up our tour, gave us some of the best sunsets we saw in the Galapagos. This was taken at Playa Mann, also known as lovers beach. A good spot for sea lion watching as well as surfing!''We took a day trip to the far eastern end of San Cristobal, to an amazing volcanic formation known as Punta Pitt. This is one of the only places on the island where you get to see red footed boobies – find out if we were successful in an upcoming post!''From San Cristobal our GalaKiwi tour took us to Floreana island – an island inhabited by less than 150 people, and home to rather spectacular landscapes like this. We were lucky enough to have clear skies here which meant:''I could capture the awesome stars of the Galapagos! This particular shot shows Venus setting from the black sand beach of Floreana – I’ve never seen anything quite like it!''This is Floreana Island from the sea – it’s a good place for a snorkel, and we came across turtles and rays during our quick snorkel here.''Leaving Floreana behind, we headed across to Isabela Island, the largest of the islands in the Galapagos, where the highlight (other than the six kilometre long white sandy beach) was:''The hike up to the Sierra Negra Volcano caldera – the second largest volcano caldera in the world. At 10km across, it’s a bit tricky to capture the scale, but this is the path that leads part of the way around it. It’s a heck of a view!''On the other side of the volcano the landscape changes from lush greenery to lava fields and cactuses – this caldera is still very much active, with new lava flows bursting out to coat the landscape on a regular basis.''As you can see, it’s a bit less green on this side!''Back down at sea level, and Isabela has a bay filled with lovely lava islands and mangrove swamps, which are home to countless wildlife, including penguins, reef sharks, blue footed boobies and marine iguanas. More on those encounters coming soon!''Also on Isabela we got the chance to see flamingos, wild tortoises and seemingly endless spaces. It might be the largest of the islands, but it has a small population, so there’s plenty of space for the wildlife!''We finished our trip back on San Cristobal, our favourite of the inhabited islands. Here there are lots of opportunities for solo exploration, including a lovely cliff top walk. A full guide to exploring San Cristobal will also be coming to this blog soon.''Another one from our trip up to Punta Pitt. To be honest, the landscapes and the adventures we had on our day trip to Punta Pitt were so wonderful that they deserve their own post too! Sorry to keep teasing you like this. Feel free to subscribe using one of the mechanisms at the end of the post so as not to miss any of the Galapagos goodness!''And we’ll finish off today’s post with a last shot of San Cristobal from the sea as the sun sinks into the horizon.''A huge thanks to the GalaKiwi crew for making our trip out to the Galapagos a possibility. As alluded to in this post multiple times already, we’ve got a whole bunch more content from our trip coming at you over the coming weeks – the Galapagos is truly an amazing place that we can’t wait to share with you! Until then…''#ecuador #travel @GalaKiwi''SHARE ON''Whisky and I.''We did not seem to be made for each other.''I was eager, though. How nice would it be to sit in front of a cosy fire-place and sip on a glass of whisky!''So much for the glorious image. There was just one tiny problem: the taste. I could not bring myself to really enjoy it. If only the bloody stuff tasted better!''Luckily I am pretty persistent. Things I don’t like I will try again and again.''The last time I tried whisky it really blew up in my face, though.''The setting couldn’t have been any better: in the course of some final exams I had recluded to my grand-parents’ cottage in the country-side. It’s a little house that you step in just to find yourself back in the sixties or seventies. Psychedelic wallpaper and no distractions. Perfect.''It was 11pm, probably later, and I had become pretty desperate. I had less time left and more material to cover than I had thought (what a surprise. Not.). What to do in this situation, when I could already smell the foul reek of failure? I needed to keep studying, I needed to be tough even though I felt it was all hopeless, I needed to be strong and manly about it; I needed to spit contemptuously on the ground, and just do it, now more than ever.''Clearly, I needed whisky!''So I looked around (and of course, there was a whisky bottle to be found), poured myself two fingers of the liquid, sat down in an arm-chair and channelled the pressure that was upon me, because in a moment, you know, the whisky was going to put things into perspective. It’s what whisky is supposed to do. Oh, I have read books and watched movies, and I know that this is exactly what it is supposed to do. And I was finally ready to value that.''I took a tiny sip. I let it linger in my mouth for a while. Unexpectedly expectedly horrible. I mustered the courage to swallow. I instantly regretted this bout of braveness. The only perspective that I got out of this experience was the one of a five-year-old who is forced to drink cough medicine.''Disillusioned, once again. I can tell you now that I passed the exam shortly after that, but the whisky had definitely not passed his.''Five years later, I found myself in Ireland. What else did I find? A whisky-tasting on the schedule of my trip. Needless to say, I was not too impressed. I know you, Whisky. You’re the brew that has let me down before. Contempt, contempt!''I pretty much knew I wasn’t going to like it. And I don’t like not liking things. How depressing. Even more depressing to know that I could not just pour my unfinished glass back in the bottle like I had done it five years ago. Even though I didn’t like whisky, I didn’t want it to be wasted.''The tasting was held in the hotel where we would stay for the night after a day of exploring. And I didn’t know it yet, but this place was going to be for me the definition and culmination of Irish hospitality. A hospitality that made me drink more whiskey than I thought I ever would (which is probably still not very much). And if you just noticed how I suddenly started spelling ‘whisky’ with an additional ‘e’, it’s because that’s how whiskey from Ireland is spelled, so it’s only fair I’m spelling it right when writing about it. The leprechauns might come for me if I don’t. I’m not risking that.''So. About the Irish hospitality. There are two things that stand out and make it very special.''First: the climate in Ireland. That’s a wild guess of mine. I liked Ireland and its moody clouds. It did NOT rain all the time; it hardly drizzled, and it wasn’t cold. And Ireland can totally pull a grey sky off anyway, what with the ever-vibrant green below. So while I did not experience the climate as harsh or depressing, there must be times when it really is like that, for the interior of restaurants, hotels (and homes, I expect) is usually made up in a way that makes you think the outside must be completely horrible.''Because all these places are super cosy. They are meant for you to spend time there. Which is an atmosphere establishments all over the world aim for, I reckon, but now I know that they are all amateurs and need to come to Ireland to see the light.''In Germany, we have a saying that illustrates the difference that Ireland doesn’t make: “A guest should feel like he is at home, but he shouldn’t behave that way”. Meaning: the guest should feel accepted and comfortable, but not so comfortable to rest his feet on the table and spread his things all over the place, I guess. In Ireland the guest should feel like he is at home, full stop.''So the sofas and arm-chairs are actually really comfy; the books on the coffee tables are interesting – this is not a setting, this is a place that really let’s you live there; exhale, relax, enjoy the turf fire. Hence the motto of the hotel where I stayed: “Linger, Relax, Enjoy”. And you do.''The second reason why Irish hospitality is special, are the Irish themselves. They have a way of treating you like they would treat a good friend’s friend. Meaning: they might not know you personally, but you must be alright, since you’re a good friend of… uhm, Seamus; so come on in already, and have a hot drink!''Hospitality is not an easy business. Negative experiences with guests can really get to you, even if they seldom occur, and you can’t help being a bit less trusting in people in general, so you put up a tiny wall between yourself and them. I never felt this wall in Ireland; I always just felt welcome and taken care of – in an unobtrusive way.''Then again, the Irish give you whiskey to taste – that’s a bit of a deal-breaker for me, but I mean, it’s a sacrifice I was willing to make. And I made it, and I was rewarded. Because I found a whiskey that I really, really like. Hemingway would be so proud of me – or maybe he wouldn’t, because the whiskey that I found tasty was in fact an Irish Whiskey Liqueur (does that count? No?), so I guess that’s too girly to be approved by Hemingway. Who are you anyway, Hemingway – I approve of it myself! Hah!''Surprisingly, the other two whiskeys I tried weren’t too bad, either, but they did come with oysters (from the bay), salmon and chocolate, so I don’t know if that falls under ‘cheating’ on my behalf. What I do know now, is that the combination of whiskey and chocolate is just pure gold (Hemingway would probably not have his whiskey with chocolate, though. Just saying.).''The whiskey we got to taste is by the way made by the owners of the hotel we had the tasting at, and their “Irish Fiddler” whiskey is an award winner, too!''So if you are travelling\xa0 the Connemara region of\xa0 the Galway County in Ireland, and you find yourself near Cashel Bay, I recommend you check out the''Zetland Hotel''. The owner and the staff are just incredibly nice and helpful, and the only thing that I really disliked was the fact that I only got to spend one night there – boo!''If you don’t make it there, rest assured you’ll still get your treatment of proper Irish hospitality. You just might miss out on Mama Cáit’s Potato Cakes. Don’t say I didn’t warn you.''My experiences at the Zetland Country Hotel were part of a trip I was invited on by Failte Ireland – many thanks!''SHARE ON''After''Dublin'', Poznan in Poland seemed to be a bit of a tough cookie street-art-wise at first. But to err is human, isn’t it?''We can’t deny that it started off bumpy.''But it prepared us for a lot of politically motivated street art.''Okay, what else do you have to tell us, Poznan?''Guys, guys, easy: we can make this work! Let’s just be a bit more chilled… Like that thing below the doggy – looks funky! Have I seen that anywhere else?''See, now we’re talking! Any other repetitive schemes?''So little by little, Poznan let us in. It gave us funny:''…it gave us cool:''It tried to scare us.''Put us up with some classics.''And like a fly on the wall, it kept watching us.''Until it found we were ready. Because Poznan does have some pretty epic graffiti, and while not all of it is hidden, you will have to think old-school and look – under the bridges! That cracked me up – it’s been ages since I have seen decent stuff below a bridge.''But there it was!''And the underpasses!''Yup, Poznan’s got it, no doubt.''And it intends on keeping it: this year for example, the city hosted the Outer Spaces festival, where artists came to cover many walls with''their creations'':''In conclusion: Poznan totally deserved a street art post!''I mean, for god’s sake: THEY EVEN HAVE AN INVADER!!''…spotted by Loz, by the way. Anyhue, folks, these were our street art findings in Poznan. We’d like to thank Kamil, who helped us find some of the works, and also the City of Poznan for hosting us – I’m looking forward to coming back already!''Further Reading for your visit to Poznan''Following our trips to Poznan, we’ve put together a number of posts to help you make the most out of your visit. We’ve also added in some other resources to this list that you might find useful.''A guide to''what to do in Poznan''Everything you need to know about''summer festivals in Poznan''A guide to''the food of Poznan'', as well as the''summer food of Poznan''A guide to''visiting Poznan in summer''A guide to the''best beer in Poznan''The''DK Eyewitness Travel Guide to Poland''SHARE ON''I recently told you all about''my experience rocking around the Molise and Abruzzo regions by train''. If you’ve not read''that post'', do pop over and do so, if only to learn where these regions are. Done that? Excellent.''The wonderful thing about the train journey was that it came with plentiful opportunities to get off and explore the local sights, from funky villages to ancient sites of massive historical importance.''And whilst I happened to experience these options as part of said train ride, they are also places you can explore without a train. Although you are likely going to need your own transport, because the Molise region is sparsely populated and doesn’t exactly come equipped with amazing public transport options. The price for views like this.''In today’s post I’m going to go through some of my favourite sights from this adventure, to help you plan any trip you might get up to, or just to inspire you to add this part of Italy to a future list.''The ancient monument on top of the hill!''One of the highlights of our two days exploring was a trip up to the town of Pietrabbondante, which we reached by bus from the San Pietro Avellana train station. If you’re under your own steam, you can get here easily from either Campobasso (30km away) or Isernia (20km away).''Pietrabbondante is famous for the Samnites, who rocked up here in the 6th century BC, and hung around for circa 600 years before being ousted by the Romans.''The Theatre of Pietrabbondante is one of the few remaining Greek style structures in Italy, and in particular the amphitheatre is very impressive, not least because its elevation of 921m means that it commands some fairly spectacular views over the surrounding landscapes.''The gorgeous villages!''We visited a number of gorgeously pretty villages. One of my favourites was Pescocostanzo (pictured above), where I wandered around the one way system (the arrows on the cobbled streets giving the clue), explored the church, took a coffee at one of the many coffee bars, and even found time for the knitting museum.''The latter wasn’t exactly my cup of tea, but it did have nice views from the top floor windows.''Other villages we visited included the picturesque Bagnoli del Trigno, also perched overlooking a valley (villages perched overlooking valleys is a common theme in this area), and Agnone, home to one of the oldest companies in the world. As described below.''The archaeology!''You’ve got to feel for Italian construction workers. Every time they want to build something, they end up unearthing some ruin of tremendous cultural value, resulting in delays and costly diversions to whatever it is they wanted to build. In fact, it’s kind of a miracle that anything ever gets built.''The discovery of the oldest archaeological site in Europe was no different. Construction was underway on a state highway, which involved a great deal of high explosive and the removal of various hills. After removing one particular hill, it became apparent that there was something interesting in the ground, so highway construction was paused (and eventually, rerouted), and it was here that the first hominid found in Europe was discovered, dating back 730,000 years.''Which is quite a long time.''Now, there’s a centre detailing the history of the site, which was a fairly gruesome location it has to be said, being as it was a slaughter ground for early man feasting. It was also here that some of the earliest uses of fire and tools were discovered. So yes – an important location of scientific discovery.''It’s all excellently explained in both Italian and English, and if you have even the vaguest of interest in where we came from as a species, is worth the minimal entry fee. To be found just down the road from Isernia.''The bells!''I’ve never really put much thought into bells. They live in church towers, and go dong every now and then. End of story.''But visiting the Molise region without paying homage to the bell makers of Pontificia Fonderia Marinelli would be a sad mistake, if only so you can say you have visited one of the oldest companies in the world.''For the last thousand years, the Marinelli family have been making bells in the town of Agnona, making this the oldest bell foundry in the world.''Here I learnt how bells are made (it’s not an entirely straight forward process), listened to a demonstration of bell ringing by the master bell maker, and peered at bells that dated up to a thousand years old. I have to admit, I wasn’t that excited about bells before, but seeing the passion and love that goes into creating these instruments made me think a bit harder about it, and I’ll certainly think twice about the history of a bell the next time I hear one chiming!''The food!''Pretty much everywhere you go in Italy, you are going to find amazing food. But the Molise region is particularly famed for its truffles, with around 30% of Italy’s truffle production occurring in this region. So if truffles are your thing, this is the area to come to.''Of course, there are lots of other regional specialties too which, as I was reliably informed, you can only really experience properly in Molise. These range from polenta, to fried pasta stuffed with brains, to lamb in all shapes and sizes. Lamb being the most popular meat in the region. If you’re not into offal, to be careful what you order, as it seems to feature regularly!''And that about sums up some of my favourite parts of the Molise and southern Abruzzo regions as experienced over two days from the comfort of a train. I was also lucky enough to spend some time visiting the northern parts of Abruzzo, including the earthquake struck town of Aquila, and will be posting my thoughts on that soon.''My journey through the gorgeous Molise & Abruzzo region was provided courtesy of''Kolidur Travel Club'', who put together the itinerary and handled all the logistics. You can find out more about their tours at their site. No integrity was harmed in the making of this post.''SHARE ON''We had the pleasure of visiting the Cliffs of Moher as a day trip from Dublin on a recent trip to Ireland. This gave me the opportunity to regularly repeat the following words:''“You killed my father. Prepare to die.”''To anyone who would listen. What fun I was to be with.''If you’re not familiar with the line, they are a line from''a classic book'', later made into''a classic film''. If you’ve not seen the''Princess Bride''yet, you really need to add it to your watch list. It’s worth it, I promise you.''I’ve always wanted to somehow include those lines in a post, which made''Paddywagon’s''offer to take us on one of their day trips from Dublin to visit the Cliffs of Moher a no-brainer.''Of course, you don’t have to have seen the film to appreciate''Ireland’s''Cliffs of Moher – they are happily spectacular in their own right. But if you have seen the film, then you will also recognise them as the Cliffs of Insanity, which is a supremely epic name for a pile of rock falling up out of the sea, as scaled by both our hero and various protagonists from the aforementioned film.''Anyway, back to the day in question. The Cliffs of Moher are on Ireland’s west coast, and are one of Ireland’s most visited attractions outside of Dublin. We visited the Cliffs of Moher on a day trip from Dublin which is a good way to see them. It’s easy, someone else handles driving the Irish roads, and you get a fair amount of time at the cliffs.''A fair amount of time that is, if you don’t happen to meet a man who sends you on a mission to the most scenic point on the Cliffs. I’ll get to that.''Visiting the Cliffs of Moher from Dublin on a Day Trip''We were picked up by the Paddywagon bus at 8am in central Dublin, a fairly ungodly hour. It’s quite a long way from one side of the Ireland to the other, and we had to do it both ways in one day. The bus did have free wifi, which made up for the fact that the clouds were low and ominous. I wondered if we’d even be seeing any cliffs – and wondered also as to the luck of friends who’d visited only the day before to a rare (for October) sunny day.''Of course, clouds do happen to work well for the kind of photography I like to do, so all was not lost.''With an odd detour via Limerick, it took us four hours, with bathroom break, to get to the Cliffs. Our driver entertained us on the way, but to be sure, if you’re not into prolonged periods of time sitting on a bus, this might not be for you.''Arriving at the Cliffs, we were given ninety minutes to experience them, and offered dire warnings as to the risks before us. To be fair, people fall off these cliffs quite regularly, so the warnings seemed only fair. I pondered if the driver sat in terror for ninety minutes, wondering if this was going to be the journey where he went home with fewer than he had arrived with.''These thoughts were only brief in my mind though, as we walked up the path towards the top of the cliffs. Which, I have to admit, were kind of impressive. Even having seen countless pictures of them, I still wasn’t quite prepared for their sheer splendour.''At this point I should point out that I am fairly poor at heights, although I tend to stand near the edge of things anyway, to see how it feels. In this case though, my partner threatened me a fate worse than death if I stood too near the edge, so I resisted the temptation.''Although, looking at the behaviour of my fellow travellers, who all seemed to want to get a shot as close to the edge as possible, it wasn’t hard to see why people died up here. One wrong foot, and it’s a 200 metre trip straight down onto a fairly unforgiving looking surface.''I lugged my tripod around, and tried to get “the shot”, which resulted in me dawdling some distance behind Vera, who was trying to ignore me in case I fell off, which she would have to get cross about.''Setting my camera equipment up for the umpteenth time, a chap approached me.''“Do you want to get the best shot?” he asked.''I indicated that yes, perhaps I did.''“Come over here” he said, beckoning me right to the edge of precipice.''I gulped, and looked around, wondering if this was some sort of Irish cliff serial killer, who preyed on gullible photographers looking for “the shot”.''“Don’t worry, I just need to show you the spot” he reassured me.''“It’s ok, it’s Roy, he built the walk!” chipped in one of Roy’s companions, who was, I noticed, standing a safe distance back from the cliff.''Still, the opportunity to get a great shot overcame me, so I hopped (ok, inched) over to Roy, who was casually standing toe to toe with death on the cliff edge. Calling them the cliffs of insanity seemed apt.''“You see that sign over there?” said Roy, pointing off into the distance at a tiny white sign.''“That’s where you want to be. Good luck.”''And with that he resumed his cliff top walk with his companions, and left me to my own devices.''I consulted my watch. I had about half an hour left, and the sign looked to be about a kilometre away, and quite a way down. Still, I figured Roy seemed like he knew what he was talking about. He had a Cliffs of Moher rambling badge on and everything.''I threw my tripod over my shoulder, caught up with Vera, and explained the situation. She peered at the distant sign, expressed doubt as to the existence of a path and rather unenthusiastically, trudged after me. At least I wasn’t trying to stand near the edge of anything.''After a bit of a scramble, clearly past the most popular part of the walk, and down a hillside that did contain the semblance of a path, we arrived at the sign.''Which, I was rather delighted to discover, did contain a nice view. It looked like this:''Pleasing clouds? Check? Cliffs happily disappearing away to the horizon? Check. Lack of anyone visible in the shot? Check.''Totally worth the whole day.''Of course, that wasn’t the whole day. We legged it back to the bus, because, well, we’d used up quite a lot of our time heading to “the spot”. From there we were taken to the tiny town of Doolin where we grabbed some sandwiches, and then we further explored the coastline.''We stopped off at a ruined church and an old castle, both of which were very, well, church and castley. Everything you would hope from a beach side castle and a ruined church.''The highlight for me though from the afternoons activities was the limestone landscape of the Burren.''I’m normally averse to describing landscapes as being moon like, as I’ve not been to the moon, plus I’m sure the moon is fairly cloud free, but the Burren did have a lunar feel. Seemingly endless limestone plateau of nothing stretched out all around, with the “baby” Cliffs of Moher providing the line between land and sea.''Naturally I took a whole bunch more photos.''Finally, it was time to head back to Dublin. Like I said, this was a full day, and we didn’t get back into Dublin until 9pm. Most slept on the bus as we returned, which after a full day of sight seeing, was a sensible option.''How To Visit the Cliffs of Moher''So would I recommend the Paddywagon tour to the Cliffs of Moher? Well, of course, that depends on you.''For an easy day trip that you don’t have to think about, that includes a number of attractions on the West Coast, as well as free on bus wi-fi, then this tour is definitely worth doing. Our driver was friendly and funny, the tour was clearly well organised, and the bus was comfortable, with plenty of added attractions beyond the Cliffs to keep us occupied.''If you prefer more flexibility in your schedule, and the ability to stop and see sights at your leisure, then''hiring a car''and going at your own speed is likely to work better for you, and you probably weren’t considering a bus tour anyway.''The Cliffs of Moher can be visited from Galway, Dublin and other locations in Dublin quite easily, and there are tours from multiple locations as well.''Either way, visiting the Cliffs of Moher should definitely be on your list for your visit to Ireland. For more ideas on visiting Ireland, check out all''our Ireland blog posts''!''PS – if you’re looking to take a great shot of the Cliffs: from the visitor centre, go up to the right, past the castle, and keep going. Go past all the people looking like they’re going to fall off, and keep going, at one point the path will descend sharply for around 100m, and then curve off round to the left, where you will see a white sign. From that sign, you will get the view.''It is, I promise you, entirely worth it.''Note – our trip out to the Cliffs of Moher was provided by''Paddywagon''in return for us writing about it. The content always remains our own. Current pricing for this tour from Dublin is available on the''Paddywagon tours page''.''SHARE ON''Ok, so the title gives it away a bit.''But we’re pretty excited about this one.''We’re going to the Galapagos for Christmas this year!''Deep breaths, carry on.''We’ve been lucky enough to spend Christmas in some pretty funky places around the world, but the Galapagos tops the list as by far the most exciting destination to get our tinsel on.''Even better – we’re going to be hanging around over New Year as well, to see how all that amazing wildlife celebrates New Year.''I suspect they celebrate by doing the same stuff they do every other day of the year. But we won’t know that for sure until we see it\xa0 for ourselves, will we?''Of course, we’re not just''going''to the Galapagos. Oh no. We’re doing all kinds of fun stuff while we’re there.''We’re thrilled to be partnering up with''GalaKiwi''for our trip, on their''10 day adventure tour of the Galapagos''. And looking at the itinerary, we are going to have our hands full. We’ll be:''Visiting four of the islands in the Galapagos archipelago''Snorkelling with sea lions, turtles and more!''Mountain biking across San Cristobal Island''Visiting Pink Flamingos''Hiking up a Volcano – the second largest crater in the world!''Kayaking with Penguins''Sampling delicious local food''Visiting the Charles Darwin Research Centre''Exploring lava tunnels''Hang out with giant tortoises and learn the secrets of longevity''And lots more! We’re going to be starting the adventure by exploring Quito, and then we’re flying over to the islands for what can only be described as an action packed tour!''We’re particularly excited to be working with tour company GalaKiwi on this trip. They’re a local, Galapagos based tour company, and they pioneered the idea of the land based Galapagos adventure tour. There’s a reason that major tour operators, including Intrepid, Contiki and G Adventures, have all used GalaKiwi as their local Galapagos experts!''They’re also the only tour company to offer Yoga Tours, Bike Tours, and a Photography tour of the Galapagos, just in case the adventure tour that we’ll be doing wasn’t enough. You can''see all their tours here''.''Because they’re based on the islands, and their guides are all resident (''meet the guides here''!) on the islands year round, they’re going to be able to give us a really local experience, something we are really looking forward to.''We’ll be visiting the local restaurants and coffee shops, and meeting the people who live and work on these islands year round. We’re looking forward to sharing their stories with you.''Did I mention how excited we are yet? Like, really excited!''We’ve heard that internet access in the Galapagos can be a bit flakey, but we’re going to do our best to keep you updated on our adventures as we go.''The best way to follow those adventures in real time is over on our''Instagram Feed''or''Facebook Page'', where we’ll be doing our best to share photos and tales as we go. Also, check out the''GalaKiwi Facebook Page''and''Twitter feed''for more on what these guys do.''And of course, we’ll be posting updates (and lots of photos!) to this very blog as soon as we can!''Stay tuned for more!''SHARE ON''Today’s post was provided by a third party, providing tips and ideas for what to get up to if you decide to spend Christmas somewhere a little bit different this year – like Egypt!''If you need a change from the normal Christmas festivities – how many times can you look pleased to receive a pair of socks from your auntie? – then why not try Egypt for a change?''Flights to Egypt could not be any easier, as you can always rely on holiday websites such as First Choice, Thomas Cook and other major reputable sites offering deals to the country.''Flying out to Egypt before the end of the year would also enable you to celebrate a well-known public holiday with the Egyptians, one of the last Egyptian public holidays on the annual calendar.''On the 23''rd''of December, the country will celebrate Victory Day, which is aimed at celebrating the ending of the''Tripartite Aggression''in 1956. You can certainly expect the country to celebrate in style!''There are many things to recommend Egypt as a holiday destination – not just the weather – and so for something rather different, try one of these activities, which will start your new year off with a proper swing.''#1 – Party with the Pharaohs''Some people dream of visiting Luxor and the Valley of the Kings and this six day tour is ideal if you are one of them. It is guided by knowledgeable English-speaking guides and if you have been rather worried about the safety of Egypt, this tour is a good way to look around, as you are transported by experts every step of the way.''There are two trips every year, leaving around 23''rd''or 24''th''of December and the itinerary is stunning, taking in the Pyramids of Giza and Saqqara, Luxor, Valley of the Kings and Cairo.''#2 – Cruise the Nile''Although an obvious choice for Egypt, Nile cruises have been popular for centuries and no wonder – the view from the river is spectacular and you can quickly reach places that would be quite difficult and uncomfortable to reach by road.''A typical Nile cruise will take in the Pyramids (naturally!) but also Abu Simbel, the Aswan Dam and the Temple of Horus at Luxor. Nile cruises can be as basic or as luxurious as you like – think Hercule Poirot and you can’t go far wrong.''With there being so many different types of cruises to choose from it can sometimes be difficult to not go overboard on spending. Not only are these cruises relaxing, but you get to see more of Egypt from a different angle while enjoying a fresh Egyptian breeze.''#3 – Sharm el Sheik''The days are short at this time of the year, but can be quite hot, so if you need some warmth on your skin in the depths of the British winter, try a Christmas break at Sharm el Sheik. Although Egypt is not a Christian country, the resorts do decorate in a traditional Christmas way and there will be trees and any amount of glitter! Bring your very best clothes, because you will need to dress to the max for the special dinners over the holiday.''#4 – Make a snowman''No, seriously – although you’ll have to be quick, because the snow lying in the Cairo streets this December is something of a fluke. It has been so bad that it has closed some ports and also created a degree of traffic mayhem (a pretty much natural state of affairs in Cairo) and although it can’t be guaranteed to be hanging around for long, it serves to point up the fascinating mysteries of Egypt – nothing is quite what you might expect.''#5 – Celebrate Christmas, on 7''th''of January''Although Egypt is of course a predominantly Muslim country, there are nevertheless over 8 million Christians, mostly from the Coptic Church, which celebrates Christmas Day on 7''th''of January. If you are lucky enough to be invited to someone’s home to help them celebrate, you will be given special sweet biscuits to show that the pre-Christmas fast is well and truly over!''So there you have it, a fine collection of things to do over the Christmas year.''SHARE ON''Dublin is a fantastic city to visit – you’re pretty much always guaranteed to have a good time when you visit the Irish capital! In our guide to things to do in Dublin, we’re going to share with you some of our favourite sights and activities in the city, to you give you some inspiration for your visit.''This post splits up Dublin’s attractions into some of the must-do sights that you’re likely going to want to prioritise on your visit, and then we cover a number of the other attractions that you might consider adding depending on how much time you have in Dublin, and your specific interests. Let’s get going!''Contents:''Things to do in Dublin''1. Must see Sights in Dublin''Dublin Spire''Trinity College.''The Temple Bar District.''The Guinness Storehouse.''The jail (Kilmainham Gaol).''2. Other Things to Do in Dublin''The Old Jameson Distillery.''The Jeanie Johnston Tall Ship/Famine museum.''Christ Church Cathedral.''The Trinity College Library.''Niche Museums''3 – The Hidden Gems of Dublin''4 – On Your Next Trip to Dublin''Some practicalities, tips and acknowledgements for Visiting Dublin''How to get around Dublin''How to save money in Dublin''Where to stay in Dublin''Things to do in Dublin''1. Must see Sights in Dublin''Cover the must-do sights. You know, the ones that people make you feel guilty about for not having seen them. Yes, those.''Dublin Spire''Let’s start with the Spectacular Spire of Shame. It’s not actually called the Spire of Shame, just the Spire, but I have not met anyone from Dublin who didn’t put the poor big shiny pole down.''I don’t think it’s because it’s horrendous (I find it quite neat), but I think the amount of money spent on it might have been horrendous, and therefore the people of Dublin refuse to approve of it. If someone attempts to tell you all the names the Irish have given it, run away quickly, otherwise you might still sit there in three hours. I kid you not.''Trinity College''.''Conveniently, it’s centrally located, meaning you would have to make a tremendous effort to avoid it, so since you’re passing all the time anyway, just step through the gate and find yourself on the terrain of Ireland’s oldest university. Wander around on cobblestony grounds a bit, and you can tick that off the list, as well.''Be aware: depending on your social environment, this might not be enough to convince them. They might go a step further, asking if you have seen the “Book of Kells” while you were there. The book of what? …Don’t worry about it now, it’s advanced stuff, to be covered below Step 3.''The''Temple Bar District''.''Personally, I find you’re better off having your pint somewhere else which is a little less of a tourist trap, but there is no denying this area is very famous.''It’s even more famous now because Loz and I had a beer there, too. We folded under the tourist pressure, but seriously: do check it out and get your appetite going by walking down the street, but feel no remorse to then go discover a nice (and cheaper) pub all by yourself somewhere else, you know: one that has more locals than tourists inside.''The''Guinness Storehouse''.''I feel funny saying that a brewery is a must-do, because many cities have breweries that you can visit, and they’re certainly all good fun, but not really for everyone.''Well, we’re in Dublin now, and things are different: you cannot miss the Guinness Storehouse. Anybody in Dublin who you ask for recommendations will recommend it. Because in Ireland Guinness stands for much more than just another brand of beer. “My goodness, my Guinness” indeed!''The jail''(''Kilmainham Gaol'').''Yes, one of the dreaded history lessons in disguise, but I’d say you’d struggle to find one in an equally unique location. So unique in fact, that it was used for filming various movies, including “The Italian Job” (1969) and “In the Name of the Father” (1993).''A tour is the only option to visit (try to come early), and the hour it takes goes by way too quickly. You won’t even have noticed all the information they poured into your little brain by the time you step outside again. Pure evil.''Now these were the most popular things to do in Dublin. I would like to say that if you want to avoid the crowds, avoid these, but that wouldn’t be accurate, because Dublin is not too big, yet very popular, so you will always have crowds. Apart from around the Spire, really. Around the Spire it’s all free space and open air.''2. Other Things to Do in Dublin''As we are moving away from the “must-do’s”, I will introduce some more sights that we went to. Note: these are not less important; in fact, you might find them more important/interesting/beneficial than the above, but I could not let you run into the bloody “What? You went there and you haven’t seen that?!”-trap.''Of course I have now given anybody who wants to set up this trap the means to do so, come to think of it. Oh well, er, – where were we? Oh yes: more sights, in no particular order!''The''Old''Jameson Distillery''.''Coming from a person who is neither very fond of beer nor of whiskey, my recommendations to visit breweries and distilleries should be taken seriously. Or maybe not?''All I can say is that I thoroughly enjoyed the tour through the old distillery – it’s a much cosier affair than visiting the Guinness Brewery (experience both, if you can), and a congenial and entertaining one.''The''Jeanie Johnston Tall Ship/Famine museum''.''History is not always pleasant, and Ireland had its fair share of the unpleasant bits. I mentioned the jail, but another interesting sight is this famine ship.''It’s not too far away from the Famine memorial which is another reminder of the Great Famine (1845-1852) that hit Ireland brutally, erasing around one million Irish, and forcing another million to leave the country if they didn’t want to share the same fate; mostly by boat.''The tall ship, a replica, is not massive or jam-packed with memorabilia, but I think that’s the point of your visit: spending time in the belly of the boat to get a feeling what it was like for the passengers, whose stories you will hear about.''We had a special experience, because a fellow visitor was an American with his daughter, who was on the trail of his great-grand-father, who had come to America as a\xa0 young stowaway on a ship like the Jeanie Johnston.''I don’t think it ever crossed that boy’s mind that one of his descendants would make the journey back to find out about him, and also that he had made the search very complicated by choosing an unrecorded way of travel.''Christ Church Cathedral''.''The older one of the two medieval cathedrals in Dublin (the second one being St. Patrick’s). There are a lot of interesting bits to discover, but my favourite part was the crypt which is massive (as far as crypts go – and it is in fact one of the largest medieval crypts in Europe) with a funky (!) crypt café (!!); and apart from the regular crypty stuff like stone coffins, jewellery and books, it had costumes from the TV series “The Tudors”.''All quite progressive for a nearly 1000-year-old cathedral, don’t you think?''The''Trinity College Library''.''The Book of Kells and the Long Room are both found in the Trinity College Library. The Book of Kells, an illuminated manuscript from the 8th century, is considered a masterpiece of Western calligraphy and is probably the reason why most people come and visit – but since you can’t take pictures (imagine the sad expression on our travel blogger faces), we spent much more time in the stunning Long Room. We are shallow like that.''Niche Museums''I went to''Dublinia''and the''National Wax Museum''. Dublinia is a “living history” museum and has three different exhibitions, dealing with the Vikings in Dublin, medieval Dublin and how to uncover history through archaeology. It’s very worthwhile, just know that it is for all ages to enjoy and often interactive.''When I told Laurence that I had been to the National Wax Museum, he frowned a bit, as in, “Oh, how interesting can that be”, and I hadn’t expected it either, but I had so much fun there!''They have it all: historical figures and scenes, mythological scenes, a science section, politicians, Irish celebrities, international celebrities and Chambers of Horrors that almost gave me a freaking heart attack!''3 – The Hidden Gems of Dublin''Realize that you probably need and want to move to Dublin for a while in order to see and experience it all. Bummer. I had many more museums on my list, and while I can only expect them to be awesome, instead of vouching for it, I just want to name a few in order to give you an impression what’s out there.''Two quirky-sounding museums caught my eye whilst doing research: The''Little Museum of Dublin'', which must be full of all kinds of stuff, is very popular and best seen via one of the tours which run every hour.''Shame, shame, shame: I didn’t make it to either''Dublin Writers Museum'', nor the''James Joyce Centre''. I did learn that you can do a''Literary Pub Crawl'', though. An offer that stands very much for practical thinking.''There are many splendid galleries in Dublin and the ones I have listed are all free:''The''Chester Beatty Library''. Weirdly enough any description of it doesn’t sound too interesting to me, but Lonely Planet must have a reason to declare it “not just the best museum in Ireland, but one of the best in Europe”.''The''Dublin City Gallery''. My sister visited and recommended it to me. It MUST be good.''Other travellers raved about the''Modern Art Galleries''(yes, there’s two!), and let’s not forget the''National Gallery''.''Last but not least I had wanted to visit the''Leprechaun Museum'', for the obvious reason being that it’s a Leprechaun Museum, of course, but alas, it was another thing I couldn’t make it to. All I have heard is that it’s good, but no details. Very mysterious.''4 – On Your Next Trip to Dublin''Vow to come back. I had not expected Dublin to be so full of stuff to do, and at the same time to skilfully distract me from doing it by being such a great, lively place, where I am always willing to stop and watch all the things happening around me.''It’s hard to do that justice, and my attempt here still misses many faces of the city, like the beautiful little park St Stephen’s Green, or all the different bridges over the river Liffey, or Grafton Street, where musicians and artists take the term ‘busking’ to a whole different level, or all the theatre/comedy/dance/music shows, and of course also the Irish themselves, being so very hospitable in a very down-to-earth, genuine way.''Some practicalities, tips and acknowledgements for Visiting Dublin''How to get around Dublin''Getting around\xa0by foot is fine. Only exceptions: the Guinness Storehouse and the Old Jameson Distillery make for a bit of a longer walk, and the jail even more so.''Luckily the Dublin Pass includes the''Hop on Hop Off bus tour'', so to get to the jail we made good use of them, and it also gave us the opportunity to get a city tour, as they have different kinds of busses which you can all use, and which either come with a live commentary, or a recorded one, or –gasp- like a regular bus.''Another reason to pick up the''Dublin Pass''!''How to save money in Dublin''We used''Dublin Passes'', so we had free entry to all the attractions I mentioned we visited, apart the Trinity College Library (Book of Kells, Long Room). The Dublin Pass offers free entry to over 30 sights and a lot of deals and discounts.''You can even visit the same attraction twice (just not on the same day). I am a big fan of these city passes, and the Dublin Pass is no exception.''Where to stay in Dublin''We stayed in Dublin courtesy of the''Maldron Hotel at Parnell Square'', which we found to be in the perfect location, just a five minute foot walk away from the centre, yet far enough away from it for some peace and quiet whenever we spend time at the hotel. Tip: when you stay there, try out their menu too!''There are plenty of accommodation options in Dublin though, across a wide range of budgets, and we don’t think you’ll have any problem finding somewhere to stay. Check out the''Dublin listings on Booking.com''to get you started.''And that sums up our Dublin adventure and guide for things to do in Dublin for your trip. If you’ve got anything to add, let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''If you have been following our latest adventures, you will know that we have temporarily turned into the Joneses… Indiana Joneses, that is – as we became hunters for good customer service! Not the worst job in the world, is it? We were given it by American Express, who initiated a study which found that good customer service makes people happy.''I guess you could therefore say they sent us out to find happiness, which would probably fit well/neatly in everyone’s itinerary! Bringing us to Rio de Janeiro for this quest definitely put us in the right mood, and I can conclude that I think we were quite successful.''So here are our last stories about endorphin-inducing customer service in Rio de Janeiro – enjoy!''Our last day was a hot one. To make sure we would not be prematurely knocked out by a preventable dehydration, we went into a pharmacy to get some dehydration salts. The friendly pharmacist helped us to quickly locate the desired, then doubtfully looked at the camera I had hanging around my neck, and, like a worried uncle, advised me to put it away, as it might attract thieves.''I kind of was aware of that, but I sometimes feel since my camera looks rather unspectacular compared to Loz’s (who gets his only out to take pictures) that I’ll be fine, depending on the area we’re in. It was the first time that someone warned me about this in Rio, and the pharmacist was the least likely person to do it, but he cared, and so he did.''Thus I put my camera away, and there is no way of guessing what would have been the outcome if I hadn’t done it, but what I do know is that it’s still with me. Better safe than sorry – and I’d rather not jinx these things, anyway… Thanks, Mr. Pharmacist, for keeping an eye out!''Later we went to Ipanema Beach for the sunset. Loz set up his tripod and camera for a time-lapse, and then we just sat down and waited for the sun to go down and the magic to happen. Now you might think sitting on a beach doesn’t get you a lot of good customer service, but on this one we did!''I was quite thirsty, but too lazy to walk back to the promenade – cue the ice-tea vendor, who came walking by, carrying the refreshing brew on his back, and who happily filled up two big cups for Loz and me.''We watched people swimming, surfing, laughing, kids playing… and we saw guys coming around, picking up garbage. Only then it dawned to me that it must be quite an effort to keep the beaches in the impeccable state they’re in. Often I’m not even aware of all the work that is done in the background to assure people can enjoy themselves.''Which we all did! It’s a great and relaxed atmosphere on Ipanema beach at sunset, and really fun to be part of. When the sun finally disappeared into the sea, people got up and… started clapping! If rewarded with applause and standing ovations, does a beautiful sunset thus fall under good customer service? I’m not quite sure, but I thought the gesture was really nice.''So with all the good feelings in our tummy, we headed back to our hotel, dropped our stuff, and went out to have dinner. We felt off-duty now, after a full day out, and just wanted a decent meal and then to call it quits. But that did not happen, because we ran straight into one of the best customer service demonstrations we have ever encountered! Bugger.''We had gone to the same place as the night before. We usually like to mix it up, but the staff had been so nice (even though no one spoke English) and the food so good that we didn’t want to run the risk of ending up somewhere less pleasant on our last night.''It was an outdoor restaurant, with 90 % of the tables outside on the cobbled street, which was lit by chains of coloured lights; the music coming from the place next door, where someone was singing and playing the guitar.''A waiter came up to us, armed with the menu. The place was relatively busy, so we didn’t expect more attention than necessary, but we were in for a surprise. He quickly found that we didn’t speak Portuguese, so he switched to English.''After he had introduced himself to us – his name was Francesco –, he recommended his favourite beer to Loz, and helped us choose a dish from the Portuguese menu by translating and explaining the various options. Then he brought us a generous amount of various pots and pans, from which he filled our plates for us. He was just so endlessly polite and attentive, and took very good care of us.''I felt he really enjoyed his job. He liked chatting to people, he liked helping them, treating them well and making sure they had a good time. He liked the restaurant he was working for; he was passionate about their food; he was passionate about the role he played.''We left a good tip with the bill – just a good one, really, not an overwhelming one. Walking away, I turned around to see that Francesco had gone to collect the bill, routinely checking if the amount was right. For a moment he seemed confused, before his face lit up all over, and he looked for us, still surprised, and thanked us, smiling. I mean, there he was, giving us a five-star-treatment, and didn’t even expect much of an acknowledgement for it. What an amazing guy!''Needless to say, we went back to our hotel very happy, if slightly overfed, and slept well. The next morning we took a taxi to the airport and checked our luggage in. Since we would have a stop-over in Sao Paulo, from where we would fly on with a different airline, the lady at the check-in reminded us to get our luggage after the first flight, and check it in again with the other airline for the next flight. Aye, aye.''Only that it turned out impossible to collect our bags, as they never appeared on the luggage carousel. Loz went over to the “Lost baggage” counter in the same hall, where they had a look on the bag tag he had received and pointed out that it was labelled not to go to Sao Paulo, but directly to our final destination. We found that weird, but what do you do. So we went to find the other airline to check in with them.''We arrived at the airline counter, and there wasn’t even a queue, either! Bliss. “Look”, Loz whispered at me, “it’s the guy again''who you wrote the post about''!”. I glanced at the man behind the counter. “No, I don’t think that’s him”, I said. “But I’m sure!”, insisted Loz. “Of course you’re sure. Because you remember faces so amazingly well, right? …Please, that’s definitely not him!”. We went up to the counter. “Oh hi!”, said the young guy, ”nice seeing you again!”.''So we had run into him again, what are the odds? It’s quite a big airport and this counter was in a whole different part of it than from our previous encounter! And how many people does this man deal with every day? How on earth did he remember us?? (Loz claims we’re very memorable. Hm.)''Anyway, he was sorry he couldn’t check us in, but pointed us towards the right area. And it was there that we found out that our baggage had been lost! It should never have been labelled as going all the way to our final destination, which was especially weird since the lady who checked it in had emphasized to us to pick it up in Sao Paulo.''We took it positively. This was a good chance to take our quest to the next level. Because: finding good customer service is one thing, but what about finding good customer service when things have gone wrong? We accepted our challenge.''The challenge turned out to not be very exciting, as it mainly consisted of waiting, while our new check-in lady made lots of phone calls and smiled apologetically. But then we were taken into another part of the airport, to file a report for our bags. It turned out that one bag had been found! I assured Loz I’d be fine sharing my underwear with him if necessary. He didn’t think that was very funny. Men, eh.''After having filled out the form, we finally checked in, and went through customs. At this point we were admittedly less enthusiastic about everything, because what would one of us do without his bag? After all, we were in the middle of a bigger journey. Losing a bag is never pleasant, for no one. The worst part about it, right in this situation, was feeling helpless, because we have no insight into the science of baggage delivery.''We don’t know the system at all, therefore it’s much harder to console yourself that everything will be alright. But we were about to encounter another example of great customer service, and honestly, it was so reassuring that it fixed our low right away.''Because when we took a seat at our gate, waiting for the boarding to begin, our check-in lady appeared, with a tall, important-looking man in a very smart suit in tow. They both came straight up to us, and the man, oozing of authority, introduced himself as the ground manager from the airline.''He inquired as to what had been done so far, nodded approvingly, took a look at the copy of the lost baggage report and asked if he could take a picture of it. He talked to us for a bit, asked where we were going and what our plans were, and we loosened up a little.''It was a nice gesture, showing us that this matter was important enough for him to personally come over and make sure everything was being taken care of. And then he said: “Don’t worry about it; I will take care of it. I will personally make sure that you will get your bags!”. Hearing somebody who maybe actually had the power to achieve something in that matter say these words really made the biggest difference.''I felt so much better. And it wasn’t because I believed him, oddly. I just wanted someone to say that it was taken care of and that it would be alright, even if they were just saying it. I think the power of consoling words is greatly underestimated – I could almost physically feel how a heavy burden was lifted of me.''At our final destination, it ended up being my bag which was reunited with its owner (happy-happy, joy-joy). Loz is still waiting for his. We have contemplated the possibility that his bag has seized the opportunity to break free and start its own travel-blog. We therefore ask you to keep an eye open, and if you come across anything like www.bag on the run.com, or www. free like a bag.com, drop us a line. Thanks.''And that was our Rio de Janeiro Adventure with American Express! It has been a lot of fun and also an eye-opener as to how much good customer service we are actually exposed to, and how it’s often just little things that can make a significant difference. We hope you too meet lots of the likes of Francesco and Co and have guys in suits tell you the right things at the right time! Take care and be happy – see you soon!''SHARE ON''We’ve been doing so much in the last couple of months that I’ve just not had a moment to compile our most popular images from our Facebook Page into our monthly round-up post! Awful of me, I know.''I hope you’ll find it in your heart to forgive me, and take solace in this edition of some of the most popular photos from the last couple of months, as voted upon by our Facebook fans! You can become one right now by clicking like here:''Now, let’s get on with this, edition 12.''We’ll start off with a couple of shots from Canoa – the title shot is a sunset across the beach, and this shot is of the frigate birds feeding from fish scraps at the side of the beach. We’re in Ecuador for three months, and we chilled out in the beach side town of Canoa for just over a week, getting ourselves into the South American swing of things. Post to come!''We had a lot of fun during our two weeks in Ireland, and the weather wasn’t that bad either (''except in Dingle''). Check out all ever expanding list of''posts from Ireland right here''.''After Ireland it was over to Italy, where I spent a couple of days''exploring the Molise region by train''(amongst other adventures!). Lots more to come from these adventures – stay tuned!''Cow-spotting. Cow-stalking? Certainly one of those. The cow didn’t seem to mind though, given how she had a whole bunch of gorgeous green Irish grass to nibble on…''As well as Molise I also went up into the hills of Abruzzo in Italy, which are fairly gorgeous. Again – posts on this area to come!''Poznan''was one city that we visited with no real idea of what to expect, and boy, were we glad we did so! It’s a fantastic place, perfect for a weekend away, and we’re going to be sharing all our thoughts over the coming weeks. Start off with this post,''detailing our favourite activities in Poznan''. Guides to the food and the drink are on the way!''One of the highlights of our trip to Ireland was our day trip out to the Cliffs of Moher with Paddywagon tours. Incredibly picturesque, and, from what I could tell, incredibly dangerous. A post stuffed full of more pictures like this will be live by the end of the month!''At the beginning of the year we took a train trip around Europe with Eurail, and one of our stops was''Copenhagen''. This is Copenhagen town hall, on a cold March afternoon.''Another one from Abruzzo, up on those gorgeous hills.''In Dublin I got a bit obsessed with this much-maligned landmark – the Dublin Spire. As far as I can tell, no Irish person seems to like it very much. Still, it’s a good meeting point, and very photogenic.''Over in Poznan again, and this series of fairly odd statues known as The Unrecognised which can be found in the large and central Citadel Park, also home to the war cemetery and a weaponry museum.''Who’d have known that Dublin was such a hot spot for street art? Well, Vera got her street art sleuth on in Dublin, and found all sorts of gems! See more at this''post on Dublin’s street art.''And finally – this time last year we were exploring the wonders of Sukhothai, one of many ancient ruined Thai cities. Read more about''Sukhothai here''.''I hope you enjoyed this round up of posts from the Facebook Page, edition 12! As always, let us know your thoughts in the comments below!''SHARE ON''So, you’ve come to Rio de Janeiro and, amongst other things, you’ve got two of the must-do sights on your itinerary: Pao de Acucar: the sugar loaf mountain, and the Christ the Redeemer statue.''On our trip to Rio, we definitely didn’t want to miss out on these two. As a result of our efforts, we ended up with a lot of useful information which will help you to plan your visit, including how to actually get to Christ the Redeemer and Sugar Loaf mountain, as well as how to get tickets for them both.''First though, our main tip for visiting: be spontaneous if you can. The best experience is to visit these locations on a clear and sunny day, so if you wake up in the morning and see blue sky, that’s the day to head up!''We think the best way to make use of a clear and sunny day is to go to the sugar loaf mountain in the morning and Christ the Redeemer in the afternoon, with the aim of catching sunset from the latter. We chose this order as well, so we’ll start this guide with the sugar loaf mountain. If you’re just looking for advice on getting to and getting tickets for Christ the Redeemer, just scroll down.''Getting to Sugar Loaf Mountain''Rio de Janeiro is not what we would call a walkable city – it’s huge! The sugar loaf mountain is situated in Urca, and chances are that your accommodation isn’t anywhere near that, so what are your options?''By cab'': the easiest way. Although English is not commonly spoken throughout Rio, Cab drivers should know what you’re talking about (or you can try pronouncing the Portuguese expression, Pao de Acucar – however you manage to massacre it, it should work, too!). The fool-proof method is to have a little map handy (your hostel/hotel should have one for you) and point it out to your driver.''By public transport'': the cheapest way. There are at least two bus lines that go to the base of sugar hill mountain; the 511 to “Ataulfo de Paiva” and the 512 to “Bartholomeu Mitre”. Have small bills and change ready to pay for your fare, and note that you won’t receive a ticket.''Going up Sugar Loaf Mountain''There are two different ways to get up the sugar loaf mountain, which also means two different prices. You can either''use the cable car''from the base to get to the first hill (Morro da Urca) and also the second one, then your ticket will cost 53 R$ (~17 Euros),''or you can walk up'', and then buy your ticket for the cable car from the first to the second hill (Pao de Acucar) there for 22 R$ (~7 Euros).''We did not do the walk, but found that it is not clearly sign-posted, so we suggest you ask a local as to where it starts.''What to expect on Sugar Loaf Mountain''A pretty amazing experience! Views from both hills are stunning, and you will probably spend more time than you thought you would. The cable cars are operated very regularly, and even though we visited on a day when it was not overly crowded, it was clear that they are very capable of dealing with big crowds.''On both hills combined there are a number of restaurants, snack bars, cafés, souvenir shops, and rest rooms, of course. There is also a little interactive museum, the former two cable car generations on display, forest walks… oh, and you could charter a helicopter from here; flights starting at 240 R$ (~75 Euros)!''Verdict'': A really great sight you shouldn’t miss out on. There is a lot of space up there, so it can accommodate a lot of people, without being cramped. You can still lean at the railing and feel a sense of peace and awe overlooking Rio de Janeiro. All our four thumbs up!''Additional tip'': back at the base, don’t be too quick to rush off and back to the city again! Walk on over to the small beach (Praia Vermelha), situated in a picturesque bay. There is also and very unexpectedly a statue of the Polish composer Chopin! And if you want to see one of the world’s smallest monkeys in the wild, you can take a stroll along the hill on a coastal walk; that’s where they live and grace you with their presence if they feel like it!''Getting To Christ the Redeemer''There are various ways of getting to the top of Christ the Redeemer, but you have to be aware that tickets are only sold at specific locations. The way you get to the top dictates where you get your ticket.''Don’t worry if this sounds confusing. We were a bit confused too, and decided we would seek help with the professionals: the people at the tourist office! There are five of these offices in the city.''We went to the one at the Avenida Princesa Isabel, 183, in Copacabana, where we not only received extensive information, but also a map, a little flyer with twelve popular sights, and a whole Rio-de-Janeiro guide – all for free. A recommended stop.''Getting your ticket for Christ the Redeemer''So now, to answer your question,''where can you get your ticket for Christ the Redeemer''? Well, as we said, it depends on how you want to get up to the peak of Corcovado mountain. We were advised as to the various options for getting to the top by the nice people in the tourist information. These were:''Option 1: by tram''The traditional way to go up is by tram through the scenic Tijuca National Park.''For this you can either just rock up''at the Corcovado tram station''on Rua Cosme Velho and buy your ticket there, then take the tram up.''Or you can get the ticket for the tram''at a ticket counter in downtown''(centro) Rio'', at Candelaria Street no. 6, then head over to the tram station and go straight up, skipping the line.''If you want to''plan ahead and''get a ticket for the next day'', so you don’t need to wait in line, you can buy it in the shopping centre “Rio Sul” in north Copacabana, Lauro Müller Street 116; but note: payment by credit card only, no cash!''We chose the tram ride, and went to buy a ticket for the next day at the shopping centre, because we weren’t quite sure whether it would be too late to go, as it was already 4pm. But the young woman at the ticket counter laughed our worries away and sent us on our way, assuring us it wouldn’t be busy and we would have plenty of time to enjoy the train ride and the view from the top. So we went.''And she was right: there was no queue at all, and another young woman immediately came up to assist us, accompanied us to the ticket counter and, before we bought the tickets, dutifully informed us that there were going to be clouds at the top and unfortunately they would not be able to refund our tickets were we to be troubled by that.''We spontaneously decided that clouds would most likely not give us any troubles, and she smiled broadly, handed us our tickets and three minutes later, we were on our way. Too easy.''Price'': 46 R$ (~14,50 Euro) for the Round trip''Option 2: by van''You will get your ticket at the''ticket counter at Largo do Machado'', which is also the departure location for the vans. The official vehicles have a sign saying “Parque Nacional da Tijuca”.''Note: it is possible to drive up with a taxi or your own vehicle, but only part of the way. You will still have to board an official van for the last bit, and you will have to buy the right ticket before that!''Price'': the prices vary between low and high season, but expect something between 35-45 R$ (~11-14 Euro)''Option 3: book a tour''Our hotel offered one, for example, and I think that’s quite common, so if it is something you would like to do, ask the staff at your hotel reception for information – even if the place you’re staying at doesn’t offer one, they will know a company they can recommend.''Option 4: hike up''If you don’t feel challenged enough by getting up a mountain by tram or van, there is also the option to''hike your way to the top'', right through Tijuca National Park!''Just be aware that the hike is quite steep, and it will take you two and a half to three hours. The track starts in the Botanical Garden, and you can either walk up on your own, or, again, as part of a tour.''I have read online that hikers can purchase tickets at the top, but I have not been able to confirm that information, so I would advise you to make sure you either have a ticket or have it from an official source that you can buy it at the top before you go.''Right. That was quite a bit of information, wasn’t it? But once you know which of the options you prefer, you just go for it, and when you find yourself at the top, overlooking Rio de Janeiro, at the feet of the largest Art Deco statue in the world and Rio’s most renowned landmark, nothing really matters anymore – except for how to get the perfect shot of yourself in front of the statue, of course!''What to expect at Christ the Redeemer''I’m really at a loss for words here; it was a truly special experience. I can’t say if we were particularly lucky, or if it was due to the low season, but it was not anywhere as crowded as I expected, and we also met a very nice guy who works for the Rio Tourism Board as a guide, and who ended up pointing out different bits of the city for me.''Clouds kept coming through, the sun began to set, people laughed, moved, posed, leaned on the wall and gazed over the city – until a man came around and informed us that the last tram back to the bottom was about to leave, which was the only good reason we could think of that could tear us away from the views and everything else.''So, I hope these two sights made it on your list if they weren’t already on it! And I also hope I can encourage you to seek customer service; be it that you get advice from the place you’re staying at, or the tourist office, or whoever you happen to run into who speaks English, because in the end it is the local people who can answer your questions best and who will help you make the most of your stay.''In fact, even if they didn’t speak English, the people of Rio conversed with us: I just remember the taxi driver who took us home from Christ the Redeemer, playing a CD with waltzes, humming along; who, after a little while into the drive, gently pointed out the moon to us, rising next to the gigantic landmark we had just left, and how he smiled to himself when he saw our excitement.''We were happy to find everyone we turned to to be really helpful and encouraging – and right with the advice they gave us! We wish you equally great experiences, whether it’s in Rio or anywhere else in the world – take care and enjoy yourselves!''Further Reading and Resources for Visiting Rio, Christ the Redeemer and Sugar Loaf Mountain''Rio is much more than just these two sights, so here’s some further reading and resources to help you plan your trip!''First, check out our post on the''Highlights of Rio de Janeiro''Looking for more inspiration? Take a look at this for''tips and advice on visiting Rio de Janeiro''!''If you want a book, here’s the''Lonely Planet Travel Guide to Rio de Janeiro''…and the''DK Eyewitness Top 10 Guide to Rio''Finally, for more research, the excellent''Wikitravel guide to Rio''has all kinds of advice to help you plan your trip, from staying safe to getting here and away!''SHARE ON''As you all remember, because naturally, you devour every single one of our posts as soon as we publish it (that’s what you do, right?), we’re in Rio de Janeiro! And why are we here? Because American Express did a study on customer service with the outcome being that good customer service makes people happy, and they sent us here to put the study to the test. Let’s go!''Mission: To find good customer service''Operator: American Express''Exhibit 1: The Cabbie, all over town''English they mostly speak not, but if you have an address or point at a map, you’ll be taken to your destination in a jiffy. The cabs are clean, the air-con is on, and when you’ve paid and get out, they always smile and wish you a good day. We also saw, that when we drove past people who were hailing the cab, they would signal to them that they were full – haven’t seen that anywhere else yet!''Customer Service Bonus'': one of the cabs seriously had lollies for the passengers!''Exhibit 2: The coconut vendor, Copacabana Beach''This is the man who you can safely approach although he carries a pretty serious looking machete – because he uses it to open a coconut for you that has come right out of the cooler! You can’t go wrong with coconut water during beach time, because not only does it hydrate you, but it is also full of electrolytes. Plus: try to be unhappy when you’re on a beach with a coconut with a straw in your hand – it’s not gonna happen!''Customer Service Bonus:''Come back with your empty coconut, and he will cut it up for you, creating a little spoon out of the husk with which you can scrape the flesh out. Mmmh.''Exhibit 3: Marmoset monkeys, Pista Claudio Coutinho''They were very friendly. Artistic acts were all performed to perfection. We didn’t get pooed on. Although I heard that they don’t always grace you with their presence when you’re wandering around. And I did notice that people who had brought bananas got a bit more attention. Tss, tss. Still, monkey cuteness made up for it.''Customer Service Bonus:''seeing one of the world’s smallest monkey species in the wild, for free!''Exhibit 4: The local snack during a hot day, Copacabana''You might hear them on the beach, advertising the product they sell: “Acai, acai!”. Acai is kind of a mix between ice cream and smoothie, and it’s made out of berries with the same name. It’s tasty, refreshing, and slightly addictive.''We had our first acai in a little bar that promised to have the best. What is really nice is that people are expected to share, so you can just order one portion, and the waiter will automatically bring more spoons, so that everyone can have a go.''Customer Service Bonus:''Our Portuguese is pretty much non-existent, and English is not necessarily spoken everywhere in Rio unless we’re talking places that are quite touristy, but once the staff has mustered a bit of courage, they will actually often start speaking English, softly and hesitantly, when you already thought that was not in the cards.''Exhibit 5: A “classic grill” restaurant, Copacabana''It said Carretao ‘classic grill’ and looked nice. When we walked towards it, it was like they had been waiting for us: we were welcomed, the door was opened, we were led to a table inside, seated and given drinks. And it wasn’t like there weren’t plenty of other guests!''Then we saw the men with the knives… but it was all part of the service! It’s a restaurant with a buffet, though all the different meat is brought to you directly out of the kitchen, by staff who will cut it right on your plate.''I have to say, they look very sad when you negate their offering, so it’s best to try it all. As I don’t eat meat, but fish, I was told I could order any fish from the menu for free, and even though the buffet was so extensive that I didn’t feel the need to do that, I still got a waiter coming by with grilled fish and a knife.''Customer Service Bonus:''You probably don’t need to eat again. Ever.''So, mission accomplished? I’d say! Next we’re going to tackle some of the most popular sights, and keep our eyes open for more good customer service here in Rio. Until then, I think we should do some more… research on the beach… you know, and make sure the other coconut vendors are just as good. It’s hard work, people.''I hope you’re having a good time, too, wherever you are – thanks for reading and until next time!''SHARE ON''Ah, the glamour of flying! I was aboard a plane from the tender age of one, and have never looked back. I mean, planes! I actually never cared about how amazing it is to be able to sit in a metal box 36,000 feet above the ground, and maybe that’s the reason I never felt a fear of flying. I care about the other stuff. A mint and a steamy towel to welcome you aboard.Tiny soda cans. A whole menu on one tray. In-flight entertainment.''When I was a kid, I would regularly fly on my own to spend the holidays with my godmother in Berlin. And although she is a fairy of a godmother, and staying with her was living in a kid’s paradise, the trip to her was riding the rainbow! There was always a flight attendant who took care of me, and that meant that I often got to say ‘hi’ to the captain in the cock-pit, and that I got a little bag full off little toys and comics. I never got comics at home! Flying on a plane was freaking A!''I collected everything I could get my hands on. Little sachets with pepper and salt? Wow! I made sure to keep the little toys and comics forever. And I would bring home the empty tiny cans home to my brother, who had a huge collection of cans in general.''So flying was very special. And weirdly enough, it still is. Although it has been inconvenient to grow up – when the time came that I was apparently deemed too old to receive my little gift-bag, I was heart-broken. Since then, a lot of things have changed, but when it comes to flying, I think it’s mostly me who has changed. I’m more easily stressed, I get anxious about missing a plane (I did miss one, once) and I’m much more aware of all the other people on the plane; their noises and movements.''But it is all still exciting. And when American Express asked us if we would go to Rio de Janeiro to check out customer service, as part of putting the results of their study to practice, which was about how good customer service makes people happy, we got ready for action. And although we actually thought this task would be tackled once we had reached our hotel, it already got its first representation when we arrived in the airport of Sao Paulo, Brazil, and needed to catch another plane to Rio, because''those beaches were calling''…''So we’re arriving into Sao Paulo airport, go through customs, get our luggage, take the exit into the real world and look for the right counter to check our bags for the next flight. When we find it, one lonely staff member, a young man, sits behind one of four desks, and there are maybe twelve people queuing in front of us. Then another airport attendant arrives, with a family of four in tow, plus three gigantic suitcases that must weigh the equivalent of half an elephant, and cuts the line. Which is okay; they probably need to catch a flight.''Only problem: a whole group of other people, who were also going to join us in our queue, have witnessed this and decide that it is probably going to be quicker to just cut the line as well. And since no one seems to know what’s going on (as it’s usually the case) and there’s no additional staff to direct people and make clear announcements (as it’s usually the case), people start getting uneasy. It’s still all very civil, mind you; but the mumbled expressions of discontent are getting louder and clearer.''In this all sits rather calmly the airline staff man, and I don’t envy him right now. I often contemplate how it would be nice to work at an airport because even though you yourself are not going anywhere, everyone around you is, and I like that atmosphere. This atmosphere right now is shifting, though, and I’m starting to get upset, too, because why is this poor guy all alone and therefore the centre of all the negative attention? Why is nobody coming to help him? Why isn’t he calling anyone to help him?''Finally, a colleague arrives and takes care of the over-flow for about ten or fifteen minutes, and it doesn’t take longer than that to re-establish order, so she unceremoniously leaves again. When we make it to the counter after another ten minutes, the young man smiles. Close-up, he looks like more of a shy character. His way of dealing with the problem had been not to start discussions with people, but to get as much work done as possible as quickly as possible.''I didn’t envy him twenty minutes ago, but I might envy him now just a bit – because even though he is not completely relaxed, he is pleasant and nice, engages in a bit of small talk while checking us in, even cracking a little joke. Not getting caught up in stress when it gets tough and still managing to be friendly and genuine, that is seriously good customer service. And yes, it did make us feel good.''So we’re rocking this mission, really. I mean, we hadn’t even arrived in Rio de Janeiro yet! If the going gets tougher for us here in Rio we shall not tell you yet – but we can tell you that our first day was''terribly''strenuous and intense. Okay, so it mainly featured beaches, but there also was a bit of rain-forest, surprisingly quite a lot of monkeys, some coco-nuts, mini-work-outs, new foods and many, many cab-drivers. Maybe not enough water. Oh, and plenty of men with big knives… Stay tuned!''We would love to hear your experiences with good customer service – did you get a treatment that made you happy and that stayed on your mind? Broaden our horizon and share!''SHARE ON''Think of a major holiday destination in Ecuador, and I’m fairly sure that Guayaquil probably doesn’t pop up anywhere in the list. Except maybe as somewhere to fly into and then leave from.''Certainly, everything I read about the place before arriving wasn’t exactly glowing with enthusiasm. And, talking with fellow travellers didn’t entirely fill me with excitement either. A place best to be avoided I was told, where theft runs rampant and safety isn’t exactly a feature.''Still, the choice of places to fly into was Guayaquil or Quito, and coming from Europe, the only flight into Quito landed at midnight. And as arriving into new places at midnight is generally not my favourite thing to do, Guayaquil it was, with a brief stop-over in Miami on the way.''I’ve never been to Miami and can’t really comment as to how I would like it from the stop-over, what with it being an hour and a half of rushing through the airport, being fingerprinted and categorised. As you are, in American airports. Miami, we’ll see you next time. We had a date with Ecuador.''And so we arrived into Guayaquil.''Generally I don’t like to rush around too quickly after a large time change, so we figured we’d have three days in the city. Time to get our bearings, sort out stuff like money and SIM cards, and generally get a handle on both a new country and a new continent. How bad could it be?''It started out fine. Disclosure, for the sake of not keeping you hanging, it finished fine too. We don’t want you dying of suspense here. We’re only three days into our trip by this point.''We got a taxi from the airport to our hotel, the Casa de Romero, in downtown Guayaquil. This was very nice, and included breakfast as well as a room with a balcony overlooking part of the city, and as far as we could tell, we weren’t going to be killed in our sleep. There are lots of places to stay in Guayaquil, but I’m sure you could do worse than this place – the staff in particular were super helpful.''Despite being on the equator, Ecuador in November isn’t blisteringly hot, even at sea level. It was a refreshing change from the mind boggling''arrival heat of Bangkok''a year previous.''We pondered what to do in Guayaquil for our three days, a place where as far as we had been told, death lay around every corner.''We figured a walk was a good idea, leaving everything of value in the hostel, to gauge the situation.''The people on the street seemed fairly people-like. Families crossing the road. Businessmen going to work. People wandering selling water, and other things. Shops. Banks. Countless police.''We walked along the Malecon 2000, the fenced-in sea front, which was fairly nice, and looked to terminate in an interesting colourful village. We didn’t quite make it that far.''We headed up and down various streets. There were some very nice looking buildings. No-one seemed to be gawping at them apart from me, and certainly no-one was taking pictures. As far as I could tell, tourists were in small supply, and those that were there weren’t wandering around being touristy. I mean, we clearly stuck out like sore thumbs, but no one seemed to be doing the things tourists normally did.''We accomplished various tasks. Conquering the ATM machine was one, not an easy challenge for some reason, even though it was in English, requiring the card to be inserted and then removed at just the right speed, and then randomly failing to get to the end of the process anyway. One ATM crashed entirely, leaving us with a blank white screen. Not exactly reassuring stuff.''We also managed to get a SIM card, which was easy to get hold of, as it came out of an ATM like machine (but one that seemed to work fairly well), in a process that was simpler than I’ve ever encountered.''Of course, we then learnt that to activate said SIM card we needed to provide an Ecuadorean ID number to the automated activation system, which wasn’t simple. We found a nice friendly Ecuadorean person (not in short supply) who helped us out.''We also spent a lot of time in the hostel, enjoying the view, and catching up on content and sleep. Not how we normally arrive somewhere, but it seemed somehow appropriate.''The thing is, my three days in Guayaquil really taught me very little about the city. I couldn’t figure out if it was safe or not, and we erred somewhat on the side of caution. Perhaps too much? I don’t know.''We’re flying out of Guayaquil at the end of our holiday. Maybe we’ll spend some more time there, having got a feel for this new country, and maybe I’ll have more photos then. I have no idea.''Have you visited Guayaquil? Are the risks as high as we’d heard, or is it perfectly safe these days? Chime in with your thoughts in the comments below – and maybe on our way out we can follow your suggestions…''SHARE ON''I have two stories to tell you. The first is about the title of this post, and the second is related to the content of this post.''First though: we’re going to Rio de Janeiro next week!''Ok, that’s off my chest. Let’s talk about the title of this post, which might explain quite why I’m so excited about visiting Rio de Janeiro, beyond the obvious.''When I was young and attending university, my brother met a whole group of talented people who happened to have a band. As young people sometimes do. They wrote a lot of great music, with my all time favourite track being Rio Calling.''For me, the song is all about someone stuck at a place in their life that they don’t want to be, with the rain pouring down and life falling apart around them, with dreams of being somewhere exciting. Those dreams are of waking up on Rio’s Copacabana beach, listening to Samba music, and achieving what seems impossible.''It’s the kind of song that you can listen to, and have your life changed by.''Finally being able to visit Rio, living this dream life of ours, feels like the closing of a loop that began from the first time I heard the song, over a decade ago.''Suffice to say, I’ve been listening to Rio Calling quite a lot over the last few days since this project came together.''The band is called The Sneer. They’re not famous or anything, but they are worth your time to listen. Listen to them on''MySpace''here, and find gig listings''on Facebook''.''The other story is about why we’re going to Rio.''Just before we departed for Ecuador, Vera and I went out for dinner with my parents, who kindly invited us along for the evening. We went to a small restaurant by a lake in France which my parents had visited once before, some two months previous.''The important decision as to what wine to have to accompany our meal was arrived at. My Dad concluded that he would have the same wine as last time, as he had enjoyed it so much, and ordered a bottle.''The waitress raised her eyebrows, and remarked that this wasn’t the same wine he’d picked two months ago. She pointed at another bottle on the menu, and said that that was the wine he had chosen.''Not entirely sure, my Dad acquiesced to the opinion of the waitress, and went with her pick. When the wine came, he recognised the bottle as being the same.''Remembering the bottle of wine that someone ordered two months previously, on their only other visit, is to me, an example of incredible customer service. That, or my parents are worryingly memorable. I’m going with the former.''Our trip to Rio is all about customer service. You see, we’re partnering up with American Express, who are sending us over to Rio to seek out examples of exemplary customer service. Which could be anything from having a haircut (unlikely in my case), to an amazing waiter or waitress.''Earlier this year, American Express set out to prove scientifically (I love a bit of science) that while good customer service feels great, it can be good for you too. They also discovered that when we have a great service experience we want to tell others about it.''It turns out that great customer service experiences travel a long way. Like that story I just told you about our meal in France, arriving with you wherever you are in the world. And next week, we’re travelling to Rio de Janeiro to track down great service experiences and share them with you. And of course, listen to Rio Calling on Copacabana Beach.''We need your help''So, that’s our side of the story. Now we need your help. We’ve never been to Brazil, let alone Rio de Janeiro. We have no idea what to do, where to go, what to see, what to eat.''We’d love to hear your stories and recommendations. Have you been to Rio? Did you experience incredible customer service? We want to hear about it! Tell us what you know in the comments below.''And maybe we’ll be tracking down your experiences next week, to share with the world. Thanks for reading!''SHARE ON''Ok, I have to admit that before the City of Poznan e-mailed me and asked if we were interested in coming to visit and seeing what there was to do in Poznan, I’d never heard of it.''I’d also never visited Poland, but after doing a minimal amount of research, it seemed like the sort of place that we were likely to enjoy. The slight downer was that we were only able to squeeze a visit in in November, and I’m not a massive fan of cold, but we thought we’d cross our fingers and hope for the best.''Things to Do In Poznan''1. The Old Town Square and old Town''My absolute favourite part of Poznan was the''town square''which is home to the''pretty Town Hall''. This is famous for the two goats (Poznan’s motif) that come out of it at midday, the watching of which seems to be “the” must-do thing when visiting Poznan.''Our guide looked a bit sheepish when said wooden goats dutifully emerged out of the clock tower at midday (it’s a once a day thing), bashed heads with each other, and retreated. And to be honest, it’s not that exciting.''But the town square, town hall and medieval style town centre are very exciting, and you will be able to happily wander around these streets for some time, discovering charming restaurants, bars and “olde-worlde” buildings at your leisure.''It’s hard to believe that most of this area was levelled during the second world war, with nearly everything rebuilt afterwards in the original style.''For my money, this part of Poznan is worth the visit to the city alone. So it’s kind of a bonus that there are all these extra things to do as well. Starting with:''2. The Imperial Castle''I know I said that the town square was my favourite part, but this castle has to also be my favourite part. Ok, I have a lot of favourites in Poznan.''The reason, really, for this being up there on my list, was the passion with which we were shown it by one of our hosts in the city.''From the outside, it looks like just another castle, plopped down in the middle of the city. And, well, it is that, certainly.''The castle was built for the German Emperor Wilhelm the second in 1905, making it one of the youngest castles of its kind in Europe. The German empire didn’t do so well shortly after that, what with the first world war, and Poland gained independence just eight years after the castle was built.''Now, the Polish people are a practical sort. Many other countries would look upon an enormous relic of the previous regime in the middle of their city with some disdain, and would no doubt make short work of it.''Not so the Poles. Here’s a large handy building, conveniently left for us by the German Emperor, they thought. Let’s do something useful with it. So it was turned into the official seat of Polish power.''The story of the castle doesn’t end there. As I’m sure you’re aware, the Germans popped along again in 1939, and the castle was converted to be used by Hitler as an official residence. His rooms (and fireplace) are still there, even though the man himself never actually visited.''After the war, Polish (and, likely, communist) pragmatism struck again. It was deemed too expensive to knock down, so was turned into a cultural centre. There are still some fascinating motifs dating from the communist era, including this enormous mural on the wall, giving a communist-era perspective into the history of Poznan.''After the fall of the Iron Curtain, this mighty bit of building was converted into a multiple use space. There are offices, exhibitions, a cinema and you can even take coffee in the former throne room.''For a building that could have so much negativity associated with it, it’s refreshing to see what positive uses have come out of it. And a huge thanks to our guide, Wojciech, who opened our eyes to these facts.''3. The War Cemetery and Citadel Park''There has been a fair amount of turmoil in Poland. Which is a bit of an understatement. For a while, Poland wasn’t even on the map as a country, having been subsumed into either the Russian or Prussian empires.''All these wars led to a lot of deaths, and one of the many places the fallen are remembered in Poland is at the War Cemetery in Citadel Park. This is a large park just north of the city centre, which is also home to a large performance space as well as an interesting military museum. If you’re into tanks and so on.''The War Cemetery though, is not a light hearted place. Major battles took place in Poznan, with the dates of the deaths on the graves reflecting the most costly. There are dead buried here from all over the world, soldiers who died thousands of miles from home, fighting bloody battles in horrific conditions.''From the Great War, to the Second World War, to the Polish uprising of 1956 – this cemetery holds them all, Russians, English, Canadian, Polish… and many more. Not a fun place to visit, but a worthy one.''4. Fort VII''Oh, the Nazis. Naturally, they did their thing in Poznan as well, setting up one of their first concentration camps on occupied Polish soil here in 1939, not too long after they assumed control.''It was located in Fort VII, one of a series of eighteen defensive forts built around Poznan in the 19th century, most of which have now fallen into disrepair. Given the horrific acts that took place at Fort VII, disrepair would have been a kinder fate.''This fort was where the Nazi’s experimented with the use of gas, and you can stand in the gas chamber where 400 mental patients were “experimented on”.''This was a very difficult room to be in. An oppressively small tunnel shape with low ceilings and brick walls – far smaller than I would have imagined it to be.''I stood at the back with the metal door half shut, and was, quite frankly, terrified. I cannot even begin to imagine what the prisoners felt like. I just know how depressing it felt to know how truly awful humans can be to each other if they choose that path, and how incredibly lucky I was to be able to just walk back out of the door into the light.''Between 4,500 and 20,000 people died here, less than a century ago. Oh mankind. When are you going to grow up?''If you visit Fort VII, be aware that there is very little information in English, so either try and arrange a guide, or''read up on it''as much as possible before you visit.''5. Cathedral Island''Cathedral Island is home to – you guessed it – Poznan’s mighty cathedral. It’s also notable for being the historic starting point of the city, in the year 1000, making this just about the oldest city in Poland.''The cathedral itself is an imposing red brick structure and from our point of view, had two particularly interesting features. Both of which involve dead people.''First, the original Kings of Poland are interred here, in the golden chapel at the back. Those are some pretty ancient bones.''Second, down in the crypt below the main cathedral, are the coffins of the archbishops who have presided over the cathedral through the years. These are held in a small, dark room, which feels entirely claustrophobic and incredibly spooky, what with all the massive coffins. Archbishops not being the type to be given just any old coffin.''6. Lake Malta''If all the history and seriousness is too much for you, then a visit to Lake Malta is probably in order. A short distance from the old town, this is a park which is also home to a 2km long lake, most commonly used for rowing competitions.''There’s also a dry ski slope, for year round piste action, an enormous aqua-park, which also has a whole range of spa treatments (although we spent our time going down slides), and countless opportunities to just get away from it all. Which is always nice, in a city.''These were but some of the highlights of Poznan – there are many many more to choose from, including the freshly constructed city centre castle (opening 2014) to the incredibly hip area on the other side of the Vine Bridge. But some things have to be left as surprises! Now… on to:''Some practicalities''Getting to Poznan''Poznan is remarkably easy to get to, with budget airlines such as Ryanair and Wizzair flying from places like Paris and London to the conveniently located airport. It’s also a three hour direct train ride from Berlin.''Accommodation in Poznan''Well, take your pick. There were no end of hostels on hand, and they looked very funky when we wandered past them. We were put up in the slightly more upmarket''NH Hotel'', which was a decent city centre hotel with a good breakfast and free Wi-fi, essentially meeting all my needs.''There is certainly no shortage of choice when it comes to sleeping in Poznan – just be aware that the city does play host to large trade shows from time to time, so booking in advance might sometimes be necessary if you’re planning on staying somewhere that might also appeal to a business traveller.''Eating and Drinking in Poznan''You know, we had so much fun eating and drinking in Poznan that we’ve written whole posts about it! There’s on one''food in general in Poznan'', and one on the''summer food of Poznan''.''Suffice to say, you will neither go hungry or thirsty. There’s an explosion of micro breweries, which means the beer drinkers amongst you will be happy (read our''guide to beer in Poznan here''), and of course there’s no shortage of vodka.''Food wise, well, from the classics like Pierogi and beetroot soup, to seriously cutting edge cuisine, Poznan really knocked my socks off when it came to food choice and availability.''Shopping in Poznan''Yeah, I know, shopping isn’t really my forte. But given that one of the main shopping centres in Poznan was nominated by National Geographic Traveller as one of the new Polish wonders of the world, I thought it deserved a mention.''Stary Browar''is set in a converted brewery, and the forward thinking owner decreed that at least half the space be given over to art and cultural installations. So even if you’re not into shopping (that’s me!), there is plenty to entertain you within, from a thoroughly modern art gallery, through to art installations around nearly every corner. Worth the time to visit, even if you’re not a shopper!''In summary''Conclusion? Poznan is awesome. It felt for me like a cross between the classic charm of old city centres like Prague, mixed with the downright cool, hipster vibe that is Berlin. All in a package that is easily walkable (unlike Berlin) and not overcrowded (unlike Prague).''Go now, before the rest of the world figures it out.''Plan your Poznan Accommodation now!''Finding the best deal on your accommodation is an important part of trip planning – helping you to''get the most from your budget,''as well as''find the property that is right for you.''Our''current favorite way''to find the''best deals on accommodation''is with''Booking.com''. We usually find they have the best deals and widest choices when we travel. See their''listings for Poznan here''.''Alternatively, if you prefer an apartment or more of a hosted stay, then I recommend''AirBnB''. I’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get''a $25 discount''on your first booking with''this link!''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''Further Reading for your visit to Poznan''Following our trips to Poznan, we’ve put together a number of posts to help you make the most out of your visit. We’ve also added in some other resources to this list that you might find useful.''Everything you need to know about''summer festivals in Poznan''A guide to''the food of Poznan'', as well as the''summer food of Poznan''A guide to''visiting Poznan in summer''An overview of''the street art of Poznan''A guide to the''best beer in Poznan''The''DK Eyewitness Travel Guide to Poland''Our stay in Poznan was provided thanks to the City of Poznan, who invited us over to experience their delights. Our choice of what and how to write about those experiences remain our own.''@poznanpl #poland''SHARE ON''After Guinness, if I asked you to name something typically Irish, I suspect you might go with Irish dancing. It’s that strange dancing which looks a bit like someone has attached two bodies together – the top of which stays entirely still, the bottom of which behaves as if possessed by the devil.''It was explained to me by a practitioner of the art that this style evolved as a result of dancing being banned by the British, who would peer in to kitchens or parlours, or wherever else it might be that they could peer in, to see if any dancing was going on.''To trick the authorities, the Irish would dance as if their bodies were split in half. The top half would present the appearance of someone doing not very much, whilst the lower half would be dancing a crazy jig. And the authorities would suspect nothing!''Now I tell you this story, it seems seriously unlikely. People jigging around in their houses, performing mundane tasks with their top halves whilst dancing a jig with their bottom halves. Still, I’m sure no Irish person would make up something like this to fool an unsuspecting tourist like me.''Anyway, the point of this tale is that Irish dancing is, well, Irish. As Irish as Guinness and green things. Which was why, when invited to take part in an''evening of Irish dancing, eating and general cheer'', we couldn’t turn it down.''And so it was that at 7pm on a Friday night, we found ourselves in a medium sized room, sitting down to dinner with a great many other people, in front of a stage and conveniently near a bar, for a few hours of fun.''And what fun it was, as hopefully some of these pictures demonstrate. There were three chaps playing instruments and singing a whole bunch of classics, including my favourite Irish style song: “Whiskey in the jar”. Vera even had an Irish coffee to accompany that one.''There were also four excellent dancers in traditional costume, who did some fairly mind boggling dancing. I have no idea how you move your feet that fast, or in time. I tried once. I was incredibly rubbish at it, being possessed it seems of two (possibly three) left feet.''There was also a demonstration of the famous broom dance, which gave me visions of Dick Van Dyke cavorting around roof tops with chimney sweeps, all Mary Poppins and fake Cockney accent. Except this wasn’t quite so traumatic.''Ok, it was traumatic for the audience members who volunteered to take part and learn. Although, they did far better than I possibly could. Still, the professionals made it seem a lot easier than it was!''Throughout the singing and dancing performances we were brought a home cooked three course meal, featuring some classic Irish dishes, based off a fairly simple menu that offered two or three choices for each course. The food was excellent and came hot – no mean feat when so many plates were being served simultaneously!''Really, the evening was a great deal of fun, and we weren’t the only ones to think so. The table of twenty Norwegian ladies next to us really got into the swing of things, with impromptu jigs bursting out of them as they ran in and out for essential cigarette breaks.''If you want to experience a spot of Irish fun in Dublin, you obviously don’t have to go to a special night. Nearly every bar throughout the city seems to offer some kind of live music event.''But the Belvedere show is great entertainment, with the musicians’ fingers never standing still, the dancers being really good at what they do (to my untrained eye anyway!), and you get a decent meal as part of it. Plus, if you’re feeling particularly adventurous, you can get up on stage and give it a go yourself! If you like the sound of it, you can''book your night here''.''And that sums up our review of our Irish night at Dublin’s Belvedere Hotel. If you’re looking for more to do in Dublin, take a look at our''guide to things to do in Dublin''for more inspiration!''Our''Irish night at the Belvedere''was provided to the two of us thanks to the nice folks at the Maldron Hotel Parnell Square, with whom we were spending our time in Dublin. The going rate, start times, location, and all the other information you might find yourself needing can be found at their''website''!''@Failte_Ireland @MaldronHotels #ireland''SHARE ON''“Guys, you should stay clear of Western Ireland next week: Vera signed up for some clay pigeon shooting!”, Loz dutifully informed everyone he had known for more then five minutes once we had made it to Ireland. I smiled wryly. Thanks, man.''We were in Dublin, and about to embark on two different trips. Loz was going to explore the south-west, and I had settled for experiencing the Wild Atlantic Way in the west. My itinerary foresaw a visit to an adventure centre, and of the various activities on offer, like abseiling, bungee jumping, speedboat rides, to only name a few, I had chosen the clay pigeon shooting.''A decision with which I had managed to surprise myself immensely. “What the heck, Vera”, I sneered at good old me, ”You? Shooting something? What exactly, may I ask? The ground? Your foot? We all know this is not gonna end well! If you have some issues, why don’t you go stab a pumpkin or something, eh?”.''And I have to say, I was kind of right there. I don’t have a great interest in fire-arms and as with aiming at things and hitting them… let’s just say I’m talented in other ways. And I don’t deeply hate clay, either, in case you might wonder. Nope. It was a completely mysterious decision.''Nevertheless, it was what I was going to do on this mostly sunny afternoon right next to Ireland’s only fjord, Killary Harbour. This already caused the first pickle. Obviously I had to pay attention to our instructor, but my head just kept turning away from him so that I could look at the scenery.''Although the guy didn’t look half-bad, either. It also came to my mind that listening to his explanations would probably come in handy if I actually wanted to hit the clay, and even if that was not going to happen (a more likely scenario), it’s always better to at least look like you know what you’re doing.''There’s just one problem with me when it comes to learning something new: if it can be done wrong, I will do it wrong. I think something inside my brain once decided the best way to learn something the right way is to meticulously try out all the wrong ways first.''I used to get embarrassed about that, labelling it as stupidity, but I have since accepted it as just my way of understanding how something works. For everyone who is with me, this is a great advantage: say you and me are both together in a group and you are worried you’ll make a fool out of yourself, then you can leave your troubles far behind because I will triumphantly surpass you. Hooray.''So Gabriel, our instructor, laid down the rules, like – very obviously – only shooting in the shooting stand and only between two wooden posts, showed us the shot-guns – a lighter one for the ladies – and, my favourite part, explained the different steps to achieve a successful shot by demonstrating how and how NOT to do it.''He had great faith in us. Our itinerary foresaw less time for this task than a regular client would get, and still he was confident that we all could walk out of there having hit at least one clay pigeon. Well, he didn’t know me yet, did he. It started with his innocent question: “Anyone left-handed?”, where only my hand went up.''So in the stand, I held the gun on the left. I pressed the butt below my collarbone (the butt of the rifle, that is), brought the barrel up so that I could only see the sight, closed one eye and aimed. Totally pro-like. Something was weird, though. I informed Gabriel about this feeling of mine.''He seemed much less surprised than I and nodded in a friendly way: “That’s because you’re looking through your right eye when you need to be looking through your left eye, really.” Okay. I tried looking through my left eye and then decided that I was more right-eyed than left-handed, so I switched the rifle over to my right. Cross-eye dominance. It happens to the best of us.''Now Gabriel had explained to us what the most common mistake is when it comes to clay-pigeon shooting: pulling the trigger too quickly when you do have a big enough time window to find the clay with your sight and follow it before you take the shot. Sounds all very logical. But my instincts usually don’t give a crap about logic, and they didn’t fail me this time, either.''“OH MY GOD IT’S A CLAY PIGEON IT’S THERE WHERE WHAT WHO CARES SHOOT AAAH!”. Boom. And another lucky clay pigeon had gotten away.''We had four shots for each turn we took. At one point my fellow shooters had managed to all hit at least one pigeon. I looked over to Robin, a fellow blogger from Germany, who had been in the army and who practised his shooting in the dry. For that he positioned himself a couple of meters behind the person shooting at that time, and pretended to hold a rifle with which he followed the clay. Since he had been successful with this method, I tried it, too. Even my imaginary rifle I fired off too early! But it did improve my feel for it, all in all.''Then it was time for my last four shots. The first one – actually not too bad, but no hit. The second one – fired too early again. Uh-huh. The third one – fired too late! Seriously?! The fourth and last one. I really just fired, took the rifle down and turned around without even waiting for the shot to miss – but wait: my fellow comrades burst into frantic applause: I had hit it, I had hit it!! Aaah!''Okay, so I didn’t actually see how I hit it because I had prematurely turned around, but Gabriel looked very moved by my glorious break-through at the very last moment, and therefore I will believe it.''So not only have I been clay pigeon shooting now, I have also HIT a clay-pigeon! I’m practically Billy the Kid! Still, one way or the other: if you see me with a gun, it’s probably best to stay as far away as possible…''Anyway, that was my experience, and I was invited by Mary and James from Killary Adventures as part of a post TBEX blog trip, so many thanks. Their house is right next to the shooting stand, by the way, so they must have faith in their instructors… Speaking of which, thank you to Gabriel, too! He’s a fantastic instructor AND good-looking – two thumbs up!''And if you guys are spending time in the wild west of Ireland and like outdoor activities, adventure or not, do check the''Killary Adventure Centre''out – you can also stay there if you wish, easy-peasy. Thank you for reading, and make love, not war!''SHARE ON''Picture the scene. A girl runs frantically down the platform, as the conductor’s whistle blows, and the doors slide shut. She misses getting aboard by a fraction of a second, throws her hands up in the air, and retires to a railing along the edge of the platform. A nearby man raises a consoling eyebrow, and they strike up a conversation.''Years later, they tell the story of how they met, due to a microsecond of fate.''Ok, so the latter part of this conversation is fiction. I made it up as I watched someone miss their train in Italy, with my head filling in all the romantic part.''My point is that trains and train stations are undeniably romantic, a place where greetings and farewells have occurred over countless decades, and where stories like the one above have likely played out innumerable times.''So when I was recently invited to take part in a two day rail trip across the Molise region of Italy by train, naturally I was excited to do so. Partly because trains are great places to imagine stories taking place around you, however far from the original days of steam they have fallen, and partly because I’d never been to the Molise region of Italy before, so it sounded like a jolly good adventure.''Molise, for those of you not familiar with the geography of Italy, is Italy’s newest region, only formalised in 1970. It used to be part of Abruzzo, where I also travelled, and will be talking about soon.''If neither of those regions ring a bell, it’s basically on the opposite side of Italy to Rome, and is known for its dramatic landscapes of high mountains, ancient fortified villages and sparse population. The Molise region has only 300,000 inhabitants and two major towns, which means that nature is at the front and centre, along with those picturesque villages.''My trip to Molise focused around the Molise Discovery Leisure Train Tour, which offers a scenic journey through some of this regions most spectacular landscapes, all from the comfort of a “private” train.''Depending on the journey you take (programmes vary depending on the date), there are various stops at different locations, with optional activities, ranging from guided tours of the villages on the way, through to mountain biking and hiking for those of you feeling a bit more adventurous.''Our journey was no different. When given options on activities, I went with the one that would let me grab the best photos (shooting from a mountain bike generally proving to be both challenging and''unwise''). And I’m going to be telling you about all of the things I did around the Molise region in an upcoming post – from discovering ancient human remains to learning about bells. But today, I want to share my thoughts on the actual train journey.''The train ride''Whilst it would have been wonderful for the train to be one of those big steam engines that captured the glory of turn of the century train travel, it turns out that there aren’t so many of those left. So we were on a train that wasn’t entirely dissimilar to any other train you might find on a regional route in Italy. If it helps, the route the train runs on dates back to 1897, so I could close my eyes and pretend the steam was flowing.''It was made up of two carriages, and even had a first class compartment, which seemed up for the taking. Given that I largely bounced from side to side trying to get the best photos of the landscape as we went, the chairs were largely irrelevant, but still.''Of course, this wasn’t an entirely standard train. It had a couple of extras that the other trains I’ve experienced in Italy haven’t offered.''First, two lovely girls constantly came up and down the train handing out regional delicacies, from cheese to wine, as well as coffee to keep us energised.''Then, a couple in traditional dress entertained us with traditional folk songs and music played on traditional instruments, whilst explaining some of the history and meaning of these, and how they related to the land around us. The hills were alive, with the sounds of music, accompanied by the gentle clack-clack of the train.''But the real star of the show was of course not the train, but the view from the train. This is high country, and the tracks which run from Sulmona to Isernia are among the highest in the country, reaching a peak of 1268 metres in altitude. That means gorgeous mountains and views of isolated villages sitting high up on mountains.''We were lucky enough to be there in Autumn, as all the colours were changing, so the mountains were green and golden. And even better, the train windows opened, letting me take all the photos I wanted with none of those nasty window reflections. Which was what I spent the great part of the journey doing – with my head out the window, hair flowing in the wind, snapping away to my hearts content. What an experience!''The jeep ride to capture the train ride''I really wanted to get some pictures of the train to add to the pictures from inside the train, of which by the end of the first day, I had many. Normally this train ride is just a day long affair, but I was lucky enough to have the luxury of two days to experience it to the max.''So on the second morning I commandeered a jeep from the local civil defence force (this seemed very logical at the time), and raced around the countryside trying to beat the train to scenic locations to grab shots of it doing things like crossing bridges and entering tunnels. Things that trains are very good at.''This largely worked out, letting me grab the shot below of the train crossing one of the more picturesque bridges on the route, for example.''Of course, nothing is stopping you from hiring a car and chasing a train. You can even make siren noises if that’s your thing. You just might prefer to sit back, enjoy the view, sup on some wine and search for the romance around you. This is Italy, so it shouldn’t be hard to find.''Or, you can get all moody and play around on the train tracks instead (note, playing around on train tracks is generally not a good idea).''And that pretty much wraps up my train journey around the Molise region! Keep your eyes peeled for the next part of this post, where I’ll be sharing my thoughts on some of the sights we visited during the excursions away from the train. Better yet, instead of peeling your eyes, use one of the options a little further down to subscribe, and save your eyes that indignity.''My journey through the gorgeous Molise region was provided courtesy of''Kolidur Travel Club'', who put together the itinerary and handled all the logistics. You can find out more about their tours at their site. No integrity was harmed in the making of this post.''SHARE ON''I’m writing this post as part of the''British Airways Ultimate Year Round Travel guide'', in partnership with British Airways and a number of other bloggers who are each putting together a blog post about countries they think are particularly worth visiting in a certain month. I went for November as it seemed timely, and these are my four picks!''Festivals in Thailand''Thailand is an incredible country, and one that is generally good to visit year round. But if I had to choose a month out of the year to go, I’d pick November. Here’s why.''First, it’s the best time of year for the weather. Thailand is a tropical place, which means the weather varies from very hot to fairly warm, and mostly dry to incredibly wet. November is a cooler, drier month, following on from the rains of July – October, so everything will be lush and green, whilst not being unbearably hot.''Next, November is a good month for visiting because it is usually the month of''Loi Krathong''. I say usually, because the festival follows the Thai lunar calendar rather than the Western calendar, so varies slightly in timing from year to year.''Thailand plays host to a lot of festivals, but Loi Krathong is one of the most important, and also one of the most spectacular. It revolves around the release of floating lanterns on waterways, usually decorated with flowers, that are set free to pay respect to the water spirits.''In Northern Thailand it coincides with the fantastic Yi Peng festival, which involves the release of Khom Loi, or flying fire powered paper lanterns, which are launched in great swarms above the land at once, forming an incredible sight.''If you want to experience Loi Krathong, then two places spring to mind. The first is''Sukhothai'', once the former capital of Thailand, and now a spectacular ruined city. The second is in Chiang Mai, in Northern Thailand, where Loi Krathong and Yi Peng can be experienced simultaneously.''Romance in''Paris'', France''Paris is one of my''favourite European cities''. And I would happily argue until I turn blue that November is one of the best times of year to visit.''After all – who wants to spend their time''fighting summer crowds''in Europe? If you visit in November, you’re going to be away from the crowds, the trees are going to be beautifully autumnal, and the late afternoon light will be soft and golden.''Assuming it isn’t raining of course. But you know – rain isn’t so bad. Paris has no shortage of indoor attractions – from the Louvre to Notre Dame – so you’ll barely have time to notice the weather. And if it’s really bleak, you can always curl up in a cafe somewhere with an espresso, and pretend you’re working on a novel, Hemingway style. Ok, so Hemingway would likely have had a whiskey. Go with what works for you.''Spring in''New Zealand''New Zealand''is a seriously popular destination with travellers. I spent a year here, and experienced all the seasons on offer, and have to declare that November was my favourite.''First, it was less busy than many of the other, more summery months. Are you sensing my theme here? Second, depending on the year, there might still be snow dusting the mountain tops, which in my mind makes for more impressive scenery.''On the plus side, it’s no longer going to be particularly cold, so is perfect for a spot of camping or hiking. I’d recommend tackling the''Tongariro Alpine Crossing''at this time of year, as it will be both beautiful and far less crowded than the peak months December through February.''Of course, the further south you go, the cooler it will be, so I’d advise starting your adventure on the North Island, and heading slowly south as the month progresses. Being away from the crowds is one thing, but you don’t want to become a frozen popsicle as a result.''If you want some more inspiration for your time in New Zealand, check out''this thorough series of posts'', which include ideas on how to spend a perfect month there, through to practicalities like''finding internet''.''Wildflowers of''Western Australia''The state of''Western Australia''has some of the most spectacular wildflower displays in the world, with the peak season varying on where you are in this vast bit of land. In the south western region the wildflowers peak around October and November, with fantastic displays to be found as you head south out of Perth and Fremantle.''Handily, this is also a fine time for exploring much of the rest of south western Australia, as the spring weather is very manageable. Perth is the sunniest city in Australia, and temperatures will be in the high twenties rather than the mid thirties in this month.''Around Perth and further south there’s a great deal to experience, from the wineries, forests and spectacular beaches of the Margaret River region through to the laid back coffee sipping town of Fremantle.''Head inland a bit, and you have the fantastic mountains of the Stirling Range and Porongorup National Park. Something here for everyone then, from beach bums to hikers!''And those were my top tips for destinations in November! Where are your favourite places to travel to in November? Let me know in the comments below!''Note – I didn’t receive any compensation for writing this post. I just liked the idea, and went for it 🙂''SHARE ON''Somebody needs to give me a week solely to explore the street art of Dublin, seriously. The city centre alone is more or less plastered with it. Wether it’s in your face, in your way, or sneakily hidden; wether it’s a tiny sticker on a traffic sign or a massive painting covering a whole wall; wether it’s beautiful, funny, political, philosophical, or absurd – it’s everywhere!''Another thing that I found special about the street art in Dublin is that you repeatedly find the works of the same artists. I hadn’t encountered that elsewhere before. It’s like being in a gigantic exhibition, where you wind up in front of a painting, light your pipe carefully, and then constate with effortless sophistication: “Ah, why! Is this not another fine example of so-and-so’s gentle strokes with the spray can, hum, hum. I can see he slightly changed style from his last opus in [insert street name] Street, which he did four months ago”.''Or like a treasure hunt, when you discover that there are different stickers of the same type all over the city, and you kind of get in a frenzy… “Gotta catch them all!!”.''I also found that quite a bit of the existing art is legal. The Dublin City Council will work together with (street) artists (who can contact the Arts Office for a collaboration or if they want to use property of the council) and initiate projects, like the''Dublin City Beta Projects'', which are about testing concepts in the city, right on the streets. They have some excellent stuff going on!''Last but not least, I found a lot of commissioned work as well. It’s not just the very funky or freaky shops that have graffitti on their walls and shutters; it’s all sorts of businesses. Looks great!''What else did I find? …Ah, Kurt and Cortney, Thom Yorke, and then there’s one of the Gorillaz guys, and then… er… I’m lost: who’s he?''This one is from Vadis and Tilf for the “Muro Street Art Event”.''This is from a guy called Marcamix, who does stuff for the Evolve Urban Art Agency.''That’s Elvis and a Geisha, no?''Masks and lips – these are not so easy to spot.''Dining in an alley-way… behind some bins!''Solus is also a well-known street-artist.''“You are not alone” and “I’m okay” were part of the Street Art For Mental Health 2013 campaign.''Vadis (from before) and Zlashing are quite productive.''There is stuff EVERYWHERE.''So who’s the New Kid On The Block?''Dublin hosts everyone.''But I’m afraid we’re nearly done.''Some serious eye-candy, to make it easier on you.''Yep, she doesn’t look happy about it, either…''Oh my god! They even have poetry!''Right, that’s it, folks. And it’s nothing but a tiny fragment of what you can see in Dublin, really. I hope you enjoyed it – I did!''A big thank you to the''Maldron Hotel at Parnell Square''that accommodated us during our stay – and even helped us with finding some street art (Cheers, Daniel!)''@Failte_Ireland @MaldronHotels #ireland''SHARE ON''The thing about Ireland is that it’s green. And whilst I had previously been under the impression that this was due to hordes of leprechauns emerging at night with watering cans, it turns out that the reality is that it’s because the clouds love Ireland.''And who can blame them? It’s a lovely place, filled with colourful people, colourful houses, and a colourful history. Even if the primary colours you are going to experience are green and grey.''From this recent trip to Ireland, I forecast a number of moody, cloud filled posts. Starting today, with a tour of the Dingle Peninsula.''What’s a Dingle?''Dingle is a place in Ireland, way down on the south west coast, in fact, about as far west as you can go in mainland Ireland before you fall off.''It’s a place of crashing surf, lichen coated rocks and craggy fisherfolk who, despite the weather, always seem to be ready with a smile.''The Dingle Peninsula is home to a road, which hugs cliffs and terrifying drops, and in fact is usually only driven in one direction so as to ensure maximum survivability. It’s worth dancing with death on this road though, because the sights are superb. Even if, as you’ll notice from my photos of this adventure, the weather isn’t exactly with you. Here’s a run down of some of my highlights of a trip around the Dingle Peninsula.''Inch Beach''Surfing. I’ve only tried it once, in the warm waters of Costa Rica, and it seemed like a fun sport. Unfortunately, unless you happen to live somewhere like Hawaii, it’s also a sport that likely involves hanging around in frozen seas and turning quietly blue.''Which is all very romantic of course, particularly when the beaches are as deserted and wind swept as the three mile inch beach that starts off the route around the Dingle Peninsula. We didn’t try out the surfing, but the sign indicated that it was about the cheapest place to learn in Ireland. Although seriously – I’d still recommend starting somewhere warmer.''Coumeenole Beach''Moving on from the Inch beach, another highlight of the Dingle Peninsula is the Coumeenole Beach. At this point I should mention that we were in a coach for our trip, which limited our stopping options. To truly get a handle on the beauty of this place, I’d recommend hiring a car, and taking advantage of the many scenic viewpoints along the coast where you can stop and take it all in at your leisure.''Anyway, back to the beach. This is particularly notable for being the home of the 1970 Irish film Ryan’s Daughter, which I’ve not seen. I’m told that is a great piece of filmmaking though, and I can at least say that the scenery is likely to be very, well, scenic. I’ll be adding it to my watch list, and will totally update as to what I thought afterwards.''The Blasket Islands''Just off the coast of Dingle, I am told, are a series of beautiful islands known as the Blaskets. I say that I am told, because the day of our visit the rain was so fierce that the sea was barely visible from the land, let alone a group of islands.''These islands are remarkable for the people who lived on them, a hardy bunch of folk who between them managed to produce a copious amount of Irish literature. Clearly, eking out an existence on a group of islands being pounded by the Atlantic weather was conducive to a spot of writing, and these islanders really got their teeth into the whole prose thing.''If you can’t make it over to the Blasket islands, or even see them, then I can recommend taking a bit of time to visit the Blasket Islands Centre, which is handily on the main land. Here you can learn all about the islanders way of life, their slow migration off the islands towards the New World, and how this way of life finally ended in 1951, when the last remaining inhabitants were evacuated.''It’s a moving story, and one which has been captured, in the islanders own words, in the literature they produced. Great stuff.''Pottery''When you arrive at the''Louis Mulcahy Pottery shop''on the Dingle Peninsula, you are greeted by a large sign featuring a photo of a fairly hairy man who appears to be trying to surf on a large pottery vase. Not immediately apparent in this photo is that it’s February, which in Ireland is probably not the best time of year to invent pottery vase surfing.''Anyway, the chap in the photo is Louis Mulchay himself, owner of this very successful pottery business. You can pop in to take a look at his works, have a go at making your very own pottery, and take a tour of the back rooms to learn all about how pottery works. Or you can just go grab some food at the excellent cafe. Which is served, naturally, on beautiful homemade plates.''The strange beehive houses''Ireland isn’t quite cold enough for reliable snow, which means making igloos is a bit of a challenge. Back in the 8th century though, some bright Irish spark figured out that Irish rock was probably a far better igloo building material than ice, and so the beehive houses of DIngle were born.''Presumably taking a bit longer to put together than an Igloo, the advantage of these structures becomes apparent with their longevity, as 1200 years later they are still standing fairly strong. You can wander in and stand in the dripping rain and wonder as to these early igloo builders, and what their lives might have been like. I’m guessing moist.''Dingle itself''At some point in the near future, I’m going to dip back into Dingle, as I want to share with you some of the stories of the wonderful people we met on our trip in Ireland, which is going to include the lovely man at Dingle’s own micro brewery.''For now though, let us talk of Dingle itself.''Visiting a town in drifting fog and light drizzle is usually an instant recipe for disaster. Having lived in Wales for a period, where the houses are often as slate grey as the sky, I am more than aware of how depressing a place can feel when the weather is against you.''Dingle, though, throws these ideas of greyness to the ground. The houses are all brightly coloured, enough to lift any damp spirits. The pubs are plentiful, as are the food sources – particularly so on the day we visited, which happened to coincide with the Dingle Food Festival. We sampled tasty ice creams, classic fish and chips and delicious lamb wraps. Dingle is not a place to let the weather get you down, or one where you will leave hungry, and I can very much recommend taking a bit of time during your visit here to get to know the back streets and side streets – whatever the weather!''Some practicalities''As\xa0 mentioned above, Dingle is to be found way down in the south west of Ireland, some five hours or so drive from Dublin. In my opinion, your best bet is going to be to''hire a car''to give you all the flexibility you need in order to stop and see everything you might want to stop and see.''Obviously hiring a car isn’t for everyone, what with the driving on the left and Ireland’s amazingly windy roads, in which case there are a wide variety of tour companies who will be able to sort you out with a tour, perhaps covering a number of days and including accommodation. A number of my fellow travellers chose Paddywagon as their tour operator of choice, and they had good things to say. I’m sure there are others too!''And that’s it for the Dingle Peninsula! Have you been down to this part of Ireland – or is it on your to-do list? Let us know in the comments below!''Note – my trip around the Dingle Peninsula includling transport, accomodation and food was provided by Failte Ireland in partnership with TBEX and a number of other providers. Editorial control of the blog content remains in my sticky fingers.''#wawsouthwest @Failte_Ireland #ireland''SHARE ON''Our year of work and travel in New Zealand had come to an end, as all good things tend to do. It was time to pick up the loose ends and get ready to move somewhere else. One loose end was''Bernie'', our trusty van, which we had to sell.''Now this task can be a cause for major stress for the odd backpacker, because depending on the season, there is no buyer’s market. So if you had arrived in spring and went on to buy a vehicle, you found prices to be rising and when you had an appointment to see a car, the vendor might have called you an hour before to tell you that he just sold the car to the guy who had the appointment before you.''If you now had gotten the impression it would be “easy as” to resell your vehicle after your trip, you would be up for a nasty surprise, if you were trying to resell in fall/winter.''Because that is the season when there aren’t any backpackers yet who would buy it. So you have to either hang around or sell your car for a price that makes you cry for one week straight.''Luckily, we didn’t have a flight booked anywhere yet, so there wasn’t a deadline. It was July, and we knew we probably had to be a bit patient. We would be selling Bernie in Auckland, but we had no interest in staying there, so we chose a tiny town with a communal campsite at the beach as our base for the time being. It was a half an hour drive away from Auckland and very much to our liking.''We cleaned Bernie thoroughly, got her a new certificate for road worthiness, bought her a new tire, took flattering shots of her shiny assets, wrote a wooing description and put up ads all over the Internet.''Nothing happened. Not on the day we published the ads, not the next day, not the day after. We waited. Read books. Browsed the Internet. Did some dreadlock maintenance. Watched series on the computer. Walked the beach. Got to know the regulars at the mostly empty campsite.''Well, there were only two, actually, and they weren’t even always there. There was Ted, the nicest surfer on the planet, and Harry, who was in his fifties, and who told amazing stories about his life without ever revealing too much about himself. The only thing that wasn’t mysterious but very obvious about him, was that he liked to drink.''Although the four of us didn’t necessarily have much in common in real life, we enjoyed bumping into each other and chatting about all sorts of things.''One thing that I couldn’t get my head around with Harry was how he took long walks on the beach. When we got up in the morning, he usually had already been walking for a few hours. That totally wasn’t like him. He was active, alright, but he wasn’t the sort of person who would walk just for the sake of it, or to stay fit, or to enjoy the beauty of the breaking day.''One afternoon I finally asked him what he was doing out there. He took a sharp look at me, as if he was trying to figure out if and how much he could trust me, hesitated a moment, and eventually spilled the beans. Moving a bit closer, he said, with a slightly lowered voice and very confidentially: “I am looking for Ambergris!”.''This revelation did apparently not have the desired awe-inspiring effect on Laurence and me, as we had no idea what the hell he was talking about. Amber-what?''Harry sighed, and began to explain: Ambergris was a waxy substance produced by sperm whales which finds its way to the outside world mainly by the whale vomiting. Laurence thought about this. “So you’re essentially saying you’re looking for… whale barf?”, he asked. Harry nodded: “I guess you could say that.”. Then he added the more relevant information: Ambergris was extremely valuable – we are talking 70,000 NZD for a kilogram. He told us the stories of people who had found Ambergris and made millions.''We got a bit more excited: and you could find it here, on this beach? Harry nodded again. Due to the current of the sea and the whale migration, this was a good spot to keep an open eye. He showed us some greyish blobs he had found of which he thought they might be Ambergris. He was going to take them to an expert to have them evaluated, he said, because he himself had never actually seen Ambergris.''We went back to Bernie and did some research on the Internet. All that Harry had said was true. The only thing the Internet remained fairly vague on was what the bloody stuff looked like. The various existing descriptions seemed to contradict each other and the only sure thing we could make out was that it was not going to be obvious. Oh well. We had already decided that we might as well try to become millionaires if we were walking the beach twice a day anyway.''The next day we went for our walk, our eyes glued to the sandy ground. Since we didn’t really know what the Ambergris would look like, we picked up a lot of promising looking blobs, but most of them were bits of tar, or rubbish. Of course there was this brilliant moment when Loz got all excited, bent down to pick something up, and shoved\xa0 it triumphantly under my nose.''“I think that’s old dog poo, though”, I stated after giving it a close look.''“Oh.”, said Loz, looking at his hand.''“I don’t think I want to hold your hand anymore now”, I carefully broke the news to him after an appropriate pause.''This was probably my favourite moment from our mission to find Ambergris, since the other favourite moment, you know, the one where we actually found this massive lump of it, didn’t really happen.''You would have thought that we could have found something else, like ancient coins of a pirate treasure washed ashore or something, but no.''Still, every other night we would sit together with Harry and discuss it all, kindling our motivation so the next day we would be ready to go out again, absorbed in our quest and unresponsive to the rugged beauty of the beach.''Then came the day when someone finally emailed us to buy Bernie, and we had to face the fact that we had to leave the beach without having found Ambergris. Even worse, we still had no clue what the darn stuff actually looked like.''We had found some blobs that we weren’t sure about – they might have been Ambergris -, and when we said goodbye to Ted and Harry, we gave our remaining food supplies that we wouldn’t use anymore to Ted, and the blobs we handed over to the trusted hands of Harry, who looked sombre. It was all very serious. From now on, he would have to go on without us again, keeping the secret cause for his beach walking to himself.''Until I wrote this blog post, that is. Sorry, Harry.''I wonder if he ever found any Ambergris, but if he did, I’m sure he would not be the kind of person who would tell it to the newspapers, so there’s no way of finding out.''Who would have known that walking the beach can make you a millionaire? I’ll keep my eyes open. And if I don’t find whale barf gold, but you do, and it’s only after reading this post, you will have to show me what the bloody stuff looks like, okay? Of course you can also buy me a house on the Bahamas, if you want to, but really, that’s up to you.''Seriously, has anyone here ever heard of Ambergris? If you google it now, do so at your own risk. We got quite obsessed, and our beach walks lost a lot of quality – in fact, they started to feel like work. And working to become a millionaire – I mean: that’s just ridiculous! So go walk the beach, look for treasures, don’t get too serious and try to avoid the dog poo. I think that’s really my most valid tip here, folks – the dog poo thing is a bit of a downer.''My second tip is that you could carry a plastic bag and collect some rubbish while you’re out there. It will make you feel good, I promise. And I’m pretty sure it ups your whale-barf-finding-karma, too. Oh, and should you be looking for Ambergris in New Zealand and you happen to run into Harry, say hi from Loz and Vera! That’s all, really. From here on, it’s all up to you – best of luck!''SHARE ON''And hello! Another month, another round up of some of the most popular images from the''Facebook page''over the last few weeks.''I’m particularly proud of some of these shots this month – they’ve been really popular, with most of the shots getting a lot of likes and comments. Which is always nice!''In other news – I’m about to pop over to both Ireland and Italy, so expect the next few posts on the site to take on an Irish and Italian theme, including, I would predict, next month’s Facebook Page edition. That’s then, though, and this is now. On with the show.''This is a mall in Brussels, a city I’ve visited a couple of times but not, as yet, really deeply explored. One day that will change!''Clouds across the Stockton Bight, the largest mobile sand dune in the southern hemisphere. It can be found in New South Wales, Australia.''In Thailand we stayed at all sorts of funky accommodation. We didn’t actually stay at this hostel, we just turned up at it by mistake due to my inability to read my map. It sure looked nice though!''I’ve got a couple of shots this month from our''trip to Germany''and up the Wendelstein mountain, where we were attending a fantastic wedding. The weather was superb, and the views… well, you can see how good the views were!''I’ve been taking some wanders around our abode here in France in the evenings as the sun is doing it’s funky golden thing, and trying to capture the light as it bounces off the objects around me. Above and below are my efforts.''Whilst this is just a sunset here in France. Not too bad.''Here’s one of my favourite captures from my time in Australia, looking at the art installation “''Inside Australia''” by British artist Antony Gormley.''Thailand has an excellent train network for getting you around the country. It may not be fast, but the overnight sleeper trains sure are comfortable! This is the train station in''Trang'', with one of the sleeper trains at the platform.''Sunset in Western Australia, through one of the blowholes.''Australia’s west coast''is so different to the east coast, with miles of nothing, furious waves, and rugged beauty. Of the two coastlines, this has to be my favourite!''And this is the moon, shining through the leaves!''When I announced I was going to Dublin, I hoped to share a funky picture from Dublin with you guys. Sadly, I couldn’t find a decent picture in my archive, so had to make do with the airplane engine, taken on a trip to Dublin some time ago. Still, I think it came out ok!''And to finish off with, a final sunset in France. We do get some fantastic sunsets here. I shot this one with my smartphone, and it came out pretty well I thought!''So that’s it for the month. Thanks for reading – and if you’ve got any favourites from the above, or questions about any of the photography techniques used, shout out in the comments below!''SHARE ON''you’ll know that we’ve got some fantastic travel plans coming up in the next few months, with Ireland, Poland and Ecuador on the horizon. Loads of great stuff which we’re looking forward to sharing with you!''When we were in Thailand, more than once I thought: “By the power of Greyskull, I’m really glad I don’t have a problem with dogs…”. Because street dogs are everywhere! Small ones, big ones. Young ones, old ones. Lying, sleeping, trotting, running. Together or alone. In the streets, around the temples or on the beaches.''Maybe they have an owner, maybe they don’t. They are an accepted part of life over there, and I never witnessed anyone shouting at them or abusing them. Instead there were little plates and bowls with scraps or dog biscuits randomly dispersed throughout the streets.''The way the dogs in Thailand ran around told me that they were comfortable with their lifestyle: head high, bouncy and relaxed; minding their own business. I suspect not everyone finds that as nice as I did, though. Their freedom might be scary for people who are not used to such a scenario.''Mind you, I think you’ll get used to it pretty quickly because it’s just so normal over there. Also, since these dogs don’t lack the basic necessities, you won’t have them coming up wanting food or love – they really leave you alone.''Still, every now and again you encounter one dog that seems to have a problem with you walking by. During our three months in Thailand, we probably had two or three of these situations. It definitely pays off to speak some ‘dog’ in order to defuse the beef you didn’t know you had with the odd hound from hell.''Since I grew up with dogs and also needed to be able to deal with them in my profession as a vet nurse I thought I’d share what has worked in my experience. So let’s up your dog mojo, shall we, and work on your dog-meets-dog social skills!''Tips for Dealing with Street Dogs''1 – Avoid Conflict''Dogs are pack animals and as such their social behaviour is mainly about''conflict prevention''. A dog will not randomly threaten or attack you just out of unpredictable viciousness. There is most likely a reason why it’s upset with you.''It probably wants to defend itself or something that is important to it. It will also want to avoid an escalation, even though it does not necessarily look like it to you. So don’t panic! It’s not a pleasant situation to be in, agreed, but the calmer and more confident you are, the better.''2 – Freeze''You really want to avoid confrontation and show that you’re no threat. If a dog faces you, growling or barking, neck hair standing up, etc., just stop and stand still. Depending on the situation or how you feel, you could slowly sit or even lie down.''But if any movement results in further growling, just don’t do anything and wait. Do not run! If it makes you feel safer, you can curl up in a ball on the floor. You can also slowly move your bag/backpack/sweater in front of you to shield yourself.''3 – Slow Motion Movements''When you move, make sure you do it really slowly. Keep your hands down, don’t become hectic, don’t shout or scream.''4 –''Avoid eye-contact''.''Do not stare at the dog and do not look him directly in the eye – that is aggressive behaviour and not in your interest to demonstrate. Instead, lower your eyelids, look at the floor, squint.''5 –''Turn your head away''Or even turn your whole body away. This is another way of stating that you are no threat to the dog.''6 –''Ignore the dog''.''If you were a dog, you might start to sniff the floor, or scratch yourself, or stretch yourself with the upper body on the floor and your rear up.''It basically means “I have better things to do than fight with you – don’t you see how busy I am, uhm, scratching my ear?”.''7 –''Lick the edges of your mouth''.''Yes, dogs do that.''8 –''Yawn''.''Even if you just fake it, breathe in really deeply – dogs are sensitive to breathing patterns.''9 – Let the dog check you out''If the dog approaches you slowly, just don’t move and let it check you out.''It’s more likely though that it will just stay where it is and seem to lose interest in you, giving up its aggressive posture. At that point you can start walking away, still slowly.''10 – Don’t approach the dog directly''Do not walk directly towards/past the dog. Instead,''move in a curve''around it and try to keep your distance.''Ever since I tried these actions out and found they worked, I have integrated them into my behaviour towards dogs. I can imagine some of them might sound a bit awkward to anyone who has not come across anything like this. I did not make them up, though!''These are all so called''“calming signals”''that dogs use in their communication with each other, and they are dog-valid worldwide. What a bonus! This means you can start practising your new set of doggy social skills wherever you are (or at least wherever dogs are…)!''I hope I awakened the dog whisperer within you and provided you with some useful tips. If you have a question or want to share more tips, drop us a comment! And as always, thanks for reading.''Note: Please be aware of the threat of the rabies on your travels. Should you be bitten, seek medical attention immediately. Here is a''link''with more information.''SHARE ON''It’s coming up on the end of the week, and it seems that the glorious summery weather that Europe has been throwing at us for the last three months or so is coming to an end.''Whilst the sun worshippers might be upset, I’m not too bothered. Sure, the dropping temperatures are a bit of a downer, but there are two reasons to be excited – one, the endless blue skies may be wonderful for a tan, but they’re not exactly photographically exciting, and two, Autumn is about to arrive, and that is one colourful time of year.''To celebrate the former, I thought I’d share with you five cloud based photos to give you an idea of what they bring to a scene. The first one, above, is from Thailand, which is a cloud lovers paradise, where big puffy clouds replete with giant beams of awesome (yes, beams of awesome) appear around every corner. See my next shot for an example.''You see? Beams of awesome. It’s a reflection in a lake in Thailand, coming up to sunset.''Here Vera enjoys the view across the Tongariro National Park in''New Zealand''. It’s a spectacular place for a view,''even if you’re not into Hobbits'', and worth the visit if you’re on the North Island for any length of time.''These clouds above the Stockton Bight, the largest mobile sand dune in the southern hemisphere looked so peaceful as they trundled their way across the sky. Like floating camels. Or something.''And to end with… a shot that is largely reflective of the weather we’ve got going on at the moment here in France. In a word – not sunny. Ok, so two words.''And that finishes off this little cloud based post. I hope you’ll find a reason to be enjoying the weather, whatever it’s doing near you!''SHARE ON''Road trips! What’s not to love? The stereo blaring, scenery rolling by mile after mile, the freedom to just pull over and gawp at whatever takes your fancy.''As you can probably tell, I do enjoy a good road trip, and today I’m going to share four of my absolute favourites from my travels that, if you happen to have the chance, you should totally get on and do. If you’ve got favourites from your travels – shout them out in the comments at the end!''Australia – through the middle''Driving up through the middle of Australia is a trip you are never going to forget – not least because of the way it brings the scale of this enormous country to life.''it’s not just about the scale though, vast as it is. The red centre is quintessential Australia, with endless red earth and scrubby bush going off into the distance under that mind-blowingly enormous sky. Nothing can prepare you for the way the road never seems to end, the miles keep ticking on by, and the world freezes around you, relentlessly unchanging.''And then you ask yourself what it must have been like for the early pioneers who did this thing on horseback, perhaps wondering if they were ever going to see different scenery again, wondering if the ocean was all just a dream.''Of course there are some highlights on the way to break up the journey. My personal recommendations are to stop off at the funky underground town of Coober Pedy, that giant rock in the middle (and don’t skip the Olgas!), Kings Canyon, the Devils Marbles and the town of Mataranka.''The area around Alice Springs is also worth exploring, with some days spent in the East and West MacDonnell ranges to be highly recommended.''But really, this trip is all about that endless road, that feeling of insignificance that will envelop you as you crawl, antlike, under the ever baking sun, taking solace in the company of passing drivers, and observing the nicety that is the outback wave.''For a more detailed tour of this journey, check out''this post I put together on driving Australia’s red centre'', which features more attractions as well as some tips for preparing for a journey like this.''New Zealand’s wet and wild west coast''From dry and baking to wet and wild. It’s just a short hop across the waters from Australia to New Zealand, but the scenery couldn’t be more different, particularly on the south island’s west coast.''This is one of New Zealand’s wettest areas, with something like seven metres of rain a year. So what am I doing recommending a road trip here?''Well, the scenery as you wind your way down this coast past the spine of the mighty southern alps is entirely worth a little bit of metre high moisture. Of course, you do have to be a bit lucky to see anything beyond low lying cloud and your windscreen wipers, but even if it is raining, the odd glimpse of surf crashing into the rocks below your tyres will keep you sated. Or at least, focused on the journey.''On your way down south, on a journey which starts with you crossing over the southern alps through one of the carefully blasted mountain pathways, you’ll have the opportunity to taste possum pie, walk on a glacier, and see New Zealand’s highest mountain perfectly mirrored in an enormous lake.''Do yourself a favour though. Turn north first, and head up to the sleepy village of Karamea. It’s not a well trodden destination, but the geological features and surrounding scenery make it very much worth the journey.''If you’re interested in visiting New Zealand, don’t miss my''series of New Zealand guides'', which cover everything from finding free internet to more scenic road trips like this one.''America’s Pacific Coast Highway''Across to America now, and one of the first proper road trips I ever took, that winding stretch of highway that runs from San Francisco down the Pacific coast to San Diego, a part of the 1200 mile road that goes from Canada to Mexico.''California State Route 1, as this road is formally known, is a 500 mile route that takes you past some of California’s most notable locations, bracketed by the muscles of Venice beach at one end, and the red gateway to San Francisco at the other.''My favourite part of the trip has to be the wild area of Big Sur. Away from the cities, this area is home to towering redwoods and waterfalls which tumble lazily onto beaches. There are restaurants perched precariously on clifftops, and coastal views that will render you speechless.''This particular area is perfect for a spot of camping, and you can happily spend days under canvas just being boggled by the scale of the trees.''Of course, if you’re not into giant trees, then there’s plenty of other things to keep you entertained, including the boardwalk of Santa Cruz, the gorgeous city of Santa Barbara, and the sea otters of Monterey Bay, to name but a few. It’s a route that needs to be done at least once in your life!''Australia’s Gibb River Road''Way up in the northern reaches of Western Australia is a region known as the Kimberley – an outback explorer’s dream come true. This 400 mile road is a classic Australian route, originally used by cattle drovers to move their herds to market.''Cattle farming is still big business in the area, but the road is no longer worn by hooves – instead it’s trundled by four wheel drive vehicles and owners who are keen to explore this bit of wilderness and learn a bit about recent outback history.''The best thing about this drive though are the gorges and waterholes that line the route. These are plentiful, and offer fantastic swimming and lounging opportunities where you can wash off the inevitable layer of red dust from your body, and ponder as to how wonderful life is.''Other highlights of the route include enormous hollowed out baobab trees, a Devonian-era reef towering over the middle of the outback, and scenery that Crocodile Dundee would be proud of.''For the truly adventurous amongst you, the side trip up to Kalumburu and the four tiered Mitchell Falls waterfall is well worth the effort. This 150 mile long trip is a one way route, so you’ll be coming back the way you went, but that waterfall is very much worth taking the time to see, as it tumbles across four huge rock outcrops.''Accommodation options along the route are excellent, ranging from simple campgrounds through to more upmarket experiences at some of the ranches along the way.''For more information about driving the Gibb River route, including when to go and essential planning, take a look at''this post all about experiencing the Gibb River Road.''And that’s it! Four road trips to add to your list. Do you have any road trips, either that you’ve done or heard about, that you’d like to share? Let me know about them in the comments!''SHARE ON''Whenever I want to write about Sukhothai, I feel overwhelmed. Although we were only there for three days, with the help of the Thailand Tourist Board we got to see so many amazing things – how do you do that justice? Where do you even start? So I opted for a slightly more manageable chunk of Sukhothai goodness which we were able to witness: the Loi Krathong Festival.''Loi Krathong is a Thai Festival, celebrated on a full moon of the twelfth month in the Thai lunar calendar (which is usually november), when the rivers reach their highest point. In the evening, people release little floats in the water. This can be done to make a wish, to let go of negative thoughts, to honor Buddha or to thank the Goddess of Water.''The town Sukhothai, which means “Dawn of Happiness”, dates back to the 13th century and has a lot to offer, not only historically. Since 1939 the province it belongs to is also called Sukhothai. It is probably most famous for the historic city of Sukhothai (a UNESCO World Heritage Site), which lies about 12km away from the ‘new’ town of Sukhothai. And it’s these grounds where the Loi Krathong Festival takes place.''Note – if you’re looking for information on when Loi Krathong is this year, or where to stay, head to the end of the post for more information!''The festival is on for five days, of which the last three boast the most activities. You didn’t think it was just about pushing some little banana leaf floats into a pond, did you? Hell, no! Let me take you along and show you what we got to see while we were at the festival – which is FREE! Even more amazing!''…I have to tell you one thing though, before we start: they have food. A lot. Everything. Incredible food. Which we ate heaps of but didn’t photograph. It’s for your own good, believe me. Why tease you!! If food is not your thing, there were also several markets where you could shop ‘til you drop.''Alright, let’s go! So, there’s live music – various bands play different styles of folk and classical music. We were on our way to something else when we passed the little stage in the picture below, but I stopped and took photos of the instruments.''Next picture: what could this be? A very creative display of sesame seeds? Kind of, but not quite right…''It’s part of a chandelier! Around one of the ponds there was an exhibition of these chandeliers which were nearly as big as me. I couldn’t get my head around how detailed they were. To think that this is what I could have been doing with my life had I been more persistent in kindergarten, when we made these seed pictures… Another missed opportunity.''Part of the festival are a number of contests – beauty contests, singing and dancing contests, and also a contest for krathongs (the floats).''Even if you missed all of these (like we did), you can cheat and watch the procession on the last day of the festival. It is a very long parade because everyone and everything is in it: people from all the different districts of the province in their traditional attire, dancers, musicians, historical figures, the contestants of the beauty contest, the lanterns and krathongs… I didn’t get bored for one second, though – we were so happy that we got to see this!''Did you see some “Thai smiles” in these pictures? It was a hot day (like every day) and the procession was quite long – I certainly would not have wanted to parade around in a fancy frock! Yet the participants managed to look graceful all the way, and kept smiling.''That was the procession from the last day of the festival. A good way to experience Thai culture, don’t you think? But don’t stop here, because if this is what interests you, then there’s a lot more!''We saw Thai martial art shows (there is a Thai boxing show, too) – here we have two women fighting!''These guys below demonstrate different weapons. Mr. Stick (in red on the left) won against Mr. Sword!''Of course you can just roast your opponent with fire breath. Duh.''Speaking of fire, part of the festival is a cultural Thai village where various crafts, arts and traditions are demonstrated – here, for instance, a blacksmith pounding some hot metal.''These guys have a very interesting set-up, but for the love of god, I have no idea what the machine actually does… Still, everyone seems happy, so at least it must be working well!''Oh, it’s getting dark… There are even torches in the moats which are lit by men on boats.''Another show that drew a huge crowd was the traditional Thai Puppet Theatre where one puppet is manipulated by three puppeteers.''By the way, sometimes you can even try a craft yourself! See these carved fruits here? They were all made by Loz and myself!''I hope you didn’t believe that because it’s not true. The fruits were displayed by the International Carving Association which had a stall at the festival, and we were invited to challenge our skills… by carving a leaf out of a piece of carrot! Which we managed fairly well. Unfortunately we had another event to go to, so this is all we learned – and I didn’t think I would ever say that, but it was a lot of fun!''The reason we had to leave was because we had tickets for the light and sound presentation of “The legend of Loy Krathong” which was an amazingly choreographed show with many actors in front of the temple Wat Mahathat. The tickets were 500 Baht, although we were invited by the Thailand Tourism Board. It really took us into another world.''We were given little radios which had the English version of the story the narrator told. It was quite dramatic.''In the end, there were spectacular fire-works! …Nearly as spectacular as me managing to get this one decent shot of them:''These weren’t the only fire-works, though: each of the last three nights of the festival, fire-works marked the end of the program at 11pm. Since we had a very busy schedule, we never stayed that long. But we did get to see the floating of the krathongs!''We kept it simple and didn’t wait for the really special floats but joined the crowd along one of the big ponds. On the festivals grounds countless vendors were making and selling the regular little krathongs you can see in the picture below on the right. The krathong is meant to be shaped like a lotus, and you light the incense and candle(s) in it before you release it.''On each night night there was a barge procession at the pond where on the last night Her Royal Highness Princess Sirindhorn\xa0 awarded trophies to the winners of the various contests and where the Royal Krathongs were then released. The pool below, where we watched the floats, was the one around which during the day the chandeliers had been displayed.''It’s a beautiful custom, isn’t it?''Another pretty sight are the lanterns that are being released in the sky.''And that was it!''A very pleasant experience. At one point in the night, when it was already quite crowded, I wondered why the atmosphere was so nice and relaxed. Then I got it: nobody was drinking! Festivals in Europe, even when they are family affairs, always sport people who drink too much and are behaving inappropriately. I don’t know it differently, so I just blend it all out and don’t think about it, but wow, does that ever make a difference!''I hope you too get a chance to experience a Thai festival – this year’s Loi Krathong in Sukhothai is in the second week of November; the 17th being the final day.''The city of Sukhothai is about 425kms north of Bangkok. For getting there and getting around I’d like to refer you to''WikiTravel'', who have it all worked out for you.''Hope you enjoyed the post and thank you for reading!''When to go and where to stay''Loi Krathong follows the lunar cycle, and takes place on the night of the full moon on the 12th month of the Thai Lunar calendar. This usually falls in November in the Western calendar, although it can vary.''Accommodation can become both hard to find and expensive during Loi Krathong, wherever you are in Thailand. In Sukhothai, we experienced the doubling or tripling of rates around the time of Loi Krathong.''SHARE ON''And so we mark the fourteenth month of''Facebook Page image roundups''with this, the tenth edition. Rather unusually, this month’s update has a lot of portrait oriented shots. Am I auditioning for National Geographic you ask? Well, no (I mean, if they call I’m not going to turn them down). It just seems to have been a vertical sort of month.''If you want to follow me on a network where vertical photographs look their best, do circle me on Google+, which you can do by hovering over my name right here:''+Laurence Norah''. Otherwise, let’s get on with the show!''This month saw the annual Perseids meteor shower, which gave me a chance to try out a bit of astrophotography. I thought it went fairly well. There’s another one down the page with some actual meteors in!''Nothing says Australia like a Kangaroo. This chap was wandering around outside my tent one morning in the northern corner of Western Australia.''August is hay month here in France! I went with a colourful mix for this hay bale…''And something a bit more dramatic for this one!''Naturally, the weekly #sunsetsunday is in full force as well, so there has been the odd sunset photo or two. This one is from our trip down to Costa Brava in 2012.''More fun with filters – this time a gum tree in the Western Australian outback volunteered to be my test subject.''And then another couple of sunsets, this one in Tasmania…''… and this one''in Thailand.''The lighthouse at Cape Leeuwin National Park in Western Australia marks the meeting point of the Indian and Southern oceans.''And this stalk of rye marks harvest time.''And finally, that shot of the meteors and milky way that I promised you. I thought I’d do up a quick post explaining how I got the shot above, what do you think? As always, thanks for reading!''SHARE ON''As you might know, I’m a bit of a''Lord of the Rings''fan – that decision to spend a year in''New Zealand''being somewhat influenced by the Tolkienesque landscapes of that marvellous country.''Imagine my excitement therefore when visiting the Brindisi region of Italy recently, to be told that we were going to be taking a trip to the White City. Presumably home to the King of Gondor, a tree, and all that other stuff that comes from reading too much fantasy when growing up (if you have no idea what I’m talking about,''here’s a handy article''to bring you up to speed). I could hardly wait.''Anyway, probably unsurprisingly the White City that we visited didn’t feature any Kings or Orcs or pint-sized sword-wielding hobbits. Instead, it was the White City of Ostuni, perched high on a hill (well, they got that bit right at least) overlooking the Adriatic Sea.''And instead of all those fantasy things, it had windy back streets, cobbled lanes, intriguing doorways, and no shortage of places to grab a coffee. Which are all rather good too.''So, naturally, I took a wander around with my camera for a couple of hours, and came up with the shots in today’s post. Which, without further ado, you may now enjoy.''Cathedral. Check.''Italian looking scooter on street. Check.''Cactus surrounded fantasy doorway to nowhere. Check.''Mysterious doorway that begs you to enter. Check.''Giant cathedral doors that would probably require troll power to open. Check.''Stairway to heaven? Check.''Impossibly picturesque tunnels of mystery? Check.''Talented photographer''checking out the view? Check.''And that was Ostuni! It was a rabbit warren of a place with steep corridors, whitewashed, well, everything, and, every now and again, spectacular views.''If you want to visit, you’ll find it in the''Puglia region of Italy'', which takes up the “heel” of the Italian boot. It’s a very popular destination for tourists, so expect it to be busy, but there are enough side streets to allow you to escape the crowds even if you visit in the busier times.''I visited Ostuni as part of a wider trip to the Brindisi region, thanks to the folks at''Brindisi is MY Destination'', who sorted out all my transport and accommodation.''#brimd #travel #italy''SHARE ON''The Picos de Europa seem to be the underdog of the Spanish mountain scene, at least from a British perspective. Maybe it’s because the Pyrenees are so close by. Why bother with this little mountain range?''Why? Because they are spectacular. Imagine rocky mountain highs, perilous gorges, vast glacial lakes, snowy peaks, lush forest and hidden valleys – the Picos are pure mountain magic. They are also relatively hidden and yet pleasantly convenient for travellers to and from the UK.''In fact, it was convenience that led me to the Picos in the first place. I was nearing the end of my road trip through France and Spain, my final destination being the ferry port at Santander. I wanted to stay somewhere an easy drive away, but where I could still feel like I was out in the middle of nowhere and do a bit of walking. So I looked at the map and the little green area marking the Picos called to me.''I only had a few days in the Picos, but I could have easily spent a few weeks there. This mountain range may be small, but it’s incredibly varied and there’s hundreds of miles worth of mountains and values to explore through its impressive network of paths. The only real trick is getting there and finding those paths in the first place.''Where and what are the Picos de Europa''The Picos de Europa are located 20km inland off the coast of northern Spain in the provinces of Asturias and Cantabria, about a two hour drive from Santander. The Picos de Europa are part of the Cantabrian Mountains and its characteristic rocky geography is due to glacial erosion on its limestone massifs.''I went to the Picos from the UK by car and by ferry with Brittany Ferries which sails between Portsmouth and Santander. There are also busses from all of the major towns around the Picos de Europa that go into the interior of the National Park.''Where to stay''There are loads of places to stay in the Picos de Europa, many of which are fairly inexpensive. I had initially thought I’d find a nice but primitive quiet campsite to hide away in, but unfortunately camping in the Picos seem limited to large family-friendly campgrounds – I’d love to be proven wrong on this point.''So instead of camping, I chose to base myself at''Posada de Tollo'', a people- and pet-friendly mountain house just outside of Potes, one of the major towns in the Picos. From there I was able to easily drive to the walks in the eastern, Cantabria side of the Picos. Access to the Asturias side would be more convenient from an alternative base on the western side of the Picos (my mission for next year!).''Walking in the Picos''Walking information – particularly guidebooks – is fairly limited if you don’t speak or read Spanish (something I do plan to rectify in the future, but an impossible feat to overcome in the short timeframe of my visit). Thankfully, there’s an easy workaround for this.''Stop by the Picos de Europa National Park Visitor’s Center in Tama and pick up one of their overview map of the walks that the National Park maintains. The map tells you where they are, how long they take, the highest point and how difficult the walks are. The walks range from 1.5 hour strolls to intensive 8 hour circuits. There is something in the Picos for everyone!''At the start of each walk you’ll find a prominent sign with a more detailed map and a description of the walk itself. The paths are extremely well marked and easy to follow. I also gained extra reassurance by loading up my iPhone’s''ViewRanger''app with topo maps for this specific area of Spain. Then away I went.''Walking in the Picos de Europa is endlessly rewarding. Views abound and because it’s so well marked, you can actually relax and enjoy the scenery instead of obsessing over maps the whole time (or am I the only one who does this?). It’s also great for our four-legged friends, but do carry lots of extra water because once you get up high, there are few streams to be found, especially in the summer months.''Beyond walking''In addition to walking, I found delicious wine (''Picos de Cabariezo''produces award winning wine and''licor''and does a great tour and tasting at their winery near Potes'')'', gorgeous cheese (the area is famous for''Cabrales'') and some of the nicest, most welcoming people I’ve ever met (you’ll find lots of them at the Saturday market in Potes). Like I said, I only spent a few days there but I could have easily spent a few weeks. And next year, I intend to.''I went to Spain with Brittany Ferries (0871 244 1400;''www.brittany-ferries.co.uk''), which has sailings from Portsmouth to Santander. It’s about a two hour drive from the Santander ferry port to Potes, the main market town in the Picos de Europa.''I stayed at Posada de Tollo (Mayor, 13, 39575 Tollo, Spain;''www.posadadetollo.es''), about 10 minutes’ drive from Potes. It’s a mountain house with friendly owners, friendly dogs, home-cooked meals and incredible views of mountain summits and villages.''Monica is a freelance writer and internet consultant who writes about healthy food and travel on her blog,''SmarterFitter.com''. You can find out more about Monica at''monicashaw.com''.''SHARE ON''There’s no place like home. Or so they say. The thing is: my family moved around a bit while I was a kid, and with that, I never really developed the concept of home being that one place, that one house, or that one region. Home can be everywhere. Home can be multiple places.''On one hand I sometimes envy people a bit when I see their strong bond to a specific place, on the other hand I thoroughly enjoy the freedom of that bond, as I find it also comes with certain liabilities.''All I know is that I was born in Germany, but since that wasn’t a direct result of my own efforts, I can’t really say I am proud to be German. I am not deeply ashamed to be German, either – I am just mostly indifferent to\xa0 something that is out of my control. Weirdly enough, I don’t like the fact that I was born on a Monday, though. It’s my least favourite day of the week, so why, God, why (FYI: I know you’re reading this blog.)?''Funnily enough my indifference vanishes when I’m abroad. Suddenly I find myself getting emotionally tangled up in all kinds of stereotypes, and I can’t say I deal well with it. It’s just that the moment you leave your home, you will find that people associate you with the place you’re from originally – starting with the next village or town which will already have an opinion about your “kind”, then the next region, then the next country, then the next continent. Probably the next planet, too. Oops, too far?''And while within Germany, I couldn’t care less what the next region thinks of the last region’s beer and whether it tastes like beer or really dishwater, it’s all a different story once I leave Germany.''Because suddenly, to others, I represent Germany. The whole freaking country, man! All the people!!''And suddenly I identify with all the things Germans and Germany are associated with. And it drives me slightly mad.''I am “the Germans”. And therefore…''I am always on time. – Yeah… not so much.''I am efficient. – You say exactly that if you want to make Loz laugh.''I don’t have a sense of humour. – That’s not very funny, is it?''I say “willage” instead of “village”. – Vhat?''I wear white socks and sandals. – You wait, one day I will, just to defy you.''I also commonly wear a dirndl. – Never in my life have I worn a dirndl, sorry. Although I am quite impressed by what this garment can do to accentuate your bosom.''I drink beer like water. – Fact is, I don’t really like beer, but I agree with anyone that that’s uncommon for a German.''I basically live at Oktoberfest. – Never been.''My diet consists of potatoes, sausages and sauerkraut. With beer. – I suppose I can’t argue with the sausage being a popular little wurst in Germany, yet it’s by far not the only option when it comes to the meaty stuff. And I’ve never heard any German say “Boy, do I LOVE sauerkraut!”. It’s just a winter vegetable, like green, red or savoy cabbage or Brussels sprouts. Okay, I know my kraut, so what!''I worship David Hasselhoff. – Why, you’re right. He is the biggest entertainer in the WORLD and he brought down the wall.''…Seriously, this one hurts, people.''If it comes down to what I hear when my German heritage is unravelled (“Vhat doo yoo mean, eye haph a strong Dsherman eck-scent?”), it’s mainly this: “beer”, sausages” and “sauerkraut”, “Oktoberfest”, “David Hasselhoff” and “dirndl” and “lederhosen”.''Which I always found irritating. Because, you see, within Germany, when you want to file these expressions under a common factor (apart from D the Hoff), you will say: “You are describing BAVARIA to me.”. Now Bavaria is just a part of Germany. And guys, you know how it is: wherever you come from, you KNOW that the north of your country is very different to the south of your country; as is the middle and the east and west.''Well, Bavaria is in the south of Germany. It’s like a foreign country for all I know, having lived mostly in the north-west. And that’s where other nations’ stereotypes about Germans collide with my stereotypes about Bavaria. I can’t be from Bavaria! No, really. They are WEIRD there! Everyone knows that! They wear dirndls and lederhosen, eat sauerkraut for breakfast, go to Oktoberfest and speak funny… Why would you think I’m from there??''Yet everyone always does. It doesn’t go away. “I’m from…” –\xa0 “Oktoberfest!!??!!” – (sigh) “Yes, from Germany.”''I mean, you guys get that, too, don’t you? When I was talking to Loz about this (him being from England), he complained how terrible it was that everywhere he goes, people get ecstatic about Mr. Bean. “BUT MR. BEAN IS SO AWESOME”, I cried in disbelief. He looked at me like I was a strange, strange insect. “Yeeeah”, he said, “but he’s not exactly smart or something. He doesn’t TALK. Surely there’s got to be more to Britain than Mr. Bean!”. “Whatever,”, I said, “don’t you think you don’t have the slightest right to complain when I have the option of either David Hasselhoff or Adolf Hitler? Case closed, wimp!”''But then something happened. We were invited to a wedding – in the land of the arch-enemy, the home of Dr. No-Go. Bavaria. The invitation said that the guests were encouraged to show up in traditional clothing. Oh my. I was about to experience the true Germany, as every foreigner dreams of it (the foreigners who I tend to meet, at least). It all sounded pretty special, though, so we hopped on the Bat-mobile (our version being a white converted panel van) and''drove off to Munich''.''How terribly disappointing. Everyone looked rather normal. Nobody carried an alpenhorn around or something like that. Sure, in the traditional pubs the waiters and waitresses wore traditional clothing, but it wasn’t weird or tacky – just part of the atmosphere.''Then came the wedding – the groom was my ‘Canadian brother’ from my year in Canada when I was a teenager, and the bride a true Bavarian girl, which resulted in a good international mix of invited guests. Many had come in dirndls and lederhosen, but those were garments specifically for high days, looking pretty fancy.''I decided to find out more and started chatting with the Bavarian guests. What was all the hype about Oktoberfest about, for example? They too seemed a bit overwhelmed by the reputation Oktoberfest had gained them. They told me how they remembered going there in the eighties, in jeans and a leather jacket, when it was nothing like it is today, where people from all over the world come to sit all dressed up in one of the jam-packed Oktoberfest tents. Slightly ironic. Nevertheless, they still go, of course.''They explained to me how the ‘tracht’ (dirndls and lederhosen) is normally quite expensive, as it is a long-term investment, and how it also reflects the area someone is from, or the occasion it can be worn to. A dirndl you can buy for 50 Euros they would consider rather a costume than true tracht. Within a couple of minutes, I got an introduction into the variety of the dirndls and lederhosen the guests were wearing and the different occasions you could wear them for – or couldn’t.''So yeah, traditions are big in Bavaria, but not necessarily constricting. Because the wedding itself was quite informal and about having a good time together – which worked out very well. Although I might have eaten a bit too much. Not that that’s a surprise to anyone.''Then, on the next day, we''set off towards Freiburg'', via the city of Rosenheim and Lake Constance. It was a beautiful day and we enjoyed the drive through an equally beautiful landscape. After one particular stunning bit, I said to Loz, unusually peaceably: “You know what: if people associate this kind of scenery with Germany, as if it was all it had to offer, then that’s not so bad. Heck, we could be off worse than that people think Germany is Bavaria.”.''Apart from that, not everyone waffles on about Oktoberfest when I’m abroad and outed as a German. People mention other stuff, too. The love parade ranked high up once. Bands like Kraftwerk set their mark abroad. The beer clarity law impresses, it seems. That there’s no speed-limit on the German autobahn. And what about our bread? It’s noticeably the number one obsession of a German abroad, so there must be something to it.''But who am I fooling? Even within Germany, people are excited about Oktoberfest and almost every city will somehow celebrate it – be it that they liken their hundreds of years old traditional fairs to it or that the pubs will have a week-end where people can dress up and put on their best Bavarian accent (which any Bavarian would most likely not recognise as such).''In the end it’s all good fun, isn’t it? I’m probably just half-hearted because I don’t like beer. And it’s not like there’s a shortage of topics that are more important than my stereotype dilemma. Although it is a thing that concerns every traveller. Being confronted with stereotypes about your country can be funny, or slightly irritating but also uncomfortable or even discriminating, depending on where you come from, what you look like, what you wear or what you believe; let’s not forget that.''Well, I hope you have all had mostly good experiences regarding the stereotypes, and were able to use them as a stepping stone in order to have great encounters with all sorts of people. It’s just more rewarding to overcome perceptions that separate us and instead find out about our similarities. Anyway, I really have to go now: it’s time for David Hasselhoff Mass and I still need to pick up a schnitzel on the way… Take care and until next time!''SHARE ON''Ah England. The smell of freshly mown grass, the clink of ice cubes in a Pimm’s glass, the sight of those dreamy spires, the feel of water flowing past your punt.''Yes indeed, it is a country that, for at least five days a year, has weather that makes it worth a visit.\xa0 And the towns are good for visiting pretty much year round, if the rain is beating on the meadows and dales. Today I’m going to highlight four of my favourite English cities that should be considered for inclusion on any visit to this fair isle, followed by some ideas about how to get to them. Enjoy!''London''London. For the longest of times, this was my least favourite city. Overcrowded and overpriced, and full of people who wouldn’t shut up about how amazing it was. The poor, misguided fools.''Then I had the pleasure of living in London for a couple of years, and I finally got it. London really is a city unlike any other in the UK. There is always something going on – from live music to theatre to street performances. It has countless interesting places to explore – from the alternative madness that is Camden Town, to the gorgeous greenery of its inner city parks, to the superb pubs and eateries, to the extensive free museums and art galleries.''I rapidly found myself becoming one of those people who would go on and on about the virtues of London, no doubt to the great vexation of those who hadn’t got it yet. Trust me – it’s worth your time to discover.''Don’t miss:''Taking a walk along the south bank, enjoying a picnic in Hyde Park, watching the sun set from Primrose Hill, catching a show in the West End, shopping on Oxford street, enjoying a pint anywhere.''Oxford''Home to the university that gave the world Halley (of the comet), Wilde (the writer), Tolkien\xa0 (the Hobbit) and Hawking (the physicist), Oxford is a dreamy little town that will make you feel more intelligent just by wandering its cobbled roads.''The city is a tiny place, and easily wanderable in a day, with the University buildings being the main draw, particularly after starring in the Harry Potter film series. The Thames river also passes through here, but for its visit to Oxford it briefly becomes the Isis River.''I’m sure there’s an excellent explanation for this, but it’s almost irrelevant, the important thing being to grab a bottle of Pimms and take yourself on a punting tour. For those of you not in the know, a punt is a long, flat bottomed boat that is propelled by means of a long pole. It’s nowhere near as easy as it sounds, and I can recommend nominating yourself as the navigator, and finding someone who knows what they’re doing to provide propulsion.''Don’t miss:''Having a punt on the Isis, getting your Inspector Morse on, taking in those dreamy spires on a University visit, feeling intelligent in the Bodleian library.''York''Way up in England’s distant northern reaches, where people add extra T’s to the language, and extra tea to their fluid intake, sits the Viking encampment of Jorvik, known today as York. Actually, York has a history that goes back way before the vikings, with everyone from the Roman’s to prehistoric man having had a go at living here, but it seems to be the Viking connection that interests most.''York though, is about a lot more than Vikings. There’s a warren of backstreets known, rather fantastically, as the shambles, within which you can wander, lost, to you hearts content. There’s a huge cathedral, known as the Minster, from which you can achieve a wonderful view across the roofs of the city. And of course, there are countless establishments within which you can try a proper Yorkshire cup of tea, and pass the time talking about cricket, the national sport of Yorkshire.''Don’t miss:''Getting lost in the shambles, being scared silly on a ghost walk, the view from the top of the Minster, learning all about the vikings in the Jorvik Viking centre.''Bristol''Over in England’s west country, where the local dialect is perhaps even more difficult to understand than Yorkshire, sits the sea faring town of Bristol. This was home to Isambard Kingdom Brunel, arguably the greatest engineer that England has ever produced, the man responsible for putting together the first steam driven iron hulled passenger liner, the great western railway and a whole host of bridges, dockyards and tunnels, which essentially revolutionised both public transport and modern engineering.''You can find the hallmarks of Brunel around the city, with two of the most prominent highlights being the SS Great Britain (that iron steamship) and the Clifton Suspension Bridge, which at the time of construction was the largest bridge in the world.''If bridges and steam aren’t your thing, there is plenty more to get excited about in Bristol, including cider, the local beverage of choice, a thriving arts and cafe scene, and a whole host of interesting festivals and events throughout the year.''Don’t miss:''Getting lost at sea on the SS Great Britain, knocking back some cider and waking up in a field, peering off the mighty Clifton suspension bridge, being wowed by hot air balloons at the annual balloon fiesta, learning about pirates on a themed walk.''How to get around''I have a long held view that the best way to get around somewhere like England is the humble automobile. You can travel at your own pace, stop off at interesting sights on the way, and be a slave to no man. Except of course your vehicle. If you’re taking your own, then be sure to grab breakdown cover to cover any mishaps, if you’re using a hire car then you should be sorted depending on your policy. We recommend that you''take a look at Priceline''to compare car hire deals''across 17 different providers, including the biggest names in the business, to get a great deal for your trip.''Another great option, particularly for cities, is the train, which will take you right into the heart of all of these cities. If you base yourself in London, then all of the other cities on this list are accessible by train in one or two hours, making both day trips and longer sojourns possible. Book in advance to secure the best deals.''Further reading''I put together a''detailed itinerary''for a longer trip around more of the UK in a previous post, which should provide some ideas for a''two week (or longer) adventure.''I can also very much recommend taking at look at the''Wikivoyage''website, which has detailed listings for all the cities on this list, and should give you some ideas of what else to see and do, as well as options for sleeping and eating.''Finally, if you prefer your research material to be of the hardback variety, then Amazon offer a variety of guides, including''Lonely Planet’s England Travel Guide'', and this''guide from Fodor''.''*''Note, some of the links in this post are revenue generating.''SHARE ON''Oh Thailand. Easy to travel, relatively cheap, stunningly beautiful. I’ve already waxed lyrical on a''whole host of destinations''from our three month adventure around this Asian country, and today, I’m going to wax some more!''If you happen to be a diver, then the Similan Islands will likely already be on your to-do list. This small set of islands, about 60km off Thailand’s west coast, boast some of the most impressive diving in the world, and are ranked as a top ten dive site by the National Geographic Society.''So it’s a pity I don’t dive really.''On the other hand, I do love a bit of snorkelling, which is a good thing, because as well as diving, the Similan Islands also happen to offer incredible snorkelling opportunities. Today I’m going answer all the questions you might have about these islands, as well as share with you the tale of our three day adventure!''Where are these Similan Islands?''The Similan Islands are located off the coast of Thailand, about 60km or so from the mainland. There are nine of them in total, and for simplicity, they are often referred to by number rather than name. Similan even means “nine” in the local language.''In order to protect the local wildlife islands one, two and three are closed to the public, and fishing is also banned in the national park.''How do I get there?''You are going to have to take a boat to get to the islands. Fast speedboats take just over an hour, whilst the slowboats take around three hours. The easiest way to do this is to arrange everything through a tour company – they will be able to sort out accommodation if you want to stay overnight, get you to and from''Thab Lamu pier''from the major towns in the area, and all your meals and activities.''In theory you could try and arrange it yourself, but the cost difference would be negligible and the logistics overhead would be high. Plus, the islands are a very popular destination, and you’re going to be surrounded by people whatever you do, so you might as well just throw yourself into the tour mentality and let the stress of organising things fall to someone else.''And what do I do once I’m there?''The Similan Islands are all about the water, although the beaches and islands are also pretty epic it has to be said – I’m talking jungle covered granitic outcrops and white sandy palm fringed beaches. They are in fact reminiscent of my island home the Seychelles – if a little more crowded.''Let’s focus on the water though, which is where you will probably be spending most of your time.''If you are a diver, then you will be going for a dive tour, which is likely to feature a live aboard dive boat, and more water than you can shake a stick at. We didn’t do that, but fellow travel blogger Matt of Expert Vagabond did, and you can read all about his''experience of scuba diving the Similan Islands here''.''We went for a three day / two night snorkelling tour package, which saw us in the water most of the day, and sleeping on the islands over night.''The days consisted of a number of snorkelling trips from a larger, slower boat that was based at the islands, usually two snorkels in the morning and two in the afternoon. These sessions were of around an hour each, and there was always a guide along with us to explain what we were seeing and to keep an eye on us – as well as to take photos! He also got very excited about various fish that we saw that were deemed rarer than other fish. So all in all, handy to have along!''In between these snorkels, we would cruise on the ship to different spots, take in the amazing views, and chat amongst ourselves. There was also limitless coffee, tea, cold drinks and cookies, plus all of our meals were served on board.''The boat we were on had between five and fifteen passengers while we were there, so it was never particularly crowded – one big advantage over the day trippers boats, which were carrying upwards of forty people.''Our time in the water was absolutely unforgettable, without doubt the best snorkelling I’ve ever done. Within minutes of first entering the water we had seen two turtles, countless fish, and incredible underwater landscapes. Yes – much of the coral has suffered bleaching, as with the rest of the world, but the colours of the fish and the clarity of the water still made this an adventure that was totally worth doing.''In the evenings and on a couple of the days we had the chance to spend some time on the islands. There was sufficient free time for a bit of free snorkelling from the beach, but we largely took the opportunity to go explore the beaches and the inner parts of the island.''For our two nights we slept on Island 4, which is the largest of the islands, and offers three types of accommodation – tents, fan bungalows and A/C bungalows. Tents are around 500 Baht a night, whilst the bungalows are 1000 or 2000 depending if you want the fan or A/C option. This was all included as part of our tour package.''We ended up having the fan bungalow for the first night, and the A/C on the second night due to the way our booking was made and the A/C bungalow not being available for the first night. If you have the budget then I would recommend springing for the A/C option – the bungalows are much airier, have a fantastic view across the island, and generally feel a bit more up to date.''Alternatively, the boat that we snorkelled from did have a live aboard option, which looked very comfortable. You are certainly not going to be short of choice, although you’ll want to book in advance as beds are limited on the islands and they are a popular place to come!''When and how long should I go for?''As long as possible! Ok, I’m kidding. You can do the Similan Islands as a day trip, but I really feel that would not do the islands the justice they deserve. The day trip boats tended to be much more crowded than the boats based on the islands, and the schedules were somewhat tighter. If time or budget are against you, then of course a day trip is still going to be very much worth it, but if you can stretch your visit, do it.''In terms of when to go, the islands are only open to visitors the beginning of November to the end of April, outside the monsoon season, so you’ll have to go then.''What should I take with me?''Sun cream and more sun cream, the higher the factor the better. Snorkelling has you spending long periods of time with the back of your body exposed to the sun, and sunburn on the backs of your legs isn’t fun. I’d recommend wearing a T-shirt and shorts when in the water, to keep your back protected.''Otherwise, if you’re overnighting on the islands, you’ll probably want to take some snacks and drinking water. Whilst drinking water is available on the islands it is very expensive compared to the mainland. You’ll also want mosquito repellent at night!''Then, the usual stuff, an underwater camera if you have one, hat, sunglasses, swimming gear, towel and so on.''How much will it cost?''The operator we went with was called Medsye, and we couldn’t fault them. The food was excellent, there was endless water, tea, coffee and cookies, safety was of paramount importance and they had a real attention to low impact tourism.''Prices vary depending on where you get picked up from, with departures from Khao Lak, Phuket and Krabi. The below prices were valid for the beginning of 2013, but are liable to change, so take them as a guideline only.''A day trip with Medsye is between B3,500 and B4,200 for adults, and B2,100 and B2,800 for children''A 2 day 1 night trip is between B5,800 and B6,700 for adults, and B3,500 and B4,200 for children''A 3 day 2 night trip is between B7,200 and B8,100 for adults, and B4,300 and B5,100 for children''Prices include roundtrip transfers, all food and soft drinks, national park fees, snorkelling equipment, overnight tent accommodation (on trips that include nights) and accident travel insurance. If you want more luxurious accommodation, then a supplement is payable, around an extra B500 for a fan bungalow per night or B1500 for A/C.''And that’s it! If you’ve got any questions about heading over to these amazing islands, just drop them in the comments below and I’ll do my best to answer them. Or, if you’ve been and want to share your own tips and advice, then just fire away!''Our trip to the Similan islands was hosted entirely by the''Tourism Authority of Thailand'', with whom we partnered for''chunks of our trip around Thailand''. All our opinions naturally remain our own.''SHARE ON''This is a post I put together during my time in Thailand, whilst wondering as to how the changes in the last ten years have changed how I perceive travel and distance. It’s a bit more on the thoughtful side than normal – I’d love to hear your feedback!''I’m lying in a hammock as I write this, fulfilling all of my travel blogging wet dreams. I generally find that a hammock isn’t that great for most work, despite those lovely “check out my office today” posts you might stumble across, largely due to the fact that outdoor light and laptop screens just don’t work together.''Anyway, it’s night-time, so the glare factor isn’t a problem. Maybe I could give hammock offices a second chance.''The hammock moment, coupled with the night-time rainforest sounds, are transporting me back to a trip I had in Costa Rica, circa 2003 (jeepers, that’s now officially a decade ago!).''It’s pretty incredible how much has changed since then, with the main change that I have noticed being the way the world has shrunk. Oh, and my hair has changed.''For the last century or so, people have been going on about how the world is shrinking, and this was attributed mostly to the rise of the aviation industry and mass transit systems becoming available to all. And sure, taking a day or so to go half way round the world is certainly different to a three to four month sea voyage.''In the last decade, the world has shrunk even more than it had in the century previous, and this is entirely down to the rise of the internet.''Don’t worry, this isn’t another post about how hard it is to truly disconnect when travelling. Well, maybe a little, but that’s just a side effect.''Lying here in my hammock, I remember my trip to Costa Rica, and how things were different. Sure, the internet was a thing, that was out there, but only in the sense that one could write terribly long e-mails to friends and family who weren’t having quite the awesome time you were, and make them feel rather jealous. This internet was available in cafes. One didn’t travel with a laptop all those heady years ago, and those e-mails were sent on a schedule that was measured in weeks rather than days or hours.''The result was that even if the trip to a place didn’t take quite so long as it once might, one really felt truly foreign and isolated. Friends were on the other end of a phone or irregular inbox update – distance was conveyed in degrees of crackliness.''Now, with internet access leeching out of every tree, and connected devices falling from every pocket, distance is starting to become something that means hardly anything. Social networks mean we know the exact details of our best friend’s latest coffee experience, even if we’re thousands of miles away. We don’t need to strike up conversations with the people we can see in the places we are, as everyone we know is basically a touch away.''And no. This isn’t a post about how terrible this is. I actually think that the smaller the world is, the better for all of us. If the whole world could somehow keep converging to a point where we feel that the space we inhabit is truly minuscule, then maybe we’ll get a bit of perspective as to where we are. Maybe we’ll even start to pull together to sort out some of those problems that would probably not be too hard to solve if we weren’t so intent on buggering everything up. (I can dream, right?).''Sure, that feeling of isolation in a Costa Rican hammock, knowing that friends and family were almost unreachable, and that actual distance separated our ability to communicate, was all very well. And maybe I experienced things differently as a result. Maybe this wi-fi accessible hammock, surrounded though it is by incredible scenery, is never going to be the same, because somehow in the back of my mind I know I am not truly far away from everyone.''But why fight it? The world has changed, and it’s not going to change back. We need to change with it, learn how to make the most of our opportunities. We’re never going to be able to truly disconnect – we can only create the illusion of disconnection, with reality just a switch away. I might be thousands of miles away from you right now, but we’re only a few mouse clicks apart. And you know what? I kind of like that.''Access to information for everyone is just too big a deal for me to worry about the minor impact of feeling connected when I travel.''What do you think?''SHARE ON''Rural France in the summer is quite a wonderful place to be. Villages explode like fireworks into frantic festivities. There are day markets and night markets. If something can be celebrated, it will be, with vigour and vim. And despite France being the most visited destination in the world for tourists, its size means it isn’t hard to find the quieter spots.''One French tradition that is not to be missed is the Vide Grenier, which translates literally as “Empty Loft”. The idea is that folks go up into their lofts, find all the crap – I mean, valuable treasures – and take it to a specific location at a specific time, and try to sell it to unsuspecting passers by.''It’s basically a flea market where you get to see what all your neighbours have been hoarding for countless years.''In the UK there are of course similar events, although they are referred to as car boot sales, and they sound like rather dodgy affairs if you ask me. A bunch of people staring into a strangers boot (that’s trunk if you’re American), and umming and ahhing over the price of three cassette recordings and a bent whistle.''The French, naturally, hold such events in the style of a large street party. Probably because there is less chance of rain. As well as tables full of exciting objects for sale, there is likely to be music, food, and some kind of entertainment.''We’ve attended a few of these in the last few weeks, with the most recent being at our neighbouring village. This is what that is like.''The day usually starts off alarmingly early – although not quite as early as the''flea market we attended in Germany''. It’s important to get a good spot to maximise passing trade, and ideally find a shady spot.''Unfortunately, we failed spectacularly at both of these, although the loan of a neighbours sombrero from their incredible hoarded hat collection solved the sun problem at least.''Luckily, despite our position not being entirely ideal, the market was very small, and offered countless diversions to keep our minds off the fact that our extensive collection of dusty bags wasn’t selling.''There was, for example, a bread making display. This involved a traditional wood fired oven, a baker with floury hands, and a large, hand powered bread mixer. And the bread, when it appeared hot out of this oven, with smoky overtones, was, well, quite frankly divine.''The main attraction though was the traditional straw making display, using a host of old farm machinery. I say old farm machinery. My knowledge of this kind of thing isn’t exactly top notch, but as it seemed to involve long belts, machines that appeared to be at least fifty years old, and men with pitchforks, I am guessing it wasn’t exactly cutting edge technology. Which brings me to the nub of today’s post. Some pictures of topless men throwing around bits of straw. Enjoy!''The grassy straw started out on this trailer pulled by a venerable tractor, and scooped up by a man with clear experience of pitchforks.''Then it was deposited onto a conveyor belt which took it up to the top of a complicated belt powered machine…''Where some other people peered at it before feeding it into a cavernous mouth.''This performed all kinds of complicated tasks, with one end disgorging the heads of the wheat (I think it was wheat, I’m no expert) and…''…the other end of the machine disgorging headless stalks. I think this might be called the chaff. It then goes into the red machine and comes out as…''…vaguely shaped lumps! Hurrah!''If you are travelling in France, I can very much recommend you take the time to try and get to a local village fair, or vide grenier, or, as is often the case, something which is a happy combination of the two.''It’s a fascinating slice of French life, and you might even find yourself grabbing a worthless piece of tat as a souvenir that you can put in your very own loft space for future generations to discover. Not a bad way to spend a day, all in all.''SHARE ON''I have to admit that the day I found myself wandering around a nature reserve clutching a wooden suitcase which contained, amongst other things, made up animal poo and a jar holding a wet sponge, was a bit on the odd side.''How did I end up myself in this scenario, you ask yourself? Well, I was invited down to Brindisi in Italy to take part in a blogger experience program, where we did all kinds of exciting things, from''stuffing ourselves silly on Italian food''to''racing yachts to Greece''. Experience? It sure was.''But fake poo and a wet sponge? How did I get there? Let’s take a look at that day.''It started off well. We were to take an old Turkish yacht along the coast, with our destination being a marine national park where there was the promise of snorkelling. Sure, the sea wasn’t exactly warm given that summer had taken her time getting to Europe, but how cold could it be?''Unfortunately, against the weather forecast, and despite a gorgeous start to the day, it wasn’t long before the skies started to become a little ominous. And then, a lot ominous. Ominous like this in fact:''Whilst seeing''mammatus clouds''was indeed very cool, I would have preferred to see them from a nice, stable, not surrounded by water vantage point. It wasn’t long before the rain started whipping in, and thunder and lightning danced around the skies. Not exactly snorkelling weather.''Luckily, this being Italy, the boat was well equipped with plenty of fine wine and tasty snacks, with which we were able to pass the time whilst slowly puttering down the coast to our destination, storm raging around us.''Thankfully, as we arrived at our destination – the protected marine area and reserve of''Riserva di Torre Guaceto''– the skies cleared beautifully and sun was all around us. Perfect for a spot of snorkelling? You bet.''As it turned out, the water wasn’t exactly warm. Some of the braver souls amongst us opted to go without wetsuits. I was not one of these souls. Along with fellow photographer Daniel (check out his blog,''Canvas of Light''), I suited up into a rather fetching blue number. Which I think you will agree, is quite stylish.''And then it was off for an hour or so of peering at fish, sea grass and, rather excitingly, an octopus. So despite the temperature it was a lot of fun.''Ok, ok, I know, we haven’t quite got to the suitcase yet. It’s about to arrive, I promise.''After we’d snorkelled, it seemed only fair to spend a bit of time on the beach, drying off and generally enjoying the wonderful day. And, in my case, taking pictures of the fantastic scenery. Never a chore.''And then, just as I thought the day was coming to a close, with the sun starting to sink towards the horizon, and the light getting oh so golden and lovely, a man arrived on the beach, with a great number of wooden suitcases in tow.''It was time for us to take an experiential tour of the Torre Guaceto Nature Reserve.''We sat in a circle on the sand, and were each issued with a gorgeous handmade and hand-decorated wooden suitcase. Mine had an owl on it. Upon opening the suitcase, we discovered a range of treasures inside, each of which would be explained to us as part of the tour.''And so we set off across the golden coloured landscape, as our guide passionately explained to us the history of the area, the importance of conservation, and why he had spent so much time and effort creating these unique suitcases.''It was all about the experience. The idea was for people to be able to visit the nature reserve and experience it with all their senses. Some of the items in the suitcase were for the eyes of course. But others were to listen to, or touch, or, in the case of the wet sponge, to help with smell (it seems a wet nose makes smell more apparent).''And so we wandered. We learnt about the people who had come to the Torre in a boat as refugees, hoping to find peace away from their war torn nations. We read passages left behind in notebooks from previous visitors, and put in our own passages for future visitors. And we tried to take it all in with all of our senses, to truly experience this place that clearly meant so much to those who worked and lived here.''And of course, we looked, puzzled, at the strange section of the suitcase which held the fantasy poo which, our guide explained to us, was meant to help us imagine the sorts of creatures that might call this park home, and may produce different shapes and sizes of poo.''Finally, our visit came to an end. But not before we took a brief side trip to experience the sun setting across a five hundred year old olive grove, filled with gnarled twisted trees which had clearly experienced a great deal in their lengthy lives. A fascinating place to visit, and one that is well worth your time.''If you want to visit Torre di Guaceto for yourself, the best way is to hire a car and drive there. The visitor centre at Serranova can help with access, and you will find the reserve 15km north of Brindisi on the coast.''I’d like to thank the''Brindisi is My Destination''folks for arranging my trip down to Italy and sorting out experiences like this visit to Torre Guaceto.''And finally, if you’d like to get more of a feel for Brindisi and what our trip was like, then I can very much recommend taking at look at this incredible video put together by two fabulously talented video artists. Remember when I said video was hard? Well, these guys clearly know what they are up to. Enjoy – and do check out more of their work at their''Vimeo channel''!''#brimd''SHARE ON''Today’s post was provided in association with Musto, who provide sailing clothing. Having recently embarked on an''epic ocean race'', and being entirely underprepared in terms of clothing, this post would have been perfect for me a couple of months ago. Still – better late than never! Read on to find out how to prepare for your own sailing adventure…''As with any sport, whether leisurely or competitive, the right clothing is crucial. When it comes to sports like sailing, style and safety are often prioritised in equal measure so it’s important to know what you can and can’t wear.''Your choice of appropriate sailing clothing should focus on both these elements – but just what is considered indispensable?''Lifejackets''First and foremost, safety should be your main priority. Sailing takes place on large, deep bodies of water so there is always the risk of drowning and unsurprisingly this is the main cause of death – accounting for 83% of sailor fatalities.''As such, buoyancy aids or lifejackets are crucial. Lifejackets are generally considered the preferred option as they support you completely while in the water and ensure your body is always positioned so that your head is clear of the water. Buoyancy aids are designed to give support when swimming but will not keep your mouth clear of the water.''Waterproofs''Waterproof coats and jackets are also sailing clothing essentials, especially as you never know what weather conditions you might encounter. As well as being waterproof, any jackets you wear when sailing need to be flexible to allow freedom of movement and bright colours are a good idea, to make you more visible should you encounter difficulty or fall overboard.''Additional features such as an adjustable storm collar are also good to have and a heavy-duty two-way zip which is covered by a double storm flat is needed to ensure you are kept safe and secure. Adjustable cuffs are another key feature, as is an adjustable waist and drainage channel for excess water.''Alongside waterproof jackets you can also invest in waterproof trousers which should offer similar levels of protection and adjustability.''Wetsuits and drysuits''For those engaging in serious sailing, wetsuits are an ideal choice of attire. These offer plenty of flexibility and warmth whilst being quick to dry. They are designed to keep your body temperature constant and should offer a snug, but not overly tight fit, in order to work at their best.''Another option for those interested in this sort of attire is a drysuit which works in a similar way but can be worn over other layers of clothing to increase insulation.''Footwear''While it may be tempting to wear deck shoes or other casual styles of shoes whilst sailing, this should only really be worn when safe to do so. When the boat is in motion and there is a greater chance of falling overboard, neoprene boots are the safer option as they work in the same way as a wetsuit and are easier to swim in.''Layers''Lastly, it is important to acknowledge the role of layers when choosing sailing clothing. Outfits should contain three distinct layers: base layer, mid layer and outer layer. The base layer allows skin to sweat and ‘breathe’ while the mid layer offers insulation and the outer layer is primarily to prevent water from seeping into the outfit.''Sailors must also give thought to the weather when dressing and choose attire that matches the announced conditions best.''If wearing casual clothing as opposed to specific sailing gear, lightweight materials which dry quickly and offer warmth when needed are ideal. Sailors should always opt for thin, lightweight materials over thicker fabrics, adding additional layers for warmth and protection as required.''SHARE ON''Nature! Thailand has no shortage of gorgeous natural areas to explore, and Khao Yoi was right up there as one of our favourites. It was the only place in Thailand where we saw elephants in their natural habitat, as well as countless other species of animals, from deer to baboons.''In today’s post I’m going to tell you all about what we got up to in Khao Yoi. First though, some where and what.''Where and what is Khao Yai National Park?''Khao Yai National Park was the first national park to be established in Thailand. It’s to the east of Bangkok, not too far away from the regional city of''Nakhon Ratchasima''(also known as Korat). These days it is the second largest national park in Thailand, and along with a number of other surrounding natural areas, is a UNESCO listed world heritage site.''The park is fairly mountainous, with winding, monkey strewn access roads which offer gorgeous glimpses of lushly forested slopes. It has a visitor centre and there’s a lot to see and do, from wildlife walks to waterfall hunting. We spent a couple of days in the park, and this was what we got up to:''Finding elephants on a nature walk''Khao Yai National Park is one of the best places in Thailand to see Asian elephants in the wild. There are two good ways to do this, the first being by night safari (see below), and the second by guided walk.''Our first adventure in Khao Yai was therefore a guided walk, which involved us meeting up with a ranger, being issued with leech socks (we hadn’t by this point had the joy of the''leech infested Khao Sok''to know what these were for), and then setting off with our guide.''This was pretty handy – as with other national parks where we did a similar walk the guide knew all kinds of stuff about the local flora and fauna, including medicinal uses, and kept us entertained as we went. We saw ancient bear scratching posts, giant insects, and all kind of fascinating trees.''The piece de resistance\xa0 though came when the guide suddenly motioned us to stop, and we were able to hear large crunching noises in the undergrowth.''Looking faintly concerned, our guide explained that there were elephants in the undergrowth, and we had to be careful, as they had a baby with them.''Now, I’m not going to lie, our view of the elephants wasn’t exactly mind blowing. There were hints of brown and grey through the foliage, with the occasional whisk of a tail and the waving of a trunk. The photos largely reflect this. But still. We did see elephants in the wild in Khao Yoi, and that left us on a high for the rest of the day!''Even if we hadn’t seen elephants though, the walk would have been worth it. Starting off in jungle, and finishing on a huge grassy plain by a waterhole, it felt more like Africa than Thailand. And at only 3km it was easy enough for folk of any fitness.''Note – the guide fee was 200 Baht for the two of us, and remains the same regardless of group size. A guide is very much recommended as the path isn’t always clear and you don’t want to get lost in Thailand’s largest national park! They can be arranged at the national park office in the centre of the park.''Watching the bats emerge at sunset''Just outside the national park itself, there is a large limestone cave which is home to around a million bats. These chaps are asleep all day, but as the sun sets, they launch themselves into the sky in an effort to catch themselves a bit of food.''The spectacle that results is quite unlike anything I’ve ever seen. Thousand upon thousands of bats stream out of the cave entrances on the hill in a giant bat ribbon that flows undulating across the sky. Hawks circle, looking for an easy meal, with the bats surviving through sheer weight of numbers. Throw in a gorgeous sunset and it’s a sight you are never going to forget.''Taking a night safari to spot game''One of the problems with trying to see animals in any national park is that a great number of them are a lot more active in the cool of the night than the heat of the day.''It is for this reason that a night safari is an excellent way to see a whole range of animals that would be fast asleep and well hidden during the day.''In Khao Yai nightly safaris take the form of some open topped pick up trucks with a couple of rangers in each – one driving and one operating a very bright spotlight with which to see the various animals. It does seem a bit weird to be driving around in the darkness in a line of pickup trucks shining lights on animals, but I have to admit that it is a great way to see animals, none of which seemed particularly perturbed by our actions.''As the full moon rose above our convoy we were thrilled to see all kinds of animals, from massive deer through to porcupines and of course, lots and lots of monkeys. Definitely worth doing. If you want to do a night safari you just need to arrange it from the national park office, and when we were there the fee was 200 Baht for the vehicle and driver, which could accommodate about eight people.''Go waterfall hunting – with a chance of crocodile''I do enjoy a nice waterfall, and Khao Yai has no shortage on offer. We were particularly impressed by Haeow Narok, which splashes down 150m of rock face, and earns the title of largest waterfall in Khao Yai.''The walk down to the viewing platform is fairly steep, but it is very much worth it for the view.''There are of course other waterfalls in the park, and if you are lucky, on one of the walks you may come across the parks lonely resident Siamese Crocodiles. How they got into the park remains a mystery, with the popular opinion being that they were released here by someone who didn’t want crocodiles any more. At up to three metres long, they are an impressive sight for sure.''We spotted one basking in the sun on a log as we walked to Haeo Suwat waterfall – another impressive sight that tumbles into a large plunge pool deep in the forest. Although there is handily a campground just up the road, which was stuffed to the gills when we popped by.''Further thoughts and practicalities''Entry to Khao Yai was 400 Baht per person for a foreigner when we visited in early 2013. There was no public transport that we could see, so sorting out your own transport – be that a car with driver or a scooter – is going to be the way to go.''You can stay in the park under either canvas or in cabins, both of which can be booked via the park office. There are also a number of options outside the park which will be able to help you out with tours into the park, and might be the best option if you want something easier. Find out more about the various options on offer at''this wikivoyage page.''Some of the logistics including accommodation and transport were provided to us as part of our arrangement with the Thai Tourist board, although park entry fees, food and all the tours we did in Khao Yoi were from our own budget. Naturally all opinions remain our own.''SHARE ON''IX! Finally I get to use an X in my roundups. I know, there are probably more exciting things going on in life, but as I’ve been stuck in bed with a bad back for the last five days, an X is about as thrilling as it gets.''Anyhow, by now you know the drill. We’re grabbing some of the most popular photos as shared on the site’s Facebook Page from the last month or so, and putting them into once nice big delectable post for your enjoyment. As always, feel free to comment at the end with which one is your favourite, or hop over to the''Facebook Page''to see photos like this (and more!) in your feed daily. Now.. on with edition IX!''Sunrise over our campground during our time in''New Zealand'', with the southern alps in the background. We were the only ones here!''One of Gaudi’s works in''Barcelona''– the fountain with golden horses towering over it. Normally it has water in it, but when we were there it was empty for cleaning, which gave it a fairly unique look.''A lot of sunsets this month on the page. Facebook now allows hashtags, so do pop over and take part in the''#sunsetsunday''series I’m running by posting a photo of a sunset on a Sunday, with the hashtag #sunsetsunday! This one was in Western Australia, after an amazing thunderstorm had passed through.''Ah cats.''Summer is upon us in France, and the meadows are gorgeous at the moment!''Although, it must be said that summer did take her time getting to us…''We loved our time in''Ayutthaya'', Thailand. It was also home to some spectacular sunsets!''Another one from New Zealand – this is the Queen Charlotte Sound, which was the first place we visited during our trip around the South Island. We cheated and drove, but if you want to really experience the awesomeness of this area, then you can also''hike the Queen Charlotte Track''– check out''this post''from fellow blogger Dave to find out more.''On my recent trip to Italy we spent a bit of time in the White City of Ostuni. My inner''Lord of the Rings''geek flared briefly, but sadly there were no flowerless trees to help fortell the return of the King. Just lots of pretty buildings and doorways. I’ll be writing all about Ostuni soon!''Another sunset, this one on the boat ride from Corfu to mainland Greece. Unfortunately for the whole ride the back of the boat lined itself up perfectly with the sunset, meaning there was no chance of an uninterrupted view, but this shot worked out pretty well.''More from the pre-summer France, with Vera peering down a local road sorrowfully.''Yep, Brindisi is a place of many hidden treasures. This is''Torre Guaceto'', a nature reserve and protected marine area featuring this photogenic old tower.''We recently took part in the''yearly fete de la musique''in our local village. Last year was all about the karaoke, this time round we listened to some local music sung in the Occitan language. Find out more about what that means in this post on the yearly''Felibree''.''And finally, another one from my time in Brindisi – this one a rather edited shot of an olive tree at sunset in a 500 year old olive tree grove.Quite a special place to be.''And that finishes off this months Facebook roundup! If you missed any of the previous editions, you can see all the''previous posts in this series here''.''SHARE ON''It’s list time! We spent three months in Thailand over the end of 2012 and the beginning of 2013, and saw a lot of what this fantastic country has to offer. We’ve sifted through our memories of our time there, poked at our photographs and decided to come up with our ten favourites in Thailand.''If you’re looking for a short cut to some of the best that Thailand has to offer, this list should help.''Favourite Temple –''Phnom Rung''Way out in the north eastern parts of Thailand, in''Thailand’s Buriram region'', sits the temple of''Phnom Rung'', high above the surrounding plains upon a very extinct volcano. We loved the feel of this place, which is meant to represent the heavenly dwelling of Shiva.''There are Naga guardians, carved lintels, a fantastic paved walkway to approach it, and enough crumbliness to keep you entertained for a couple of hours. The informative visitor centre will also fill you in on the history of the place. Find out more about how to get here in our''post dedicated to this temple''!''Favourite Beach – Thai Mueang''Picking a favourite beach in Thailand is almost as hard as picking a favourite temple – there’s no shortage to choose from and you’re unlikely to be disappointed by any of them.''The winner for us was clear though – the entirely unvisited beach of Thai Mueang, about an hours drive north of Phuket. We liked it because it offered basically nothing – just sand, trees and water. No bars, no touts, nothing. Just pure beach. Lovely!''Favourite Accommodation – Kanchanburi''Our favourite accommodation in Thailand was also the first one we visited after leaving Bangkok. Not that it was all down hill after that, but it was tough to beat the river raft house with epic sunset views that we found in''Kanchanaburi'', particularly for the price (200 baht a night, or about €5).''Sure, it was a little, erm, “faded”, and the risk of falling through the board walk was very real, but that all added to the charm in our view. If you’re in Kanchanaburi, the''River Guesthouse''is very much worth your time to visit, and it’s handily located near the central part of Kanchanaburi. Read more about our''tips for getting the most out of your Kanchanaburi visit in this post''.''Favourite City – Songkhla''This laid back Thai town on the east coast captured our hearts with its old Chinese quarter, laid back vibe and acres of empty beach. i wrote all about it here.''There was plenty to see and do here too, from climbing the hill to the temple in the middle of town, to finding a giant sacred rock, to meeting the monkeys at monkey hill. Definitely worth a visit if you’re heading to Thailand and want something a bit different.''Favourite Food – Any of the curries''Ah, Thai food. It is, frankly, fantastic. From noodles on the street, to tasty ice creams, to incredible curries, this is a country where you are unlikely to go hungry for very long.''And it was the curries that stole the heart of my taste buds, coming in all sorts of varieties, from red to green to yellow. The Massaman curry was my favourite though, with potatoes added to the yellow curry mix, but to be honest, I’d be happy with any of them!''Favourite National Park – Khao Sok''Who would have thought Thailand would be so full of incredible national parks? Certainly not me! Further proof that I am terrible at researching destinations before I arrive, wide eyed and hungry.''We hit up a whole range of national parks in Thailand, with those around''Doi Inthanon'', the''Buriram region'',''Trang''and''Nakhon Si Thammarat''being in our top five. After a great deal of exploring though, we decided that the gorgeous lakes, lush jungles and general beauty of''Khao Sok National Park''made that one our firm favourite. Even if we did''get shipwrecked''briefly.''Favourite Drink – Chang''Choosing what to drink in Thailand is tricky. Will you go for a cool refreshing beer, a classic cocktail, or, like the locals, hit up some Thai whiskey? After some sampling, my favoured option was a cool beer, with Chang being my beer of choice.''It turns out Chang is powerful stuff, weighing in at 6.4%, so you have to tread carefully when imbibing or run the risk or having to cope with the dreaded Changover. See what they did there? Clever.''Favourite Waterfall – Doi Inthanon''There were two national parks in thailand that vied for the title of waterfall champion, Doi Inthanon and Khao Luang, the former near the city of Chiang Mai and the latter near''Nakhon Si Thammarat''.''For me it was Khao Luang that edged out the competition, largely due to the incredible Namtok Karom waterfall, which consists of nineteen tiers spread out from the top of the mountain to the bottom. Seven of these are easily accessible, with the photo above being the view from the top of the highest of these before it starts to plunge.''Favourite Market – Trang''Night markets in Thailand are one of the best ways to get some cheap and tasty food. They’re usually full of locals as well, out and about, hunting for a bargain on the latest movies or strange glowing electronics. Anyway, if you want to be fed, and fed well, you need to visit a night market.''We attended a lot of these, with the markets of Kanchanaburi, Chiang Mai and Hua Hin really standing out in our minds. But for really tasty flavours, the''town of Trang''was our favourite. Here the food is heavily curry based, with intense flavours bubbling out of the pots, providing you with a serious quandary as to what to pick!''Favourite Sunset location – Laytrang''Sunsets are by far my favourite natural phenomenon to photograph, and Thailand sure had some doozies, with the cloudy skies of northern Thailand throwing up some incredible examples.''But, whilst mountains are all well and good, my favourite place to watch a sunset has to be over the sea, and so our''week on the beaches of Laytrang''in the above mentioned Trang region were without doubt my top place to watch the sun set, throwing up examples like this:''So those were ten of our favourites in Thailand, after three months of exploration.''SHARE ON''Byron Bay in Australia has this reputation for being a hip little beach town for surfers, hippies, and other alternative folk. You would think I loved it when I first got there, but I didn’t.''I had embarked on a road trip with a guy I had met in a hostel in Melbourne and eventually we arrived in Byron Bay. Instead of instantly getting a good vibe, we just saw a town full of backpackers, and that wasn’t what we had come for, so after one night, we left and carried on.''We went up the coast, made it to Cape Tribulation, and came back down again. For some reason we ended up back in Byron Bay. My road trip friend and I parted ways – he went to relax for a while before heading back to Melbourne and I met up with Loz, because we wanted to see if the thing we had going on since our first encounter a few months ago was worth sticking to, and we thought we’d best find out by spending time together for a while.''Since we didn’t have transportation of our own, we decided to stay in Byron and found ourselves a shared house a couple of kilometres out of town.''And then it turned out that Byron Bay is pretty darn nice!''The shared house had room for around ten to fifteen people. Someone was always about, and we played games, went to the beach or downtown, cooked together a few times, and were relaxed as hell.''It’s amazing how you do not get tired of days that are not filled with anything much when you’ve got a good bunch of people to hang out with.''Then again, they weren’t all the lazy bastards we were, but had jobs or were busy trying to find one.''Cassie, for instance, always had something going on – I quickly lost track. But one afternoon she came back from town and asked if Loz and I were interested in being extras in a movie project on the next day. We would be in two scenes – one was a car crash and the other one was a low-key beach party. We would get a few bucks and also beers and snacks at the beach party scene.''We looked at our schedules, only to find that we could probably postpone hanging out and going to the beach or to the market for another day, and decided it was time to start the movie star career with all the fame and fortune and maybe eventually some plastic surgery – maybe.''The next day we met up with the other extras and the producer of the film and his crew in downtown Byron Bay, hopped in a mini bus and drove a bit to the place where the car crash scene was to be filmed.''Now this is where the fun started: we all got covered in fake blood by a talented and super-nice make-up artist, and some of us were really lucky and even had bits of metal seemingly stuck out of them. Turns out that the fake blood was made from a corn syrup base, which at least is nice when it needs to be dripping out of your mouth while you’re hanging out of a car wreck, unconscious or moaning a bit.''We quickly learned that being an''actor''extra is not for sissies. We had to hang out of this car wreck or lie around it without moving for quite a while. I had wisely chosen a fairly comfortable position but others put more effort in it, stretching out in awkward poses, which is admittedly more realistic, but also much more painful once your limbs fall asleep or worse, get cramped…''Our director was a fascinating character – I’m serious! Unbelievably he was from far-away Germany, and had come to shoot a low budget feature film that was loosely based on his own travels in Australia. He was truly enthuisiastic and definitely interesting to listen to. We didn’t quite get why we were all supposed to die in a car accident, but he said that it was for a dream sequence within the movie.''We nodded very professionally, trying to delay the cleaning-up part. Fat chance that we would look this awesome anytime soon again! But finally the corn-syrup had to go, and because we all still looked pretty blood-stained, we were sent home to clean up and mentally prepare for the beach party scene later on.''For said scene we were again driven to a remote spot, and it was a beautiful location: big rocks and white sand, the forest behind us… But we weren’t here to have fun, right, so we grabbed beer and chips and worked hard to look like we were having the time of our lives. Okay, so it wasn’t that hard.''Unfortunately all our efforts were in vain, because something terrible happened: Patrick, the camera man, had wanted to get a good shot of the incoming tide, so he had put his camera on a tripod in the sand. I don’t know if the sea had a bad wave day or didn’t want to be a movie star on that particular afternoon, but it sent a gigantic wave that just went over the camera, briefly covering it in water, then retreated, leaving everyone in shock, including the camera.''For a moment Patrick didn’t seem to understand. Then he flipped. I will spare you the swearing (I think it was mostly in German, anyway), although I could completely understand why he was so upset – I mean, we’re talking serious equipment here! He was so upset that he just grabbed the camera and stormed off.''We felt this was probably the end for the shooting of this day, and, a bit confused as to how the situation had turned so quickly, we collected our stuff and went back to Byron Bay. Andreas, the director, asked if we minded to re-do the scene once the camera was sorted out again. Was he serious? This had been the most exciting thing that had happened in days, so damn right we wouldn’t miss out on the continuation!''So a couple of days later we were back in the same spot, accompanied also by Patrick and his camera,\xa0 which had thankfully made it without damage through its unexpected cleansing. This time everything went well and we could drink our beer – er, I mean: work very professionally in peace and quiet.''Well, and that’s the end of it. If you’re desperately trying to remember now if there ever was a hitch-hiker movie about Australia, directed by this German guy: no, there wasn’t. In fact, only now that I’m telling the story of our very brief''actor''extra careers, I made an effort to find out whatever happened to the project.''It seems to really have been made into a movie, called “Sunset Star”, but I don’t think it was ever officially released. I did find a trailer that seems to be loosely connected to it, although it’s called “Everywhere But Home”. And it doesn’t have us in it. I mean: seriously: who’s gonna be interested in that, folks?! …I’m just kidding.''I do hope that one day I see Andreas’ movie, whatever final version that would be. He was so dedicated; he even sold his house to be able to finance making it! It was great meeting him and a lot of fun being an extra for a day.''And now, if you’ll excuse me, I might just go and smear some corn syrup on my face, for purely sentimental reasons.''SHARE ON''There is nothing I like better than a good wander, as anyone who has read one of my''city guides''will attest to. On my recent trip to the rather nice little Italian town of Brindisi I was able to sneak in some time between''racing yachts''and''stuffing myself silly''to head out into the wild and uncharted back streets for one of those aforementioned wanders.''Here is what I found – a town which has some really interesting nooks and crannies to take pictures of. Old buildings, interesting graffiti, doorways to make a doorway aficionado weak at the knees. I hope you enjoy the photo tour as much as I enjoyed the walk!''The houses were so colourful against that gorgeous Mediterranean sky.''This looming old building was quietly decaying to itself, with the overgrown garden looking to be a city centre wildlife haven.''Something hot happened here I think.''The perfect way to get to your outdoor Italian dining experience? I think so.''Another tower block with gorgeous crumbliness. And possibly a rift in time directly overhead. You can never tell.''Which colour would you like your doorway? Every colour? Sounds good!''I liked how the old city walls bumped into this tower block, and the bench was backed by a bit of graffiti. Or street art. However you want to see it.''And finally, this old street was mysteriously lined in petals. I have no idea why.''A huge thanks to the Brindisi is MY destination people for sorting me out with my trip to Brindisi and giving me enough free time to wander for a while.''#brimd #photography #travel''SHARE ON''I am a big fan of street art. It can be the size of a stamp or covering a whole building – when I see something I like, I stop and get my camera out. Street art manages to surprise me, amaze me, make me laugh, make me think – and I appreciate that.''I find that the grey uniform concrete jungles in the west often benefit from these colourful creations, but what about Thailand? Here we have a country that is already full of bright colours; it’s a country where people anarchically plant flowers and place pots with lavish leafy green stuff everywhere; it’s a country where the impressive and countless temples emit their glory with an abundance of gold and red; where the fruits at the market put every rainbow to shame and where a variety of colourful religious emblems are a part of every building.''Thailand is such a visual place that one couldn’t really argue that it is in need of any further decoration.''It is also a place where people feel differently about public and private property than they do in the Western world. The bright white walls surrounding a temple or a government building might look like open invitations to Western folk, but I think in Thailand it would be regarded as very disrespectful to say the least to use this space to express yourself.''In fact, and this is interesting: if you find awesome graffiti, it will most likely be on the crumbly walls of an abandoned building. Choosing an inoffensive location is part of Thai manners, I guess!''In addition to this, we discovered street art mainly in the cities with a lot of foreigners living or vacationing there, like Bangkok, Chiang Mai and Phuket.''Mind you, finding it wasn’t easy. But here’s the deal: once you start asking the right questions…''…you‘ll begin to see the signs.''After that, it’s all about lifting some veils…''…put your heart into it….''…until you find… THE ANGRY TOMATO!''THE ANGRY TREES!''THE MIGHTY GARAGE DOOR DRAGON!''…and possibly a cheeky fish that might have seen better days:''Oh wait, there’s more fish!''We discovered the artist behind the fish, Bon Mue. Check out more of his work''here''.''Has all the fish provoked any of the following expressions on your face?''Or is part of your brain melting while the other one looks upon it like Little Red Ridinghood? (I think I found another fish…)''Don’t worry about it, though – look, we found you a Space Invader in Phuket:''Phuket is also the place where we saw this gem:''The artist’s name is Noé Two and there’s a pretty awesome''video''about his “Thailand Graffiti Trip” in 2012 (length: just under six minutes), where you can also see him working on this particular piece!''So this was the street art we found during our time in Thailand. Unfortunately we went back to Europe right before a rather special event: in spring this year Bangkok hosted''Bukruk'', a street art festival and a collaboration between European and Thai street artists…! At least I found a little''slideshow''of some of the artists and their work. Apparently it was quite a success and might be back next year – fingers crossed!''SHARE ON''Normally I’m rubbish with picking a favourite of anything.\xa0 I tend to find the unique aspects of a thing, and assign it its own special award for being awesome in its own special way. Of course, this doesn’t always pan out, but as I believe in the power of living positively, I tend to get by.''Anyway, I recently went through an exercise to figure out ten of my favourite things in Thailand for an upcoming blog post (yes, hold your hats, I am going to be coming at you with a top ten list!), and when it came to picking a city, there was no debate at all in my mind, I just loved the Thai city of Songkhla.''Don’t get me wrong – I loved many other cities in Thailand too. The''madness of Bangkok''. The laid back vibes of Chiang Mai. The rustic backstreets of Phuket’s old town. The crumbling jungle ruins and mighty temples of''Nakhon Si Thammarat''. The… well, you get the idea. They’re all brilliant, in their own special way.''For various reasons though, Songkhla really stuck out in our minds. Let’s get on with explaining why. But first, where?''Where is this Songkhla place?''Don’t worry if you’ve not heard of Songkhla, it’s not exactly on the standard tourist trail. It’s down on the south east coastline of Thailand, around 1000km from Bangkok, and fairly close to the Malaysian border. In fact, up until the 18th century, it was a part of the Malay Kingdom (as well as being a medieval pirate stronghold).''Like the city of''Trang''on the opposite coast, it has a large Chinese population, and its situation on the coast means that it was an important trading port for Indian, Arabian and Persian merchants, after those pesky medieval pirates had been cleared out. These days it is the capital of the Songkhla province, and filled with interesting things to do. Such as:''What to do in Songkhla''Visit the Chedi on Monkey Hill and see the monkeys''Towering over downtown Songkhla, Khao Tang Kuan is a hill which offers great views over the city peninsula and surrounds. At the top there is a chedi (Dvaravati Chedi), which houses relics of the Buddha, and was built during the reign of the Nakhon Si Thammarat empire. You can make offerings here in a complex looking eight stage procedure, or, as we did, just enjoy the view.''The top of the hill can be reached via a 305 step Naga guarded staircase which starts at the west of the hill and ascends past a gorgeous Royal Pavilion to the top. If the walking sounds like too much, there’s also a cable car which goes up from the east side for 30 Baht a go.''Around the cable car entrance are hundreds of monkeys, and you can buy food from nearby vendors to feed them. If you want guaranteed monkeys in Thailand, this is the place to come. There’s even a monkey bridge over the road to keep them out of harms way!''Visit the 3km long serpent: Nag''Ok, so it’s not really 3km long. The Giant Serpent Nag is a sculpture in three parts, with the head being situated 3km from the tail. But it’s not hard to imagine the rest of him being underground.''Nag is the deity of water as well as fertility, and was built to bring good fortune to the city of Songkhla. It’s a popular spot for locals, who regularly visit the various parts of the sculpture to pay their respects to the deity. The head, found at the tip of the Songkhla peninsula, jets water out into the bay, and represents the intelligence and wisdom of Songkhla’s inhabitants.''The middle section, the belly of the serpent, is found just north of Monkey Hill, and represents the wealth of the city, whilst the final part, found alongside Samila beach on Chalatad road, symbolises the charisma and strength of the people of Songkhla.''See the mermaid, cat and mouse statues''More statues, also with a story (of course!). Just offshore from the Songkhla peninsula sit the islands of Ko Nu and Ko Maeo, which translate as cat and mouse island. The legend has it that a dog, a cat and a mouse stole a wealthy merchant’s magic crystal whilst on his boat, and tried to swim ashore with it.''The cat and mouse drowned en route, and turned into the islands, whilst the dog made it to shore and died shortly thereafter (these tales never seem to go well). The dog became Khao Tang Kuan, whilst the crystal became the gorgeous white beach of Hat Sai Kaeo.''You can visit the cat and mouse, peering intently at one another, down by the beach, and wonder who it is who comes up with these tragic tales of woe.''And the mermaid? Well, she’s the symbol of Songkhla, and can be found just along the beach from the cat and mouse, stroking her hair, and thinking what a great deal she got compared to her''frozen cousin in Denmark''.''Head out to the giant boulder of Khao Kao Seng''About three kilometres south of Samila beach is the beach of Khao Kao Seng , one of the smallest and prettiest beaches in the area. Just near here, next to a temple, can be found a giant boulder, known as Hua Nai Raeng.''This boulder was where, in times past, locals stored treasures which were used for the construction of the fantastically impressive''Nakhon Si Thammarat''temple. These days the boulder has less on the treasure front and more on the ribbon front, being draped as it is in beautiful cloth and other offerings.''It’s a bit of a walk from the town, but you do pass a rather lovely little fishing village on the way, which is nice. We got a bit lost en route, but were saved by a kindly local with a motorbike. Which happened to us''quite a lot''in Thailand.''Walk on the beaches''A beach made from a magic crystal is obviously something to be seen, and the beach that runs down the length of the Songkhla peninsula, from the head of Nag to the giant boulder of Hua Nai Raeng, really is something special. Our favourite part was between Nag and the Mermaid statue, an almost deserted section of powdery white sand backed by an area of forest reserve and of course, that beautiful blue sea.''We spent happy hours wandering and discovering bits of flotsam and jetsam, like this photogenic lightbulb, and I see no reason why you couldn’t too. Plus, if you’re in the mood for seafood, there is no shortage of restaurants near the Cat and Mouse statues.''Visit the Museum''This part of the world is just full of history, and though I’m not really a big museum fan, we felt that we really had to get a grip on the history of Songkhla – a town that clearly had a lot of stories to tell. The Songkhla National Museum, which can be found in the former city hall, was built in a Chinese style, and is full of informative displays which are happily also labelled in English.''This cost 150 Baht to enter, and was very much worth the entrance fee, both for the building itself, and also for the wealth of information it contained about the, at times contentious, history of Songkhla.''Take a (free!) tram tour''You know, I was pretty much sold on Songkhla when I discovered it had a free tram tour. Not that things in Thailand are that expensive anyway, but a tram that you can just hop on for a guided tour of a city is not to be sniffed at. This runs from outside the museum six times a day from 9am, although if not enough people show up, it probably won’t go. This happened to us on our first day, so we just went the next day instead.''It’s a great way to orientate yourself to the city, takes around 60 minutes, and did I mention it’s free? Just go do it already.''Explore the Chinese Quarter''One of the more interesting parts of Songkhla to explore is the old Chinese quarter, which runs down three parallel streets. Here there are Chinese restaurants, a Chinese Opera, and all sorts of the things that you would expect to find in a small Chinatown. The buildings in particular are most impressive, some of them being hundreds of years old, with that crumbly feel to boot.''At the end of the Chinese Quarter is the city pillar, which was built in a Chinese style along with the rest of this area.''Take in the weekend night market''Like most Thai cities, Songkhla has an excellent night market. This runs only at the weekends, and is found by the old city wall which can now be found in the centre of the city (the city limits having expanded somewhat).''As well as tasty food (you have to try the giant buns, which are a speciality), there is live music, all kinds of electronic stuff, and inevitably, those people who throw glowing things into the air and make strange bird noises. By far the best place to be fed at the weekend!''How to get there and away''Songkhla can be reached directly by bus from Bangkok, it takes around fourteen hours. From most of the rest of Thailand you will probably have to head to Hat Yai, the neighbouring (and much larger) city a few kilometres inland, which has an airport and bus links to most of the rest of the country.''Where to stay''Songkhla has a large variety of reasonably priced city centre accommodation, with rooms for two available for around 250 Baht. If you want air conditioning, expect to pay 400 Baht and up. Take a look at the''wikivoyage site''for some good options, as well as further information for more things to see and do should the above list not fill your time adequately!''Our time in Songkhla was self funded, but we would like to thank two lovely Thai ladies whom we met up in Chiang Mai who gave us lots of advice for our visit to their hometown. Thanks Oraluck and Wantanee!''SHARE ON''In the three years that I’ve been running this blog I’ve done three posts on the theme of sunsets. The first featured largely''sunsets from Australia'', the second was all about the sunsets of''New Zealand'', and the third was a''happy mix up of various locations''as part of''yTravelBlog''’s''Travel Pinspiration''series.''Still, given my obsession with this natural phenomenon, three posts seems hardly fair. So today I’m sharing eight of my favourite sunsets from my travels over the last year or so to help bump up that roster. I hope you enjoy looking at them as much as I enjoyed witnessing them!''Trang beach, Thailand''Cap de Creus peninsula, Catalonia region, Spain''Temple ruins, Korat region, Thailand''Chedi in Ayutthaya, Thailand''Field of Grass, Brindisi, Italy''Another field of grass, France''Sea marsh, near Fitou, Southern France.''Well – it’s not been a bad year for sunsets! Hopefully another full year of spectacular skies lies ahead! See you back here in 2014 😉''SHARE ON''I have done a fair bit of sailing in my time, being lucky enough to attend a school with its own sailing team. This wasn’t quite as glamorous as it sounds, with many afternoons spent doing a passable impression of the''Michelin man''whilst shivering on half frozen lakes in southern England (we were the only school in the country that sailed in Winter, something about it being character building).''Frozen lakes aside (the summers were glorious, admittedly; swallows and amazons eat your heart out), I love sailing, and have even done it at a fairly competitive level, although I hasten to point out that the boats I am predominantly used to sailing in are small things, slightly larger than a bathtub, and easily handled by one or two people. The principle of sailing however remains the same, involving bits of rope, some wind, and a lot of wet stuff.''So when I was invited down to Italy recently, for a variety of reasons, but largely to take part in the world famous''Brindisi – Corfu sailing regatta''which happens every year, I naturally leapt at the chance. I would probably have leapt at the chance even without a boating background, as I’m the leaping sort, but having a vague inkling of what lay ahead only served to excite me further.''The Brindisi – Corfu regatta, now in it’s 28th year, is a 200km race across the Adriatic sea from Brindisi in Italy, to the island of Corfu in Greece. A great many (about a hundred) boats take part every year, and I was being put on board one of these to document the experience.''Prior to setting off I wandered the harbour with a''fellow Italian blogger''(and talented videographer it turns out), in search of our respective vessels. Neither of us had any idea at all of what to expect, what our craft or crew would be like, and even, in my case at least, if they would speak English. All I had was the boat’s name.''The Brindisi marina was stuffed to the gills with boats, mostly in the 30 – 40 ft range, ostensibly pleasure yachts that were taking part. It didn’t take long before we found Denis’ yacht, which looked wonderfully homely, right down to the potted plants and wooden trim. It didn’t necessarily look very fast, but it looked like the sort of place where one could happily while away a regatta, perhaps over a glass or two of fine Italian wine. He introduced himself to the crew, and we wandered on, in search of my yacht, the Idrusa.''This took some time, as the marina was very full of boats, and went on for quite a distance, but finally we found my vessel. I’m not going to lie, it came as a bit of a shock. Having walked past so many homely looking boats, discovering that my ride was an 80ft purpose built racing yacht was somewhat unexpected. This did not look like a boat where the crew would be sipping glasses of wine and exchanging stories of mermaids. It looked very serious, and frankly, a little bit scary.''Luckily the crew, some of whom spoke some English, were very nice, and I was welcomed with a glass of wine and some cherries, before bunking down for the night in preparation for a 4am start. A 4am start! Sailors are crazy.''4am dawned bright and blue, and I lay in my bunk and watched as everyone around me started getting dressed in very serious looking clothes, including head to toe waterproofing. I pondered that perhaps my one fleece and no shoes approach may not have been ideal, but hopped out of bed anyway to start the day by taking some pictures, which was ostensibly what I was there for.''The sun hadn’t bothered to rise as I walked around the slippery deck (if you go on a trip like this, take some nice, rubber soled trainers with you – bare feet are not grippy on a deck!) and took some shots. Then the engine fired up, we cast off and were heading towards the start line.''By this point, the sun was starting to rise and all the boats around us were getting their sails up, a spectacular sight. I was doing my best to take it all in whilst slipping around the deck being as not in the way as possible.''Which is quite hard when there are twenty people all running around being industrious with ropes and winches and bits of sail. I finally elected to sit out the way at the back, take pictures of the sunrise, and do my best not to fall in.''Sail boat races always have a running start – lining up a bunch of boats in a row and shouting “start” doesn’t really work when you are wind powered. Getting the start right is important – you want to cross the line just as the starter horn goes off – but not before obviously, as that is a false start.''This was very exciting, and the tension in the air was palpable as watches were checked to ensure we got the best possible start. We were surrounded by competitors, including this boat behind us, our sister ship and nearest competitor.''And then we crossed the line, and the race was on! The wind was just perfect for the race, meaning we had to make minimal course adjustments, and could go almost directly to Corfu.''It quickly became apparent that our boat was a bit faster than the majority of the other boats out there, as within about half an hour of starting these could only be seen as distant specks on the horizon, and after a couple of hours there was just us and the two or three other boats in our class even visible any more. We were a rocket!''After a while of sailing and working out how not to fall in, I set about doing my best to get to know some of the people I was sailing with. It turned out that not everyone was a regular crewmember on the Idrusa either – perhaps 7 or 8 were core crew members, and the others were enjoying their first chance at crewing such a lovely ship.''It was fairly obvious who the new ones were – they had the job of winding the ropes. Constant adjustments had to be made to the sails, and this meant a lot of time spent at the winches. So much time was spent at the winches that I started to suspect in fact that the boat was clockwork powered, and the sails were an illusion.''I also chatted with a couple of the younger crew members, one of which turned out to be the Captain’s son. From him I was able to learn that our Captain, Paolo, had been sailing for a great time. I asked him how long he had been sailing, and he said for as long as he could remember. One day, he added, he would be a captain too, like his father, who was his hero.''Sadly, being the son of the captain didn’t get him out of working for his ride, and he spend a large amount of time winching. Turns out you need a camera attached to your face to get out of real work on a sail boat.''This isn’t to say I didn’t contribute. Weight distribution is very important on a yacht, and I took my duties of mobile ballast very seriously, moving to the bits of the boat I was told to, and leaning over the side appropriately as directed. Watching the water scoot on by under the huge sails, with the Albanian coastline in sight and Greece a distant speck, it occurred to me that life was pretty good.''Of course, all good things come to an end, and after around 11 hours of sailing and reaching a top speed of 18 knots (33km/h), we made it to the finish line, the first boat to do so. There were lots of cheers and hugging, before I had to depart on a small inflatable dinghy, and the crew turned the boat around, and set off in the opposite direction for home.''I think it’s fair to say that this was one of the more memorable boat rides I’ve ever taken – a combination of a fantastic adventure and wonderful people made it into a day I’m never going to forget. I’d like to thank the folks of''Brindisi is MY Destination''who made this adventure possible, and of course all the crew of the Idrusa, who made the day so awesome! If you ever get the chance to sail on a boat like this, take it – I promise you won’t regret it!''#travel #brimd''SHARE ON''Travelling means being aware of another countries customs. Sometimes these are made very obvious to you, like with signs telling you not to enter a building unless you are dressed a certain way, and other times you have no clue why people seem to take offense at something you did.''Chances are you try to inform yourself about cultural differences before your trip – but it’s only after experiencing the culture of your destination that you start to understand to which extent rules apply. It pays off to observe the locals, and it also pays off to watch other travellers interact with them. Them getting it marvellously right or terribly wrong can make for the odd valuable culture lesson.''So what about Thailand? We found Thai people to be very friendly and polite. They love to laugh and giggle. They are generous and kind and always willing to help you. It is a culture that focuses on positivity, to an extent where people might not answer a question you have asked them because they would have to tell you that they don’t know or that what you want is not available.''In the three months we spend in Thailand, we also learned that getting upset doesn’t get you anywhere. Nor does being critical, behaving aggressively, raising your voice or arguing. It is considered incredibly impolite, even insulting. You always “save face” – yours and others.''The worst thing you can do to someone is to cause them to lose face, so you want to avoid that. Amongst other things to keep in mind is the perception that the head is the highest and most honourable part of the body, which for you means to not touch other peoples heads. I guess that is not something that you would do normally, anyway, but remember that this also applies for touching children’s heads.''The feet, on the other hand, are the lowest and ‘dirtiest’ part of the body. Do not move objects with your feet and don’t shove them into anybody’s face. Do take your shoes off when you enter a temple or a person’s home.''Show respect for the Royal Family. Insulting the king is a reason to be jailed, so try to avoid that. I noticed that it’s best not to talk at all about the Royal family with Thai people, as I felt it made them feel uncomfortable when I brought it up.''These are the most important etiquette rules. There are others, like for example that a woman should not touch a monk, nor hand anything to him, but mostly it boils down to basic manners. You know, you should keep your body clean, wear decent and appropriate clothes, not be intimate in public – these kind of things.''Of course you’re still a foreigner and can’t get everything right. We went to visit a temple and a nun showed us around. She handed me an informational pamphlet about the temple which at one point I stuck between my knees because I needed my hands free for a second, and she kind of froze, hesitated for a moment and then told me that because there are images of the Buddha and also various important monks in the leaflet, it was disrespectful to put it where I had put it.''It was a very nice gesture of her because she gave me the benefit of doubt, and made the effort to address and explain the issue. When something is very clear and obvious to you, it is often hard to imagine that the other person just doesn’t know better and that they didn’t mean to offend you or your culture. In my case that would have been the last thing I had wanted to do, so I apologized repeatedly.''Experiences like these can however also go really wrong – and leave you wondering what exactly it was that got you into trouble. We witnessed an incident on our travels, and I think it’s a tale worth telling.''We had just been on a three-day tour to the beautiful Similan Islands. In the afternoon a boat brought us back to a little pier, together with a whole load of fellow travellers. From here we were distributed to different mini-busses which would take us back to wherever we were all staying. Our hotel was in Phuket, which meant that we had a two hour drive ahead of us. We hopped on our bus with another seven people and set off.''It didn’t take long when suddenly the motor went off, but the driver just switched it on again whilst the vehicle was rolling down the road, and it actually worked.''Then it went off again. Everyone sat in silence as we got used to the motor dying and being revived for the next 15 minutes or so of driving. The air-conditioning didn’t seem to be working, either. Finally, when it came to going up a hill, we had to stop.''We didn’t really know what was happening. Our driver seemed a bit stressed. He left the car, assumedly to get help. We had stopped in front of a shop that sold ice-cream, so everyone\xa0 went in and got some. The other passengers were a Chinese girl who lived in Thailand and whom we had already met during our stay on the Similan Islands, and six people from Russia, a couple with a teenage daughter and\xa0 a group of two girls, one guy, who seemed to be on a holiday together.''We got back in the bus and waited for the driver to return. I noticed that the teenage daughter as well as one of the two girls had put their feet up on the headrest. One belonged to a seat that wasn’t used, while the other one was the one of the driver’s seat. None of the people in the bus made the impression of being of the obnoxious kind, but I found that a bit rude, even though I don’t think they meant to be rude.''I wondered if this would cause any trouble with the driver, what with the ‘sacred head, dirty feet’-thing. But when he came back, he didn’t seem to pay any attention to it, with the girl immediately removing her feet, anyway. He was still not in a good mood, though, avoiding eye contact, not really answering the young Russian guy who offered advice about the car.''Now I had noticed before that the Russian and the Thai culture do not necessarily go together well. Russians are pretty assertive and direct; they express respect and friendliness very differently than Thai people do, who use smiling and acting humble. So even though I understood that the young Russian was just trying to be helpful, I also understood how the driver might have gotten it wrong and felt insulted by the way he was addressed.''He had brought back some fuel from his little excursion – enough to take us up the hill where we found a gas station. I assume he knew all along he was out of fuel but had hoped to make it to there. I was just glad there wasn’t anything seriously wrong with the car.''So we filled up the tank and drove on. And drove further. And drove some more. It got dark. We crossed the bridge that connects the mainland with Phuket, but had still another hour or so to go. Our driver drove quite fast. In fact, he drove a bit too fast, even for Thai standards.''After a slightly scary manoeuvre the young Russian asked him to slow down a bit. Twenty metres later we came to a screeching halt at the side of the road, and the driver, visibly upset, told the guy to get out. He refused, confused as to why he was asked to get out, but not aware of having done anything wrong. So he asked the driver to drive on – to which the driver refused. There was quite a bit of tension in the air. So we just all sat there.''At this point the Russian family father in the back decided it was all enough. He also asked the driver to drive on, and when the driver refused, he got out of the car and went around to the driver’s door.''Up ‘til then, I hadn’t thought this would be anything else but just unpleasant, but now it seemed to take a turn for the worse and about to get physical. The driver got out of the bus as well which surprised me because he was about half the size of the Russian father – and unless he was secretly a Thai boxing champion I could not see how this would end well for him. But there he stood, staring at the Russian man, who for his part stared at him.''They stared a bit, then the Russian turned around and went back into the car. The driver also got back in and started driving again.''This turn didn’t make much sense to me, until Loz told me later about the significant detail that I had missed due to my aisle seat position (Loz sat at the window): the Thai driver had emerged from the car with a gigantic machete which apparently had made him an opponent who had to be taken a bit more seriously. Holy crap.''We drove on, in a “we’re probably all going to die in an horrible accident”-style. Suddenly the father in the back yelled “Stop, stop!” because he had noticed that we had just passed the hotel where he and his family were staying. The driver stopped and the family got out. The door was closed again, we drove on.''The young Russian noticed that we weren’t going the right way to his hotel, so he told the driver. The driver shouted at him that he was not going to go where he (the young Russian) wanted to go – he was going to go back to Phuket City, and nothing else. The young Russian tried to reason with him, but realised he wasn’t going to change the driver’s mind, so he asked to be dropped off, to which the driver abided, and he and the two girls left. I guess they then got a cab to their hotel, without ever having an idea why they were treated so terribly.''It was just the Chinese girl and Loz and me now. We had kept a low profile through the whole thing, thinking it was best not to get involved. After five to ten minutes, the driver had very much calmed down. He dropped us off close to our hotel and asked if we would be alright from here. He even came out and pointed us in the right direction. He was a whole different man, friendly and steady, if only a bit weary.''So when we tried to figure out why he snapped, we came to the conclusion that it must have been the foot-on-the-headrest thing. And I don’t think Thai people snap easily. I think they have to be put under quite a lot of pressure. Our driver had been so upset, in a somehow desperate way, unable to address or deal with what has caused his aggravation, but it must have been a pretty big deal to him. So if this is what happens if you make someone ‘lose face’, then boy, you better not give it a try!''Well, that’s all, really. I certainly won’t tell anyone what to do. Loz and I had a wonderful time in Thailand and didn’t get into any trouble, but I did witness that sometimes something we said or did caused confusion, maybe disapproval (often hard to tell), and I’m pretty sure we could have made a bigger effort, learning more of the language, trying to talk more to locals.''So who knows what stirs we caused just because we managed to avoid the biggest pit-falls. But: with the bit of effort we made we were treated so well, that I feel sorry some people won’t experience that, and might instead go home with memories very different from ours.''Maybe every now and again on my travels it’s a challenge to adapt to and respect another culture because a few things don’t make sense to me, but it’s mostly an exciting and rewarding one, isn’t it? Also I for my part don’t find the culture of my own country particularly flawless, so who am I to judge others, anyway.''I hope you find the approach and attitude that works best for you and lets you have many rewarding experiences on your travels. Machetes might or might not feature. Take care!''SHARE ON''I am,''as has been previously explained'', not exactly an awesome food blogger. The problem is that when food arrives I am overwhelmingly tempted to eat it, rather than to photograph it.''During my recent trip to the southern part of Italy, and more specifically the town of Brindisi in the Puglia region, I somehow managed to overcome this urge and snap some photos. This probably had more to do with my playing with a new camera and lens than an urge to become a food blogger, but the results seemed passable, so I thought I’d share them and give you an idea of some of the delights I got to eat.''Unfortunately taking photos of the food was about as far as my food blogging journalistic drive got me – I entirely forgot to make notes as to quite what it was that I was eating. So you’re not going to be getting lush descriptions of layered tartlets across an oaky chestnut glaze. Or whatever it is that people who write about food write about. Instead here are some photos of food, and I’m hoping someone who knows more about this sort of thing than me will pop up in the comments and provide, well, commentary. Let’s get on with this:''The food of Brindisi''A tomato swims alone in a sea of cheese. There is a poem in there somewhere I imagine. Entries in the comments below please.''These fish were very fresh, and seemingly awfully surprised.''Mussels. Artfully presented in black and white.''This snail was having the best day ever.''More wine than food? Now t''hat’s my kind of table.''These guys had a really big pan.''Balls of meat. Tasty, tasty balls of meat.''I know this one! They’re mussels! In a wok!''A bowl with some beans and cheese and tomato. I think it’s a cheese and beans and tomato salad.''Patrick’s holiday wasn’t what he’d hoped for.''Why have one dessert when you can have five? My thoughts exactly.''And so ends my sojourn into food photography, at least for another half year or so. I hope you enjoyed it, even if you leave with no real extra knowledge about anything I photographed. Sorry about that.''My trip to Brindisi was provided by the''Brindisi is MY destination''tourism board, who were responsible for providing me with all this amazing food. My abilities to not remember what any of it was and come up with captions anyway are all my own.''#food #travel #brimd''SHARE ON''And so we roll around to edition eight, which is a lovely number in roman numerals and tends to remind me of that English King who spent a lot of time going through wives.''As with''previous editions'', what we’re doing today is sharing some of the most popular photos from the site’s Facebook Page, and putting them all here in one giant post for your viewing pleasure.''In this case it’s just over two months worth of shares which I have narrowed down to around 20 of the most popular. As always, you can see a new photo every day just by liking us on Facebook. Too easy. Let’s do this!''On a recent trip through Europe we stopped off in Berlin for a few days. The weather wasn’t ideal, with freezing temperatures and snow. But I did at least get a moody shot of the Brandenburg gate in! Read more about our''tips for Berlin, here''.''As Europe increasingly failed to get around to any kind of meaningful summer, I took solace in remembering the warmth of our trip to Thailand. These are the islands of Phang Nga Bay, some of the most impressive rock formations in Thailand, and well worth a visit if you are in the area. We did a''canoe tour to visit James Bond island'', which was a lot of fun.''Ah, sunsets. We lived on the shores of Muriwai Beach in''New Zealand''for around a month, and one of the best parts of that were the epic sunsets, such as this one.''The skies of outback Australia are just epic, particularly after a thunderstorm, as featured here.''I received a request on the''Facebook Page''for a photo of some flowers. I do like to oblige.''Also in New Zealand, we lived at the foot of Mount Ruapehu for nearly five months. A stunning place to be, I think you’ll agree!''As part of our tour around Europe, the nice folks at the Bergen tourist board asked me if I’d take some photos for them. I’m not quite sure this was what they had in mind, but I loved the lighting and shininess, so had to take a picture anyway. I’m still waiting to hear if they plan on using it for anything…''Tasmania''was one of my favourite parts of Australia, with epic walking and gorgeous scenery galore. This is the western plateau, a craggy landscape that just cries out to be explored. So we did.''Always a favourite, Australia’s Great Ocean Road is a road trip that you can’t miss if you visit the state of Victoria. These are the 12 apostles (although the sea has reduced them in number somewhat), which are arguably the highlight of the whole trip.''Way over on the other side of Australia, the wild coast of the West is home to''some spectacular sights''. Not least of this is the Francois Peron national park, part of the UNESCO listed Shark Bay marine park. The red sand of the outback meets the cormorant lined beach, and dugongs can often be seen in the waters close to shore.''Climbing Mount Taranaki''was one of the highlights of my year in New Zealand, and without a doubt my favourite day hike in this amazing country. It’s not an easy walk for sure, but the views from the top more than make up for that!''I tried playing around with a new photography technique where you take a lot of photos of a sky, and then layer them together to create a surreal, “painted” effect. What do you think?''I’ve also recently taken ownership of a new camera, and wanted to try that out. This is a local church in France that posed nicely for me.''And a cat. Because the internet needs more cat pictures.''My most recent adventure has been a trip down to Brindisi in Italy, where I ate a lot of food, met a lot of great people, took part in a sailing race, and hung out at the beach. Where I was able to take photos like this one.''From time to time in Brindisi I had the chance to go off exploring on my own. It was a very picturesque city, but I thought some of these more character filled streets made for good shots too.''That sailing adventure was fantastic, and I can’t wait to tell you all about it. In the meantime, here’s a teaser in the form of a photo. As you can see, it was all very blue. That’s Albania in the background incidentally.''And finally, just playing with the new camera really. Here are some flowers to finish off with.''And that is that for today’s photo filled post! Got a favourite from the above? Or just any comments you’d like to share on the places I’ve visited recently? Let me know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''A while ago (ok, two years) I published a guide to some''awesome Android apps for travel.''Two years on, and many of those are still relevant, but many new apps have burst onto the scene, for both Android and iOS, meaning my guide probably needs a bit of updating.''Fortuitously, fellow blogger Andrew dropped me a line recently asking if I was interested in featuring an article from him on the subject of epic travel apps. Which obviously I couldn’t turn down! Enjoy, and sound off in the comments at the end if you’ve got any favourites of your own we’ve not covered here!''Travelling is not only a rite of passage for some; it’s a way of finding out who we really are for most. By throwing us out of our comfort zone and into some of the most interesting (and often unpredictable) situations we could ever be in due to being in unfamiliar lands, we grow, and for first time travellers it can be a daunting affair.''Fortunately with the use of smartphones, there are apps for pretty much anything. Here are a few I always use whilst on my travels, be it for staying in contact with mates, or just making finding last minute accommodation that bit easier:''Where should we stay?''Finding a place to crash for that summer holiday overseas can always be tricky if you do not have the right connections. Fortunately the smart guys at''Airbnb''(''iOS''and''Android'') saw a gap in the market, and created a community marketplace for people who had a spare bed to rent. Its win-win for all, as there are listings all over the world, and the “Find a place, tonight!” functionality can really help should your backpackers all of a sudden lose your booking.''I hope we didn’t miss our flight…''You cannot say you have travelled unless you have at least once found yourself sprinting down an airport corridor, praying that your flight has not left without you.''FlightBoard''(''iOS''and''Android'') covers over 3,000 airports and 1,400 airlines worldwide, and updates every 5 minutes, so you can double check if you are on time for that flight you need to catch. Also great for seeing whether that family member or friend’s flight is on time.''Do you speak English?''This is probably one of the most common phrases I have used when in a foreign country. It is always a good thing to try to learn languages fundamental phrases, like being able to say “Good morning” and “Thank you”, as locals are that bit more obliged to help you if they feel you are at least making an effort. Sadly, the basics will only get you so far.''Fortunately with apps like''Google Translate''(''iOS''and''Android''), portraying what you are trying to get across to a local is so much easier, as text is translated from English to the required language, and can even be spoken via your mobile. This can be invaluable, especially when trying to find a pharmacist after a sudden migraine attack for example.''Where are we headed?''Getting lost in a foreign city can be one of the most amazing experiences. It can also be one of the most traumatising. Amazing because sometimes this is how hidden gems are found, like the little restaurant hidden in a side alley that only the locals know about. Traumatising, as some don’t fair too well in the fact of knowing they are lost, and not having any idea of how to get back to where they need to go.''Fortunately,''Google Maps''(''iOS''and''Android'') comes to the rescue. Simple to use, and pretty much as up to date as you can get with regards to a mapping application, it will be able to direct you to where you need to go. Just pop in the address and you are on your way.''Anyone know what’s good around here?''Foursquare''(''iOS''and''Android''), an app that boasts over 30 million users helps you find out what is happening in and around the area you are in. Run the application, and you are suddenly inundated with local restaurant reviews, places to go, things to do and tips on your surrounds.''The best way to experience a place is through local’s eyes, and Foursquare helps with you being able to get a feel for what is going on in the city you are in, by seeing what the locals love. Specials in the area are also pointed out, which is great for finding some bargains and discounted excursions. It is also always great to check-in at the Eiffel Tower, just to let your friends know how much fun you are having on vacation.''Wait, I want to protect my phone!''While all of these apps rock, they’re no good if your smartphone gets corrupted are they? With mobile malware on the rise, the friendly folks over at AVG have produced some whizzy software that protects Android devices from the same bad stuff – viruses, identity theft, etc – that are a problem for PCs.''AVG AntiVirus''(for Android) software protects you against spammers, hackers and scammers, and even provides a safeguard against your phone getting lost or stolen – you can track your phone, and lock or wipe your data remotely.''I just have to call home quickly…''Gone are the days of needing to find an international call card, and an empty phone booth to check in with your loved ones on the other side of the world. With apps like''Skype''(''iOS''and''Android'') and''Whatsapp''(''iOS''and''Android''), staying in contact has never been easier.''Make that call or send that message letting whomever know about the time you are having, or send that pic of the epic sunset that you just witnessed. Not because you are gloating, but what are experiences worth if you aren’t able to share them with people?''Like travellers, hackers can be anywhere, and tourists are seen as soft targets. Should you be travelling with a laptop, always ensure that you are protected, because jumping onto an unsecure backpackers or local coffee shops Wi-Fi and making that quick payment via credit card could end in tears. Just be wary of your surroundings, and you should be fine, and try not to jump onto any unknown networks which are not password protected. Free internet sometimes comes at a price.''About the author''Andrew Tipp is a writer, blogger and editor. He’s worked as a travel editor for advice and community site''gapyear.com'', and has spent more than a year backpacking and volunteering around the world.''His favourite countries are Bolivia and Sri Lanka, and Central America and the Malay Archipelago are currently top of his to-do list.''SHARE ON''Most of the time I have been travelling, I never worried about luggage. Which doesn’t mean that I didn’t bring anything. It means I brought everything. My understanding of the concept of packing was that the 80 litres that fit into my backpack weren’t a guide-line. They were the obligation, if not a challenge. It didn’t occur to me that less could be more. I really was oblivious to the fact that you don’t have to bring everything ‘that is necessary’. If I could bring it, I would bring it, case closed.''So yeah, for the longest time I was a luggage bad-ass, a packing rebel – and proud of it, even though walking around with what felt like a bag of stones on my back wasn’t half as much fun as you might think. And packing the darn thing every time you moved on, trying to get everything in… Well, practise makes perfect, right?''Yet I always felt I had packed right for my journeys. I was happy to have the things that I brought, even though I didn’t use them. I was more impressed by how much stuff I could take with me on my travels than I was annoyed that it was maybe too much. I felt physically strong due to being able to carry that much weight. I felt safe, because I felt prepared. And anchored. Very well anchored. No surprise.''I didn’t trust people who approached packing logically. I’m serious. There was something that scared me about highly organised and minimalistic travellers. Something that seemed to suck the life out of everything.''Until I met HER. She appeared one day in the dorm-room I had declared home for the past and the next few weeks. Travelling by herself during summer break in Canada, she had rather spontaneously come to Australia after a month or so in Asia, maybe for a week, just to check it out. I didn’t notice it at first, but at one point I realised something that seemed unbelievable and incredible: she had no luggage.''We have all heard of mystical creatures that travel very light, but I would imagine that only few of us have actually encountered them. Well, I did. There she was, a pretty, stylish, cheerful young woman – and all that she carried with her on\xa0 her journey of several months was a bag one third of the size of my hand-bag. It had not crossed my mind that a regular traveller could and would do this.''Since then I have been thinking more about travelling with less, and have also been practising this skill. And while I have managed to fill my back-pack more reasonably, I’m left with one dilemma: my hand-bag scenario.''First of all, what I call a hand-bag is probably not what you would call a hand-bag. It’s more of a shoulder-bag, and it ain’t a small one. I could theoretically go grocery shopping with it, to give you an idea.''The thing is: I have no idea why I need such a big bag, but when I’m finished putting all the, er, bare necessities in it, it’s always full. It’s so full it hurts, literally.''The muscles around my shoulders are basically always more or less cramped.''I’d rather wear a back-pack, but I don’t like to have my valuables out of my sight and grip.''I’ve thought about bum bags, but only reluctantly, as they make me shudder.''They’d be perfect, but most of them look hideous. There are exceptions, I’ve learnt, which you mostly see at festivals, and they are more like hip bags, anyway. A utility belt for the fashion-conscious folk, who feel too free to get entangled with a bag in general, but still need a place to put their… well: valuables!''So I started looking for one like that, but either I’m way too picky (it’s quite possible) or just unlucky or searching the wrong haystack\xa0 – in any case, I fancied none of the ones I found. I became so desperate, I even attempted a DIY-version (we won’t talk about how that went).''How hard can it be to find a decent hip bag? All I want is one that''manages to hold my valuables (eg. wallet, passport, phone, mp3-player, point-and-shoot-camera)''looks unobtrusive, yet stylish, and can thus be multi-used for various circumstances, be it a city tour, a hike, a party or bird-watching and time-travel''is comfortable to wear, which for me means that it is flexible enough to snuggle up nicely and doesn’t have any angles or edges that are of an incisive nature''is of good quality, so it doesn’t fall apart just after I haven fallen in love with it''ideally doesn’t cost a fortune and didn’t involve any dubious methods/resources in its making.''…and then I found it.''Well, that’s a blatant lie. I didn’t find anything. It found me. Because the universe provides, my friends. Mostly right after you have cursed it and given up, admittedly, but we won’t mention that, will we. No.''So here it is: the leather pouch bag from Happycow.''The cow is happy because all the leather used for their products stem from leftover pieces of a furniture manufacturer, which means they don’t contribute to the demand of leather themselves, but recycle scrap pieces of high quality leather that are too small to use for furniture.''The company tries to keep it as green as possible. Founder Justin Snyder, a world traveller himself, says:''“''Whenever I hear people discussing whether global warming is real or not I often add: ‘What if global warming is a hoax and we make the world a better place for nothing?’ The point is that we are the intelligent beings on this planet and we are aware of how incredibly complex and beautiful the world around us is. Any logical human being will realise it is our responsibility to do whatever we can to keep our world looking beautiful''.”''And the bag? It meets all my demands from above, with a few extras as a bonus:''it can be worn over the shoulder as well, which doesn’t involve any frantic fumbling thanks to the single-sided metal clip''it comes with four pockets, of which three are zippable (plus two little slip pockets). One is at the back, three at the front, covered by two leather flaps that close over them with magnetic clasps''In short: I’m very happy! I love the design with the big hoops and the metal clip; I’m particularly fond about the carry-it-over-your-shoulder option; I’m amazed at how it adapts to my figure and never feels like a foreign object; and it’s so soft I might as well use it as a cushion.''I was a bit worried that the adjustable strap would not stay in place, but it does. I’ve had it for a few weeks now, and keep looking at it from all possible angles only to find that it was built to last, which I like a lot. What do they call that again? Oh yes: quality!''@happy_cow_belts #competition''SHARE ON''Visitors and pilgrims alike will enjoy focusing on Chennai’s holy sites, some of which were constructed more than 400 years ago. The rich religious and cultural traditions at these temples also form the epicentre of the city’s best and most colourful festivals.''Kapaleeshwar Temple''This temple of Shiva in Mylapore features Dravidian architecture, making it a popular destination for photographers. It’s the area’s most active temple, and should be a stop for anyone visiting a Chennai temple.''There is some debate about how old the existing structure of the temple is; the temple hymns say that it was constructed in the seventh century, but the buildings themselves only appear to be 400 years old. It’s possible the Portuguese destroyed the original structures which were then quietly rebuilt. The colourful 120-foot gopuram is more clearly referenced; it was built in 1906. The temple’s location may also have changed, as the hymns place the temple by the sea. It’s now 1.5 kilometres from the beach.''This temple is unique among Shiva temples for some of its traditions, including its references to peafowl. According to tradition, the goddess Karpagambal (an avatar of Shiva’s wife Parvati) worshipped as a peahen. A live peahen and peacock are kept at the temple now.''Kapaleeshwar’s most important festival takes place in mid-March or mid-April, depending on the Tamil calendar. This mela lasts for nine days.''Kalikambal Temple''Located in George Town, the Kalikambal Temple also celebrates a form of Parvati. This temple was relocated in the 1600s from a previous site nearer the sea.''In the temple’s long history, many famous people have come to worship here. One of the most famous is the Maratha ruler, Shivaji, who visited in the 1600s to worship Kali. A more peaceful representation of the goddess is popular here now, but in history the representation was fiercer.''Saturdays are a particularly busy day at this temple.''Sri Parthasarathy Temple''One of the oldest structures in Chennai, the peaceful Sri Parthasarathy Temple is dedicated to Krishna. It is located in Triplicane and was established in the eighth century. The name refers to Krishna as the charioteer of Arjuna in the Sanskrit epic “The Mahabharata.” It’s one of the few temples in India dedicated to this manifestation of the god.''It’s an important temple for worshippers, but its spacious 1.5-acre grounds make it a wonderful place of reflection for people of many faiths. Evenings are an especially popular time to visit.''It’s near Marina Beach and easy to include on a tour of the sites in that area.''Sri Bhaktha Anjaneyaswami Temple''This temple is in Nanganallur, Chennai about 10 kilometres from the city centre. More modern than the other temples listed here, this one is most well-known architecturally for its 32-feet-tall statue of the god Lord Hanuman (here called Anjaneya). The statue is made from a single piece of granite; it was consecrated in 1995.''Saturday and Sunday are the busiest days at this temple, which is also called Nanganallur Anjaneyar Temple. In December or January each year, the music festival Hanumath Jayanthi is held here. This festival highlights classical Carnatic and Hindustani music in honour of Anjaneya.''Vadapalani Murugan Temple''This temple in the Vadapalani neighbourhood is another famous and busy place of worship in Chennai. Despite only having about 120 years of history, it’s revered as one of the more ancient temples in the region, evidenced by the thousands of couples who choose Vadapalani Temple for their wedding rituals.''Now constructed of sturdier materials, the idea for this temple started with the Muruga devotee Annaswami Tambiran. He lived in a thatched hut with a simple Murugan painting to worship. From this, it grew to a shrine and later the temple, thanks to the financial donations of other worshippers.''About the Author:''Writer Priya Gulpreet enjoys her trips to different temples throughout India.''SHARE ON''You would think that having''a temple on a volcano''that predates Angkor Wat would be enough for a region, and it could hang up its hat in terms of attractions. Well, when it comes to the area around the Thai city of Buriram, way over in the east of the country near the Cambodian border, this thinking would be incorrect.''Because as well as''Phnom Rung'', that splendid volcano temple, Buriram Province has all sorts of other attractions to offer the discerning visitor looking for a series of adventures in a part of Thailand that is often overlooked by visitors.''And un-crowded attractions that easily rival the rest of what this country have on offer are not to be sniffed at. This was what we got up to in our time exploring Buriram region:''Visiting the Lower Northeastern Cultural Centre''(ศูนย์วัฒนธรรมอีสานใต้)''We started our Buriram adventure with a visit to the Lower Northeastern Cultural centre, which turned out to be a wise decision, as it helped us understand the rest of our itinerary a little better.''This is essentially a museum and research facility, dedicated to explaining the history of the region, from the rise and fall of the Khmer empire through to the various other Kingdoms that rose and fell in Thailand up to the present day. There was a fair bit of rising and falling, and the centre does a good job of explaining it all, with explanations handily provided in English next to all the exhibits, of which there are many.''This set us up well for the various temples and other cultural artefacts we visited, and I can very much recommend it as a way to get a nice quick bit of cultural orientation.''Exploring the temple of Prasat Muang Tam''(ปราสาทหินเมืองต่ำ)''Another beautiful temple that is well worth the visit in this region is Prasat Muang Tam. This is special because of the way that it is laid out, with four lotus filled ponds between the outer enclosure and the inner complex, which makes for some beautiful reflections.''As well as those lovely ponds, the temple itself is interesting due to its age (it was built in the 10th and 11th centuries), its well preserved lintels (lintels are big in this area), and also of course for its historical significance as being a part of the Khmer empire. But really, it’s worth visiting for those lovely ponds.''The Silk Weaving Village of Amphoe Na Pho''(หมู่บ้านทอผ้าไหมอำเภอนาโพธิ์)''Vera recently wrote about the Opium Museum in the north of Thailand, which shows how the Thai Royal Family took an interest in helping provide an alternative to the opium trade and help solve the drug problem from the supply level up.''Well, that is far from the only project that the Royal Family has got going in Thailand. In Buriram for example, there is\xa0 a silk weaving village, another Royal Project.''Here you can visit and learn all about the process of silk production and weaving, which is a far more interesting process than I had previously realised. Silk worms, it turns out, are entirely dependant on humans for their survival, and are one of the worlds most genetically modified animals. They’ve been bred for their silk for over 5,000 years, and dine exclusively on the leaves of the mulberry bush.''It’s not all roses being a silk worm though. After the larvae have gorged themselves silly on mulberry leaves, they turn into little cocoons, each of which consists of 300 – 900 metres of raw silk. Unfortunately for the silk worm, the majority don’t get to progress past this stage, because the hatching process destroys the silk. Instead they are boiled alive in their cocoons, and the silk pulled out of the water and turned into thread.''Around two to three thousand cocoons are required for 400 grams of silk, which is a lot of dead silkworms, although they aren’t entirely wasted, as the larvae are also edible.''We discovered this last fact during our tour of the village, which let us experience the whole process from end to end. After watching the silk worms get boiled over a wood fire, and the silk threads extracted, we were each offered a boiled silk worm larvae. Which, I can report, taste a bit like boiled potato.''The ladies of the village, who were all very kind and friendly, really let us get involved with the whole process beyond eating the silk worms – we had a go a silk spinning, tried to extract the silk threads from the water, and learnt all about what the silk could be used for. A fascinating tour, and one I can highly recommend.''Lintels''Did I already mention lintels? Prior to my visit to Thailand a lintel was, from my experience, something that went over a door and served the important function of keeping buildings from collapsing on my head. In Thailand they do that too, but serve the secondary function of being used as decorative elements.''The Buriram region has some of the best preserved examples of this sort of decorative lintel in Thailand, not only at the two temples previously mentioned, but also at the cultural centre and at various less well known sites in the area. We visited a number of these, and whilst I’m not really an expert on lintels, I can confirm that they were very nice.''So if you have some spare time, do head out into the region and explore, you are bound to come across some fascinating finds that will likely be entirely devoid of other visitors.''Getting there, getting around and where to stay''You can get to Buriram city from Bangkok by taking the bus, train or plane. There are also public transport options, particularly buses, from many other regional cities in Thailand – the best way to find out is just to go to your local bus station and ask.''Getting around is going to be a little trickier. This isn’t a hugely popular part of Thailand for tourism, so you are likely going to find it easier to hire your own transportation – either a car with driver, or a self-drive option. Many of the attractions are dispersed around the country side, so aren’t necessarily reachable by public transport.''The main attractions, such as Phnom Rung, do feature on tour itineraries, so that is also an option to consider if that sort of thing is for you.''Part of our logistics for visiting this part of Thailand were provided by the Tourism Authority of Thailand, including transport and accommodation costs, although we chose our itinerary and paid our own entry costs. Regardless of this, our opinions as always remain our own!''SHARE ON''France! It’s just over the channel from the UK, but that stretch of water seems to have created a larger cultural divide than you might imagine. Or maybe it was the''years and years of wars''. Having now lived here for a couple of years, I’ve observed a few things that surprised me, and learnt a few others that surprised me even more!''So when you visit from the UK (or other equally fine country) and are on that ferry from Dover to Calais, (or other equally marvellous travel option to France, maybe even a Montgolfiere?) here are some things to think about that might tickle or amuse you… including, but not limited to:''A fifth of France isn’t in France''France is fairly big. It’s the third largest European country, after Russia and the Ukraine, and is over twice as large as the UK. But what is even more surprising is that that size doesn’t even take into account the''overseas territories''that France still has, which account for an additional 20% of land!''These are constitutionally a part of France and over 2.6 million French people live in these territories, none of which are anywhere near Europe!''Croissants aren’t French''Is there anything more French than a morning cup of coffee accompanied by the crescent shaped pastry known as a croissant? Well, other than baguettes of course. You’d think not. Sadly then, it turns out that the croissant was actually invented in Austria way back in the 13th century, and didn’t make it to France until the mid 19th century. Quel horreur!''No French word starts with a W''Le week-end. WC. Wagonnet. These are all good French sounding words, but the truth is that no real French word starts with “w” as “w” never used to exist as a French letter. So all the words in France that you might find starting with a “w” were just borrowed from other languages. Much to the chagrin of the''Académie française''no doubt, the body responsible for keeping the French language properly French. Le week-end, though, seems here to stay!''Hot air balloons are named after their French inventors''Hot air balloons were invited by the French, and I think it’s rather lovely that in France a hot air balloon is called a Montgolfière, after the Montgolfier brothers, who came up with the brilliant idea of suspending a giant flame-filled picnic basket under a balloon made of sackcloth and paper.''The first pilots were a sheep, a duck and a rooster – the duck was chosen as it was presumably a skilled pilot, and the sheep was a stand-in for the human passenger. I guess that makes the rooster the observer. They landed safely, and it wasn’t long before humans took the step of leaving our earthly confines.''Foie Gras isn’t French''Foie Gras is as French as a croissant, which is to say, not very. Even if any time spent in France will inevitably result in you finding yourself offered some of this treat, and the name sounds wonderfully French, the origins of this dish (which require the inhumane force feeding of some poor goose) are Egyptian, from as far back as 2500BC, when the French were no doubt still banging rocks together rather than pondering fine dining.''You can marry a dead person in France''Death is no barrier to a good marriage in France, with a law in place to allow posthumous marriage (although, at least one of the couple must be alive). This practice started during World War 1, where widows were married to soldiers who had been killed in action. The main reason was to legitimise any children who had been conceived, and also for emotional reasons.''These days it is still possible, you just need to ask the President’s permission, and be able to prove that you had already been planning a wedding.''BBQ’s aren’t quite the same, and involve chips''In the UK, if you have a BBQ, the key ingredients are charred meat and ideally some rain. The grilling technology may vary, from gas, to electric, to wood, but the underlying design remains the same. And the ingredients are fairly flexible, as long as meat is involved in some way.''In France, BBQ’s are also a traditional summer time affair, and if you attend any sort of fete or party in a village or town, you’ll find people happily grilling away. The main difference though, is that there will inevitably be a deep fat fryer churning out chips (no bad thing!), and the main fare will consist of either pork belly, or sausage. Sometimes varying flavours of sausage, but pretty much always sausage. I have never seen a BBQ with a burger on it. Which seems… very odd.''It is illegal to name a pig Napoleon''Ok, so this one isn’t technically true any more. But when Napoleon was running around, it would have been! French law states that is is illegal to insult the head of state. Although most French heads of state don’t bother too much with the law. Which is a good thing, because''François''is a lovely name, and any pig would be proud to be named as such!''And that’s it for today’s bit of Friday Fun. Did you know about any of these, or do you have any facts of your own about a country you’ve been that we might not know? Do share in the comments!''SHARE ON''After Part I, which was all about discovering Oslo on a beautiful day out, now comes Part II, in which we find that Norway’s capital boasts so many fantastic museums and exhibitions that bad weather is absolutely no let-down. The only problem might be that you don’t even know where to start. But have no fear: we are not going to let you stand in the rain!''Let us introduce you to the most popular museums of Oslo in order to get an idea of what to expect – here are our recommendations:''The Museum Island''A 20-minute bus-ride away from the city centre lies the peninsula “Bygdoy”. It is called the museum island because there are in total six museums on it. Let’s begin with three of them which basically all stand beside each other: the Fram Museum, the Kon-Tiki Museum and the Norwegian Maritime Museum!''The Fram Museum''The Fram is a polarship that was built in 1892 and has starred in several polar expeditions. The most famous was probably the one of Roald Amundsen between 1910 and 1912, during which he became the first person to reach the south pole. His competitor, Englishman Robert Falcon Scott, arrived 35 days later.''Around the famous vessel (as well as on and inside it) you can learn all about this expedition, and about the arctic, the Antarctic, the north and the south pole. On the three levels surrounding the ship are a multitude of exhibits, ranging from clothing and medical gear to nautical instruments, which demonstrate the circumstances under which the expedition crew was travelling.''Notes, reports, life stories and other documents provide an additional insight. Even Scott’s expedition is part of the exhibition – admittedly the one that illustrates what incredible challenge these explorers had set themselves, and the horrific consequences they faced when things didn’t work out as planned.''You can easily spend a few hours here without getting bored – there are also interactive bits, like the polar simulator or the northern lights show. Some metres outside of the museum are standing the statues of the expedition crew looking over the water in the distance – a good spot to contemplate for a couple of minutes after your visit. For example, how much better any crazy expedition would be that didn’t involve the risk of freezing to death. Which brings us to the next museum:''The Kon-Tiki Museum''One day in 1947 in Peru, Norwegian explorer Thor Heyerdahl planted his butt firmly on a traditionally built float that he had named Kon-Tiki, and, together with five more men, set sail towards Polynesia. Did I mention he couldn’t swim?''Heyerdahl wanted to prove his theory that Polynesia could have been settled from people coming from South America – and he did! He really made it across the Pacific Ocean – and the documentary that was filmed aboard won an Oscar.''It remains to this date the only Oscar Norway has received, and you can admire it in the museum, as well as watch the film each day at noon. But that’s not what you have come for, have you? You have come to see the Kon-Tiki itself.''We of course managed to visit during the time the float was undergoing renovations, but since Thor Heyerdahl was quite the adventurer and explorer, there were many more projects to take a look at; for instance another sea-based expedition with a boat made from papyrus, the Ra II.''The museum is not an enormous one, but is an excellent example for experimental archaeology, and for how interesting and exciting science can be.''By the way: the story of the Kon-Tiki has been turned into a movie in 2012, which also received an Oscar nomination – another way to learn about this expedition!''The Norwegian Maritime Museum''We didn’t have the time to visit it, but that doesn’t mean that you shouldn’t! This is the place where you can learn about the marine history and coast culture of Norway. Among the exhibits are ship models (the biggest being a three-masted schooner from 1916), fishermen gear, archaeological sea findings and even paintings. If you go, make sure to watch the video “Maritime Norway” – we’ve heard it’s pretty amazing!''Next we walked over to the Holocaust Centre, which is a distance of 1.5km – but you can also take the bus there.''The Holocaust Centre''When the Germans occupied Norway during WWII, they put Vidkun Quisling, a fascist Norwegian politician, in charge as a Minister-President. To this day his name stands for collaboration and treachery. Using a questionnaire to locate all Jews in the country, he organised their transport to Auschwitz.''The Holocaust Centre is an institution that focuses on the Holocaust and Religious Minorities in Norway. It is located in the villa where Quisling used to live from 1941 to 1945. On its facade is displayed a prizewinning art-installation called “Innocent questions”, referring to the aforementioned questionnaire and to how the collected data was misused in the most perfidious way possible.''The exhibition itself documents the fate of the Norwegian Jews during WWII and ends with reminding the visitor to never forget, and stresses the responsibility to not let it happen again.''It is mostly in Norwegian, with a lot of the exhibits originating from Germany, but there is also an English audio-guide available.''Our next stop is…''The Viking Ship Museum''The three Viking ships that can be found here are the best preserved worldwide. They date from the 8th and 9th century AD and were discovered in separate burial mounds.''Not only can you admire the ships from every angle, but also the treasures and burial gifts that were found inside them – all indicators to the status and life of the buried people. Should you be tempted to think: “Oh, burial gifts, how EXCITING! A few coins and pots that had food in them, yeah?”, you are not quite hitting it. Just the fact that the dead were buried in not so tiny ships could be a give-away, but it still doesn’t prepare you for the Viking must-haves in afterlife: sleighs, horses, dogs, beds, boats, weapons – oh, and a servant, of course. And that’s not everything yet!''Further information (and speculation) galore regarding the ships, the excavation and the Viking people, add the final touch to a worthwhile visit of this great museum.''If afterwards you feel intrigued to find out even more, you can: the''Historical museum''in downtown Oslo hosts a Viking collection (complete with the largest Viking gold treasure of Scandinavia), as well as other exhibitions that deal with the life of the Norwegians from the Stone Age to the Middle Ages.''How to get there''Take bus no 30 to “Bygdoynes” (the stop for the first three museums), or “Bygdohus” (for the Holocaust Center), or “Vikingkipshuset” (for the Viking Ship Museum). During summer you can also take a boat (no 91)!''Admission''Fram Museum: 80 NOK''Kon-Tiki Museum: 80 NOK''Norwegian Maritime Museum: 60 NOK''Holocaust Center: 50 NOK''Viking Ship Museum: 60 NOK''The sixth museum on the island of Bygdoy is the''Norsk Folkemuseum''which we already covered in''our first post''about Oslo. For the really thorough there’s another attraction: the Royal Castle Oscarshall (built in the 19th century). It opens its doors for the public from mid-may on, which is why we didn’t get to visit – but maybe it’s something you would like to do!''Downtown''Now for the rest of our tour we head back downtown, where we will mainly focus on the famous sons of the city. The best-known one is probably painter and graphic designer Edvard Munch.''The Edvard Munch Museum''The artist himself bequeathed many of his works to the City of Oslo – so many, indeed, that the museum houses the biggest collection of Munch’s works.''This information leads the odd tourist to make a wrong conclusion (we’re guilty of that, too): this collection is not on display. To cite our little Oslo-Pass-Guide: “The Munch Museum switches between different thematic exhibitions 2-3 times a year, based on selections from the collection.”.''So although the museum focuses on Munch’s art, it will use different exhibitions to highlight various aspects of it, as well as Munch’s role as a pioneer of expressionism. For example, we went to see an exhibition that included seven rooms (and an additional one that had only “Munch” in it), where the artist’s works made out only part of it.''The exhibition was still very good; we were just initially slightly confused whether we had come to the ‘right’ museum.''You should also make sure, in case your main aim is to see the painting “The scream”, that it will be on display during your visit – as that is not always the case.''More of Edvard Munch and other Norwegian artists can be found in''The National Gallery'', where you will also find “The Scream” (Munch created four versions of the famous painting) and “Madonna”.''How to get there''By subway/bus no 20 to “Toyen”''Admission''Edvard Munch Museum: 95 NOK (may vary)''The Henrik Ibsen Museum''The entry to this museum gives you access to the apartment where the Norwegian dramaturge and writer spent the last ten years of his life, as well as to an exhibition that deals with Ibsen’s life and work.''It was suggested to us to take a guided tour through the apartment (a feature that is included in the entry fee, anyway) which starts every full hour. I very much recommend to you to seize the opportunity, too. Without the guided tour you probably wouldn’t get very much out of your visit of the flat, while the different rooms and the objects in them become alive when details get pointed out to you and you listen to all the entertaining facts and anecdotes related about the inhabitants.''Of course the fact that got stuck in my head as being worthy to remember is that Ibsen was the first Norwegian EVEN BEFORE THE KING to have a water closet installed in his apartment! But seriously: we found it to be both really interesting and fun.''How to get there''By tram (no 13 & 19)/ bus (no 30 &31) to “Slottsparken”''Admission''Henrik Ibsen Museum: 95 NOK''The Nobel Peace Centre''Although Alfred Nobel was Swedish, the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded each year in Oslo’s City Hall. Only a short hop away, in the building that used to be the Oslo West railway station, lies the Nobel Peace Centre.''The exhibitions here focus on the laureates and their work, as well as topics such as war, peace and conflict resolutions. They include photographs, films, and other digital and interactive installations.''In 2012 the Nobel Peace Prize went to the European Union – a decision that was controversial, since the EU is in the middle of its biggest crisis to date. The corresponding exhibition manages to demonstrate though the achievement it is to have formed a community out of different people who throughout history were more or less constantly at war with each other, and create an environment where the idea of war among them is unthinkable of.''How to get there''Take the tram to “Aker Brygge”''Admission''Nobel Peace Centre: 80 NOK''And you’ve made it: we’re done with our program! That isn’t to say that there are no more museums; not at all… In fact, I’m pretty sure that Oslo has a museum for nearly every taste: art, design, architecture, technology, culture, music, movies, history – hell, even soccer! So go out there and have fun!''Last words''For our time in the city the tourism office from''VisitOslo''provided us with Oslo-Passes which we found REALLY helpful. After all, Norway is not only known for its attractions, but also for its prices. A 24-hour''Oslo-Pass''which gives you access to over 50 attractions will cost you 270 NOK, so once you’ve been to three or four museums, it has already paid for itself.''And don’t forget that public transport is also included! In short: it’s well worth it. All the museums in this post are free with the Oslo Pass (except for the Royal castle Oscarshall on the museum island).''There are also museums and exhibitions where the''admission is free'': the film museum, the Norwegian Center for Design and Architecture, the National Library, the Oslo City museum, the Intercultural museum IKM and the Norwegian customs museum. In addition, some museums will not charge entry on Sundays.''We advise you to check out the''tourist information''between the National theatre and the City Hall, where you can get a free city guide that lists all attractions as well as their prices and opening hours – including the ones which are free (on sundays or in general).''And last but not least we would like to shout out a big “Thank you!” to''HostelBookers''who put us up in the centrally located and cosily warm''“Cochs Pensjonat”''– it was really nice!''So, these were our tips for Oslo – we hope we could inspire you a bit! As always, if you’ve got something to add or a question about our explorations – get in touch using the comments below!''@visitoslo #visitnorway #travel''SHARE ON''When XCom Global got in touch and asked me if I wanted to take their mobile hotspot for a spin, naturally I leapt at the chance. After all, the promise of a device that lets you connect to the internet from wherever you happen to be sounds rather splendid. I didn’t really think it through in terms of a review, which maybe I should have done.''You see, little plastic boxes are a bit difficult to get excited about, let alone review. If you’re old enough to remember modems, then you can sort of imagine my predicament. Little black boxes tend to be uninteresting. You can imagine the picture: the little black box is little, and black. Short on conversation, matches my cocktail dress perfectly.''The other thing is that this blog quite likes to illustrate itself with photography, lavishly wallpapering itself with distracting imagery so you don’t have to spend too much time on the words if you don’t want to. And that might not work with pictures of a small black box.''The purpose of the black box however, that of connecting you to the internet from wherever you are, is very easy to get excited about.''At this point in time, early 2013, the state of the internet can be easily summarised as being powered by a''collection of cats''and a former''Star Trek cast member’s musings''. I think there is some other stuff, too. So I can review the purpose of the box, provide you with thoughts on how well it fulfils its function, distract you with pictures of cats if it all becomes too much, and everyone will be happy.''Let’s do this.''What is the Xcom Global Hotspot?''XCom Global''is a company that rents out MiFis. These are portable wireless hotspots – they connect to the internet over a cellular network, like a smartphone does. Once connected, a local wireless network is set up to which you can connect up to five of your own devices.''This is all done very easily – you just turn on the MiFi, wait for the lights to come on, and then connect from your wireless device. Easy!''What is it good for''Ease of use''– The MiFi could not be easier to use. You just turn it on, wait for the lights to settle from a blinking pattern (establishing a connection) to a solid colour (connection established), and then you are all ready to connect. The light will change colour depending on the speed of the connection, with green meaning it’s a bit slow and purple meaning it’s rocketing along.''Hassle free''– If you’re travelling between a number of countries or have a locked smartphone, then this device is for you. It just works. You don’t have to mess around with trying to find a SIM card with a data plan and deciphering the instructions in a foreign language to activate that plan. You don’t need to worry about roaming fees from your provider. In fact, you don’t need to worry about anything. Let the MiFi worry about it for you.''Secure''– An alternative to the MiFi is of course a standard wireless hotspot, the kind you might find in any one of many coffee shops around the world. The problem with these is that they are usually unsecured, which means that anyone with less than noble intentions logged onto the same network could eavesdrop on your connection and potentially glean sensitive information. This isn’t a problem with the MiFi – it just works. It’s also, in popular locations, going to be a darn sight faster than a crowded hotspot. Even if the other does come with a burger.''Saving the planet''– I know, saving the planet might not seem like a totally obvious benefit, but bear with me here. Instead of purchasing multiple throw away SIM cards and associated packaging, which will be discarded at the end of the trip, you can just use the MiFi, which you return to XCom after use for another happy traveller to go adventuring with. Easy and eco-friendly. What more could you want?''Great battery life''– The MiFi lasted around four hours in use, and XCom supplies a spare battery as standard, so you’ve got eight hours of use before you need to find a plug. That was more than enough for all our use, and as it charges over USB, it was easy to charge it from our laptops when we wanted to top it up. In our 22 day trip, we never encountered a situation where we couldn’t get online due to lacking battery power.''Portable''– The device is very compact, as the below picture demonstrates, with it sitting between an AA battery and a Galaxy S3 smartphone. It slips easily into a pocket and comes in a pouch with all kinds of add-ons, such as various plug adaptors for charging. However, as it charges over usb you probably already have something that it can share a charger with, meaning you can leave the pouch and other gubbins behind.''Any downsides?''The cost''– Convenience comes at a price. The XCom Global with the Europe travel plan comes in at $14.99 per day, which includes return shipping in the US. This isn’t particularly cheap, especially compared to picking up SIM cards as you go, although the convenience can’t be beaten. We visited seven countries in 22 days, and figuring out which SIM card to buy for each country would have been a time consuming and complicated effort. If you must and want to be online anywhere you are, then this is a price I am sure you will be willing to pay.''Fair Use Policy –''There are very few countries with unlimited mobile data options, so the MiFi does come with a fair use policy, which only applies in some countries (although which countries these are was not made obvious). The policy restricts you to 400MB of usage over three days, which should be more than enough for anything but very intense photo or video uploading – popping shots up on Instagram or Facebook would be fine.''Relies on cellular networks –''The idea of having an always on internet connection does appeal, but this is the real world and there are limitations. As the MiFi connects over the cellular networks, it will only work where there is a cellular network. It did very well pretty much everywhere we went, including on multiple train rides across Europe, so this isn’t so much of a problem, but if you are likely to be heading to very remote areas with limited cell coverage you should confirm with XCom before you go if it is likely to work effectively.''Conclusion''And we got to the end without needing too many cat pictures! Well done. Now then, the important question – is this for you?''Obviously, it depends on a few factors, one of which is clearly budget. If you’re not desperate to be online everywhere you are, and are on a tight travelling budget, then no, this likely isn’t for you.''If the cost is within your budget though, and being online is a necessity, then I can very much recommend the XCom Global MiFi offerings. It’s fast, easy to set up, and does everything it says it will. Perfect for the internet hungry traveller.''#travel #tech @xcomglobal''SHARE ON''As regular readers will be aware, we spent a rather chilly few weeks in March 2013''travelling around Europe'', visiting some destinations neither of us had been to and having a lot of fun in the process. One of our missions on the trip (well, ok, so it’s a mission on every trip) was to capture some great photos of our journey for our transport partner,''Eurail''. Ostensibly pictures relating to travel of the train based variety.''With this in mind Vera decided that in the name of art she would forgo any kind of sensible baggage choice, opting instead to bring a suitcase from the 1960s that would look lovely in photos. Which, admittedly, it did, hence it features no less than three times in our''Instagram round up of our European trip.''Unfortunately, fashion and practicality do not always go hand in hand, and after about five minutes of travel with the suitcase it became apparent that the durability of key components such as the wheels and the latches may not have been the key focus of the design team. Indeed the entire structural integrity wasn’t something that had been given much thought .''The lovely pink interior made up for this a little bit, although it was hard for Vera to reconcile this with the various train stations and city centres she had to lug it across.''And what does any of this have to do with Bergen, you ask? Well, Bergen is where the suitcase and Vera parted ways, as it was starting to fail the basic requirements of suitcasery, that being the requirement to keep ones belongings within, and the outside without.''There is a happy ending to this suitcase tale though, which you can find at the end of the post. In the meantime, now that we, and the suitcase are in Bergen, let’s run through some of the places we visited that might inspire you to do the same someday. Without further ado, I present our ideas for how to spend:''1 Day in Bergen''1. Climb every mountain''Bergen is a city tucked in a fjord and surrounded by towering hills. Naturally, climbing these hills on a clear day gives you rather breath-taking views across the city and surrounding area.''Two hills that you should consider getting yourself up are Mt Ulriken (photo above) and Fløyen. The first is accessible by a cable car (Ulriksbanen). On a clear day this offers the''best view of the surroundings'', plus there is a restaurant at the top where you can prolong your viewing pleasure over a bite to eat. The entrance to Ulriksbanen is a little way south of the city centre, and is best reached by bus.''The other hill, Fløyen, is found at the top of the Fløibanen, a funicular which will whisk you up the side of the mountain in a few minutes. The entrance to the Fløibanen is just behind Bryggen in the city centre, which makes it easier to get to as part of your explorations. You can also walk up to the top if you are feeling like a bit of exercise, or you could take the funicular up and walk down. Whatever works for you!''2. Visit the house that Grieg built''One of Norway’s more famous composers, Edvard Grieg, happened to live just outside of Bergen. His house, Troldhaugen, has been preserved in the same condition since his death, plus you can visit his grave which is also on site. It’s a very beautiful location, set above a lake, and there is a museum on site where you can brush up on your Grieg knowledge.''This one is a bit of a trip outside town, and if you don’t have your own transport then you’ll need to take either a tram or bus and then wander across unlikely looking housing estates for half an hour or so, like us. We were lucky enough to get a lift back which shortened the whole trip, but otherwise count on at least three hours for this one from the city centre.''3. Investigate the flammable city centre of Bryggen''The UNESCO world heritage listed city centre called Bryggen is entirely constructed from wood. This means two things – it is quick and easy to build and quick and easy to burn. The history of Bryggen, and indeed Bergen, is a charred one. The most recent fire was in 1955, but this place has a history of fires dating right back to the 14th century, when it came into being.''The good news is that every time it’s burnt down, it has been recreated in the same style, so you can get a slice of 600 year old history even if the buildings aren’t quite that old. Just don’t turn up with marshmallows and a toasting fork. That won’t go down well.''One notable building to visit is the Hanseatic League, where a group of male only German merchants carried out their trade for four hundred years. Now a museum, you can pop in and see what sort of lives they led. My conclusion was that they led fairly cold lives – fires weren’t allowed in their property, for fairly obvious reasons.''4. Pop into the fortress''Bergenhus fortress, a little way past Bryggen, is one of the oldest fortresses in Norway dating to around the 12th century. It was cold, windy and cloudy when we visited, which added to the atmosphere. I hear that in summer it is a popular place for picnics, but we were only accompanied by seagulls in our wanderings. There is a cafeteria and you can take a tour if you’re particularly interested – these run daily between May and August, and on Sundays for the rest of the year if you book.''How to get to Bergen''There are a variety of ways to get to and from Bergen, and we experimented with two of these – rail and plane. From Oslo it is either just under an hours flight to Bergen, or a seven hour train ride.''That might sound like a lot, but it does happen to be one of the''most spectacular train rides''in the world – certainly one of the most beautiful I’ve ever done. It crosses the Hardangervidda, Europe’s highest mountainous plateau, and the line reaches the dizzying heights of 1,222 metres above sea level. Naturally the views are spectacular!''On the way, you have the option of hopping off at Myrdal, and taking the Flåm railway down to the village of Flåm, which is one of the world’s steepest railways. From Flåm you can do a fjord cruise and then re-join the train and continue your journey to Bergen. We did this also, and will be writing up our thoughts on that one soon. In a nutshell though – very much worth doing!''The flight is as you would imagine a flight to be – over gorgeous scenery and much briefer. There are a multitude of airlines which fly in and out of Bergen, and if you go via Oslo you can reach most of Europe quite easily.''Finally, Bergen is also accessible by car (via the world’s longest road tunnel!) and by long distance bus, the latter of which is likely to be the cheapest, if not the fastest, way of getting around Norway.''Where to stay in Bergen''And now I can finally get to telling you about that suitcase! Like much of Norway, Bergen isn’t what you might refer to as a cheap destination. We had the privilege of being hosted by''HostelBookers''on our trip around Europe, and they sorted us out with an actual youth hostel, up on the hill overlooking Bergen.''The''Montana Youth and Family hostel''had pretty much everything we wanted as a base – an expansive and very Norwegian themed buffet breakfast to get us ready for the day (included with all room types), free wi-fi and most importantly, a quite epic view. But don’t take my word for it, check out this picture, taken by one of our hosts after we left:''Because, yes, this was where the red suitcase and Vera parted ways, although I think you’ll agree, it has clearly gone on to good hands, as the staff at the hostel seem to have adopted it. And yes, this is the view from the hostel looking across Bergen. It’s also within a five minute walk of the Ulriksbanen for easy access to the top of Mt Ulriken, and a 15 minute bus ride from the centre of town.''If you’re looking for cheap (by Norwegian standards!), clean and basic accommodation, with an unrivalled view for your stay in Bergen, then this hostel is certainly an option to add to your shortlist. And if you go… do ask Jesper how the suitcase is doing!''More Accommodation Options''Since finding the best deal on your accommodation is one of the most important parts of trip planning, we want to share with you a couple of options that work for us, helping you to''get the most from your budget,''as well as''find the property that is right for you in Bergen.''Our''go-to choice for finding the best deals is usually''Booking.com''. We generally find them to offer the best value of all the search engines, plus many properties offer a no-fee last minute cancellation policy.''Check out their''Bergen listings here.''We also have a number of tools we regularly use for our travels, including a number of hotel booking sites. You can see all those on our''travel resources''page.''With these options, you should find the best prices for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''SHARE ON''Today’s post was written by Eve (more about Eve at the end of the post), and offers tips and advice for getting the most out of a guided tour. I must admit to enjoying the odd guided tour as I often learn all kinds of things that I never would have discovered by myself. If you haven’t taken the plunge yet, or just want to learn how to get more out of your tours, then this post should help!''For some travellers, the idea of taking a guided tour is a lot like going to the movies and only watching the previews. Sure, you get the general idea of what the city is like, and learn some interesting information about the sites and history of the place. But anti-tour travellers believe that to really get the full experience of your destination, you need to explore on your own and not follow a tour guide around for hours on end listening to canned speeches.''While not all tours are created equal, there are times when a guided tour can actually be a highlight of any trip. On your first visit to a city with an abundance of sites and a long history (like almost any city in Europe) or in a place with sites that can be difficult to access, a guided tour provides context and information that the average traveller might not find on his or her own. And during a guided tour, you can usually see a lot more in a single day than you would by yourself, especially if you spend a lot of time attempting to navigate the city.''Even if you aren’t overly enthusiastic about taking a guided tour, you can get a lot out of the experience if you go in with an open mind and armed with these tips for making the most of the trip.''Choose the Right Tour''It might sound like common sense, but one reason that people don’t enjoy tours is that they choose the wrong one. Maybe the tour only visits one or two interesting sites, or the itinerary is so packed that you only get a few minutes in each spot. When comparing tour options, read reviews and recommendations, and ask questions about the format of the tour.''Some tours offer ample time for individual exploration or options to customize the experience, while others follow a stricter schedule. Ask about the focus of the tour as well. Different tours focus on different facets of the sites. You won’t enjoy a historically focused tour if you are more interested in architecture, and vice versa.''Ask Questions''Asking questions before you sign up for the tour is a good idea, but asking questions while you’re on the tour is even more important. Tour guides are there to provide information and insight, so don’t be shy. Chances are they have heard your question or one like it before so don’t hold back. In some cases, the questions that tourists ask help make the tour even more interesting and enrich the experience.''Take Notes''While guided tours can help you see a city’s highlights when you’re only there for a short time, they can also be a valuable starting point when you’re staying for a few days. Take a guided tour on your first day in town and take notes on places that you would like to visit again. Maybe there was a wing of the museum that wasn’t included on the tour, or you would like to take in a spectacular view one more time. Make a note of it, and go back and explore on your own at a more leisurely pace.''Use GPS''While you’re taking notes, use your smartphone’s GPS function to store the location of the places you want to return to. When it’s time to go, you can easily navigate your way back. Use the GPS before you head out on the tour as well. Recreate the itinerary on your phone, so on the off chance you get separated from the group, you can easily re-join them.''It can be difficult to find Rome hotels and restaurants as you walk around the city, for instance, but with your GPS, you won’t go in circles trying to catch up.''Talk With Others on the Tour''Chances are the others on the tour are visitors as well. Chat them up while you’re traveling around the city and ask about their experiences and favourite places. They may have recommendations for restaurants, exhibits or other activities that you didn’t think of — and if you really hit it off, you could make some new friends while you explore the most fascinating sites in the world.''So while you might scoff at the idea of a guided tour as being “too touristy,” with the right mind-set it can actually be a valuable addition to your trip itinerary. And even if the tour is a dud, you haven’t lost anything but a few hours.''About the Author'': Eve Shaw is a travel writer and photographer. While she prefers exploring destinations on her own, she also enjoys making friends and learning little known facts on guided tours.''SHARE ON''When I went abroad to English-speaking countries as a teenager from Germany, I always had to snicker when I read “Drugstore” on the pharmacy signs. In Germany, the word ‘drug’ refers solely to the illegal stuff. If you mean the pills, powders and liquids your doctor prescribes and treats you with, you say ‘medicaments’. Two different words to describe two completely different purposes, while the original substance used might actually be the same.''Throughout the history of mankind, there has always been the itch for a little buzz. Before the 18th century the potential of substances was manageable, at least in Europe, with alcohol being the most common drug of choice. Not to say alcoholism wouldn’t have been a problem, but the effects were relatively obvious and the downfall happened gradually.''The first ‘hard drug’ was really Opium, although even that made it through thousands of years as a reasonably applied medicine and also as a recreational drug, eaten or drunk. The trouble started when people began smoking it. I remember reading Oscar Wilde’s “The picture of Dorian Gray” where he makes references to London’s opium dens, and being amazed at how people would enter somewhere and never be able to leave again, doomed to quite literally rot away, all because of a substance. Makes you wonder, doesn’t it.''Or\xa0 when I listened to friends who are strictly anti-drugs, but got a weird expression in their face when talking about a hospital stint that was serious enough that they were given morphine: “I started shouting at the nurses when they wouldn’t give me any anymore!” – say what??''Or the break-ins in my parents’ veterinary practice every couple of years. The thieves’ goal was to steal narcotics like Ketamine – worth a lot on the black market, and apparently worth the risk of breaking in, even though the robbers must have known that the chance of finding anything was tiny, since veterinarians are by law obliged to lock away narcotics in a safe. On top of that the usage of every single millilitre has to be documented on lists which have to be kept for 10 years and can be controlled by officials anytime. Mind you, it’s still not unheard of that doctors themselves fall victim to abusing these substances.''And somehow it all seems to be both silly and incredible – how can anything be so powerful that it just takes over and eventually destroy peoples’ lives like that?''When we got to Thailand’s Golden Triangle and had the opportunity to visit the “Hall of Opium ”, we thought that it might shed a light on some of our questions.''The''Golden Triangle'', nowadays a tourist destination, got its name in the 1970s. It stands for a vast mountainous area overlapping four countries (Thailand, Myanmar, Laos and Vietnam) that used to provide the majority of opium on the worldwide market. Geologically it’s really just the place where the Ruak river enters the Mekong river. From here, you can see Myanmar or even take a boat over to Laos for an hour or two. And no worries, there are definitely no shady people around, although you wonder how very different it might have been not too long ago.''You see, the surrounding mountains are perfect for poppy cultivation, and the hill-tribes have traditionally grown the plant for generations. The fact that they live in areas that are secluded and not at all well accessible, was all the more convenient for drug production and trafficking. During the last century the drug business took off and became really big. There’s a lot of money in drugs, and so South East Asia ended up with the title of being the the greatest opium source in the world.''Thailand’s King was somehow less than impressed with Thailand being part of the whole scenario. Opium had been declared illegal in Thailand in 1959, yet the north of Chiang Rai, the northernmost region of the land of smiles, was an unsafe place to be due to the drug trafficking. People living there were poor and had no access to basic infrastructure. The land also suffered, due to the slash-and-burn cultivation.''In order to get an overview of the situation, he visited the hill-tribes and talked to the people, and learned about their lives and the reasons they cut the forest down. Determined to provide an alternative to the tribes’ dependence on the opium cultivation, he then started the Royal Development Project in 1969.''It was meant to support people to make the switch to earn their living through agriculture, growing for example coffee, tea and nuts. Because people didn’t necessarily work the opium fields by choice. They just didn’t have any other options to make a living for them and their families to survive. Many people were addicted themselves. They didn’t need punishment and condemnation, they needed help and support.''In 1987, the King’s Mother, who used to travel to Switzerland on a regular basis for the cooler climate, decided that she wanted to live full-time in Thailand and began looking for a place to build a getaway from the heat. Doi Tung is a region that belongs to the Chiang Rai province, and turned out to be the perfect spot for this venture.''But she couldn’t believe her eyes when she flew over the area and saw that all the greenery that used to be there had fallen victim to the poppy-growing. You have to know, that lady was a first degree plant lover and I think she took this quite personally. Which was good, because she vowed to reforest Doi Tung and inaugurated the''Doi Tung Development Project''.''This project was set up to run over a time period of thirty years, starting in 1988, and focuses on sustainable development. People are enabled to get involved in different business units (food, handicrafts, horticulture and tourism) while preserving the natural environment.''Sounds rather dry, but it means a lot to the people involved. They basically went from struggling to survive to having a decent life with a future. I felt it was very empowering that the project is so holistic and goes beyond the usual drug fighting methods by getting the people involved in something that is simply better than what they have. Which means they now have access to basic life necessities, they can learn a trade; if they have a drug-problem, there are facilities where they can detox. They have options, they have a future, they have a sense of self-worth.''This is documented in the''Hall of Opium museum'', which is part of the project, but it makes only a fragment of the many different exhibitions. You will also learn about the opium trade throughout history and the wars it caused. You will see how opium is made, how it is consumed and what it does to people.''You will watch little movies, peek into re-built opium dens, look at the various utensils used during consumption.''You will learn about the illegal side of drug abuse and trafficking in the varying countries, and their different approaches to drug policies and crime fighting. You will find out how people try to smuggle drugs based on exhibits and examples. You will see posters from countries all over the world creating drug awareness.''You will see advertisements from way-back-when coca-cola was recommended as a cough medicine for babies. You will get an insight as to how the great break-through in medicine that came with the production of pain-relievers also caused abuse and addiction, and how heroin was originally thought to be the non-addictive replacement for morphine which had proven to do more harm than good in the big picture.''It’s a visit that gives you a whole range of interesting, disturbing, educational, sad and strange information, without being judgmental, but by providing knowledge, facts and documents.''The world is not black and white. Drug addiction can happen to anyone. It certainly doesn’t bring out the best in people, but it doesn’t mean anyone affected is a bad person. We all initially just want to be happy.''Producing drugs on the other hand always struck me as not exactly saintly, to put it mildly. I would have judged anyone participating in the process, as I thought you always have a choice, but this visit changed my mind. These people at the very bottom of the chain, doing all the labour, having no access to education – they don’t have an alternative. They do not want to work in the drug trade because they know what drugs do. But they need to survive. And they already sold their daughters to prostitution. They already lost all their hope. They already feel like their life doesn’t mean anything to anyone. And they are not the ones who make the money.''The Opium museum documents all of this. It is a by-product of the King Mother’s efforts to improve her people’s situation by providing them with a choice. If you thought growing flowers has nothing to do with the fight against drugs, her legacy will make you think again.''I very much like this approach that makes people the solution and enforces change positively by addressing the good in them. All in all, visiting the Opium museum impressed me and I would very much like to recommend it to you, if you happen to be in the region!''Location''The Hall of Opium is located in the Golden triangle park outside Sop Ruak village, opposite the Anantara Hotel, which is about 12 km from the town of Chiang Saen.''Opening hours''Daily from 8:30am-4pm, except for Mondays''Admission fee''Thai people: 200 Baht''Foreigners: 300 Baht''SHARE ON''When we arrived in Oslo, the weather forecast announced that we would have a sunny day and a rainy day during our stay in Norway’s capital. Ever the brilliant organisers we decided we would cleverly visit all the outside sights on the sunny day, and the inside sights on the rainy day.''And even though we have had our fair share of the weather forecast being completely wrong at times, this time everything went according to plan!''In fact the concept worked so well, that we are going to also use it for blogging about Oslo – you need some form of categorising, anyway, with the many sights on offer! So without further ado, let’s go and discover Oslo’s outdoor sights – sunshine on aaaand action:''Oslo’s sights''The Holmenkollen''The Holm… what? If you can’t even remotely think of anything that this could be, let me help you out: it’s the world’s first purpose-designed ski-jump! Yes, Norwegians take their winter sports seriously – we shared the subway with quite a few people in their full skiing monty. Oslo is a great city to live in when you’re into skiing because you’re out on the ski field in less than half an hour.''But that’s not what made us tackle the hills – we came for the view! The Holmenkollen has a viewing platform on top, and what you get to see is pretty amazing: the city of Oslo, of course, but also the Oslo Fjord and all the surrounding forest. Plus, you get to stand on top of the ski-jump from where all the pros hop off into the valley, and might experience what experts refer to as “the jelly knee”.''Should you have found the sensation that caused your jelly knees rather exhilarating, we recommend you top it off with a visit to the''Ski-jump Simulator'', which lets you experience the jump itself, as well as the looong way down.''We also checked out the''Ski museum''and found it really interesting – in a fun way! You learn about the history of skiing, which at the same time tells you a lot about the history and culture of Norway. So even if skiing isn’t your thing, this museum is worth taking a look at!''How to get there''From the city you take the metro 1 to “Holmenkollen”. From the station it’s another 10-15 min. walk up to the ski-jump.''Admission''Holmenkollen ski jump and museum: 110 NOK''Holmenkollen ski-simulator: 60 NOK''Vigeland-Park''This is not your ordinary sculpture park: 212 statues made from bronze, granite and wrought iron populate this park to demonstrate the circle of life of man. It’s a monumental piece of work, all created by one artist: Gustav Vigeland (1869-1943), who is said to be Norway’s most significant sculptor. He also designed the Nobel Peace Prize medal in 1902.''The Vigeland park is one of Oslo’s most popular attractions – and rightfully so. Next to it lies the Vigeland museum, where you can not only find the almost complete collection of the master’s works, but also more background information about the origination of the sculpture park.''How to get there''By bus No 20/ Tram No 12 to “Vigelandsparken”, or by metro to “Majorstua”''Admission''Vigeland park: Free''Vigeland museum: 60 NOK''Norsk Folkemuseum''Interested in the cultural history of Norway? Then this open-air museum is the place to go! From the famous 12th century “Gol Stave” church to a rental apartment in the present: they have it all here. There are over 150 buildings for you to explore; be it a farm from the middle ages or a gas station from 1928.''The grounds are divided in two different areas: the country-side and the town. Additionally, there are some pretty interesting indoor exhibitions, both permanent and temporary.''It’s really up to you what you make out of your visit. You can get a good impression by walking around for one or two hours, or you can spend the whole day here.''You can focus on the very old, or on the rather new. You can chat with a farmer from the 17th century about the ‘good old days’, or maybe you meet a Sami-girl and learn how to throw a lasso in order to catch a reindeer. I imagine you’ll quickly learn to be excited what is waiting for you behind the next corner – I was!''How to get there''With bus No 30 to “Folkemuseet” or by boat (only in summer, though) No 91 to Dronningen''Admission:''Norsk Folkemuseum: 110 NOK''Akershus Fortress and Castle''When King Hakon v. Magnusson built the fortress in 1299, he most likely didn’t think that future generations would love this spot as a good place to enjoy the sunset from. Admittedly, the grounds have had their share of less peaceful activities – Swedish sieges, for example, or the occupation of the Nazis during WWII, when the fortress served as a prison.''Nowadays, after a thorough restoration, it is the residence of the Norwegian Ministry of Defence, while the castle is used for state representations and cultural events.''You can just wander around and explore (for the changing of the guard be there at 1:30pm), but you can also spend some time here and learn more about its history: either at the visitor centre, on a tour of the castle, or in the Armed Forces museum and the Resistance museum. The latter documents the five years of occupation under the Nazis during WWII.''How to get there''By metro: to “Stortinget”; by tram: No 12 to “Christiana Torv”''Admission''Fortress: Free''Castle: 70 NOK''Visitor Centre: Free''Norwegian Armed Forces museum: Free''Norwegian Resistance museum: 50 NOK''The Royal Castle and more''Although I’ve always added a how-to-get-there with public transport after each attraction, I find Oslo quite walkable. All the sights in this post are pretty central and can be reached by foot, apart from the ski-jump and the Folkemuseum – there you will need the metro or the bus. Having said this, I now present you with a series of rather representative buildings which you can see in the city centre and which are all fairly close to each other. Perfect for a tiny tour. Peeking inside optional.''The Royal Castle'': okay, this is more a ‘palace’ than a ‘building’…There’s a changing of the guard at 1:30 pm, and you can do a guided tour which lasts an hour (95 NOK).''The City Hall:''built in 1950 and therefore not so old, but there’s a bell tower and the facade is decorated with motifs showing aspects of Norwegian culture. Furthermore, this is the place where they host the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony every year.''Oslo Cathedral'': inaugurated in 1697 and nowadays the cathedral for public events. The beautiful arcades around it were added between 1841-1858.''The Parliament'': Crazy but true, it’s the seat of the Norwegian parliament (who would have thought!). An impressive building (from 1866), with a pretty little park in front of it (“Eidsvolls plass”). Not too far away you’ll find the''National Theatre'', quite a little gem, too, as well as the''University'', the''Historical Museum''and the''National Gallery''.''Modern: the Opera house and Tjuvholmen''Does this big white structure at the harbour look familiar? The''Opera house''was designed to resemble an iceberg rising from the sea and is therefore almost completely surrounded by water, with part of it even being under-water. Built out of glass, granite and marble, it was opened in 2008, winning the odd architecture award on the way. If neither opera nor architecture is your thing, you should still come, because this is the place where you can shout it from the roof top!''That’s right, the opera’s roof is walkable and a very popular spot for watching the sunset. From here you also have a good view of another fascinating piece of art: the''sculpture “Hun ligger”''(“She lies”) is made out of glass and steel and floats on the waters of the harbour basin.''Tjuvholmen''is a seaside township, and quite a stylish one, with many restaurants, shops and galleries. It’s also the place where you find the Astrup Fearnley Museum of Modern Art, another spectacularly designed building. You can furthermore take a look at the associated sculpture park and many more architectural highlights and pieces of open air art whilst wandering around.''How to get there''Opera: by bus/tram to either “Oslo S” or “Jernbanetorget”''Tjuvholmen: by metro to “Nationaltheatret”; by tram No 12 to “Aker Brygge”; with various busses to either “Bryggetorvet” or “Vika Atrium”''Admission''Astrup Fearnley museum: 100 NOK''Last Tips and a Thank you''Like almost always, I recommend checking out the''tourist information''(situated between the National Theatre and the City Hall). This is where you get a map of the city, can browse brochures to see what’s out there, and talk to friendly and helpful staff.''They are an excellent source of online information as well (you can find them under''VisitOslo''). We were lucky enough to work with them and were given plenty of tips and material.''We also received an''Oslo Pass'', which we can absolutely recommend. For example: all the sights in this post that cost entry are covered by the pass, as well as the public transport. Only exception: the guided tour in the Royal Castle and the Holmenkollen ski simulator (you do get 20% off the latter with the Oslo Pass, though). The 24-hour version costs 270 NOK which is already offset after visiting the Holmenkollen and two museums. Well worth it if you plan to see a lot and like a good deal that saves you some money!''We would also like to thank''HostelBookers''who took care of another important travel feature – our hotel! It ended up being''“Cochs Pensjonat”'', a real former boarding house, which is centrally located (AND next to a park) and enchanted us with a cosy and wonderfully warm room.''And you’ve made it! This was Part I of our Oslo tour – it would have been even longer if it had been summer, I reckon… So, did any of the above mentioned intrigue you? Would you like to visit Oslo, or have you already been and want to add another outside sight? Feel free to share your thoughts in the comments – and thank you for reading!''#visitnorway #travel #visitoslo''SHARE ON''Remember when I was all like “''We’re going on an adventure around Europe''with Eurail and HostelBookers!”?''Well, that adventure is now over, and what a lot of fun we had. From the moules and frites of Belgium to the snow swept streets of Oslo, we managed to take in seven countries in 21 days, which was a lot of fun.''Today I’m pleased to share with you some of our favourite Instagram captures from the trip, from the street art as seen above, to snowy mountains and gorgeous sunsets. Enjoy, and don’t forget to''follow me on Instagram''if you want to see more from our travels on a regular basis!''We started the trip in France, with Vera toting an incredibly photogenic red suitcase. Sadly. photogenic was all it was, and it didn’t entirely survive the rest of the trip, but it made for a good subject!''We were in Berlin for Vera’s birthday, where we found the time to pop along to a performance by the Berlin Philharmonic, which were free every Tuesday at lunchtime.''Berlin is an eminently instagrammable location. Just next to the iconic Checkpoint Charlie is this flag, the last of its kind, helping to mark the divide between east and west. Don’t forget to check out my post on''exploring Berlin'', for some more ideas of how to spend time in this incredible city.''And of course, no visit to Berlin is complete without a visit to the Holocaust Memorial, which helps us to remember the six million Jews who were murdered by the Nazis during World War II.''I have to admit that my plan to explore Europe in March had largely involved visions of an early and wonderfully warm Spring. This vision was shattered by a seemingly never ending and rather frozen Winter, which included quite a lot of unplanned for snow. Still, it made for some pretty pictures.''If you happen to be lucky enough to be travelling by first class rail in Europe, you may be able to experience the Panorama class – a seating option on some of the high speed trains which puts you right behind the drivers shoulder, and lets you experience a train view quite unlike any other.''From Berlin we headed up to Denmark and Copenhagen, where we visited the little mermaid looking a bit chilly on her rock. She was, as we both noticed, a little larger than we had expected! For more on Copenhagen, check out Vera’s posts, one about''exploring Copenhagen by Segway'', and the other offering ideas for a''self-guided walking of Copenhagen.''Copenhagen, like so many of the cities we visited on our tour, was just beautiful. This is Nyhavn, an old harbour, and one of the most picturesque streets in Copenhagen.''We saw some gorgeous sunsets on our travels, including some across water, which are my favourite. This is the sun setting across the Swedish capital of Stockholm. For more ideas on''visiting Stockholm'', take a look at''our post on the subject''which offers a whole bunch of ideas for getting the most out of your visit.''During our time in Stockholm we had the pleasure of staying at one of the most unique hostels I’ve ever stayed at – the''Jumbo Hostel''. This can be found in a converted 747, and was without doubt an experience we will never forget. Read more on''our thoughts on the Jumbo Hostel in this review''we did, and of course, thanks to''HostelBookers''for sorting us out with that one!''There’s that suitcase again, this time about to board our InterCity train from Stockholm to Oslo.''In Oslo the weather conditions were a little snowy, as the view from our hotel window demonstrates! It was admittedly very picturesque, but the temperatures weren’t ideal. The weather improved on our stay – keep an eye out for a couple of upcoming posts on Oslo, one featuring options for indoor activities, and the other being more outdoor focused.''Oslo has a remarkable Opera House, the roof of which you can climb for a great sunset view. This was taken from just in front of the Opera House, looking across one of Norway’s frozen fjords.''We didn’t know it at the time, but this was the last voyage that the red suitcase was going to survive, as she ended her days in Bergen, unable to continue. At least her last journey was spectacular – the train ride from Oslo to Bergen being one of the most incredible train journeys in the world, as the following shot shows:''My experience of trains in the UK is that they don’t do too well with snow. In Norway this wouldn’t work as a feature, especially on the Oslo – Bergen route, which features one of the highest routes in Europe. We sailed past snow bound villages with aplomb, gazing at scenery that was just out of this world. If you do just one train trip in Europe, I can very much recommend making it this one.''And to finish off our Instagram tour of Europe, a view of the coastal city of Bergen in Norway, as we came down from one of the many mountains which offer a scenic view of the surrounds. Despite the cold, we lucked out on the weather for a great deal of our trip, so can’t complain too much!''And that’s it for today’s Instagram tour of our European adventure. I hope you enjoyed reading along! We’ve still got plenty of content to share from our trip, and to be sure you don’t miss out, don’t forget''the many ways you can be kept up to date with Finding the Universe'', including the''all new Google Chrome extension'', subscribing to''receive every post into your inbox'', and the''soon to be published newsletter''!''@hostelbookers @eurail''SHARE ON''The only encounter I’ve had with leeches, prior to my trip to Khao Sok National Park in Thailand, was in Australia of all places. Friends and I were visiting the Barrington Tops National Park, a range of mountains on the east coast, a couple of hundred kilometres north of Sydney. They are supposed to be rather beautiful.''I say supposed to be, because we spent our three days there being rained on, traipsing around muddy puddles, wading across rivers, and learning that Australia is not only home to creatures that want to kill you, it also has a number that are happy to just suck on your blood.''I would say that it wasn’t exactly a high point of our trip – between the leech battles, the never ending rain, and the struggles with leaking tents, it could best be described as character building. Character building with leech lessons.''Fast forward a couple of years, and we found ourselves in Thailand, visiting the Khao Sok National Park for five days. We spent one of those days''getting shipwrecked and having adventures in a raft house'', which you can read about in''this post''.''Today though, I’m going to focus more on the rest of the park, looking at what you can get up to beyond lazing in a lake house, plus some logistics for getting there and away and where to stay. And yes, leeches are going to raise their sticky little heads at some point in this post.''Orientation''Khao Sok National Park is a little bit confusing. There are two distinct parts to it – the lake and the village, which due to the vagaries of road construction and geography, are around ninety minutes apart by vehicle.''Both are worth visiting – the lake for scenery that is just out of this world, and the village for a laid back vibe and all kinds of exciting jungle activities.''What to do in Khao Sok''Hike in the jungle''The main draw of Khao Sok National Park is the rainforest, which is the largest area of virgin forest left in Southern Thailand, and the last part of a rainforest that dates from before the Amazon. It’s stuffed full of flora and fauna, with something for everyone, from monkeys to giant flowers.''Naturally this means that any visit to Khao Sok should involve a trip into this spectacular rainforest, and there are a number of walks that you can access directly from the village.''We did two of the hikes in the park, a 14km trek to a waterfall and an 8km trek to another waterfall. What can I say – I like waterfalls.''The first of these was, I must admit, fairly arduous, and not exactly what could be described as well travelled or well marked, particularly after the first easy 3km were up. It went up and down a lot, had a habit of branching unpredictably, and to be honest it’s kind of a miracle we didn’t get horribly lost.''In addition, it didn’t take long before we noticed our legs were bleeding, and discovered that we had picked up a fair conglomeration of little blood sucking friends between us. Between stopping every ten minutes to check for leeches (read: hop around screaming and flailing a lot) and the baking heat, this was one walk that wasn’t exactly at the top of my must-do walks ever.''I’d love to report that the waterfall at the end of the walk was worth the effort, but other than a quick dip in the pool to cool down, it wasn’t all that.''Still, we learnt a lot about how to deal with leeches, which set us up nicely for our next walk, the shorter 8km round trip to another waterfall. The rainforest wasn’t going to beat us that easily. Vera bought some seriously fashionable leech socks (large white knee length socks that are made out of a thick cotton that leeches can’t bite through). I went for the option of dousing my feet in DEET. Vera’s approach worked better, and is the option I would recommend in hindsight.''The second walk was a lot nicer, being well marked with interesting variations in landscape, from bamboo forests to immense buttress trees. Plus it had a worthwhile waterfall at the end. Of the two, I think it’s pretty obvious which I’d recommend!''If you do plan on doing either of these walks, then I can recommend reading up on my''guide to preparing for a day hike'', and at the very least carrying lots of water. It’s hot out there! Entry to the National Park was 200 Baht per person per entry.''Take a canoe or tube ride''If you’d rather see the jungle in a slightly more relaxed style, then there are a couple of water based options you might want to consider. We took a canoe ride down a local river, an activity we arranged through our accommodation provider. This slower and quieter transport option let us get up close to wildlife that perhaps we might not have seen during our leech filled jungle tramples, including seeing some fantastic snakes hanging out in trees.''If the river levels are high enough, you can also go tubing from Khao Sok village itself, and most of the guesthouses have tubes you can hire out to do just that.''Wander to see the worlds largest flower''If you are lucky enough to be in Khao Sok at the right time of year, then you might get a chance to go and see the world’s largest flower in bloom. We weren’t so lucky, but that doesn’t mean you won’t be. Our poor luck also means I don’t have a picture to share of it. Here’s some bamboo instead.''At around a metre wide, the''Rafflesia''is a serious bit of flower. It only grows in a few places in the world, flowers for a few days at a time, and smells horribly of rotting meat. It’s also carnivorous, so don’t get too close.''The easiest way to see it is with an arranged tour, with guides who will know where to find one that is in bloom. Most guesthouses will be able to arrange this sort of tour for you.''Lie in a hammock and compare leech stories''Seriously, all this doing things is quite tiring. Particularly when it involves fending off hordes of leeches. Or the thought of fending off hordes of leeches. So why not do what holidays are designed for, and do nothing. I know, a to-do list with “nothing” as an option. This is mould-breaking stuff, people.''Khao Sok village, and particularly the guest house we stayed in, seemed perfect for a bit of down time. Good food, interesting company, hammocks – what more could you need for a bit of you-time? Add a chilled beer or two and you’ll be set. Who needs to go out the door, right?''Enjoy the local scene''If lying in your hammock isn’t quite exciting enough for you, then you can head out to sample the delights of Khao Sok village. This, I must admit, is a bit of an odd place, or at least it was when we visited, which may well have been the off season. I’m not sure.''The main street has all sorts of bars and places to go have a party, from the obligatory reggae themed bar playing Bob Marley on loop to the, well, other reggae themed bars playing Bob Marley on loop. Ok, so there are some other bars which aren’t reggae themed. Which may or may not play reggae. Still, they are all very nice, and some of them have fire pits to enjoy your beer around on a cooler evening.''The strange thing that we found was that everywhere was deserted, other than the motley crue of travellers we managed to assemble for our night out, which included a Swedish sushi chef and a laid back Californian. It felt like a town on the cusp of being discovered. Or in the off season. Again, I have no idea. Maybe when those flower hunting botanists come into town the place kicks off. Get in while it’s quiet, I say.''How to get there''Getting to Khao Sok isn’t too hard. If you’re coming down from Bangkok, then a good option is the overnight train from Bangkok down to Surat Thani, and then the local bus from Surat Thani, which takes a couple of hours. If you do this, be sure to book the night train well in advance as this is a very popular route and books up early.''We didn’t do this and ended up on a train that got into Surat Thani at 4am. This is not an optimal time to arrive anywhere.''Coming from the south, you can catch a bus from Phuket, which leave fairly regularly. Other towns also have services, but as the bus system in Thailand isn’t entirely scheduled, it is best to check with locals.''Where to stay – in Khao Sok Village''Khao Sok village has a good number of guesthouses to choose from. The trip we were on was arranged by Thailand’s tourism authority, who chose Smiley’s Guest house for us. We liked it so much that when our arranged visit was over, we stayed another four nights on our own budget.''Smiley’s was perfect for us. The on-site restaurant cooked up some of the best Massaman Curry I’ve ever had (I had it four nights out of six!), the wooden bungalows on stilts came with en-suite, jungle view and hammock equipped terraces, as per the photo above, and the staff went way out of their way to help out. On our last day, when we missed our bus,\xa0 the owner loaded us up in her car and drove after the bus until we caught it. And yes – everyone is smiley!''Prices for accommodation when we were there ranged from 300 Baht to 600 Baht per bungalow per night. Free Wi-Fi was also available in public areas.''Smiley’s can also arrange tours of pretty much everything you might want to do in the area, including viewing the largest flower in the world, tubing down the river, and kayaking. In addition, they offer a lake tour, which brings me to the next point:''Where to stay – at Khao Sok Lake''Staying at Khao Sok lake requires you to stay on one of the lakehouses, of which there were sixteen at last count. These are usually all-inclusive affairs, sometimes including transport to and from the pier, as well as the boat ride, food and accommodation.''The prices for these all inclusive affairs range from the basic 800 Baht a night option, for which you are looking at a simple room with fan, up to well in excess of 10,000 Baht a night for a slightly posher room, likely including air conditioning, which you probably won’t need. Whichever option you go for, you’re going to get an amazing view and have an incredible time.''Well, that’s it for our tour of Khao Sok. As you can tell from the post, part of our trip in Khao Sok was arranged as part of our collaboration with the''Tourism Authority of Thailand'', including some of the activities we took part in. Our opinions remain our own, as always!''#thailand @thailandfanclub''SHARE ON''There are definitely more comfortable places to sit than on Hans Christian Andersen’s left knee. On top of that, instead of telling me a story out of the book that is resting on his right knee, he is staring over to the Tivoli, the famous theme park, completely ignoring me.''Well, I can’t say that’s good manners but I do understand why he is like that. Who even knows how many people sit on his lap on a daily basis to have their picture taken. Apart from that, it’s a really nice sunny day in Copenhagen, with the first flowers announcing that spring might finally have arrived after this long cold winter. So maybe Hans is just day-dreaming.''I, on the other hand, ain’t got time for that! I arrived here in Denmark’s capital yesterday and I have only today to see the city. Luckily it’s very walkable. Hey, why don’t you guys tag along? Yes? Cool! But I’m warning you: I’m a fast walker… Alright, let’s go!''Okay, so we’ve seen the''statue of Hans Christian Andersen'', the Danish author who is mainly famous for his fairy tales, like “The little mermaid”, “Thumbelina” or “The emperor’s new clothes”, for instance. The building next to him? That’s the''City Hall''. It has even got a bell tower you can climb. I like the little dragons in front of it best, though – and the Dragon Fountain on the Town Hall Square!''Dragons are a good way of starting a city tour, don’t you think? So now we’ll walk along H.C. Andersen Boulevard, with the''Tivoli''on our right, until we get to the''Glyptotek'', which is also on the right. Now, this is a bit of a pickle. I have heard really great things about this gallery. Not only because it houses a broad art collection and many works of famous European masters, but also because the building itself is quite special. There is for example a huge winter garden with palm trees in the centre of it. But I don’t think I have enough time to visit it today.''So let’s move onwards – we head towards the city centre now. Past the''National Gallery''to''Christiansborg Palace''. No, the Royal family doesn’t live here; this is the seat of the House of Parliament and the Supreme Court. Okay, so the king USED to live here, but the palace burnt down in 1794 and they had to move – but the Royal stables are still here!''Am I going too fast? If you want to, you can stay and go inside – the grounds have quite a history! No? Right, then let’s walk over Christiansbridge to''Christianshavn''. Look at the canals and the houses – reminds me a bit of Amsterdam. And do you see that twirly church tower over there? It belongs to the''“Church of Our Saviour”'', our next destination. You’re not scared of heights, are you? Because we are totally going up that tower!''Wow, good view! Oh look ,over there, that’s''Christiana''. I’m sure you’ve heard of it. In the 1970s a bunch of university students, hippies and artists occupied this former army base and finally declared it autonomous. They have their own supervision and don’t allow cars in their freetown, as they call it. It’s a big tourist attraction.''It’s another place I really want to see, but would like to take my time – and time is scarce today, so I’ll save it for my next trip. Now we’ll go back over Christiansbridge and take a right turn, walking along the waterfront. Aren’t we lucky with the weather? What a great day! Let’s go to''“Nyhavn”'', which means “New harbour”. It’s rather old, in fact, but very nicely done up. Can you imagine that this used to be a pretty disreputable area?''Indeed, it’s the place where all the sailors came once their ship had docked in Copenhagen, looking for wine, women and song. What exactly Hans Christian Andersen was looking for, we shall never know, but he liked this place well enough to live here. Nowadays the house front is beautifully restored and shines its colours at the spectators.''By the way, I’m getting a bit nibbly, what about you guys? The restaurants here at Nyhavn have a good reputation, but also a steep price… Wait a sec, do you see that place on the corner over there? They have a lunch special and you can even sit outside. Perfect.''Mmh, that was yum. Could you hand me the map, please? Let’s see… Here, if we walk up this street, “Bregaden”, we’ll automatically get to the''Marble Church''. Impressive cupola, right? And despite the name, it’s not all marble – there were some financial issues. Turned out that the Norwegian marble they started building it with was quite expensive, so a good part of it is Danish sandstone.''Let’s head over to the waterfront again, because''Amalienborg Castle''is right on the way. Look at the Royal guards, walking up and down. Oh no, I completely forgot: at 12 ‘o’ clock you can see the change of guards… Well, I guess we missed that. You could come back tomorrow to see it, if you want to. As long as the queen is in residence, they’ll do the change of guards at noon. Just check if the flags on the buildings are up – this indicates the queen’s presence.''Yeah, I know: it doesn’t really look like a Royal Castle, does it. It wasn’t meant to be one, either. The King ordered four nobles to built four identical palaces around the equestrian statue in the middle of the square. When the former Royal Palace burnt down – that was Christiansborg Palace, oh yes, I did very much tell you that! Where the parliament is! Really…- the King moved in here, and since then, it has been the Royal residence.''Right, on we go. We’ll walk along the waterfront again.''Can you guess what’s next? Exactly: the little mermaid! I’m quite excited. Let’s go through Churchill park – see this massive monument here?\xa0 That’s the''Gefion fountain'', which shows the Norse goddess Gefjun ploughing the earth with two oxen. Next to it is Denmark’s only Anglican church, St. Alban. Sure looks British, doesn’t it!''There are a number of sculptures in this park, but where now is Copenhagen’s landmark? Must be over there, where the cluster of people is standing… There she is, we have found her:''the little mermaid''! Now that’s funny: so many people have said that they were disappointed by her size because they expected her to be bigger that I actually find her much bigger than I thought she would be.''Wait, just one more picture…! Alright, where to now? Oh, the park over there? That’s actually not a park, but''Kastellet'', a military defence, built in the 17th century. It’s a star fortress – looks like a pentagram from above. Come on, let’s check it out! Going through the gate, it doesn’t feel too military, does it? It looks more like a neat little village although it’s actually the seat of the Danish Defence ministry. But the whole thing is also a public park and a historic site, so we can walk around, no problem. Look, there’s even a little wind-mill!''From here it wouldn’t be too far to''the Lakes'', a popular recreational area in Copenhagen. They have swans there, too – you know that the swan is Denmark’s national animal, don’t you? If you walk even further, you’ll get to the''Assistens Cemetery'', where a bunch of famous people are buried, Hans Christian Andersen being one of them. And don’t be surprised: cemeteries in Copenhagen serve as public parks, too. I guess you don’t throw a crazy party in one of them, but I did hear about barbecues…''Uhm, looking at my watch I think we should probably head back, though. We can walk past the''Rosenborg Castle''– it’s where the crown jewels live and many more Royal things you can look at. On the other side of it are the Botanical gardens. More parks than you can shake a stick at, definitely. Although the park surrounding the Rosenborg Castle is actually called King’s Garden.''Let’s check the map: so, if we walk down this street called “Landemaerket”, we should come to the''Round Tower''. This is the oldest functioning observatory in Europe! And that’s not all: you can walk all the way up to an outdoor platform, but not via stairs. They built a spiral walk inside that would allow a horse with a carriage to deliver books and other goods to the top – quite extraordinary, right?''We’re pretty much done, folks. Not that Copenhagen doesn’t have more to offer, but I think we covered a good bit of the most important sights. If we follow this road, we’ll pass St. Peter’s Church, and if we turn left there, we can have a look at the Copenhagen Cathedral. Can’t go wrong with churches when sight-seeing.''Hey, should we go back to the City Hall via the''Stroget''? That’s a shopping district, pedestrianized and everything. They’ve got quite some unique stuff here, from budget to luxury. How would you like a bit of window-shopping? What, you would rather have a beer? Well sure, why not. You should have told me, than we could have gone to the Carlsberg Brewery – they do tours, beer included!''Man, I gotta say, you did really well, keeping up with me like that – it was a good day, wasn’t it? Tell you what: the first round is on me. How do you say “Cheers” in Danish again? Pardon? Right! So: to us and the many sights of Copenhagen – Skal!''During our time in Copenhagen we stayed at the''Absalon Hotel''(''full review here'') thanks to our accommodation partners on our trip:''HostelBookers.com''. Thanks guys!''SHARE ON''Getting into boat based trouble is something that you would by now think I am a little bit used to, particularly after that''Seychelles based boat adventure I told you about''.''You might assume that as a result of that, any boat based adventure I decide to undertake, however short it is supposed to be, might involve me doing a little bit of fore planning, such that I won’t end up sitting in the baking sun, at the wrong end of an enormous man made reservoir, with no sun cream or water to speak of, in a boat whose engine firmly refuses to start.''You would of course, assume wrong.''Because this was the situation I found myself in when we visited the Chiao Lan reservoir in the Khao Sok National Park in Thailand, one of the most stunning places we had the privilege of visiting on our''trip around Thailand'', which is saying something.''Let’s start at the beginning.''The beginning started well. We left our accommodation in Khao Sok village and drove the 90 or so minutes to the pier where a long tailed boat was waiting to whisk us to our lake house, home for the next couple of days.''If you’re not familiar with the long tail boats that feature heavily in this part of the world, just imagine a normal boat with what appears to be a truck engine bolted onto the back of it, and an improbably large propeller shaft sticking out the back. I have no idea who came up with this boat design, or why it is so popular (if you know, do enlighten me in the comments), but I do know that they a) look the part and b) are noisy as hell.''Anyway, the boat trip to the lake house was around forty minutes. We were in a group of around nine, who had all signed up for an overnight stay at''Smiley’s lake house'', arranged by the nice people of Smiley’s guesthouse in Khao Sok village. More on that in an upcoming post.''The scenery was quite spectacular as our boat roared across the lake. Huge limestone karsts towered around us, along with the long dead remnants of trees, bleached white by the sun and drowned by the water when the reservoir was created. Along, rather sadly, with a great number of animals. The price of progress.''We made it safe and sound to the lake house, which was pretty much everything I had hoped for in a floating bit of paradise. Simple (en-suite!) rooms bobbed on floats, with a central bar / restaurant area. The lake was beautifully warm, ideal for swimming, and given how warm a day it was, it wasn’t long before everyone was in the water or enjoying a paddle in the kayaks.''With chilled beer on hand, the ingredients for a wonderful day were all in place, meeting fellow travellers and generally just gawping in amazement at the scenery.''But Laurence, you say, tell us about this ship disaster. It’s coming, I promise. I am setting the scene and building suspense. Exciting stuff, eh?''After our lake house lunch, our host, who went by the letter D, informed us with a twinkle in his eye that the afternoon was going to be a bit different to the norm (although none of us really knew what the norm on a floating hotel was), as they had received instruction from the park management that the lake house had to be moved to a new location, a few kilometres away.''It seemed that this wasn’t an operation that was undertaken very often, in fact in the four or five years that the lake house had been in operation it had been moved precisely once. And despite their ability to bob gently, lake houses are generally not designed with movement in mind.''Still, this didn’t seem to perturb the various boat drivers and helpful staff, who nosed up some long tail boats to the back of the raft house, fired up their engines, and started to push.''in a lake filled with dried out tree stumps which require careful navigation, steering is quite important. And lake houses don’t come with steering wheels. The best you can do is shout at the drivers of each boat to adjust their power accordingly.''Although, as I mentioned previously, long tailed boats aren’t exactly silent running. So what actually happens is someone runs around a lot between the three boats, shouting instructions at the drivers, as the lake house slowly and carefully manages to narrowly miss every obstacle out there, and pipes and joints groan and mutter under the strain.''Three hours of narrowly avoiding these obstacles later, and having had a ringside view of spectacular Khao Sok scenery as it gently puttered by, we arrived at our new spot, which came with just as magnificent a view as the original spot.''Time for sunset and an evening long boat safari before an early night was had by all. We were to get up early after all – the following morning held the promise of a cave adventure and an early morning boat safari.''No, we’re still not stranded. I am totally getting to it though.''After a peaceful nights sleep, we awoke before the dawn to this view.''Not bad, hmm? And just perfect for an early morning half hour long tail boat safari to see some monkeys and other assorted wildlife, especially as the clouds cleared with the sunrise.''And so we set off, the five brave souls who made it up early, the boat driver, and D, our ever cheerful guide. We cruised to inlets, past other lake houses, and to a hidden corner of the lake where monkeys could be seen hopping between the trees. The driver killed the engine, and we drifted toward the bank, happily snapping shots of blurry monkeys and wild pigs on the banks of the lake. What a way to kick off the day!''After many photos of excited monkeys by excited people, the driver went to fire up the engine, which made an ominous clicking noise followed by some silence. We all looked at the driver, wondering if this was a cunning Thai practical joke. When he started hitting the engine with a spanner, it seemed that perhaps it wasn’t.''After much peering at the engine, complex use of a spanner as a hammer, and even changing to a spare battery, it was fairly clear that the engine wasn’t going to be taking us anywhere. Which was a bit of a shame, as we were a fair old distance from our guesthouse, and a significant distance from the nearest lake house where mechanical help might be forthcoming.''We surveyed our supplies. The journey had started at 7am, and had been scheduled for half an hour, so no-one had thought to bring water, sun cream or a spare engine. There was one paddle, which D bravely got about using. Another feature of long tail boats that you might not be familiar with is that they aren’t exactly lightweight, especially with a truck engine bolted onto the back. Progress was a little on the slow side.''After a while of paddling, and covering at least two hundred metres, a boat was spied far off in the distance. There was much standing up and waving and yelling, which achieved precisely nothing other than to make our boat wobble a bit, and the potential rescuer dwindled into a speck of nothing.''At this point we figured that it was a little unfair that poor old D had to do all the paddling, so we cast around for ways to help. Seizing upon the planks that made up the benches, we transformed them into paddles, and set about helping. Progress continued to be slow, but at least we were doing something.''Still, all is well that ends well. We eventually made it to close enough to the nearest lake house to summon help, with nothing worse to show for it than a few blisters from paddling and a bit of sweat. Bottles of water were thankfully consumed, and we were returned in fine style to our lake house by the kind crew of a slightly upmarket looking guesthouse. Here, our vessel’s engine was fixed up for the next voyage, which involved exploring a cave. After which our lake house adventure came to an end.''If you do happen to go to Thailand, then I can recommend a trip to Smiley’s lake house. I can’t guarantee that you’ll be shipwrecked, but I can guarantee you’ll have an awesome time!''Want to learn more about Khao Sok National Park, including the logistics of getting here and away, as well as other options for things to do in Khao Sok? Check out''this post on visiting Khao Sok National Park''… which may or may not involve leeches!''SHARE ON''Ghent is in Belgium. Which, other than chips, Audrey Hepburn, chocolate and a statue of a small boy peeing, isn’t exactly famous for anything. It’s almost famous for not being famous for anything in fact.''Which is a bit of a shame really, because Belgium has a lot to offer, the small town of Ghent being one of these things. We visited recently as part of an adventure around Europe and loved it. Here are some of our favourite things to do on a whistle stop tour of Ghent!''What to see and do in Ghent''Wander, wander, wander''Ghent is a city that is really all about the wandering. Get yourself lost in the side streets, stumble across hidden little cafes and bars, marvel at the many waterways and cobbled streets. It’s a town from another time, with a largely car free centre, and you’ll find yourself stopping to take pictures every few paces of the medieval architecture and sights.''Some must-wander locations include the Graslei, the old harbour, which is lined with wonderful old buildings, and of course the old city centre itself, where you will find some of Ghent’s most famous landmarks, including the old post office, Saint Nicholas church, Saint Bavo cathedral and the dragon topped Belfry. Speaking of which:''Climb the Belfry''I know, if you’ve read a few of''my city guides,''this advice is not exactly going to shock you. I just happen to firmly believe that the best way to get orientated in a city, whilst scoring some decent views, is to get above it. And Ghent has a handy number of options for a view, including the UNESCO world heritage listed''Belfry of Ghent''.''Dating from 1313, and with a height of 91 metres, the Belfry offers spectacular views across the city of Ghent and particularly the historical city centre from the 66m high viewing platform. The different stages on the way up to the viewing platform have information about the history of the tower, the dragon that sits atop it, and the many bells for which it was built.''At the time of writing it cost €5 to go up, and was well worth it.''Visit the Cathedral''Ghent’s cathedral, Sint Baafskathedraal (also known as Saint Bavo Cathedral) has to be one of the oldest buildings in Ghent, dating from 942. That’s one old building. It is impressive from the outside (and looks good from the top of the Belfry, which it is next to), but the real draw is the display of art inside.''It is the Ghent Altarpiece which takes pride of place – a 15th century set of panels which are painted on both sides, and are nearly five metres wide. It is widely regarded as being one of Europe’s most significant pieces of art, and it has survived a whole host of events, including fires, war and theft. So yes, you can very much get your culture on in Ghent, if that’s your thing.''Check out the Castle''Gravensteen castle, dating from 1180, sits monolith like in the centre of Ghent, a testament to a time when buildings were all about the longevity. Unfortunately the castle was closed when we got there, so all we could do was admire the walls from the outside, and the ebb and flow of time around it.''If your timing is better (and it’s open all day, so you shouldn’t have a problem), then you’ll be able to climb the ramparts, check out a display of arms, and feel generally medieval for 8€. Which seems good value to me, and we’ve put the castle firmly on our “next time we’re in Ghent” list. Which will hopefully not be too far away, because we loved this place!''Getting there and around''The easiest way to get to Ghent is by train from Brussels. These run approximately every half hour, and take about half an hour. Be sure to catch the fast version of the train though as there are slower options which take twice as\xa0 long.''The central train station in Ghent isn’t particularly central. Luckily there is a handy tram service which will take you to the town centre – just turn right out of the train station and catch tram number 1. If you’d prefer to walk, just go straight ahead as you leave the station, you’re looking at about a 20 – 30 minute wander. If in doubt, follow the tram tracks of the number 1 tram.''Ghent itself is best explored on foot – it’s not a very big place and one of the best things about it are the countless little streets to wander, so that’s the option I’m going to recommend. Otherwise that tram is excellent network, which is probably the next best option if your feet are tired.''Where we stayed.''Ghent being so handy from Brussels means that it’s easy to stay in Brussels itself, and take the train to Ghent for the day, thus widening your accommodation choice. This was exactly what we did.''We stayed in the funky''Pantone Hotel''(as in the colours) in Brussels, thanks to''HostelBookers'', our accommodation partner on our''Europe trip''. This was two stops from the main train station on the subway, and within walking distance of the main sights of Brussels.''Our room happened to be right at the top of the building, with two balconies offering 360 degree panoramic views over the Belgian capital – which was pretty epic. The breakfast (included) was also rather jolly, from waffles to bacon and beyond. And the colour inspired decor was delightful, with everything from the toilet rolls to the tea packets coming in multiple bright colours. An easy place to recommend!''More Accommodation Options''Since finding the best deal on your accommodation is one of the most important parts of trip planning, we want to share with you a couple more options that work well for us, helping you to''get the most from your budget,''as well as''find the property that is right for you.''Our''go-to choice for finding the best deals is usually''Booking.com''. We generally find them to offer the best value of all the search engines, plus many properties offer a no-fee last minute cancellation policy.''Check out their''Brussels listings here.''We have also heard good things about''Agoda.com''from fellow travellers and readers.''Can’t decide between the above two? Try''HotelsCombined'', which lets you search both of the above at the same time, as well as a number of other comparison sites, in order to get the best deal.''With these options, you should find the best prices for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''Thanks for reading today’s post on the city of Ghent! As you can tell, our accommodation in Brussels was provided by HostelBookers, thanks to them for that. Have you visited Ghent? As always, do share your thoughts in the comments below!''@hostelbookers @pantonehotels #travel #eurail''SHARE ON''Berlin is a hell of city. I’ve had the privilege of visiting a number of times, and each time it has delighted and educated me in equal parts.''Part of this is due to the amount of recent history, from the horrors of the second world war, through to the collapse of the wall. It’s also a hive of activity, with everything from tech start-ups to street artists on hand. You can find pretty much whatever you want in Berlin, which means it’s always worth a visit.''Let’s take a look at some highlights of the city that should be on your list when you decide to drop in, based on some of my favourite things to do here.''Highlights of a trip to Berlin''Take a walking tour''One of my favourite ways to experience a city is on foot, and Berlin has no shortage of walking tours on offer. On one of my visits I took an''alternative walking tour of Berlin,''which covered some of the history of the alternative culture in Berlin, from the street art to life in abandoned old buildings, to a sticker museum to bombed out train stations that have become trendy nightclubs. You can''read about that here''.''Of course, if that all sounds a bit, well,''too''alternative, there are walking tours to suit every interest, so if street art isn’t your thing, then I’m sure you’ll find something that is. Tours usually last 2 – 3 hours, and group sizes (and prices!) vary.''Go up something''I love going up things to get a good view of my surroundings and orientate myself. Berlin has a number of options for getting some height between you and the city. Probably the best place to go up something is at Alexanderplatz, where you can climb the Fernsehturm, or TV tower.''This 368 metre tower looms over all of Berlin, with an observation deck and restaurant at around 200 metres, offering a pretty spectacular view if the weather is good.''Another good spot for a view is the Berliner Dom, or cathedral. Found in the intriguing museum district, which is all islands, waterways and bridges, this late 19th century church features a massive dome and 270 steps to the top, which offers a unique view of the surrounding area.''Take in the street art''Berlin is an incredible city for street art, with examples from some of the worlds most famous street artists on display, including Banksy.''The East Side gallery is one of the best places to see the street art whilst also seeing one of the largest pieces of intact Berlin wall – the wall being the canvas for the art in this case.''Other spots for street art include the area around Tacheles – a building that was once home to a thriving artistic community and more painted walls than you could shake a stick at. If shaking sticks at walls is the sort of thing you get up to. Sadly the actual building largely closed down near the end of 2012.''Finally, for an excellent take on one slightly out of the way location for street art, check out this post from fellow travel bloggers''OverYonderlust''all about the''graffiti paradise that is the abandoned spy station of Teufelsberg''. Yes, it’s as cool as it sounds!''Be moved by the Holocaust Memorial''It is impossible to visit Berlin without coming across visible reminders of the most brutal war humanity has experienced. The Jews of Europe suffered particularly during this time, subject to horrific ordeals at the hands of the Nazis.''The memorial to the murdered Jews of Europe, also known as the Holocaust Memorial, serves as a tribute to the estimated six million Jews who were murdered during this war. It’s a sombre place, a maze of stone slabs, underneath which you will find a museum dedicated to those who were killed. It’s hard not to be moved when visiting.''Visit the Brandenburg Gate''At the centre of nearly every major event in recent German history, including the famous pre-wall speech by US president Ronald Reagan, the Brandenburg Gate is about as recognisable a symbol of Berlin and Germany as you are likely to find.''It won’t take you long to visit, but it is next to both the Holocaust Memorial and the Reichstag, or German parliament, which is also worth visiting if you have the time.''Learn about the terror of the Nazi regime''As previously mentioned, it’s hard to wander Berlin without finding the scars of history, from Checkpoint Charlie to the chunks of wall that still remain as memories.''The Topography of Terror is no different. Here you’ll find one of the longest surviving pieces of Berlin Wall, as well as the location of the former Gestapo and SS headquarters. These latter were bombed into nothing near the end of the war, and the site is now kept as an outdoor memorial and museum, featuring information about the Nazi regime and the unspeakable acts that they perpetrated.''Where to stay''I’ve always been lucky enough to be put up by friends when I visit Berlin, which makes giving specific recommendations a bit tricky. Still, and as you might expect, searching a major travel portal reveals that there is there is no shortage of options to choose from, ranging from the cheap to the extravagant. You’re likely to find something to suit''nearly every budget!''If you’re on a particularly tight budget, then there are also hostels to choose from, and if you are looking for a more private, local experience, then you will find various apartment rental services on offer.''Getting there and away''Being a capital city, Berlin is serviced by an excellent airport, so flights to Berlin are easy to find from all over the world. It’s also connected to the rest of Europe by excellent high speed rail services, which was how we arrived. Nothing beats arriving into the centre of the action by train!''Of course, you can also drive to Berlin, and I’m sure there are a variety of bus options as well, although I’m not a big fan of driving into major cities as it’s normally a slow and tedious affair.''I’ve no experience of the long distance buses in Europe, but I expect they are a cheaper, if lengthier, option than the above.''Further reading''We have some''more posts on Berlin'', featuring more of a narrative style, if you’d like to experience one of our trips in that way.''Otherwise, we tend to find that searching online for advice from other travellers to be another excellent way to learn about a destination.''WikiVoyage''is one such resource, and their''entry on Berlin''is comprehensive.''Finally, if you can’t help but have something physical in your hands, then there are a whole''range of books on Amazon.com featuring Berlin'', some of which are also no doubt available on''Kindle'', if that’s how you roll.''We hope you enjoyed today’s post on Berlin! if you’ve visited Berlin, and have any tips to share, do hit up the comments below and share away!''SHARE ON''When you visit Thailand, you are going to be very excited to see some Thai temples. And you should be excited, because they are pretty damn impressive. From the''Wats of Bangkok''to the crumbling ruins of''Sukhothai'', there is enough temple in Thailand to sate even the hungriest of temple addicts.''It might surprise you though, to learn that you can actually become somewhat overwhelmed by all the temples on offer, leading to you suffering from the travellers malady of being “templed out”. Symptoms include a lack of enthusiasm for visiting temples, uttering phrases such as “all these temples look the same” or “It’s not as good as Angkor Wat”, with the final result being that you’d rather stay in your hotel with a book instead of venture out.''If these symptoms do overwhelm you, fear not, I have a whole post about''keeping the awe alive'', which you can''read here''.''Luckily, being templed out was not a problem for us in Thailand, despite having spent days exploring places like''Sukhothai''and''Ayutthaya''. Everywhere we visited was just so interesting and different, incomparable and unique.''Phanom Rung was no exception – a temple which can be found perched on an extinct volcano, way over in the eastern part of Thailand, far away from the usual north-south trail, and a wonderful place for a few hours exploration.''Some brief history''I’m not one to bang on about history, but I figured a quick bit of background won’t do you any harm. Phanom Rung was built by the Khmer Empire (the same geezers who built Angkor Wat), between the 10th and 13th centuries, which makes parts of it older than Angkor. It is one of five Khmer temples that can be found in Thailand.''Phnom Rung is a Hindu shrine, built in dedication to Shiva, and symbolises Mount Kailash, his heavenly dwelling. These days it is open to the public, in the Phanom Rung historical park. It has also been submitted for evaluation as a UNESCO world heritage site, a title of which I think it is entirely deserving.''I suspect that’ll probably do for history. Let’s get on with seeing what this place is like to explore…''Highlights from a trip to Phanom Rung''The best way for me to share Phanom Rung with you is via the medium of the photograph, which will explain the place better than I ever could. Let’s take a wander.''After climbing the staircase from the visitor centre (which has an excellent information display about the history of the place, if you feel the urge to get a bit more detailed than my “It’s really old, woo!” explanation), you are greeted by this long pathway to the main temple complex.''To the right, out of shot, is the “changing room”, a large pavilion where, you guessed it, the royal family would change into processional garbs before taking on the Processional Walkway, which is the 160m long pathway in the photo above.''Once you’ve walked the full length of the walkway, between the lotus bud tipped sandstone posts, you’ll come to three''Naga''bridges which lead up to the temple. Guarded by five-headed Naga’s (fearsome looking chaps), the first of these bridges represents the connection between heaven and earth.''The view back along that processional walkway isn’t half bad either.''At the top of the stairway there is an area with lotus filled ponds, as well as the outer wall of the temple, which can be accessed via this rather impressive doorway. Through this door you can see the light of the inner gallery, and in fact, all the way through the main tower and out the other side of the temple complex.''The inner gallery is a large space dominated by the main temple, which takes up this shot. This would have been where the main rites would have taken place, and was also home to the linga – the symbol of Shiva.''More shots of the main temple and entranceways. There are four doorways into the main tower, one on each side.''The detail on the lintels and temple walls is quite remarkable.''Finally, a shot from the far side of the temple, having emerged through the outer walls. The location, 400m up at the top of a volcano in the middle of an otherwise flat plain, means that as well as great views of the temple, there are also lovely views of the surrounding area which will impress you, and make all the stairs climbed to this point seem worthwhile!''How to get here & around''Phanom Rung isn’t exactly on the main tourist trail, so getting here will require a bit of legwork. The best way is going to be with your own transport, be that a car or a scooter.''Alternatively, you could consider a tour, either privately arranged with transport and driver, or as part of a larger group. There is no public transport that I could find to Phanom Rung, so that option is out of the window.''Where to stay''The nearest town is Nang Rong, 35km away. Whilst this isn’t exactly a must visit destination, the fact that it’s not on the tourist trail does make it an interesting place to stay for a night. You can get here by bus from Bangkok, and there are a number of accommodation options.''Other attractions''Since you’ve made the effort to come here, it would be a shame to only see one temple! Luckily, there is plenty more to see in this area, all of which will be covered in an upcoming post.''Prasat Muang Tam''should be very high up on your to-do list, another Khmer temple dating from the same time as Phanom Rung. This one is surrounded by beautiful ponds, making for some lovely reflections.''The''Silk weaving village.''One of the projects of the Queen, this village creates, as the name would suggest, silk. The whole process of silk weaving, from the worms to the material, is on display, and you can even have a go at weaving yourself.''For a real dose of knowledge the''Northeastern Cultural Centre''is where you need to come. This details the history of this part of the world, covering the rise and fall of the Khmer empire, various Thai Kings, and of course, loads of information about the architecture. A good starting point for your explorations!''Our transport and accomodation to Phanom Rung was arranged in partnership with the''Tourism Authority of Thailand'', although we paid our own entry fees to this particular temple. Which, as you can see, was very much worth it!''SHARE ON''I like warm weather. This fact should be apparent by the destinations I’ve covered in the blog, and the way that they rarely seem to include snow, or ice. Other than that trip around''New Zealand'', where poor timing meant we occasionally saw some actual snow.''So when I booked my trip around a number of Scandinavian countries in March, it was with high hopes of a beautiful spring-like experience. Bunnies would be hopping in the fields. Daffodils would be nursing their way towards sunlight. Lambs would be playing cards in the fields. You get the idea.''What I hadn’t counted on was a severe cold snap hitting northern Europe in early March, leaving the streets of Berlin covered (I’d like to use the word dusted, but it would be a startlingly inaccurate description for the amount of snow that descended in one night) in the white stuff, and us peering at our itinerary which took us from Berlin, in a very northerly direction, to Copenhagen and then beyond. It seemed unlikely to be a directional choice that was going to result in warmer weather.''Our journey was by train, thanks to Interrail.eu, which meant it started with cosy warmth (after we got out of the blizzard at Berlin central station).''Unfortunately, a part of the journey required a ferry crossing, and due to a technical problem with the train, instead of it going onto the ferry as it would otherwise do, we had to disembark and walk to the ferry terminal.''This involved battling a severe sideways wind that was chock full of snow flakes and snow covered platforms, against which my choice of attire (basically as many things as I could put on at once) seemed oddly ill prepared to deal with.''We managed to board the ferry, in which we sat and watched as fierce winds blew snow around the deck. We wondered, for quite some time, as to whether or not perhaps Italy might not have been a better destination. Or Spain. Or maybe we should have stayed in''Thailand''– Europe clearly not being quite as warm in March as we might have initially hoped.''Still, we were where we were. Another battle against the snow later, and we continued our journey into central Copenhagen by rail, where, rather pleasingly, it was bright and sunny, with no evidence of any snow having fallen.''I have heard that it can be too cold to snow, and this probably explained the lack of snow, because getting off the train revealed that whilst it looked nice and sunny, the trillions of tonnes of fusing hydrogen nuclei around which we orbit were just a bit too far away to combat the icy wind which seemed more than capable of penetrating any weakness in my many layers.''Hopefully you’ve got the idea that it was quite cold.''Luckily for us then, it really wasn’t very far from Copenhagen’s central train station to our venue for our three nights in Copenhagen – the''Absalon Hotel'', which is only a couple of blocks away from the train station and so only about a five minute walk, even when rolling the kind of suitcase that Vera elected to bring round Europe, which is high in fashion value and low in actual wheelability.''The welcome at the hotel was friendly and warm, which went some way to helping defrost us, and our room was incredibly cosy, with a lovely big bed being front and centre. Having got up at 5am to catch our train, that was a welcome sight.''The staff explained everything to us, from the best way to get around the city, to how to walk to the various attractions, and even where to buy thermal underwear. Copenhagen, it turns out, is eminently walkable, although you’ll want to wrap up warm if you visit in Winter and choose that option, like we did.''So our room. This was beautifully designed, with purple being the colour of choice to accent the room. I’m not normally someone to notice details like this or use phrases like “accent the room” (actually, I have no idea what I’m talking about), but as purple has long been my favourite colour, it rang a chord.''Other details helped out – the kettle and tea bags made Vera particularly happy, given her tea addiction, and the en-suite bathroom was lovely. Free wi-fi and an extensive buffet breakfast that kept us going pretty much all day was the icing on an already rather warm and tasty cake.''The Absalon Hotel makes the perfect base for a city based break in Copenhagen. It is in walking distance of all the highlights, and has friendly knowledgeable staff who speak excellent English on hand to help out. Rooms start at around sixty euros per night for a single, and 115 for two people, with en-suite.''We’re happy to recommend the Absalon Hotel for your trip to Copenhagen – we really enjoyed our stay here. Just wear lots of clothes if you choose to venture outside in winter!''Note: our stay at the''Absalon Hotel''in Copenhagen was provided to us by''HostelBookers''.com and the Absalon Hotel, who asked that we pen our thoughts on our stay. The content of those thoughts is, as always, entirely up to us!''@hostelbookers @absalonhotel @visitdenmark''SHARE ON''Five minutes after our arrival in Stockholm Centraal, the main station, I realized that anyone who has ever asked me if I was from Sweden (instead of Germany), has really given me a huge compliment by likening me to these Nordic goddesses. Wow. There is an unusual amount of really tall, really slender, really blonde and really, really good-looking women walking around, and I felt a bit like I had accidentally wandered into “Sweden’s next top model confuses strangers at the Stockholm Centraal Station”.''So that’s the first thing you could do when you’re in Stockholm: hang out at the station and watch people. I waited for Loz while he picked up our''Stockholm cards''from the tourist office, and I had quite an entertaining twenty minutes.''But I guess you haven’t started reading this post to be told to visit the main station, have you? Oh well. I’ll tell you something: when I tried to find out what we could do during our stay in Stockholm, I got slightly confused. Instead of obtaining information about the most important landmarks of this city, I got repeatedly stuck with advice like: “Just wander around”, “Enjoy the scenery”, “Eat lots of cake”, “Walk through the parks”.''Friends, the Internet and various brochures, who and which are usually more than eager to supply me with an impossible amount of sights when I come looking for advice, instead boasted a chilled out: “Eat lots of cake!”. Yeah right. As if I would trust this unexpected attitude of relaxation. You don’t fool me – I will search for the sights, and I shall find them!''So we set off. And we are not beginners, you know. We know where to go. If you need to find out what you’re dealing with, you’ve gotta go to the top. Here are your options for a good overview of Stockholm:''the Käknas TV-Tower. It’s 155m high, and you can also enjoy the view while having your lunch, as they have a restaurant on one of the view-levels.''the Sky-View. This is different: you will be going up in a glass gondola outside the world’s largest spherical building, a 130m high globe. Talk about an exciting view…''the tower of the City Hall, 105m tall – and closed in winter! But not so fast: visiting the City Hall is still a good idea, as this is the place where the banquet for the Nobel prize is held – the guests have dinner in the Blue Hall and dance afterwards in the Golden Hall. Guided tours are held daily.''Talking about views, I should mention two other spots that are great for taking pictures of Stockholm: the Västerbron Bridge, which connects Kungsholmen and Södermalm, and the promenade above the Photography museum (which is on Södermalm). The latter is also worthwhile your time, with both great International and Swedish exhibitions.''But I hear you moan: “This is a European city – where is the OLD stuff?”. I’m glad you’ve asked. Because when people recommend you eat cake, they will usually tell you to have it at the “Gamla Stan”, the Old Town.''This is one of the best kept city centres from the middle ages, and it is very, very picturesque. When you wander around here, you will at one point pass the Royal Palace, which you can also visit. Nearby are the Storkyrkan Cathedral and the Nobel Museum. You are allowed to eat as many chocolate balls in-between visits as you like, by the way!''You are still not happy, are you? “But where are all these cute typical red Swedish houses?”, you ask. “Well, they are really more of a country thing…”, I try to appease, but you are having none of it. Fine, I’ve got something for you: Skansen, the oldest open-air museum in the world. It was founded in 1891 to preserve an impression of the traditional Sweden, which was feared might vanish during industrialization.''Most of the buildings are originals which were brought here by the founder, Arthur Hazelius. The people walking around in historic attire are not originals (probably for the best), but you can sit down with them in their respective houses, and chat about the life back then – don’t be shy; it’s so interesting!''Skansen is located on the island of Djurgarden, and while there are many more things to see and do here, I cannot let you leave this island without a visit to the Vasa museum.''“What’s in it?”, you ask. “A ship.”, I reply. “So. A ship. Hm”, you say.''…Yes, I know, it clearly doesn’t sound interesting, unless you’re a pirate or something, but don’t be fooled: the moment you step into the exhibition hall, you will instantly feel that this was well worth doing. It’s massive! A Royal Warship that sank in 1628 – within the harbour, on its first passage (which I found quite comical, but most likely no one did back then).''Around the corner are many more museums (the SPRIT museum – dedicated to alcohol, for example!), but the one I wanted to see wasn’t open yet. You will have to go for me and tell me what it is like: the ABBA museum!''I’m not sure if we would have made it there, anyway – you can only do so much in the 48 hours we were in Stockholm! As I said in the beginning, we had a''Stockholm Card'', given to us by''GetYourGuide'', the booking website, which is a really good deal, as all the things we did were part of that (and many more things we didn’t do). It had basically paid itself off after three sights.''Public transport is also included with the Stockholm Card, which saves you figuring out the system and also carrying another ticket around with you. I conclude: “One for all” is not only a good motto for the three musketeers, but also for travellers.''That is not to say that you can’t have a good time just wandering around in the parks for free – the one on Djurgarden is especially popular-, or the old town, or along the water. You could also eat yourself silly with the aforementioned baked goods, as the Stockholm Card doesn’t provide unlimited access to chocolate balls (I think I’ll write a letter to them and suggest it).''You could strike up a conversation with a local and talk about the Royal family or which spots they would recommend to see. Or visit the Woodland Cemetery which is Unesco World Heritage (free guided tours from May to September on every Sunday at 10:30 for Stockholm Card owners. Just saying).''In fact, this is only one of three Unesco World Heritage sights in the area of Stockholm, but the other two (the Royal castle Drottningholm and the town of Birka on the island Björko) will rather ask for a day-trip. You are probably starting to see that your most precious good is, as always, time! If you can, bring a lot: Stockholm will live up to it!''So when you go to Stockholm, please don’t forget about your mission to go to the ABBA-museum for me – and to leave a comment about what you thought of it! Other than that, I’d be interested to know what you would like to see when you go to Stockholm, or, if you have already been, what your personal highlight was during your visit, so comment what you can! Thanks for reading, and take care.''As mentioned in the post, our''Stockholm cards''were provided to us by''@GetYourGuide #travel @visitsweden''Thanks for reading my''Travel and Photography blog''!''SHARE ON''Coffee! I’d love to do''another post about the awesome coffee available in Doi Inthanon'', and just leave it at that, but it turns out there’s a lot more to do in this national park than drink coffee and hang out with coffee growers.''Today I’m going to tell you about everything else you can do in this fantastic national park in northern Thailand (and maybe suggest that coffee again. Read on to find out!)''Found not too far from the northern city of Chiang Mai, Doi Inthanon National Park is famous for being home to Thailand’s highest mountain, also called Doi Inthanon.''That big mountain means all sorts of things. It means there are micro climates up here that you won’t find anywhere else in Thailand. There are waterfalls that are both accessible and magnificent. And there are some fantastic buildings to visit. Let’s take a look at some:''Highlights of Doi Inthanon National Park''The Waterfalls''A big mountain surrounded by forest in a part of the world that has a rainy season means that you are likely to find some spectacular waterfalls, and Doi Inthanon doesn’t disappoint in that regard.''We visited a number of them, but the ones that stick out as being most impressive include Mae Ya (260m fall), Vachrithan (70m fall), Siritharn and Mae Klang.''Mae Ya requires a bit of a side trip as it is not on the main access road to the park, thus requiring a specific journey, so if you are only in Doi Inthanon for a day trip you might miss this one. The other three are all on the main access road up to the peak, and are easy to get to, often with the viewpoint right next to the car park.''In some cases you can walk to the top of the falls for an alternative perspective, and to feel that you’ve earned the view. I don’t know about you, but pulling up in a carpark and hopping out always feels a bit like cheating. Speaking of driving to a sight….''Visit Doi Inthanon peak''The highest mountain in Thailand isn’t going to win any awards for height. Nor, if I’m honest, for spectacularness (I may have just made that word up) – the main peak is surrounded by forest, so doesn’t even offer a view, other than of some trees, which are admittedly very nice. It’s also decidedly easy to get to, with the main road going pretty much all the way to the top.''The top is home to a shrine, in memory of the last King of Chiang Mai, after whom the park is named. There is also a lovely walking track through some cloud forest with explanation panels about the flora and fauna which is worth doing. This is, after all, the start of the Himalayas!''Overall though, after taking in the walking track and taking a picture of yourself with the sign that proves you are at the highest point in Thailand, I’d suggest moving on to some spots that really are spectacular, and maybe:''Take a hike along the edge of the world''If you only do one walk in Doi Inthanon, then the 3km Kew Mae Pan trail is the one you have to do. You have to pay extra for the privilege – it’s 200 baht per group to hire a guide for the trail, which isn’t optional.''It is totally worth it though, and the guide knows all kinds of things that you probably don’t, so the two or three hours that the walk will take you (I know, it seems unlikely that 3km will take three hours, but trust me, the views are so epic that you’re going to take this long!) will also be stuffed full of knowledge. And knowledge is good!''The wonderful thing about this walk is the variety it offers. You will walk through cloud forest, past waterfalls, then up out onto a plain that offers incredible views across northern Thailand. Well worth the effort and tiny cost, I assure you!''Visit the Royal Pagodas''Built in honour of the King and Queen’s 60th birthdays by the Royal Thai Air Force, these two massive pagodas command perhaps one of the most impressive views in all of Thailand. Certainly the best pagoda view at least.''You can visit and go inside both pagoda’s, and also wander around the beautiful gardens outside them. But the real draw has to be that view, as they are perched on the side of the mountain, with fantastic views across the park and parts of northern Thailand.''Visit a hill tribe and drink some coffee''Oh wait, I did''a whole post about this already''. Well, one of the things you are able to do in Doi Inthanon national park is to visit a hill tribe, and many tours include this as an activity.''Your mileage may vary – we had a great visit where we met some awesome people and drank locally grown coffee. We enjoyed it so much we went back the next day and took a guided walk with one of the locals, and bought some of the coffee, which was superb.''Not everyone reports having such a positive experience visiting hill tribes though, feeling that it is a little contrived and artificial, so read up before you go and ensure that where you are visiting is going to work for you.''How to get there & around''There are a few options for exploring Doi Inthanon. The easiest is probably to''take a tour from Chiang Mai'', which will include transport to, from and around the park, as well as take in the main sights, which will likely include most of the above except perhaps the hike. Expect to have to pay''the entry fee to the park''on top of the tour fee – this is currently 200 baht for a foreigner.''If you want a more independent voyage, then''hiring a car or scooter''for a day or two will certainly give you more freedom, and let you spend more time in the bits you want to visit.''You could also consider getting a group together yourself, and''hiring a Songthaew''(covered pick up) for the day. Ensure you negotiate with the driver as to the cost up front, and check if it includes fuel.''There isn’t really any public transport in the park, although you can get to near the park entrance by public transport from Chiang Mai, and then try and hitch if that’s your thing.''Where to stay''The highlights of Doi Inthanon can easily be covered in a day, but if you wanted to explore a little more, perhaps with a hike, or to visit some more waterfalls, then staying for longer is a good option.''One way to do that is with one of the aforementioned hill tribes, many of whom offer home stay options. Alternatively, the National Park service offers both camping (with tent and equipment rental if required) and bungalow accommodation options. The latter tend to book up well in advance, and camping is also very popular with locals, so if you are interested in these, do check they are available well before turning up!''We hope that you enjoyed today’s post on the Doi Inthanon National Park. If you’ve got any questions, or experiences to share, or just some thoughts, do fire away in the comments below. And thanks, as always, for reading!''SHARE ON''Once you’ve got to seven of a thing, then I suspect introducing it is probably unnecessary. In fact, I’m not quite sure what I’m going to write in this part of the post any more.''The deal, in case the''last six of these have passed you by''(and good news if that is the case, you’ve got''another SIX''of these things to look at now!), is that due to the vagaries of the Facebook algorithm, and the fact that only 1 in 7 people on the planet have Facebook, it occurred to me that not everyone out there will be getting to see all the photos that we share on our''Facebook page''.''This seemed a terrible state of affairs, which I resolved to fix by posting a sort-of-monthly post, which involve me repeating myself in the introduction with long waffley paragraphs that no-one reads (high five if you’re still here), and then hitting you up with some eye candy consisting of the most popular shots from the aforementioned Facebook page.''Also, I’m not sure what I’ve been allowing to enter my brain recently, but I must apologise for the use of phrases like “hitting you up with some eye candy”. I don’t know what’s going on there. Let’s get on with this, what-ho!''We had an amazing time in Thailand, particularly in some of the incredible national parks. This is the magnificent multi-tiered waterfall known as Namtok Karom, in the Khao Luang national park, just near the town of''Nakhon Si Thammarat.''Ah,''Mount Taranaki''. One of New Zealand’s most perfect bits of mountain scenery, looking just like a volcano should. So perfect in fact, that it stood in for Japan’s Mount Fuji, in the Tom Cruise sword wielding epic: The Last Samurai. It’s also an amazing (and challenging!)''day hike in New Zealand''. Worth the effort, I assure you.''Deep in the''Australian outback''lies this incredibly colourful geological formation known as''the Painted Desert''. If you are in the Coober Pedy region, then you might want to take the side trip out here too. And on the way, you could stop off at the Moon Plain. Because why not?''Thailand’s''Doi Inthanon''national park is where you’ll find the highest peak in the country. It’s also home to some unique flora, such as this rhododendron, which can only be seen up here, amongst the clouds.''New Zealand sure has it’s fair share of scenic drives'', and the road to''Mount Cook National Park''is no exception. Admittedly the road doesn’t go anywhere else, so you’re going to have to go back on yourself, but with views like this in every direction, that’s not exactly a hardship.''Gaudi’s''Sagrada Familia''has to be my favourite cathedral in the world, and it’s not even finished yet, a fact the cranes give away. Over a hundred years in the making, this masterpiece has quite a way to go still, but it should still feature at the top of any visitors''Barcelona itinerary''.''From a wacky church in Spain to a wacky temple in Thailand – this of course being the''White Temple of Chiang Rai'', which as well as featuring, obviously, a white temple, also comes with some rather interesting garden ornaments. Another one that has to be seen to be believed.''When''visiting Paris'', everyone will make a bee line for the Eiffel Tower, from where you can get some amazing views across the city. But the problem with the view of course is that it doesn’t feature Paris’s most famous landmark. So instead, why not climb to the top of the Arc de Triomphe, and get the view with the tower. Or do both. It is Paris after all.''You can see my house from here! I love islands, which is a good thing, as I had the good fortune to grow up on the above island for a good few years of my life. This is Bird Island in the Seychelles. Pretty stunning, I think you’ll agree.''When all else fails, make a giant statue out of an ordinary object. That seems to be a very popular line of thinking in some parts of the world, with Australia and New Zealand in particular being big fans of this theory. The object in question is the''giant carrot of Ohakune'', on New Zealand’s north island. This area is one of the countries top carrot producing regions, although is also home to the incredible''Tongaririo National Park''and gorgeous hiking trails and waterfalls. And a''carrot''.''France is no stranger to castles'', although many of them are in the more recent renaissance style, all beauty and no beast, from a time when the French decided to switch from making war to making love. Well, as far as my rather vague understanding of European history goes. This example though,''Chateau Lastours'', is from a time when castles were built with function rather than form in mind, that function being war.''When you think of Australia, you probably think of beaches, surfing, outback and crocodiles. But Australia is a land of contrast, with something to offer everyone. So if a bit of alpine scenery is more your thing, then you’ll want to''head to the Victorian Alps'', and take in a bit of spectacular mountain scenery. There’s even skiing, if that’s your thing.''At the time of writing, Europe is in the grip of a seemingly never ending Winter, with white Easter’s and snow bunnies all around. I posted this shot of some dandelions in the hope that it might hasten spring. The jury is still out as to the success, but at least I tried.''More from''the central Australian outback'', this time in the form of some boulders known as the Devil’s Marbles at sunset. There’s a lovely campground here, which is a good stop off point if you are heading''through the red centre''.''I do enjoy a bit of rock art, although in this case the sentiment caught my eye. I’d love to know the story behind this one, and how it all worked out.''More from Australia – this time the outback sculpture park known as''Inside Australia'', an installation by British artist Antony Gormley. It’s a bit of a trek into the Western Australian outback (although to be honest, everything in Australia is a bit of a trek, this is one big place), but entirely worth the visit, even if it’s a bit wet on the day of your visit.''That endless Winter I was telling you about? It encouraged me to post a skiing picture from a trip a few years back. If there’s one thing snow is good for (apart from making snowmen of course), it’s skiing. This is in the French alps.''Talking of countries of contrast – would you have pegged this shot as being in''New Zealand''? Well done if so – this is a shot at farewell spit, a 26km long sand dune at the very''northern tip of New Zealand’s south island''. Great for a walk, and for birdlife.''And finally for today’s round up – we recently visited Berlin as part of our''European adventure''. And if there is one thing that Berlin does well, it’s''street art''. I loved the expression in this piece.''And that about wraps up the seventh edition of the series! As always, we’d love to hear your thoughts on the post and pictures, and don’t forget you can like our Facebook page below to see all the photos we share with you guys!''SHARE ON''Every now and again, Loz fails completely. Like when we went to Copenhagen.''He looks at me, very excited, beaming: “I booked us on a city tour through Copenhagen – a Segway tour!!”''I smile politely back: “That’s great. What’s a Segway?”''“A Segway! Oh, you know them – they are these big electric scooters where you basically stand on a little platform and drive around. I did a tour once in Chicago; that was really cool.”''“Wait,”, I say, ”you mean these things people use in airports or on big conferences? I thought you had to wear a suit to use them – because I’ve never seen anyone without a suit use them…”''Loz is not impressed by my attempt to be humorous: “They are really fun, you know!”''I’m sure they are fun – but so far it was me having the fun watching people like they were on a Mars mission on these big-wheeled vehicles. In my head people using Segways are not cool, you know. Not like skate-boarders or BMX-bikers or quad-bikers. Segway doesn’t scream ‘action’ or ‘skill’. And some people wouldn’t be caught dead on a Segway, I’m sure.''But let’s not think about it too much, I tell myself, because apparently, I soon will be segwaying (is that a real word?) through a big city and everyone will stare at me and then something embarrassing will happen, like I’m driving into a lamp-pole, because that’s what usually happens, let’s be honest here. Hooray.''So on a Monday morning we make our way to the Segway Tours office in Copenhagen. It’s not warm. In fact, we look like we are about to board an expedition into Antarctica. Scarfs wrapped around our faces, we enter the office. Sam, who is going to be our guide, probably thinks we have come to rob him…''We all say hi and chat a bit. Then comes an incredibly glorious moment: we get our helmets – and they look GOOD on us! Yes, I know, hard to believe. They also have a built-in radio so Sam can talk to us during the tour, and a mounting bracket for a Go-Pro camera if we feel like videoing my encounter with the lamp-pole. Maybe next time…''Outside we hop – today’s group only consists of the three of us. I can’t blame anyone for not wanting to slowly freeze to death on a Segway Tour in a Copenhagen that boasts cosy –6 degrees (-18, if you add the wind). Luckily the Segways have bright red oven mittens attached to the steering bar, and Sam announces that we’ll be taking a little break in between the tour and warm up in a café.''I step on the Segway and Sam motherly pulls the oven mitts over my wrists before he gives me some instructions and tips on how to move and steer. I nod and carefully start moving. Very slowly (you never know what a sudden movement will do, do you). Slow as a snail, in fact. Because there is a lamp-post in our practice area, and it’s looking at me. Sam is also looking at me, and after he’s happy with how I’m doing, we’re off to the real world.''Copenhagen is one of those cities where cycling is very popular. In fact, the average Copenhagener possesses two bikes! This means there are cycle paths everywhere and they are fairly spacious as well. Segways fall under the bike category when it comes to transport, so we happily drive along the cycle paths.''It doesn’t take long until I think that this is pretty much the perfect way to do a tour. It’s an absolutely beautiful day and because there is so much to see, I even forget about the cold. From one point on I manage to take pictures while standing on the Segway, even though I can’t quite keep it from moving. The guys blame it on my lack of balance. Oh yeah? …Damn.''Sam points out the different sights and has a lot of tales to tell. He is originally from England, but he has lived here for a while now and contributes to the tour by sharing some stories from his every day life as well. For example, when he was apartment hunting he learned that a lot of the older houses used to have common showers in the basement, due to the expensiveness of plumbing.''When plumbing became more affordable, every apartment could have its own shower – but now there was the problem of finding a space for it. This resulted in apartments where you have your shower in the kitchen, for example. I mean, I guess you can save time when you’re in a hurry by taking a shower while fixing yourself something to eat…''The modern times – it’s all about multi-tasking, isn’t it? I haven’t considered doing a city tour in a while because I often found it a bit boring in the past, but this is different. Driving the Segway while getting shown the sights is fun. There, I said it. It’s fun! Sam confirms my discovery by saying that each time when he steps on his Segway to take people around Copenhagen, he’s excited again – it never gets boring.''We somehow manage to blow the two hour concept of the tour but it turns out that Copenhagen has a lot of sights as well as many interesting corners. Also we have the warm-up coffee break in between – but not anywhere: it’s the place where Princess Marie herself gets her hot chocolate from. She doesn’t make an appearance while we are there which is for the best as Sam has not properly briefed us how to behave towards Danish royalty.''Apart from that, we learn quite a lot. We see the oldest building in Denmark, we find out how to tell which members of the Royal family are currently in the Royal Palace, we get shown the place where to get the best sandwiches in Copenhagen, we Segway along the lake where Hans Christian Anderson might have been inspired to write “The ugly duckling”, we see the house where he lived while he wrote it.''We cross the first street in Copenhagen that went two ways and that was built by the Carlsberg brewery. We see “soft graffiti”, hear of festivals, drive past art work, historic buildings and even through a cemetery. We see ships and the little mermaid, the opera house and the parliament – and much, much more.''We feel we’re getting a very good impression of all the different layers and facets Copenhagen consists of, and when we suddenly find ourselves in front of the tour office again, 14 km later, I realise that not only every lamp-pole in Copenhagen is still un-harmed, but that I am converted: Segways rock.''I know, you’re a bit sad now that I didn’t end up in a lamp-pole, but even I get a break every now and again. Or it is because I’m a natural Segway talent? We shall see the the next time when I step on my new favourite Mars scooter!''Should you in the meantime feel intrigued to roll around between the sights of Copenhagen, I highly recommend the Segway tour from ToursCPH (who are also authorized by Segway). They advise to book in advance, which you can easily do via the booking site GetYourGuide. Do think about how good you’ll look good in that helmet – kind of like a helicopter pilot! A helicopter pilot on a scooter, admittedly.''So, are you rather suspicious towards the whole business like I was, or can’t you wait to hop onto one of these things, or have you already segwayed – with or without hitting a lamp-pole in the process? Do tell!''Our tour of Copenhagen by Segway''was kindly provided to us by''GetYourGuide''. Our ability to make a two hour tour last three hours and manage to not fall off is our own, as are our thoughts in this post.''@GetYourGuide #travel @visitdenmark''SHARE ON''A lot of people tell me that they have difficulty sleeping on planes. Well, I’m here to tell you today that sleeping on a plane is easy. You just need to find the right plane. Here’s a quick rundown of four tips to know you’ve found a plane that is going to offer a good nights sleep:''Find a plane with no engines. This is likely to be much quieter than a normal plane, as engines are very noisy.''Cut out noise from your fellow passengers. Passengers are the number two noise concern on a plane, so you’re going to need to isolate yourself from them. I’d recommend finding a plane with interior walls that shut you off from the other passengers, creating what I’m going to call “rooms”.''Find a plane with real live actual beds. Despite what airlines may try and tell you about those three extra inches of leg room, a seat is rubbish compared to a bed for sleeping in.''Have a couple of drinks. You’ll want a plane with a well stocked bar and seating area to properly enjoy these – those tray tables and plastic cups you get on planes can really spoil a drink’s mojo.''Ok, so these tips do happen to come with the slight caveat that you aren’t likely to wake up someplace different to where you went to sleep. If you’re ok with that, then read on, and I’ll tell you where to find a plane that meets all of the above requirements.''Otherwise, here’s a''guide to sleeping on the more common variety of planes''that involve going up in the sky. In case that’s your thing.''How to find this magical plane''First of all, you’re going to want to head to Sweden, and more precisely, Stockholm. Then, you’re going to want to head to Stockholm’s Arlanda airport, about 40km north of the town. If you happen to be arriving by plane, this is going to work out well for you, as you’ll already be in the right place.''Now, hop on the airport shuttle bus, and hop off at the giant 747 called the Jumbo Stay. Congratulations, you’ve now found yourself at the home of the best plane in the world for getting a good nights sleep, without having to pay a fortune for one of those fancy first class tickets.''Here’s the deal. Some time ago, a chap called Oscar wanted to open a hostel. Unfortunately, none of the buildings available at the time met his requirements. Conveniently, a large 747 was coming up for sale as the result of an airline going bankrupt. Seizing the opportunity (that perhaps, many might not have), Oscar decided that a 747 would make the perfect hostel, bought it, and set about the conversion process.''One year later the Jumbo Stay was born.''So how did I end up here? Well, as part of my trip around Europe, I mentioned to my accommodation partner HostelBookers that we’d quite like to stay in unusual properties if they had any available. Not that I have anything against your more normal hotel, but I figure you guys are probably more interested in reading about something totally wacky like a converted 747 where possible.''So there we were. HostelBookers were filled with joy that they could send me to something that took my brief of “unusual” and pretty much blew it out of the water, and I was excited to be staying in a plane. Let’s talk about the actual experience.''Staying with Jumbo Stay''There is obviously a huge novelty factor that comes from staying in a converted 747. These are very big planes, something like eighty metres long, so there is certainly plenty of space. The rooms are mostly down the body of the plane, off a central corridor.''The rooms on offer vary from simple twin bunk beds through to the impressive cockpit suite, which, as you’ve guessed it, is in the cockpit.''The majority of the rooms feature shared bathrooms, with storage in the form of overhead lockers (what else?), although the more premium rooms do feature their own en-suite, including the cockpit suite and the black box suite, which takes up the whole rear width of the plane.''The hostel also features free wireless internet throughout, a bar, an eating area where some snacks can be bought, and also breakfast, which is served from 3am (!) until 10am. It’s very well kept and spotlessly clean, and it’s rather nice that shoes aren’t allowed in the plane itself.''Around the outside of the plane you can wander freely – there is a tyre swing made out of an actual aircraft tyre, one of the wings is soon to be opened as an outdoor seating area, and the four engines are in the process of being turned into rooms of their own.''Is it for you?''The question is – would I recommend it? Naturally, this depends.''The Jumbo Hostel is 40km north of the city centre, so is not really well situated for exploring Stockholm. To get to the city centre there are a variety of transport options, including buses and the high speed''Arlanda Express''train, but even with the shuttle bus from the door of the plane, you are likely looking at no less than a forty minute ride door to door, with associated costs (the Arlanda Express is Europe’s most expensive airport train service).''So as a base for exploring Stockholm it’s not a brilliant choice, although this isn’t really what it’s about.''As a stop over to and from Stockholm airport, it is a brilliant option. It offers value for money, and the main airport terminals are a five minute free shuttle bus ride away. With a 24 hour reception and that early breakfast option, it’s clearly well set up for people with flights to catch.''It’s also a great place to come if you’ve got kids (or are a bit of a plane geek!), and want to stay somewhere really a bit different. Getting this close to a plane is tough unless you’re in a museum, and wandering around under the undercarriage and experiencing the enormity that is a 747 within touching distance is really quite an experience.''Lastly, although billed as a hostel, this doesn’t really have a hostel vibe. Most people arrive fairly late on, stay just one night, and leave quite early. There is a common dining area, but there isn’t the time to meet people and develop the kind of relationships that you might otherwise find at your average hostel. In this respect, it’s much more like an airport hotel. But a really funky one.''If you happen to be passing through Arlanda airport, or have a spare night in the Stockholm region, I can very much recommend giving this one a try. The novelty factor alone is worth it, and the hostel has everything you need for a comfortable stay. Just don’t expect to wake up anywhere new in the morning…''As mentioned in the post, our stay at the Jumbo Stay Hostel was provided to us by''HostelBookers''and''Jumbo Stay''in return for penning our thoughts, the contents of which, as always, remain our own. We’d love to hear your thoughts on this hostel in the comments below!''@hostelbookers @visitsweden #travel''SHARE ON''Before I came out to Thailand I did a bunch of research into the country, both online and offline. Mostly about places to go and things to see, but also about the various dangers and annoyances to keep an eye out for.''Which, I was pleased to discover, were rather few and far between. Thailand is a pretty safe place to travel in.''There were a few scams listed though, some of which I noticed first hand, and others I’ve heard other travellers have fallen victim to. Nothing serious in most cases, although enough to keep me on the lookout for the common ones. Here’s the story of how that went in Sukhothai:''How I wasn’t scammed in Thailand''Here is the scene, common to transport terminals all over the world. A group of people descend from a mode of transport (in this case a bus), and are mobbed (ok, so in Thailand it’s more of a gentle query) by touts demanding to know where they are going and where they are staying.''If an individual engages in a discussion with this group (and it’s kind of hard not to), and goes so far as to disclose a destination, it is quite normal to be informed that said destination is closed. Or burnt down. Or, as one fellow travel blogger was told, has fallen into a lake.''This sad tale is then followed by the good news that the person relaying the tale happens to know a much better accommodation option. Where they, quite by co-incidence, happen to get a commission (that bit is usually left out of the tale). Would you like them to take you there?''The savvy answer at this point is to say no, to stick to your guns, and to go the place you originally had in mind, which will mysteriously not have closed, burnt down, or fallen into the lake.''So it was when I arrived into the city of Sukhothai in Thailand. As one of only four westerners on the bus, we were gently probed by various transport toting chaps as to where we were headed.''Having done the minimal amount of research required, and not wanting to say I hadn’t decided, I thought the best option would be to claim we had a reservation at one of the more popular looking destinations, as rated by both wikitravel and the Lonely Planet, which would head these chaps off at the pass and let us get a breather.''Having named my guest house, I was greeted by much eye rolling and shaking of heads. It wasn’t open, we were informed (we’d formed a posse of four by this point). It was too far to walk. Wouldn’t we much prefer to ride along with one of these nice chaps to a guest house they knew was open?''I stuck firmly to my story. We were fine. We had a reservation (this seemed like a good thing to say) – how could we have a reservation at somewhere that was closed? We were going to consult the map, and just walk over, as our information said it was no more than ten minutes walk away.''We set off, the four of us, into the darkness surrounding the Sukhothai bus terminal.''A particularly persistent taxi driver followed us along the road. He kept asking us if we were sure we had a reservation. He seemed genuinely concerned. He also said it was at least a 3km walk, and that he could take us there for 10 baht a head. As our bags got heavier, and the map (which, I later found out, I had been reading upside down) didn’t seem to be lining up to reality, this sounded like a pretty good deal.''We bundled ourselves in and set off, first on a highway, and then on a smaller road, and then finally onto a single track lane which didn’t exactly inspire confidence in our destination. After a kilometre or so of darkened, single track lane, where the only indication we were headed in the correct destination was a faded, hand painted sign for the hostel, we arrived.''It has to be said, this was about as close to the scene from a horror movie as I’ve ever got. This was clearly not a place that could be defined as well lived in. A single light illuminated what had clearly once been a thriving little hostel. The gate was firmly nailed shut. There was a battle going on between the jungle and the property, and nature was quite clearly winning. This was not a hostel that was accepting guests.''Our driver looked at us, looked at the nailed shut gate, and with the sort of seriousness that only a Thai person can muster at this point, out of respect for the person he was talking to, said, “Are you sure you have a reservation”.''At this point, clearly, the game was up. I mumbled something about not being sure, and asked him if he knew anywhere else in town. Thankfully, he did, and took us there, and it turned out to be very nice.''After this adventure, I concluded that being quite so wary and closed up wasn’t necessarily going to benefit the holiday.''Sure, there are a whole bunch of popular scams in Thailand. There are the tuk tuk drivers in Bangkok who will promise to take you anywhere in Bangkok for 20 Baht, which will result in you visiting far more fake jewellery stores, over priced restaurants, dodgy tailors and shady tour agencies than you were perhaps expecting.''There are the chaps who stand near temples and explain that the temples are closed, for very plausible sounding reasons, and they know a much better option, which will oddly also result in you being taken on a tour of a variety of un-temple like commission based outfits. And there are also the gambling scams, which may start off as an invite to come over for dinner from an entirely random person on the street, and will quickly go downhill from there.''So I’m not saying that you shouldn’t be wary when travelling in Thailand.''Read up on the likely scams'', and if something sounds suspicious, or too good to be true, then assume it probably is. Check out this post from the Globe Trotter Girls on how they were''scammed in Thailand'', to get an idea of how even experienced travellers can be caught out.''But on the whole, you don’t want to wreck your experience by mistrusting everyone. As we came to discover, Thailand is a country full of incredible, helpful, and above all, friendly people. Let yourself be open to that, and good things will happen!''How about you? Have you visited a country and been the victim of a scam… or do you feel you’ve missed out on the genuine offer of help because you were in defense mode? Share away in the comments below!''SHARE ON''You know what’s nice? Sandwiches. Sandwiches are nice. Well, apart from the ones that are sold at or near train stations in the UK, which are enough to make the Earl who invented this remarkable treat terribly sad. Were he still around to be terribly sad that is, which he isn’t.''The thing about sandwiches is that wherever you are in the world, they follow a nice pattern. Two bits of bread, with a filling. Ok, so sometimes you can go posh and have one with a third bit of bread, but really that just causes a mess. No-one has a mouth big enough to deal with those things.''I mention sandwiches because our trip to Thailand had something rather in common with a sandwich, in that we arrived in and departed from the city of Bangkok, and during our time there we were invited to stay at the''Lub d hostels'', of which there are two. So if our trip around Thailand was the tasty sandwich filling, the Lub d hostels were the bread, holding the whole thing together. The start and finish of any trip is important, much like the bread in a sandwich, and so it was important to stay somewhere nice.''I could have done this whole post using book ends instead of sandwiches of course, but they are far less tasty and prone to splinter in the mouth.''Allow me now to talk to you about the''Lub d Siam Square'', which is the subject of today’s post, and is the sister hostel to the''Lub d Silom'', which was the launching pad of our Thailand adventure, and was''reviewed in detail in this post.''The focus at Lub d, as a chat with the management team revealed, is cleanliness, and that shows. The place is spotless, and teams of cleaners seem to be working constantly to keep it that way.''Don’t think though that you’re checking into the accommodation equivalent of a satellite construction facility. Sure, clean is one thing, but a place has got to have character, right? Soul is as important as spotless rooms, in my mind anyway.''Well, the good news is that soul is very much present. From the funky colours of the railings (think''Paul Smith stripes'', and yes, I did just make a reference to fashion) to the giant sofa in the lounge / bar / reception / restaurant area, Lub d Siam just feels like a cool place to be from the moment you step off the street and onto the giant terrace area.''Naturally all the options you’d hope to find in a hostel are in place, and then some. Clean towels and room turndown every day? Check. Free wi-fi? Of course. Separate women’s only sleeping area? You got it. Luggage room where you can store your bags for up to two months? No problem. Cinema room? Yes indeed. Clearly, someone has put a lot of thought into thinking what needs a traveller could have, and then added some on top of that, and turned it all into this hostel.''There’s a bar, of course, where they also serve up snacks. Breakfast is particularly good – if you’re not feeling like Thai food, then you can grab a croissant as part of the excellent continental breakfast. Which, after three months of Thai food, was rather novel. I may have eaten a few too many in fact. But if Thai food is what you’re after, then don’t miss the free taster sessions on Thursday night, where you’ll get an introduction to Thai street food, sticks and all.''Location wise,''Lub d Siam''couldn’t be any more different from''Lub d Silom''. Where the latter is in a relatively peaceful part of town, Siam is in the heart of the shopping district, with glitzy malls rising all around. Street food is a hop and skip away, particularly in the evenings, and there are roof top bars and clubs to provide entertainment should you be so inclined. The escalator to the Sky Train – a fast way to get around Bangkok – is located at the hostels entrance, so much of Bangkok including the main airport, is very easy to get to. Despite all this, the hostel offers a calm, relaxing environment, and street noise isn’t a problem.''Rooms come in five types. Naturally there are dorms, for the more budget minded traveller, although they sleep a maximum of four, so they are still fairly private. There are also ladies-only dorms, as well as private rooms of the twin, double, and deluxe double variety. The latter feature an ensuite bathroom and TV. A far cry from the hostel rooms of old.''So would we recommend this hostel? Absolutely, without a doubt. The location is superb for both retail therapy and exploring Bangkok. The staff are knowledgeable and friendly, and there is usually some kind of tour or activity arranged of an evening if you’re up for that sort of thing. The vibe is chilled, relaxed and friendly, and the design is superb. So yes, totally one to recommend. The hardest thing to do will be deciding which Lub d to pick for your stay…''Note: our stay at Lub d Siam Square was provided to us free in return for posting our thoughts on the property. Our thoughts remain entirely our own 🙂''SHARE ON''Instagram is brilliant. Unlike other social networks, there’s none of that need to actually pay attention to what people are saying, or doing, or listening to. Instead, you can just gawp at the snapshots of their lives (or, their cups of coffee), and be transported to a world of wonder.''I love the way I can follow folks from all over the world, and have a window into what’s happening in countless locations. And, of course, I love letting people have a peep at what’s been going on around me as I travel.''Our trip to Thailand was no different – I shared a whole host of shots on Instagram from that trip that i worry you may have missed. Well, I need worry no more. After the success of my''Northern Thailand by Instagram''post, I figured the southern half of the country deserved it’s time in the sun. Speaking of which, as this is the part of Thailand which is home to incredible beaches, don’t be astonished to see the odd sunset picture below. Let’s get on with the tour!''After our hectic trip around Northern Thailand, we took a bit of time out and chilled in the''beach town of Hua Hin'', around 150km south of Bangkok. Naturally, this meant we spent a lot of time on the beach!''We actually had the choice of two beaches at Hua Hin. On one of them we found this rather interesting sand sculpture!''And of course, we witnessed some spectacular sunsets and sunrises! This is the latter, a rare sunrise shot (I’m not normally up early enough!)''After Hua Hin we headed down to Khao Sok national park, which is famous for its gorgeous lake (see below) and fabulous jungle. Jungle, in this case, meaning leeches. The above is my leg, after tangling with a leech. This one was a victory to the leeches I think.''When not battling leeches, Khao Sok is remarkably pretty. This was the view from our rafthouse on the lake.''After Khao Sok it was down to''Nakhon Si Thammarat'', where we spent a few days soaking in the local vibe, and visiting the temples.''The south of Thailand is much more Muslim influenced than the north, and it isn’t long before mosques start to pop up with as much regularity as normal temples. Which in Thailand, is quite a lot.''From Nakhon Si Thammarat we went across to the west coast of southern Thailand – the famous Andaman coastline. We based ourselves''in the Trang region''for a few days and spent some time enjoying gorgeous views like this, and the first picture in this post.''From Trang we headed even further south, via a four hour bus journey, to the town of Satun. This is about as far as you can go on Thailand’s south west coast before crossing into Malaysia. The vibe in this town was very Muslim, with regular prayer calls providing the soundtrack. Although, of course, the Buddha could still be found presiding!''No, we didn’t take a detour to Copenhagen! Beyond Satun we headed back across the east coast again, and visited the town of Songkhla, home to this rather spectacular mermaid statue.''The mermaid wasn’t the only statue in town. Songkhla was also home to this duo, the cat and mouse, who represent the islands in the bay, Cat and Mouse Islands.''Songkhla had an absolutely fantastic stretch of beach to explore, upon which we came across all kinds of interesting debris which had been washed ashore. This giant light bulb really intrigued me with it’s reflective properties – and the above shot was a real challenge to get!''Songkhla is also home to this Royal pavilion, which can be found on the main hill overlooking the town.''It turns out Songkhla was rather photogenic! This is the old town at sunset.''Moving north now, and this is the northern end of the Andaman coast – the 10km long Thai Mueang beach. There’s not much here other than a beach and a couple of restaurants – in fact the bus driver was a bit concerned about us getting off here, but I think you’ll agree, the deserted beach was worth it!''We spent my birthday''wandering around old Phuket''town, where we discovered all sorts of charming streets and shops. This piece of street art was absolutely stunning.''From Phuket we took a day trip to''visit James Bond island in Phang Nga bay'', as well as do some canoeing in the sea caves. The water was an incredible shade of green!''And then, we were nearly done with the holiday! Here Vera tackles the futuristic malls of Bangkok''And then.. sadly.. our incredible three month adventure was over, and it was time to leave. Ah well. I’m sure we’ll be back!''I hope you enjoyed this look back at some of our favourite Instagram moments of southern Thailand. If you want to follow me on Instagram, you’ll find me as''@Lozula''!''SHARE ON''When''Novica''contacted me recently asking if I was interested in reviewing their online shop for artisan products from around the world, they could have made their lives easier by pointing out that they have hammocks for sale and I was welcome to test out the service by ordering those.''Instead, we went back and forth a bit to ensure that they were a legit company, that their service was beneficial to all involved, and that it was something I’d want to share with you guys. Not that I can be bought off with hammocks. (Well, not any more, thanks to Novica!).''So, what is Novica, and why should you care?''At first glance, they would appear to be an online store. If you are as excited about shopping as I’m not (I probably should have got Vera to do this review, although then we would have ended up with impractical things like jewellery instead of all purpose hammocks), then you may have dozed off already. But fear not – they are an online store''with a difference''.''You see, Novica works with artisans from all around the world, allowing them to sell the products on their site to a much wider audience than they might otherwise have been able to reach. These artisans sell these products to Novica at a price they set, and then Novica makes them available to people like you and me, obviously with a markup to make the whole thing worthwhile to everyone. They’re also backed by National Geographic, which is a pretty significant plus in my book.''The good thing about the setup is that it is a win/win situation for the artisan. They aren’t locked in to an exclusivity contract, and they set the prices for the products they sell. They can keep selling their products in their traditional retail channels, whilst knowing that folks from around the globe are also able to buy from them. So how does that work in practice?''I popped over to the Novica website to take a look, and gosh, do they have a bunch of products from around the world for sale! After spending some time peering at wooden dragons, romantic gifts for him and romantic gifts for her (sorry Vera, the hammocks won this time!), I spied the''hammock section'', after which I was lost. With no less than twelve hammock categories to peruse, this was no easy task. Luckily I had this picture of Vera in a hammock to keep me strong.''It was around this point that the only minor hiccup in the whole process popped up. Whilst the artisans are based around the world, shipping costs are biased towards US residents. So if you live in the US, you’ll find shipping to be very reasonable. If you happen to live in Europe, like me, you’ll find that many products become fairly expensive fairly quickly once you’ve added international shipping. Light items become the order of the day.''This actually made my decision making process a lot easier. Charly from Indonesia happened to have a line of hammocks designed for travel, made out of parachute silk, in a variety of exciting colours which, most importantly, were very light, meaning shipping costs to Europe were affordable. Obviously I had to order three.''Not very much later, a package arrived on the doorstep, within which were three beautifully gift-wrapped hammocks. It was almost a shame unwrapping them actually, that is how well they were presented. There was also a handwritten note from the Novica guys in Bali & Java, thanking me for my purchase, and featuring a few Indonesian phrases for me to practice when in my hammock. You’ve got to love that personal touch. There was also a little story card about the artisan who had put the hammocks together. All very nice.''So what else can I tell you about Novica? Well, as I said, they’re supported by National Geographic, a partnership which started in 2000 and that continues to this day. That’s a pretty significant vote of confidence. They’re also no flash in the pan, having been going for nearly fifteen years, which in web terms is basically forever (did the internet even exist in 1999?). So they are clearly doing something very right. Additionally, feedback from the artisans on their website is very positive. And I can’t fault the service – it was flawless.''Well, that’s enough from me – I’ve got some hammocks to road test. If you’re looking for interesting and slightly different gifts for someone in your life (or yourself!), that also help support artisans around the world, then I can very much recommend giving Novica a go!''@novica''SHARE ON''It seems that in this world of ours there are quite a lot of people with irrational fears. In fact, every now and again I stumble over an article that lists the latest fears that have been given names, and wonder what it means exactly for your life when you are afraid of… garlic.''To anyone who thinks he or she is a mess I recommend looking at this''list of phobias''– I can assure you that you will find plenty of phobias you didn’t think existed, in addition to some that will make you chuckle.''You don’t chuckle that much when you are actually affected by a phobia, it has to be said. Then the irrationality of it all completely fails to amuse you.''In my twenties a life phase of the wilder kind led to symptoms of anxiety. I felt I couldn’t breathe. I felt my heart raced incredibly. I felt I was somehow far away from people. I felt horrible things were about to happen. I abruptly left rooms, I abruptly left trains, I opted out of a multitude of events because the thought already made me dizzy. Endless hours of fun.''I finally went to a doctor (a GP) to have the physical side ruled out of the equation. Who knows, maybe my symptoms were actually caused by something real. They certainly felt real, so I wanted to make sure I was “just” bonkers. Fortunately (well) I had a panic attack right while the doctor was taking my pulse and blood pressure. I thought my heart would explode. She said to me: “Let’s see… Oh great: your values are excellent!”. Which basically meant that my mind was officially capable of messing with my reality big time.''Not being able to fully trust my senses anymore has definitely changed my life, but that’s what happens. I dealt with it best I could, and eventually the ugly monster left me mostly alone and stuck its head out only occasionally.''But boy, it surely had the time of its life when we were in Thailand, the little sucker!''It started''when we were in Kanchanaburi'', where the River Kwai Bridge is. Checking out the area by bike, we found a temple in a cave, the Koapoon Cave Temple, and went inside to look at it.''Golden Buddhas and other godly beings awaited us in the various caves, along with crystallized limestone in odd and wonderful forms and shapes. We wandered around and took pictures when suddenly I got hit by the mean cold sting of massive panic taking over my brain, triggered by a particularly narrow passageway and maybe the air not circulating that well right there. That was a newbie, though. I never had a problem with caves or small spaces before. Not exactly smitten with my new-found ability I carried on and just stayed away from anywhere you kind of had to crawl into. Apart from that, the caves were really quite stunning.''And so it went. I noticed that my new claustrophobia popped up every now and again, but it was nothing I couldn’t handle. It was just weird to step into an elevator after having done the same for the last thirty years, just now it felt slightly different. Like it could be a really bad idea.''Then we came to Trang, a city in the South of Thailand. We had a little itinerary for the day, and started with the Thep Taro Wood Handicraft Souvenir Shop where they turn the root of the Taro tree into auspicious receptacles and other things. It is quite a popular place because the Thep Taro Wood is believed to be a lucky symbol.\xa0 And it was also a place where you could witness the whole line of production – something I really like about Thailand.''So we were shown a Taro tree, we got a little tour around the actual shop where all the different products were for sale, we went to the workshop where we even had a go at burning patterns into the wood which resulted in a very nice smell (we’ll not say anything about the patterns we created, though). And the smell is what makes the Taro tree so special: because the root gives off a scent, which the receptacles then also contain.''You think I’m completely off-topic now but I always have to think back to the shop, because when this nice chap named Tanes showed us around, he mentioned the many benefits of the tree, including the leaves which you can make medical tea from.''I asked if you can eat them just like that, too, since I was crumbling a leaf between my fingers to release the smell. He answered that yes, you could, but it would result in diarrhea (so I didn’t try to taste the leaf). I keep thinking about that, probably because that was the first clue for the theme of this day which seemed to be intensively about functions of the colon.''In the shop there were also flyers for the cave we wanted to go next: the “Belly of the dragon”. I knew this sight would involve us being paddled through a cave, but wasn’t aware of details. Then I saw pictures of people lying flat down on a paddle boat, the ‘ceiling’ about 10 cm away from their noses – wait, wait, wait: I was NOT going to do that!''Loz replied that he was sure it would be fine and not that crazy, and Tanes too assured me that it wasn’t a big deal. So I thought the picture on the flyer maybe showed one tiny bit of the passage and I would regret missing the whole adventure, should I not go and Loz afterwards tell me how great it had been.''Thus we drove up to Khaokob Cave, paid our fare of 300 Baht for the little boat and hopped on. Two guides, one in the front, one in the back, accompanied us. First we were taken down the river and just enjoyed the scenery and the greenery, then we disappeared into the darkness of an underground cave in the mountain Pha Nang Koy.''One of our guides told us to lie down flat and I thought: “Here we go!”. Indeed the ceiling came closer and closer, but not further down on us than 30 cm. Which was okay for me, as\xa0 I noted with relief. I relaxed and when we reached the first cave we could walk around in, I jumped out of the canoe, listened to the guide’s explanations, and took pictures.''Several stops and caves and a lot of pictures later, we went back on the boat and, after a nice bit of floating down the dimly lit river, were once again asked to lie flat down. This time the ceiling seemed to come a bit closer than before. The passage got more narrow. There weren’t any lamps anymore and it got pretty dark. I realized I had been relieved too early: this was becoming quite intense. The guides were lying down too now, pushing the canoe forward with their hands along the ceiling which basically left me less space than if I had been buried alive in a coffin – less than 10 cm certainly.''I became a bit nervous and just wanted to position my hand differently, but the guide told me not to move my flattened body. He was amazing – he just kept talking, made jokes, repeated that he was taking care of us here and pretended to nearly get hit by the odd bit of ceiling hanging into our faces.''So what do you think about when you find yourself in your own worst nightmare? Funnily enough, I just had to think how we were exactly like food in the digestive tract. We might have entered\xa0 the belly of the dragon, but now we were definitely in its colon, and I felt so deeply sorry for everything I had ever eaten to go through this process of being pushed through the tiniest, darkest space, not knowing how long it will take, and being all afraid and claustrophobic. I was moments away of swearing to never eat again to spare anything from having to endure this. I kid you not.''The thing is: you can not afford to freak out in a situation like this. You just can’t. So I closed my eyes and thought that I could be anywhere, and that helped, so I opened them again. The guide talked and talked, and I laughed and pretended that I was just a bit nervous, but of course by no means fighting in my head not to lose it. I mostly pretended to be fine in order to convince myself of it. Then I started hearing screams from further behind us, where the next canoe was coming. It wasn’t quite clear if it was your delighted “This is so exciting!”-screaming or the “Oh my god, we’re all gonna die!”-screaming. It echoed on in my mind and had quite a contagious touch, but I shook it off.''I held Loz’s hand very tight (okay, so I nearly broke it) and let my thoughts jump from little kittens to golden ponies, flying over rainbows in a land with trees made out of pink candy floss. Then Loz saw the light at the end of the tunnel and slowly the walls moved away and the ceiling lifted again. I felt a bit pooed out. Our guide seemed to be equally exhausted. I realized that I couldn’t be the only one who would get the jitters – he had quite a lot of responsibility making sure people didn’t freak out because that wouldn’t go well in there, and he did a really, really good job; I have to say that. I contemplated for a moment to propose marriage but we had already finished our ride and they were waiting for us to step out of the boat, so we did.''Then Loz told me (and I love how he always tells me these things AFTERWARDS) that he had read that the tour through the “Belly of the dragon” was something like an auspicious activity with the “colon”-part probably showing that extra bit of commitment for the extra bit of good luck, but that he hadn’t thought it would be this extreme and hadn’t it been just the greatest adventure? I had to agree that I certainly felt ahead of other people now, having had the proper “poo being pushed through and out of the colon of no return”-experience, but could not quite get as excited about it.''And the saddest part is that this is indeed all that I learned from it: how poo would feel. I would have thought that if you dare to face your fears, and manage to successfully overcome them in a critical situation, then it would weaken the power of said fear and strengthen the belief in yourself, but nope, nada. I think back and just feel panicky.''But I guess in a way I now have my own internalized “colon cruiser” who will give me a big harangue the next time I feel funny in an elevator. You know, about how this is nothing compared to the audacious colon cruising tour, and how much room there is even in the tiniest elevator compared to a colon, and how everything changes once you are a SURVIVOR, and so on, until I get more irritated about that than about any claustrophobic impulse.''So if you’re claustrophobic, you might want to skip this sight, unless you’re into confrontational therapy – then this is pretty much the queen of confrontation, my lovely. You’ll never know how long it can take to move 350 m (that’s how long that last bit is).''If you’re not claustrophobic, then this tour might make you! …I’m just kidding!! Exploring Khao Kob Cave, the Belly of the Dragon, is a neat little adventure, and the caves with their funky stalagmites and stalactites are beautiful and fascinating. It’s a tourist destination recommended by the Tourism Authority of Thailand, and rightfully so! In fact I think the visit to all the different bits of the cave completely took my mind off my worries and “awed” a bit of perspective into me (which is the thing that I lose first when it comes to my fears), before undertaking the “colon cruise”.''You can arrange transport from Trang City, it’s a drive of around 25 minutes. You pay per boat (300 Baht) which will take up to five people, should you travel in a group. You will not need flash-lights, as there is electricity – mostly. So off you go – collect your own bit of good luck, and rub that dragon belly (probably with your nose – even luckier!) until you see the light. I’m pretty sure you will feel very lucky at that point… I did!''SHARE ON''The Trang region of Thailand is pretty epic. Tucked away at the southern end of the Andaman coast, it is every bit as beautiful as its northern counterpart, whilst remaining much quieter and less developed.''I’ve already''waxed lyrical about the gorgeous interior region'', stuffed full of waterfalls, cultural attractions, dragon caves and endlessly tasty food.''Today therefore I’m going to tell you all about the bit you are possibly more interested in – those turquoise beaches and far flung white sandy islands that you may think of when you imagine Thailand.''We were lucky enough to be able to spend around a week on the Trang coastline, basing ourselves on the gorgeous 5km long Pak Meng beach, from where we could pop across to any of the islands in the bay. And what islands they were! From the incredible beaches of Koh Kradan to the nature lovers paradise of Koh Libong – there really is something here for everyone. Here are some of our highlights from our time exploring the Trang coastline.''Highlights of a visit to the Trang region''Swim in the Emerald Cave (Tham Morakat) on Koh Muk''Undoubtedly a highlight of any visit to the Trang region is a trip to the Emerald Cave on the island of Koh Muk. This 85 metre long sea cave is only accessible by boat, and if you swim all the way through the dark tunnel, you emerge at a hidden lagoon and beach which is only accessible by this cave, and was once the hideaway of pirates and smugglers. Romantic stuff!''It is important to time your visit correctly, as the lagoon is only accessible at low tide. Unfortunately, the day we visited the tide was not in our favour, so instead we just got to swim around the inside of the cave. This was still very cool, as the light shining in through the cave entrance turned the water an eerie shade of green – perhaps explaining the name. We’re just going to have to go back to get the full experience – which you can read about in full over at''this blog post at PlacesAndFoods.com''.''Island hopping by long tailed boat''The thing about the Trang region is that there is no shortage of islands to choose from. And choice is a difficult thing! So instead of picking one island, why not visit a whole bunch, via the ever popular transport method of long tail boat.''This way you can get an idea of what is on offer – taking in such highlights as the above Emerald Cave, the gorgeous beaches of islands like Koh Kradan or the fishing villages of Koh Muk. It’s a wonderful way to sample what’s out there, and may help you decide how you want to spend the rest of your trip.''Tip – you’ll want to do this on a calm day. Long tail boats aren’t so great in choppy seas, and you might not be able to visit all the islands you had planned on visiting if the seas are too big.''Bird & Sea Life in Hat Chao Mai National Park''The Trang region is a nature lovers paradise, particularly if you are into marine or bird life. The Hat Chao Marine National Park, covering a 230 square kilometre area, is home to countless species of birds, as well as the symbol of Trang – the Dugong.''These endangered animals can only be found in parts of the world where there are plentiful sea grasses – such as''Australia’s Shark Bay.''You’ll have a pretty good chance of spotting one in Hat Chao Mai National Park – particularly if you visit or stay at Koh Libong island, where the local villagers will be able to help you out with tours. Which nicely brings us to our next highlight:''See local life at a fishing village''The island of Koh Libong, easily accessibly by local ferry from Hat Yao pier, is the perfect escape from the Thailand tourist scene. If you’re looking to get an insight into what life as a local on a Thai island is really all about, then look no further than Koh Libong.''The local population, which is majority Muslim, largely survives on fishing and rubber production. There are a few resorts on the west coast, but I’d recommend spending some time in a homestay if you really want to get a feel for life here. The food will be of the freshly cooked seafood variety, with entertainment provided by returning fishing boats. There are walks around the interior, largely deserted beaches, and of course the aforementioned wildlife options.''It might not be as picture post card perfect a location as Koh Kradan, but for getting a glimpse into local life, this one would be tough to beat.''Get Married Underwater''Everywhere needs a special thing it seems these days. Gorgeous white sandy beaches and turquoise waters just aren’t enough to attract your discerning wallet toting holiday maker any more.''The island of Koh Kradan has a thing. That thing is the underwater wedding ceremony, where every Valentine’s day, romantic couples who are into diving can get married twelve metres below the surface, in the largest wedding ceremony of its kind. There’s even a Guiness World Record entry for it.''So if your trip to Thailand includes a wedding, and you were looking for something a little bit different, and you and your partner happen to be divers, well, this could be the place for you to tie the knot.''Take a walk on the beach for sunset''One of my favourite activities in the world is watching the sunset, and if I have a choice in the matter, then my preferred sunset watching location is a beach, with the sun setting into the sea.''The whole Andaman coastline is conveniently located on the west coast of Thailand, meaning the sunset watching options are entirely optimal. We took a walk on Pak Meng beach every evening, enjoying the sunset whilst imbibing a chilled beer from one of the beach side restaurants. Quite spectacular stuff.''Where to stay''We stayed at both the Pak Meng resort and the LayTrang resort on the main land, from where we were able to explore the attractions of the main land as well as pop across to the islands on day trips.''You can also stay on the islands of course, with accommodation options ranging from cute homestays in fishing villages – such as the one we stumbled across in Koh Libong – through to bamboo huts on beaches and upwards to resorts.''Prices range from as little as €5 a night for a basic homestay option for two people, to €20 a night for a mid-range hotel, and then, naturally, the more you want, the more you pay. Certainly something is available for every budget though!''How to get around''For our exploration we based ourselves on the main land, and did a variety of day trips to some of the islands, which is easy to do, either independently by hiring your own boat (in the region of €100 a day for the boat), or as part of a tour (ranging from €20 pp and up).''Most island resorts will be able to arrange transport for you, all the way from the town of Trang to the island in question, which will include mini bus transfer to the right pier and then the boat itself. Depending on which island you go to, you will be departing from either the Pak Meng pier, at the north end of Pak Meng beach, or Hat Yao pier, some kilometres south.''And that pretty much sums up our thoughts on this stunning part of Thailand! Have you been to the Trang region? Got a favourite island or beach you’d like to share? Or has this post inspired you to add it to you world travel list? Let us know in the comments below!''For our time on the coast we stayed at the''Laytrang resort''on Pak Meng beach, thanks to''HostelBookers''. Our transport and other logistics were provided in part by the''Tourism Authority of Thailand''.''@hostelbookers #thailand''SHARE ON''Kanchanaburi. Even if you’ve not heard of the town, I’ll hazard a guess that you’ve heard of the bridge which is the town’s main attraction. Which is the one over the River Kwai. Yep, that one.''Even though the original bridge, as built by both allied prisoners of war and conscripted locals, isn’t standing any more (the Allies blew it to pieces towards the end of the war), the current version is still so seared into the consciousness that you can’t visit Kanchanaburi without taking a trip here. But there’s a lot more to this town, around 100km west of Bangkok, than a bridge.''And if you, like us, end up wanting to spend more than a day or so here (we planned two and stayed for eight!), you might want some ideas for things to do. Here are a few ways we passed our time.''Contents:''Things to do in Kanchanaburi''Non war related activities''Geography of Kanchanaburi''How to get around\xa0Kanchanaburi''How to get to Kanchanaburi''Where to stay in Kanchanaburi''Things to do in Kanchanaburi''Visit the River Kwai bridge''Seriously, you can’t visit Kanchanaburi and not go see the bridge over the River Kwai. It would be like visiting London and not having tea with the Queen. Some things are just not done.''It’s actually quite a strange place to visit. There are party boats going up and down the river, hordes of people, and vendors selling trinkets all over the place. This seems oddly juxtaposed against this memorial to suffering and horror. Although, having visited plenty of sobering locations, I can’t say as that this is a worse approach.''I don’t know how the builders of the original bridge feel about how it is remembered today, but I guess it is better to have the sounds of Gangnam style banging out rather than the sounds of gunfire and death.''Take in the JEATH war museum''Now this is a truly sobering place to visit. This museum, located in downtown Kanchanaburi (and not next to the bridge, despite the misleading signs to another museum), features a bamboo hut that is built in the same style as the accommodation that the prisoners of war were housed in during the railway construction.''It features stories, eyewitness accounts, newspaper clippings, and as much information as possible regarding the construction of the railway and what life would have been like as you can absorb. Other than the below cemeteries, this was the place where the true horror of the railway construction became real for us.''Visit a War Cemetery''Building the Burma Railway was not a task without loss – there was a reason that this was called the Death Railway. Around 16,000 Allied prisoners of war and 90,000 conscripted Asian labourers died during its construction.''There are three cemeteries holding the majority of the dead, two in Kanchanaburi and one across the border in Burma. In Kanchanaburi the main cemetery is by the towns train station and holds 6,982 graves. Chungkai War Cemetery, a little out of town, holds a further 1,750 graves.''Visiting these graveyards, with their rows upon rows of immaculately tended headstones lends an air of perspective to the incredible loss of life that this war project incurred. It’s hard to take in, and even harder to try to understand that these two graveyards account for less than 10% of those who died.''Non war related activities''Whilst the history of this town is very much about the impact of the war, there is a lot more to see in this area than war history, and this was why our trip ended up being extended to nearly two weeks.''If you take a bit of time to explore, you’ll be able to see one of Thailand’s most impressive waterfalls, a seriously enormous tree, and a whole host of temples, including one featuring a floating nun. Read on for some ideas.''Take a day trip to Erawan Falls''About 50km north of Kanchanburi are the Erawan Falls, a seven tiered waterfall which are regarded as some of the most beautiful in Thailand.''It’s around a 2km walk from the first tier to the top tier, and all the levels are great for a swim, so you can easily spend a whole day enjoying yourself here.''The cheapest way to get here is by public bus. These start running at around 8am and are clearly marked as going to Erawan Falls. You can flag these down on the main road through town. Entry to the falls as a foreigner is 200 baht, which is standard for nearly all the national parks in Thailand at time of writing.''See a giant tree''If you’re up for exploring the gorgeous countryside surrounding Kanchanaburi, then a ride on bike (or scooter, if you’re not feeling like tackling a 30km round trip in the heat) can be very rewarding. As soon as you leave the city behind you’ll find yourself in a world of green, peaceful surrounds, with limestone peak scenery and plenty of temples to investigate.''We cycled all the way out to the giant monkey puzzle tree of Kanchanaburi, which was quite the adventure, as the map we had been provided in the tourist office was vague to say the least. Still, plenty of friendly locals helped us on our way, and the tree was indeed particularly giant, so the trip was entirely worth it.''Visit a temple in a cave''Kanchanaburi is surrounded by limestone peaks, which means that there are caves galore in this region.''Some of the nicest caves have been co-opted for use as temples, such as Wat Tham Khao Pun, a few kilometres west of town. This is a series of caves featuring a variety of Buddha statues, including a reclining Buddha at the entrance, and is very much worth the minimal entry fee.''Outside of the caves, you can head towards the river and take in a lovely view of the surrounding region and river, in the company of a giant sitting Buddha.''Climb inside a giant dragon''Wat Ban Tham is another cave temple, but with a slight difference. The cave is located half way up a mountain, and the entrance is reached by climbing through the mouth and insides of a huge dragon statue.''Various moments of the Buddha’s life are painted on the walls inside the dragon in detailed pictures but I have to admit to just being excited about the whole dragon staircase thing.''At the end of the dragon is the actual cave, home to a large Buddha statue and various shrines. You can also climb further up the mountain, to a spot which offers a great view across the surrounding countryside.''Go to the night market''No town in Thailand is complete without a night market where you can gorge yourself silly on incredible local food at rock bottom prices, and Kanchanaburi is no exception. You’ll find the night market near to the main train station, with all the tasty food you can eat, as well as clothing, movies and so on.''There is a lot more to do in the Kanchanaburi area beyond that above, and you could easily spend a heap of time relaxing and exploring here. I’d recommend giving it more than a passing glance – you won’t regret it.''Geography of Kanchanaburi''Kanchanaburi is one of those towns that is far longer than it is wide. There are three main clumps of interest – the northern end is where you’ll find the bridge, and various stalls and shops selling trinkets.''The middle part is home to the main tourist strip, and is where most of the accommodation and restaurants and bars are. The southern end is the “proper” town, with malls, the bus station and the tourist office, as well as the JEATH war museum.''How to get around\xa0Kanchanaburi''In total, Kanchanaburi stretches for around 6km, so if you’re living in the middle (which is the most likely scenario), you’ll be looking at around a 3km walk to the bridge or the southern part of the town.''Whilst this is all very walkable, renting a scooter for 200 Baht /day, or a bike for 50 Baht/day, is likely going to be an easier option, particularly for visiting the temples and sights out of town.''How to get to Kanchanaburi''This being the home of the death railway, naturally you are able to arrive here by train from Bangkok. There are two train stations in the town – the main one is near the central part of town, where most of the accommodation is focused, and the other train station is at the River Kwai bridge itself.''Arriving by train is of course very appropriate, but you’ll find that it is a bit inconvenient, as first you have to go to a train station in Bangkok which is somewhat out of the way (Thonburi train station), and second, the train is a lot slower than the bus. Buses to Kanchanaburi run from a whole variety of Thai towns, including Bangkok, and if you’re in a hurry, then this is the way to go.''Where to stay in Kanchanaburi''Kanchanaburi is not short of places to stay. The main focus of accommodation is in the central part of the town, which is also where most of the food options are, as well as the main War Cemetery and train station.''A popular option is a raft house on the river, where you will be rewarded by being gently rocked to sleep and some quite spectacular sunset views. The downside is that depending on the time of year and week that you visit, you may find your sleep disturbed by the pounding beats of the party boats that go up and down. These seem to be more prevalent on the weekend.''We stayed at the River Guest House, which was somewhat rustic. It was however wonderfully quiet, stuffed full of character and a real bargain, and easily walkable from the train station.\xa0We can’t find a website or a way to book this property online (we just turned up), although a phone number is listed on the Google Maps entry that you can try.''It is quite “rustic” and definitely a budget option, but we enjoyed it. If that doesn’t sound good, then we would recommend just dropping in to a number of venues and seeing what is available before committing.''Alternatively, if you would prefer to book in advance and not have to worry about finding accommodation when you arrive, check out''these listings for Kanchanaburi''to find something to suit your budget and tastes. Just check out the reviews to see what kind of vibe a place has before committing.''And that about sums up our thoughts on Kanchanaburi! We’d love to hear what you think about this post. Have you been to Kanchanaburi, or would you consider going? Anything you’d add to the above? Do let us know in the comments below.''@tatkanchanaburi #miraclethailand''SHARE ON''Today I’m delighted to be hosting a guest post by Sofia von Porat of travel blog''AsWeTravel''. The post is particularly timely given our upcoming European focused adventure, where we’re going to be spending a few days in Stockholm. Now, thanks to this post, we’ve got more of an idea of how to fill our time!''Over to Sofia:''Stockholm is one of the most beautiful capital cities in Europe, and once you visit it’s easy to see why.''Built on 14 islands with water surrounding you in every direction, it’s a very unique city, and it feels like everything but a bustling cosmopolitan capital:''Locals fish in the canal in front of the parliament, swim in the middle of the city and park their boats outside their apartments.''Here are a few of the best things to do and places to check out on a visit to Stockholm…''Exploring Gamla Stan''With a history dating back to the 13th century, Gamla Stan (the Old Town) is one of the oldest medieval towns in Europe.''It is the prettiest area of Stockholm, with narrow cobble stoned streets, old medieval houses and tiny squares.''I would definitely recommend spending some hours getting lost in the alleys, shopping in the boutiques, and sitting down at one of the many cafes for a “fika”.''Going for a “Fika”''Having a “fika” is mandatory when you’re in Sweden, as it’s a big part of Swedish culture.''Fika is similar to tea time in England, where friends, family or work colleagues get together for a cup of coffee with “fika bread” (a tray of biscuits, sweet bread or buns, often all of it together).''Swedes can have fika several times per day, and in some families (like mine) it’s almost like a ritual..!''Island-Hopping in the Archipelago''To get a typical Swedish experience I highly recommend exploring the islands in Stockholm’s archipelago.''During summer, locals take the ferries to their summer cottages that are dotted on the 30,000 islands in the archipelago, and others take a day trip to go swimming and relaxing in the sweet and salty waters.''Unlike in the city, life on the islands is still very much the same as it always has been, with typical Swedish red wooden houses and quiet atmosphere.''Dinner with a View''Perched on top of a hill overlooking Gamla Stan and the harbor, Hermans has the best view in town, and their terrace is awesome.''They only serve organic vegetarian food made from scratch in their kitchen – every day there is an all-you-can-eat buffet both for lunch and dinner.''Every weekend there is a different theme on the buffet: Tex Mex, Indian, Asian, Middle Eastern, Scandinavian etc – the food is very filling, so make sure you’re starving before you visit!''Address: Fjällgatan 23b on Södermalm.''Open hours: Mon – sun 11 am – 10 pm''Royal Djurgården Park''A walk in Royal Djurgården park will make you feel as though you’re miles from the city.''It’s a great place to relax and have a picnic, and the famous Vasa museum (the only preserved medieval ship from the 13th century, it sank 20 minutes after being put on water and was found 300 years later), the National museum and the museum of Eastern Asian history are all located there.''It’s a huge area with an amusement park (Gröna Lund) and an open-air historical museum called Skansen, depicting Swedish life in the past by recreating real-life Sweden of the 1900s.''I hope you found these tips useful and that you take the opportunity to explore Stockholm!''@aswetravel #travel @visitsweden''SHARE ON''It’s been a while since I’ve taken part in a travel Pinspiration. I’m going to blame spending three months of travelling around Thailand, and hope you forgive me.''This weeks theme though was a real doozy, and to top it off, the bloggers behind this whole idea, Caz and Craig, used one of my shots for their post this week. Of all the great photos of Western Australia on Pinterest, they picked one of mine. Thanks guys!''I felt therefore that it would be remiss of me not to take part in this week’s Pinspiration. The theme is Western Australia, one of my favourite states in Australia. So much so that I wrote a post all about what is''unmissable in Western Australia'', followed up''by another one'', because one post just wasn’t enough! Suffice to say, if you go to Australia and miss out the west coast, then you are doing yourself an injustice.''Anyway, lets get on with this weeks travel Pinspiration post. The idea is to find my five favourite pictures from Pinterest on the subject of Western Australia, but, well, I happen to like sharing my own pictures on the blog, so that’s what we’ll be doing. Let’s start with:''The Bungle Bungles, or Purnululu National Park, are a series of incredible rock formations deep in the outback of Western Australia, accessible only by four wheel drive, or aircraft. See more photos and get ideas for a visit in''my post on visiting the Bungle Bungles''.''Way up at the north end of the Gibb River road in the Kimberley region of Western Australia are the spectacular four tiered Mitchell Falls. It’s another four wheel drive only spot, but worth the effort! I have a whole''guide to the Gibb River Road'', which takes you from one of of the Gibb River Road to the other, if you are interested in tackling this legendary adventure.''This art installation a few hours drive north of Kalgoorie-Boulder is by''Antony Gormley'', a British artist who is known for his fairly massive installations. This particular one, called Inside Australia, is no exception, spanning a ten square kilometre area on a salt lake. Find out more about how to get here, and why it’s worth the visit, in my''post on visiting Inside Australia.''Cape le Grand national park, at the bottom corner of Western Australia, is a mesmerizingly beautiful part of the world. The beaches and water are just world class, and the hiking isn’t half bad either!''And finally for today, to provide balance with the Wave Rock, which is the first shot on the post, a shot of a real life wave at the blowhole near Geraldton. Parts of the WA coastline are very wild and rough, and waves crashing on the shoreline make for a spectacular sight!''If you liked this post, why not check out some of my previous posts on this topic, including''beaches'',''waterfalls''&''sunsets''. And if you want to find out more about Travel Pinspiration, check out''the post from yTravelBlog''which explains it all!''#travelpinspiration #photography @WestAustralia''SHARE ON''There’s one serious problem in Thailand: the food is just too good. Okay, so maybe that’s not a problem for people who don’t enjoy eating very much (where are you folks? Haven’t met any of you yet!), but Loz and I certainly don’t belong to that group.''And Thailand is mean, my friends: tasty stuff everywhere. There’s hardly a street without a multitude of tiny carts, loaded with anything that could tickle your fancy, be it fruit, smoothies and shakes, sticky rice banana, whole regular meals even – and fried stuff. Oh, the fried stuff. Danger, danger.''We did fairly well, it has to be said. Always being out and about made excessive night market stints (“Oh God, I’m so full! –Wait, is this ‘ancient ice-cream’? Oooh…”) more or less forgotten. But when there’s a period where you don’t move around that much and keep on eating like there’s no tomorrow (could of course be the case, you never know), it takes a toll on your waistline.''Then we got to Trang, and that was the beginning of the end. We sure''did a lot in and around Trang'', but this involved plenty of eating as well because as it happens, Trang is home to numerous delicacies that set it apart from the rest of Thailand. Woohoo!''This ‘woohoo’ lost a fair amount of its original enthusiasm when it turned out that we had consequently attired a case of the well-known traveller’s shrinking belt syndrome. This was of course just before heading out to the islands, where you strut your stuff in shorts and a bikini. No room to hide the food sins you’ve committed. Unless you go Thai-style and jump in the water with all your clothes on, but we needed to get a tan, obviously. Is a tan not one of the traveller’s most important credentials? Why, naturally.''Then''HostelBookers''came to the rescue (they didn’t know that, though), asking us if we wanted to review a resort at\xa0 Pak Meng Beach (which is handily still part of the Trang region). We looked the place up and spotted one lonely comment on the infamous Tripadvisor-webpage from someone who complained that it was a two km walk away from the town centre and thus the shops and restaurants.''Loz joked that we would have to actually walk if we wanted to get our fried food fix on, but that made us realise the incredible potential this resort had: it would be our little diet island two km away from ‘the real world’, and to get food and other stuff, we would be forced to become active and, er, kind of swim out to the main island (the town centre)! So we agreed to chill out at''Laytrang Resort'', having this montage in our head, where we jog along the beach early in the morning (may I mention the unimportant background information that we both don’t jog) and end up with some nice toned beach bodies.''Significant fail dawned upon us as soon as we discovered upon our arrival that this resort offered home-made and inexpensive ice-cream, sold either in a waffle cone or a little bowl. In the name of science, we of course had to try it. Loz denied the waffle, and I thought: “Respect, he’s at least avoiding extra calories”, but had to find out later that he chose the bowl merely because it seemed to be the way to get more ice-cream. Hm. Maybe our whole plan wouldn’t really work so well.''We also found that we were not exactly isolated – apart from the resort restaurant and shop, there were a few other shops and also another restaurant around; even a little coffee shop and a tiny bar. And a food cart with fried stuff. Doom.''We avoided temptations by staying in. That’s what a resort is about, isn’t it? You don’t need the outer world, everything is on site. And the site was pretty much about chilling out. You could get your action going due to the resort being handily situated right at the pier where all the tours to the islands and caves leave from, but we had already been on various tours here and needn’t feel guilty about not taking advantage of that.''Also, we wanted to get some work done. Writing posts for the blog, you know. Or training the geckos to do it (they kept running away, though. Maybe an allergy to fame and fortune?). Of course writing is a very crafty and creative task, so Loz smartly started out by reading a fiction book he had found in the book shelf in the lobby. Because to write, you have to read. Everyone knows that.''But the montage! We set up a routine of walking half an hour along the beach to the town centre each day, where we then treated ourselves to ice coffee which contained two heaped table spoons of sugar per cup and tasted pretty amazing. We ignored that we had well seen the nice coffee lady pour the sugar in our cups, as it doesn’t count if you don’t know about it. Diet cheating rule no 4.\xa0 After this we would walk back again and lose even more calories getting excited about the beautiful sunsets (this must count!).''Somehow we didn’t really lose weight, though. So we gave up and focused on other things. Like working on blog-posts while enjoying this view:''Well, so maybe Loz worked on blog-posts while I wrote post-cards. Sixty-three of them. Yes, that’s more than none. We also met a lovely American couple who were on a vacation from their teaching job in China. We secretly put them in charge for the activity based review of the resort. They rented canoes from the resort and paddled out to the next little island. They took a local ferry to the island of Koh Libong and had a guide show them around. They even extended their stay because they found the resort to be an excellent base. Which it is, but I think they really got hooked on the ice-cream.''The last couple of evenings we had dinner together at the resort – you know, you just run into each other and everything unfolds organically. I remember that on our last night, I ordered the spicy shrimp paste. Our waiter, smiling as always (he was SO nice!!), although a tad wryly after I had filed my order, looked at Loz who said: “Are you sure? If it already says ‘spicy’, it could be really spicy…” but I felt I was on a constant chilli-tolerance building mission, anyway, so I stayed with my decision.''I received a large plate with various raw vegetables, a multitude of leaves and a bowl of shrimp paste from the waiter who seemed to expect me to send it back to the kitchen instantly. Did he doubt my like of foreign… leaves? Challenge accepted! I smiled reassuringly: everything was under control!, and started eating. Many tissues later I came to the conclusion: it was a tasty deal, like always in Thailand, but boy, when they say ‘spicy’, they really mean it in the south!''It’s not always easy to estimate the respective level of spiciness as it is written down in the menu in Thailand. It depends how touristy the area is (then the dishes are not so spicy), on the region you are in (the South: very,very spicy), and sometimes on the cook who might find he doesn’t want to risk knocking you out of your shoes. But generally their rule is: if you order it, you can handle it.''So anyway, I felt that sitting there, with my mouth wide open for a little bit of cooling, justified an ice-cream for dessert. Loz had one too, although I couldn’t quite see how he had deserved his. You’ve gotta earn it, don’t you?''And then, on the next morning, it was already time to leave (how could that have happened so quickly again? Miraculous). Only that we didn’t really know how. How would we get from the resort to Pak Meng Beach Centre, and from there to Trang? We hadn’t seen any Tuk-Tuks around, and all the mini-buses coming to the pier seemed to be from tour companies.''Silly us. When you’re in Thailand, there’s always a bus. Our waiter and general contact person lead us outside the resort and told us that there would be a mini-bus within five minutes. And there was! Also, all of a sudden ten other people appeared out of pretty much nowhere and filled the vehicle up.''Gets me every time. How do they do this? There’s always a bus, it’s always there within five minutes and they always manage to fill it up fairly well so as to not have to drive half-empty.''Forty-five minutes later we were back in Trang and hopped on another bus (a big one!) to our next adventure.''So maybe we didn’t lose weight whilst staying at Laytrang Resort, but we sure took a lot of (sunset) pictures, met some great people, managed to up our chilli tolerance, collected some shells on the beach, got some blog-posts and post-cards written and recharged our inner batteries more than sufficiently.''We didn’t even mind that it turned out that we had accidentally caught the slow bus to Satun, which managed to take four hours to drive the 125 km. Our reward was a cheerful lady coming on board with a little monkey wearing diapers. But that, my friends, would be another story.''Our stay at the''Laytrang resort in Trang''was provided to us by''HostelBookers''in exchange for penning our thoughts up. We’ll never let those thoughts be anything other than our fair appraisal, even if plied with ice cream 🙂''@hostelbookers #thailand''SHARE ON''Europe in late winter is not a great place to get back to after three months of sun in Thailand, although I suspect your pity levels are not that high. It’s a bit early for spring, and too late for all the winter festivities that usually make the season vaguely bearable. Instead, it’s the final stretch, just waiting for spring to burst through, and the birds to start singing again.''We figured that the best way to cope with any post trip blues that might result from hitting a wintery France after a blistering Thailand was to plan another trip as soon as possible to keep ourselves occupied. I can very much recommend this as a general tonic to your travelling blues, although your wallet might not approve.''We also thought it was time to start crossing off some of those items on our''to-do list for 2013.''So it is that we come to our next big adventure – a train trip around Europe, taking up much of March. We are particularly excited about this one! So where are we going?''France – Angouleme & Paris''We’re starting our adventure in France, hopping onto the TGV in Angouleme and heading to Belgium via Paris.''Angouleme''is a lovely little city to explore, stuffed''full of street art''and beautiful old buildings. If you are travelling by rail through France, it’s worth taking a stop over. We’ll also be whizzing through Paris, although not for long, as we head to our first overnight stop:''Belgium – Brussels & Ghent''I’ve visited Belgium before, and sampled the delectable beers and chocolate. On that trip I went to Bruges for the day – so this time we’re making the half hour trip out to Ghent to see what that’s all about.''We met a Belgium couple during our travels in Thailand who were very enthusiastic about the city, and fellow travel blogger Tom of''ActiveBackpacker''has rated it as the''best small town in Europe'', so we are keen to find out what the fuss is all about. And try some beer.''Germany – Berlin''I loved Berlin when I''visited nearly three years ago''. There’s such an alternative vibe about the city, plus of course the recent scars of history that make this such an interesting place to explore.''Our main reason for hitting up Berlin is to attend''ITB''– one of the largest travel trade shows in the world, where we’ll be meeting up with travel industry reps and chatting about future partnerships, so we can keep bringing adventures and photos from around the world to the blog.''It’s not all going to be work though. It’s going to be Vera’s birthday during our time in Berlin, and we’re both keen to explore the city together, meet up with friends, and take photos of all the awesome street art. If you’re in or around Berlin during ITB (6-10th March), we’d love to hang out!''Denmark – Copenhagen''From Berlin we strike north, where both of us are entering entirely new territory, as we’ve not been to any of the Scandinavian countries. All I really know about Copenhagen is that it has a little mermaid, and famous storyteller Hans Christian Andersen came from here. Oh, and Danish pastries of course.''Sweden – Stockholm''Mostly I know that Sweden is full of beautiful people, is where Ikea came from, and once held a near monopoly on production of the safety match.''We’re looking forward to learning more about this island capital for ourselves, and maybe even trying out some meatballs in their home country.''Norway – Oslo and Bergen''I nearly visited Norway once. I had a ferry booking and everything. Then all sorts of events conspired against me, and I ended up in Australia. You know how it is.''Norway is famous for its Fjords and trolls, and is home to some spectacular scenery. We’re particularly looking forward to taking the train from Oslo to Bergen, which is supposed to be one of the most beautiful train rides in the world.''Holland – Amsterdam''Ah, Amsterdam. I totally love this city, with its canals and cafe culture. It’s one of the few on our list that I’ve visited enough times to feel familiar with. It feels like the perfect place to finish off our tour in style, after which I’ll be heading back to France, and Vera’s going to be popping back to Germany to visit friends and family for a while.''Whew. Hard to believe, but we’re actually fitting all the above into a 22 day itinerary. This is a little faster than we might usually travel (ok, so Thailand took us three months), but we’re seeing it as a taster expedition. If we like what we find (and I have no reason to think we won’t!), then we can always return!''Thanking our partners''We’re also pleased to be working with a number of partners on this trip, who I’d like to give a quick shout out to as they’re the ones making such a pile of awesome a reality:''InterRail.eu''– The choices for getting around Europe are plenty, from road to air, sea to rail. For a tour like ours, which is all about the capital cities, rail is one of my favourite ways to go. The high speed rail network in Europe is excellent, and watching the scenery unfold as you pootle along, sampling the delights of the restaurant car, is one of the best ways to travel. Naturally we were thrilled to be able to partner with''InterRail.eu''on this particular adventure, who are sorting us out with our train transport.''HostelBookers.com''– After collaborating with these guys on our Thailand trip, and enjoying visiting properties from beach side resorts to luxury city homestays, we wanted to see what they had to offer in cities around Europe, which are a bit closer to home. We’re looking forward to sharing our experiences of accommodation options in Europe that you can book with''HostelBookers''!''GetYourGuide''– We had two fantastic adventures with''GetYourGuide''in Thailand – a''zip lining adventure through the jungle tree tops near Chiang Mai'', and a canoe trip to James Bond island on my birthday. We’ll be partnering with them again to see what they can offer the city visitor in Europe – I would expect quite a lot, given that they have over 6000 activities available to book in Europe!''XCom Global''– As a blogger, connectivity is important, and Europe is a complex place to stay connected in, especially with roaming fees being so darn expensive. Enter''XCom Global'', who are providing us a wireless hotspot for the duration of our trip, meaning we’ll be able to keep you updated on''Instagram'',''Twitter''and our''Facebook Page''as we go. We’ll also be doing a full review of the service after the trip, so you can decide for yourselves how this could be useful for you.''Visit Norway''– We’re thrilled to be working with the''Visit Norway''regional tourism office for our stays in Oslo and Bergen. They’re going to be hooking us up with access to various attractions and sights in these two wonderful sounding cities, as well as information on what to see and where to go. We can’t wait!''And over to you!''Most of the places that we’re visiting are new to us. If you’ve visited or lived in any of the above, and have any tips or suggestions for things to see and do, then we are all ears. Or maybe you’ve never visited, but there’s something you’ve heard of that you’d like us to check out for you. Either way, hit up the comments, and let us know!''@visitnorway @getyourguide @hostelbookers @xcomglobal @interrail''SHARE ON''Slightly unexpectedly, I find myself sitting on a boat in Thailand as the deck erupts with a motley crew of young Australian girls, giving it their all to the pumping beats of Gangnam Style. This is followed by a step perfect rendition of The Macarena. A tremendous amount of fun is being had by all, and I’m peering at the goings-on whilst trying to work out if I’ve slipped into a martini induced hallucination of my university days.''Of course, this isn’t the case, as I’ve not had any martini. Although if I had had a martini, that would have been entirely appropriate, given the activities of the day. Let me rewind a little bit.''It is the 5th of February, 2013, and like every fifth of February for the last thirty years or so (collective gasp), this signifies that I’ve successfully managed to pilot the earth around a giant nuclear ball of fire with no serious mishap (collective applause). In other words, it’s the day of my birthday, although really I think it should be my mum who celebrates this achievement rather than me. Still, she gets her own birthday, so the unfairness is at least evenly distributed.''The last few birthdays have been fairly geographically diverse, as I travel the earth checking that our orbit around the sun is still going well. Ok, so that last bit isn’t entirely true. But you get the gist. I had a birthday on the roof of a tailor’s shop in Tasmania, for example. Then one under the shadow of an active volcano in New Zealand, followed by one in the frozen depths of a winter coated Europe. I share these experiences so you can see that I quite like doing things a little bit differently with each birthday, and saw no reason for 2013 to be any different. My 33rd, since you asked.''As it was, we were given the opportunity by the nice folks at''GetYourGuide''to undertake a tour with them, and since the''zip lining experience''had gone so well, we thought why not go on a trip for my birthday. And what better trip than a''Canoe tour to James Bond island in Thailand’s Phang Nga bay'', home to some of Thailand’s most impressive rock formations. This seemed like a decent way to ring in another year of managing not to set the world on fire.''Tour booked, we sat back and quietly looked forward to spending some time getting up close and personal with Christopher Lee’s island lair hideout ((the film in question being 1974’s Man with the Golden Gun) with a bit of canoeing thrown in for good measure.''The day of my birthday dawned gloriously bright and sunny, with wall to wall blue skies. Vera even presented me with a candle filled chocolate brownie in bed to wake me up. The day had started well.''Sometime later, we found ourselves sitting outside our hotel awaiting our pick up. This took some time to arrive, and about forty five minutes after it was supposed to turn up, I sensed something was amiss, and rang the number we had been given in case of problem.''A very nice man on the other end took a look at my booking, and explained that there had been an error at his end, and somehow my booking for the 5th had been transcribed as the 25th. So there was no van coming. And it was also likely that the boat had already left.''What was to be done? Well, luckily for us, we had a spare day, so were able to reschedule to the 6th. It wasn’t the end of the world – we just had to re-plan my birthday celebrations, which turned out to be us spending a day exploring the rather pretty old streets of Phuket Old Town, which, if you’re ever in the area, are well worth the time to do.''Anyway, this post is about that boat trip and James Bond, which happened the day after my birthday. Luckily, many people also celebrate their birthdays on the 6th, so I felt they wouldn’t mind if I temporarily labelled that my birthday as well (plus, I’m sure it was the 5th still somewhere in the world). And so the birthday celebration was on!''Amazingly, we’ve got to 750 words, and we’ve not even set off on the boat yet. This probably shouldn’t come as a surprise by now. Let’s have a photo of Vera in a canoe to save you from worrying about further misadventure.''The following morning dawned a little murkier than the morning before, but this time our van was waiting for us outside the hotel. All was well. We hopped on board, and after picking up a few more people and a total of around an hours drive, found ourselves at the pier.''Here it became apparent that we weren’t the only ones who liked the idea of visiting James Bond island and doing a bit of sea canoeing – this is a very popular activity amongst visitors to Thailand. Interestingly, it didn’t seem to appeal to just one demographic – everyone from kids to retirees were present, and waiting to board their boat.''There were plenty of boats to accommodate all the people, all loaded up with inflatable canoes, and after some sorting and wrist band attachment, we were herded to our particular vessel. The atmosphere was of a fairly large party, all off on a jolly adventure. Naturally, the boats fully stocked bar and pumping tunes helped contribute towards this vibe.''If this all sounds a bit too much, then fear not. The boat was made up of three levels, and was easily big enough to accommodate everyone on board. Solace could be sought on the top deck, from where the views were unimpeded, and what views they were.''Phang Nga bay is way up there on the must-visit list for any trip to Thailand (hence all the people and boats!), and this is for good reason. Eerily green water surrounds rock formations and islands that defy the imagination as to how they stay upright without toppling over. Caves beckon, promising hidden island interiors accessible only by sea. Stalactites drip off the rocks, demonstrating the passage of ages. All in all, it’s pretty epic.''Our first stop on the adventure was to Khao Phing Kan, better known as James Bond island. The most famous feature of this island is the islet around forty metres off shore known as Ko Tapu – a thin wedge of rock which is narrower at its base than its top, and is perhaps the most recognisable of all the rock formations in Thailand.''James Bond island itself wasn’t a particularly large affair, (barely room for a villain, let alone a secret lair and henchman) so didn’t take much time to explore. In addition, this is a seriously crowded location, (everyone wants a bit of Scaramanga action it seems!) so after snapping a few shots and gaping at the improbably shaped cliffs and rock formations, we weren’t too sad to be bundled back into our long tail boat for transfer back to our bigger boat.''Here was where it got exciting – time to be paddled around some of the more interesting rock formations in the bay. We were loaded up into our inflatable canoe, furnished with paddler / guide (none of this paddle yourself malarkey), and set off on the calm, green tinged waters, to explore the various caves and inlets of some of the islands of the Ao Phang Nga National Park. Some of these played host to hidden interior lagoons, occasionally filled with monkeys, accessible only by canoe. The scenery was staggeringly gorgeous.''In between canoe rides we had a full all you can eat buffet lunch, which was delicious. Iced water and oddly coloured soft drinks were also provided all day to stave off dehydration, and the weather improved to gorgeous blue skies as the day progressed, making this into a very memorable day after birthday celebration.''But, you’re probably wondering by now, where do these dancing girls come into the mix? Allow me to enlighten you.''After our canoe expeditions were over, lunch had been eaten, and some time had been spent relaxing on a lovely beach, it was time to head back to the pier, around an hour’s boat ride away.''If the view wasn’t enough to keep us entertained, and also perhaps handily for the families on board, the crew laid on some actually pretty decent entertainment, from a magic show to break dancing. And then, towards the end, naturally the pumping beats started, with pretty much the whole boat joining in when Gangnam Style came on. Vera nearly died of hysterics.''So would I recommend this trip? Well, if you are after a well organised day, with stunning scenery and a bit of James Bond thrown in, then you won’t go far wrong with this. Plus the fully stocked bar means you can even live out those James Bond fantasies to the max. Tux optional.''As with everything in life though, everyone has different needs, and this type of tour might not suit your particular travel style. If you aren’t a fan of larger group tours, then this one might not be for you. The good news is that GetYourGuide offers a variety of excursions allowing you to''visit James Bond island'', so there is likely going to be one to suit.''Our GetYourGuide''canoe trip to James Bond Island''was provided to us in exchange for penning our thoughts. Gangnam Style dance moves and those thoughts remain entirely our own.''@GetYourGuide #travel #thailand''SHARE ON''A bit of geography for you. Arguably Thailand’s most famous coastline is the Andaman. It’s the bit that you see in the postcards – impossibly pristine waters, beautiful long-tail boats, and those lumps of limestone that rise out of the sea like giant teeth.''It’s home to islands, beaches, and people. Islands with names like Koh Lanta and Phuket, beaches like Railay, towns called Krabi. These are names that even I was familiar with before I visited, and I knew that they were likely to be both stunningly beautiful, and slightly on the busy side. Beauty has a habit of drawing in the crowds.''The thing is, the Andaman coast is a fairly long stretch of coastline, and not that many people seem to want to make the effort to explore its more southern reaches. Which is kind of splendid if you aren’t of the party bent, and are looking for that hitherto impossible dream – a largely undeveloped and unspoilt part of Thailand.''The province of Trang, way down at the southern end of Thailand’s world famous Andaman coast, offered us this dream. Incredibly beautiful, and yet mysteriously lacking in visitors. Certainly not in the quantities that you’ll find further up the coast.''I’m talking miles of empty beaches, quaint little thatched bungalows, waterfalls cascading down mountains that rivalled any we’d seen elsewhere in Thailand, culture, history and food that was quite unique to the region and of course, those incredible limestone karsts in the sea that make this bit of coast so famous.''Sure, there are tourists here – of both the Thai and Western variety, particularly if you head to some of the islands off the coast. But stay onshore, and you’re going to have those amazing beaches pretty much to yourself. Head inland, and you’re likely to only find incredibly friendly Thais giving you a curious glance. They might even ask for a photo. Which, I promise you, is a rarity in much of the rest of the country.''Today I’m going to be sharing some thoughts on our time in the surrounds of Trang town, which is a little inland. Future posts will tackle the coastline and islands. Let’s dive in!''What to see in Trang''Rubber''Since the early 20th century, rubber has been a main product of the Trang region, with plantations everywhere. Trang was in fact the first place in Thailand to start commercial production of this substance, and the industry is certainly still going strong today.''If you get a chance to watch the process in action as we did, then it’s well worth doing.''You’ll see how the trees are tapped for their latex, and then marvel as the liquid goo solidifies into a product that can be rolled into the mats that you’ll see hanging all over the place, ready to be turned into all those rubber products that enrich our lives.''Dragons Cave – Tham Le Khao Kop''One of the most popular activities in the Trang region, particularly with Thai visitors, is a trip to Tham Le Khao Kop, an inland cave which can only be accessed by underwater canal.''There are plenty of row boats, which cost around 300 Baht (7-8 Euros) to hire, which includes a couple of crew to do the actual hard work. They’ll steer you down the canal and into the cave, and then give you a guided tour of the actual cave. This is a pretty impressive place, stuffed full of all those things you’d expect to see in a cave.''The real highlight of this trip though, is the journey out, which the locals refer to as passing through the belly of the dragon, and is definitely not for the claustrophobic. The cave roof is incredibly low, and you have to lie totally flat in the boat for around fifteen minutes, as solid rock brushes past your noise. The Thai believe that this is a very auspicious activity. Vera, who isn’t the best with claustrophobia, only just about made it through – and she’s going to have a full post on this coming soon. It’s worth doing, but not for the claustrophobic!''Governor’s House''The reason for all the rubber in Trang was a chap called Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi, who brought the first rubber tree into Thailand in 1899. You can still visit that very tree, the oldest in the region.''You can also visit the residence where this Chinese born chap lived during his time as governor of Trang, and learn a bit about the history of the region. The big, airy, wooden house feels wonderfully colonial, and you can almost imagine yourself taking high tea with the governor, whilst discussing the state of the rubber crop.''Waterfalls''If all this history and materialism is too much for you, don’t worry, Trang still has plenty to offer. Two waterfalls particularly stand out as being worth the visit – Namtok Ton Tok and Namtok Ton Te waterfalls. Both of these are excellent for swimming, with Ton Te being the more spectacular of the two.''It cascades down a huge exposed section of granite, down a total drop of 320 metres, to a large pool at the bottom, which when we visited was full of with locals having the time of their lives in the beautifully clear and warm water.''Trang Night Market''If you’re at all hungry in Trang, then the evening night market, located not too far from the clock tower, is a must-visit. Here you’ll find all kind of treats on offer, from delightfully fragrant curries through to the inevitable fried chicken and of course a whole variety of seafood.''You’re going to have to master eating from a plastic bag, which seems to be the Thai way of serving any street food that comes with a sauce, but it’s a worthwhile skill to have.''On weekends there’s often a second night market in the region of the train station. We weren’t there at a weekend, so I can’t comment on that one. If you go, let us know what you thought!''Chinese Temples''With so much Chinese influence, Trang manages to pack in a fair number of Chinese temples around the town, which are easy to walk to. These differ quite a bit from the Thai wats, largely due to the many dragons that adorn them. And I do like a good dragon or two. They’re certainly worth a visit.''The Botanical Garden Skywalk''Just outside the city, and by the airport, is the Trang botanical garden, where you can find countless types of tree, and in particular palm trees, that you might not find anywhere else. Of course, the real highlight is the skywalk, where you can climb up above the jungle canopy to get the sort of aerial view that is usually reserved for monkeys or''people going zip lining''. It’s not quite as action packed as zip-lining, but you do get a bit more time to look around, and it’s free. Which is tough to argue with!''What to eat''Breakfast is a big deal in the Trang region, as we discovered when we were taken on a tour of two different breakfast establishments. The main reason for this is that folk who work on the rubber plantations at night get hungry, and so breakfast is really dinner. Or something like that anyway.''The first place we visited was a bakery, where they created a local pastry item consisting of a hard boiled egg yolk wrapped in taro paste and pastry and then deep fried. A variety of different flavours exist, all of which are wonderfully tasty and entirely unhealthy.''The second place we visited was very popular with families and late night workers, and offered up an exciting choice of dim sum and other classic Chinese dishes, which are a real Trang breakfast speciality. The entire menu was put in front of us to sample – we did our best to work through it in the name of research!''You’ll also find that the Muslim influence means that Roti places are all over, and of course the aforementioned night market is a must for cheap and tasty evening eats. In short – you’re not going to go hungry in Trang!''How to get here''Trang has a train station, with a couple of sleeper trains running daily all the way from Bangkok. Otherwise it’s the standard bus / minivan option – being a regional capital means it’s fairly easy to get to from neighbouring towns and provinces. There’s also an airport, if you’re pressed for time, and if you book in advance, flights can be very reasonable.''How to get around''Central Trang is easily walk able, but to see any of the main sights outside of the city you’re gong to want transport. You could hire a motorbike or car for the day, or of course hire a tuk tuk or van with driver to take you around. Prices naturally vary depending on the options, so ask around before committing.''Getting from Trang to the coast and then on to the islands is also very easy – minivans run regularly (it takes around an hour), and you can usually get a ticket which includes both your bus and ferry if you’re going straight to the islands.''Where to stay''There are a host of accommodation options in Trang, ranging from budget and upwards. There are some good deals to be had around the train station, with rooms going in the region of 300-500 Baht (8-12 Euros) without air conditioning.''For an overview of what’s on offer, just pop into one of the local tour offices near the train station. We got a full run down of all the places available to stay, a map, and detailed instructions to the nearest laundry place. All very helpful, and all very free. If, however, you would prefer to sort out your accommodation in advance, then we can recommend the following resources:''Our''go-to choice for finding the best deals is usually''Booking.com''. We generally find them to offer the best value of all the search engines, plus many properties offer a no-fee last minute cancellation policy.''Check out their''Trang listings here.''We have also heard good things about''Agoda.com''from fellow travellers and readers who have been to Thailand.''Can’t decide between the above two? Try''HotelsCombined'', which lets you search both of the above at the same time, as well as a number of other comparison sites, in order to get the best deal.''With these options, you should find the best prices for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''Further reading''i can recommend the online''WikiVoyage site''as a good resource for up to date information. However as this is crowd sourced, it’s only as good as the content people add to it, so this will improve over time.''We picked up a dog eared copy of the''Lonely Planet’s Thailand’s Islands & Beaches''on our travels (''available on Amazon''), which had some information on the Trang region, and particularly the islands, although as is fairly obvious from the name, didn’t go into great detail on visiting the interior.''The best option is just to ask around when you arrive into Trang, or get in touch with the''Tourism Authority of Thailand'', who should be able to give you more ideas on things to do, where to stay, and how to get in and out.''Disclaimer – part of our trip around Thailand was undertaken in conjunction with the''Tourism Authority of Thailand'', who were rather keen that we spend some time in Trang, for reasons that became very apparent as we toured – it’s stunning here! They helped us out with some transport and accommodation logistics, and we’re thankful for that – naturally all opinions remain our own.''@ThailandFanClub #travel #thailand''SHARE ON''Accommodation is part of travelling. You go abroad to explore foreign countries, their food, their culture – or you might just want to relax. This is much easier on a nice beach and with a change of scenery than at home, next to the dirty laundry that needs doing.''Accommodation has to be sorted out, but isn’t really part of the reason why you go on a holiday. Nevertheless, it’s important. It’s where your suitcase sits and where you lay your head. It’s your home away from home for the time being, a little safe oasis.''Loz and I have experienced a whole range of these places throughout our lives (maybe not the super-deluxe suite normally reserved for royalty, but there’s still hope). For our travels, we usually opt for budgety stays, as it lets us travel longer, but of course we are also happy when we get invited to stay at and review the more upper-class places.''Everyone reviews their accommodation anyway, don’t they? You just don’t do it on a blog, normally. But you still spend time thinking and talking about it, you take pictures of your room, of the view from your terrace (or your camper-van, let’s not be one-sided here) and of the funky little statue in the lobby. I always do.''Admittedly, the posher it gets, the more looks wander your way when you get excited about something like the little statue. Try to look bored while taking the picture, is what I recommend here. You can do it.''This splendid tip admittedly did not work for me when we rocked up for our review-gig at Nern Chalet in Hua Hin. Special caution was advised, since Hua Hin is Thailand’s oldest and most exclusive sea resort. It’s just 150 km away from Bangkok and was made popular with the High Society by King Rama VI himself when he visited in the 1920s, and afterwards decided to build a summer residence here, which is actually still frequented by the Royal Family (somehow they didn’t ask us to review it. Probably next time.). Alas I tried to be extra contained but already struggled before we even made it to the reception, because I had to stop to take a photo of this picture:''I don’t exactly know what it is with this “I need to take this picture NOW”-thing, but I’m blaming it on travelling and numerous occasions when you thought you could take a picture of something later, and then you couldn’t. And no, I won’t be fooled anymore!''No eyebrows were raised though by the polite receptionist and without further diversions (because I made an effort to look at the floor instead of taking in more potential shots of the place) we were shown our room, but didn’t pay too much attention to it, to be honest, because we had to first hop on our terrace and check out the view. After 6 weeks of travelling Thailand, this was the first time we were right at the sea, and it was definitely the first time we could see the beach from our room – and I mean, actually from inside our room, because two of its four walls were tinted windows.''Hua Hin is a city with a very laid-back feel to it, and it’s very much alive, but certainly not hectic. Nern Chalet, being a bit away from the centre (which I thought to be an advantage – and cheap public transport to the city runs regularly throughout the day) mirrors that perfectly. This is such a nice, calm, open, relaxed green place! Never crowded (might be difficult anyway; with the 18 rooms they have), but there’s always someone reading a book over an ice tea, or tanning away on one of the deck chairs right next to the infinity pool.''As far as I could tell, some people did not feel any urge to leave the property. Other people also did not feel any urge to leave the property but believed they had to provide a little more than “The place was so nice we actually have no idea what to see and do around it because we just hung out there” on their blog. Please acknowledge our many, many sacrifices to the profession of travel-blogging. Thank you.''So we inquired with the ever-helpful and friendly staff what to do and what to see, got a little map and set off – to the beach. Because Nern Chalet sits at the end of Takieb Beach, right next to Monkey Mountain (and a monkey we did see) or Thao Takiap (Takiap Hill) or Chopstick Hill (hey, nobody said there were any rules why one mountain couldn’t have three different names!), but if you walk down the street for 10 minutes, you come to a second beach, Suan Son Beach.''‘Son’ means ‘pinetree’, and that’s what this beach is lined with – very nice. It’s necessary to check out all beaches available, of course, which we did with this one. We walked its whole length of around 6 km, with only the first 200 metres being busy, passed beach art, too, and arrived in the little fishing village of the name Baan Khao Tao, another popular destination because of a wat with a gigantic golden Buddha who is sitting on top of a hill, looking out over the tiny port with its few boats.''So you can get your wat on. If you feel particularly ambitious, head to the hill (Khao Klailat) over the road from Nern Chalet and climb up to the temple complex that lies on top of it. Just a tiny amount of steep steps later you have a good view over the beach front\xa0 (“Look! There’s my hotel!”).''You can also go shopping downtown – there is Chatchai market, a traditional Thai shopping place, with many stalls, and there is the massive Market village, a mall more of the Western experience. There’s a fish market early in the morning at the Fishing Pier, and there’s a floating market that you best have the lovely staff from Nern Chalet arrange transport for you to.''Then there are also the night markets – two to choose from, in fact; one being more touristy and featuring exquisite dining options, the other one a bit more for the locals and also more low-key. Both are nice and worth exploring!''In the actual town centre of Hua Hin, there’s a tiny Chinese temple right at the sea-side, and a lot of cafés and bars – AND, there’s the train station – you think that’s an odd sight to mention? Far from it in this case: the Hua Hin train station is said to be the prettiest in Thailand, and regularly appears on lists of the most beautiful train stations worldwide. Again, that might be because of the royal touch (it has a waiting pavilion for the King on the platform).''Hua Hin is also very popular for golfers and kite surfers (wind strength 4-6, anyone?), in case you felt particularly sporty. You can of course just WATCH the kite surfers (somewhere this counts as sport, too, I’m sure).''The thing is: you arrive at Hua Hin and have this nice “Aaaah, nothing to do here, just reeeelax”-feeling, but the deeper you dig, the more stuff you can actually do, and I’m not even talking about the surrounding area. Thankfully, this is all not too much in your face, and so you can do what one is often only too tempted to do: acknowledge the many options of leisure management with glee – and then choose to ignore it all, plant your rear end firmly in a comfy chair next to the infinity pool, positioned just right to take in a view of the beach, the ocean, the hill with the large Buddha statue from the monkey mountain – and just do nothing.''Nern Chalet is certainly perfect for that. Oh, it is! It was a pleasure staying there and we can whole-heartedly recommend it to you. They also get extra golden bonus points for having a brilliant''website''which completely rids me of the effort to list any information you need when visiting, as I couldn’t do it half as good. Do check it out, and learn a bit more, because I haven’t told you everything… How’s that for a mystery ending? I’m one step away from being the next Agatha Christie…''Anyway, I hope this post gave you a little bit of information about Hua Hin and where to stay there – it might come in useful one day! Happy travels to everyone.''As is fairly obvious I imagine, our stay at Nern Chalet in Hua Hin was provided to us in return for us penning up our thoughts, whatever those happened to be, on the property. During our time in Hua Hin we also stayed at a self catered property from the same owners as Nern Chalet – the Ploen Terrace. You can read up as to our''thoughts on that experience here.''SHARE ON''There’s an often ignored malady that I suspect many of us have succumbed to when travelling, maybe without even realising it. It’s particularly easy to get struck down by this one, and it can really ruin at least a few days of your trip. I am of course talking about dehydration.''I’ve met quite a few people on various travels who have been convinced they were suffering from all kinds of things, from the flu through to food poisoning. I also grew up on a small tropical island where visitors would often be struck down with this malady.''I thought therefore that a post offering tips for noticing and avoiding this common traveller’s pitfall would be handy. We’ll start with:''How to recognise the early warning signs of dehydration''The weird thing about dehydration is that''feeling thirsty is often not a symptom''. I’m sure there’s an excellent reason for this, but usually when people have all the symptoms, and you suggest that dehydration might be an issue, they’ll say that they didn’t think of that because they weren’t thirsty. The human body – a constant medical marvel. Here are''three easy indicators to look out for'', although they might not all be present:''Feeling nauseous''Headache''Dark urine''Basically, if you’re an adult, and have ever experienced a hangover, then you’re already a bit familiar with what dehydration feels like.''Other symptoms that dehydration can cause''I think one of the main reasons that folks don’t think they are dehydrated, and instead have contracted some epic local disease / food poisoning, is the''exciting array of symptoms that dehydration can cause'', beyond the initial symptoms. Some of these may include, but are not limited to:''Lethargy''Flu-like aches and pains''that will convince you you have something more serious wrong with you''Vomiting and diarrhoea''– by this point the situation has gotten serious and you may convince yourself you have food poisoning. If you can’t keep liquids down, you need to head to a doctor or hospital for intravenous rehydration, like, now.''Constipation''Dizziness''Fever''Irritability –''this one is particularly awesome for when you try and point out to people that they may be dehydrated''Loss of appetite''Dry skin''How to fix dehydration''The good news is that''dehydration is remarkably easy to fix''– although taking in liquids will probably not be enough. Dehydration is usually more than just a lack of fluids – you will have sweated out important salts and sugars, which cause the imbalance in your body. So as well as the liquid, you need to replace these.''Take in plenty of liquid'', ideally water, to replace that which you have lost''Replace the lost salts''with a sachet (or more) of oral rehydration salts, also known as electrolyte solution. These can be found in pharmacies or convenience stores, either in powder form, or as a sports drink.''If you can’t find rehydration salts or solution, you can''make your own'', based on''world health organisation advice.''Mix 2 tablespoons sugar, half a teaspoon of salt and 1 litre of water.''Rest.''You will likely feel pretty awful, and your body needs time to recover. Spend some time in a cool, relaxing place, taking in plenty of the above, until you feel better.''As mentioned before, if you really can’t keep liquids down,''get yourself to a medical professional''for intravenous fluid replacement. Dehydration can kill, and quickly, so don’t take the risk.''As well as being easy to fix, the recovery time for dehydration is remarkably quick. I’ve seen people go from feeling like they are about to throw up to being perfectly fine in as little as ten minutes, after taking in fluids and rehydration salts.''How to avoid dehydration in the first place''When you''arrive in a new country'', particularly a warm one, the urge to get out and explore is likely to be fairly high. This was certainly the case with our arrival into Bangkok for example, where we''launched into the thirty four degree heat''on a fast paced and complex itinerary.''It didn’t take long before Vera in particular''started to feel incredibly nauseous'', and convinced herself that she’d already gotten food poisoning. I realised that we had probably just been overdoing it and loaded her up with rehydration salts and liquids, which are handily available in every 7-11 in Thailand. After ten minutes rest she was back to her city exploring self in no time at all, and has carried rehydration salts with her everywhere we’ve gone for the rest of the trip!''Our''advice to avoid dehydration''would be:''When you arrive somewhere which is much hotter than you’ve come from,''schedule in a day or two to acclimatise''and let your body''get used to the heat and humidity''Take in''plenty of liquids''– an absolute minimum of 2 litres a day – and''carry rehydration salts on you.''Pre-emptive use of these isn’t a bad idea either. On day hikes in Australia, I’d easily go through five litres of water, as an example.''Go''easy on the alcohol'', at least for the first few days. I know, you think I’m crazy. Ah well.''And that’s it for dehydration! Have you ever suffered from this one? Got any tips to add to the above, or stories to share? Let us know in the comments below!''Note: we’re not medical professionals, and this post shouldn’t be seen as medical advice! If you’re feeling particularly crappy, the best people to advise you on your health are people who have spent a lot of time learning about healthcare, not some person from the internet you’ve never met. We’d like to think the above is pretty helpful, but it should be taken as a guide only, not life saving advice ;).''SHARE ON''Before I came to Thailand, if you had asked me to name any Thai city beginning with the word “Nakhon”, I would have been fairly stuck. I’m guessing that you might be a bit like me in this regard. If not, maximum points, well done.''As it is, our adventures in Thailand have taken us to two cities starting with the word Nakhon. These were Nakhon Ratchasima (better known locally as Korat, although I hadn’t heard of it by either name), and the city of Nakhon Si Thammarat, which most Thai people refer to simply as Nakhon, and which is the subject of today’s post.''If you’ve never heard of Nakhon Si Thammarat, don’t worry, it doesn’t seem to feature particularly high up on most itineraries. This is probably because whilst it is in the south of Thailand, it’s not exactly on the beach, and when you think of southern Thailand you probably think of the gorgeous Andaman coast, or some beautiful far flung islands ringed with white sands and turquoise waters.''Slightly grubby and, in the words of the Lonely Planet, “not likely to win any beauty contests”, Nakhon doesn’t even make the radar as somewhere to pass through.''Which, I would argue, is a tremendous mistake, for at least two big reasons, and countless other smaller ones. Let’s get started with some knowledge on Nakhon.''All about Nakhon Si Thammarat, and our arrival''Nakhon is the regional capital of the Nakhon Si Thammarat province, and is one of Thailand’s oldest cities, dating from at least the 7th century and certainly prominent as a large city during the times of Sukhothai and Ayutthaya.''It is located on the east side of the Thai peninsula, a couple of hours drive south of Surat Thani, which most folks will pass through on their way to somewhere like Koh Samui.''The first thing we noticed when we arrived into Nakhon was that there weren’t exactly a massive number of Westerners around. The second thing we noticed, after a brisk walk, was that the hotel we had picked wasn’t where our map suggested it might be.''We were rescued from our predicament as we slowly melted in the sun (Nakhon is a hot place)\xa0 by a lovely shop owner, who grabbed her boys and bundled us into a motorbike and sidecar affair, where we were whisked the few blocks across town to where we were supposed to be staying, at the Nakhon Garden Inn. (More on accommodation options a bit further down). They refused any payment, and further reinforced in my mind the idea that Thai people are some of the friendliest on earth.''I said there are two main reasons to visit. There are of course more – this is a funky city to spend a bit of time, even if it’s not a particularly beautiful one. I’ll start with the two main attractions, and then throw out a couple more options for you.''Wat Phra Maha That Woramaha Wihan''Try saying that after a couple of beers. This temple is the number one reason that Thai people visit Nakhon, being as it is one of Thailand’s most important temples, and certainly the most important temple in southern Thailand.''The temple is believed to date from the founding of the city, well over a thousand years ago, and the main draw is the Chedi: Phar Borom That Chedi. This is believed to have been constructed in 757AD, and stands at eighty metres in height. It’s also topped with around 200 kilos of pure gold, and if that wasn’t enough, it’s also home to one of the Lord Buddha’s teeth.''The main Chedi is surrounded by 173 smaller Chedi, and there is a museum on site which houses all the offerings that people have brought to the temple. It’s a wonderful place for a wander, and entry is free.''Khao Luang National Park''Situated around 30km from Nakhon Si Thammarat is the Khao Luang National Park, home to Khao Luang mountain, which at just over 1.7km in height is the highest in southern Thailand.''The park features a number of absolutely stunning waterfalls, as well as villages for homestays and hiking opportunities galore – including a two to three day hike to the summit of Khao Luang itself.''We didn’t have quite the time for that, so instead spend a day visiting the Namtok Karom waterfall, said to be one of the most beautiful in the park, which cascades down over 19 levels.''This is an easy songthaew (covered pickup) ride from Nakhon, with the 20km trip taking no longer than 30 minutes and costing 30-50 Baht per person. If in doubt, just ask any local about the local bus to Namtok Karom and they’ll direct you to the local songthaew stop. The route you’ll want is the Lan Saka – Khao Kaeo one. Park entry is the same as it is everywhere else in Thailand, at 200 Baht per person at time of writing.''Namtok Karom turned out to be a pretty darn spectacular waterfall, with seven levels open to the public, and the seventh being the most impressive. The 2km walk from entrance up to the seventh level (taking in levels four to six on the way) was steep but worth it! The park was deserted when we arrived, although started to fill up with Thai people as the day progressed, all keen to have a refreshing swim.''Further information on Khao Luang National Park (as well as maps and information in English on the whole region) can be picked up at the local TAT tourist office, in downtown Nakhon.''Wat Thao Kot – The Crumbling Jungle Temple''A little further down from Wat Phra Maha That, this old riverside temple complex contains five temples that are slowly falling apart. The temples themselves aren’t terribly impressive, but the location, with the jungle reclaiming its own, is very atmospheric. This spot is also home to a lively market, which warrants the visit.''The City Walls''Like a number of other Thai cities, Chiang Mai being the one that springs readily to mind, Nakhon Si Thammarat has some parts of its original city wall still intact. These are a fairly impressive pile of brickwork, giving an idea of the stature this city once held. There were also ten city gates originally, although there isn’t much left to see of these.''Those are just four great reasons to visit Nakhon. There are of course multiple others, including a number of other Wats, mosques and museums, and the famous shadow theatre, in which you can while away some time. The aforementioned TAT office is stuffed full of ideas and is the best place to get more options.''Where and how long to stay in Nakhon Si Thammarat''The actual city of Nakhon and the main sights can be easily explored in a day. For your second day you could take a day trip (or longer) out to Khao Luang National Park, and see some of the spectacular natural beauty on offer.''We stayed for three nights, which let us pretty comprehensively explore all the sights we were interested in, take more photos than you can imagine, and also head out to the Nakhon Karom waterfall.''In terms of accommodation Nakhon isn’t quite as well equipped for tourists as other Thai cities, with guesthouses / hostels being pretty much non-existent. Instead, you have to pick from a variety of hotels ranging from basic to relatively expensive.''After some research, we settled on the Nakhon Garden Inn, which featured fairly pleasant rooms in a nice garden setting for around 500 Baht a night. There are other options, depending on your budget, but don’t expect a quaint hostel experience!''How to get to Nakhon Si Thammarat''It’s about a two hour minibus ride from the cities of Trang or Surat Thani to Nakhon Si Thammarat, and these run very regularly. From further afield, you can get large air conditioned buses from as far away as Bangkok, which will take around 10-12 hours.''There’s also a train station, so you could get here by rail if you were so inclined, although these are normally a bit slower than the road options, and more likely to be a one-a-day option.''Getting around''As with many Thai cities, the central main street is plied by songthaews (covered pick ups) that will get you from one end of town to the other for a fixed fee of 10 Baht. As Nakhon is a town which is longer than it is wide, you will probably find this to be the easiest way to take in all the temples.''And that’s it for our thoughts on Nakhon Si Thammarat! Have we persuaded you that this Thai city is worth visiting? Had you already heard of it? Anything we’ve missed that you’d like to hear about? Let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''And we’re back with another round up of photos from the Finding the Universe''Facebook page'', taking this to edition six. How the time flies. In case you’re new here, we share daily (sometimes more, sometimes less) photos from our travels around the world on our Facebook Page.''We then post a monthly-ish round up right here on the blog of some of the most popular ones, in case you a) don’t use Facebook or b) missed any!''This series has been very popular, so I see no reason to stop! This update is going to be stuffed full of shots from Thailand, as that’s what we’ve been up to for the last couple of months. Enjoy, and as always, let us know your favourites in the comments at the end.''Let’s get started:''We’ve spent a couple of weeks in the Trang region of southern Thailand, which has a very Chinese feel, right down to the food and the temples. Watch out for the tiger in this one!''From Nakhon si Thammarat (post to follow soon!) we took a day trip to Khao Luang National Park, where we saw some quite gorgeous waterfalls. We also came across this, which we first thought to be a flower. Upon closer inspection, it turned out the flower was looking at us, and if you look closely you can see this is actually an insect – an Orchid Mantis, of the praying mantis family. The head is at the top of the shot. Pretty incredible!''In Khao Sok national park we came across a whole bunch of friendly monkeys. These were my two favourite photos of the bunch 🙂''Khao Sok National Park is mostly famous for its lake, where we stayed on a raft house for a wonderful evening. Full post on that to follow as well of course, as well as the following view from the lake house:''It’s not all hard work of course. Vera takes some time to relax in Khao Sok at our accommodation – Smiley’s Bungalows. Where they really did smile a lot!''I keep losing Vera. In my defence,\xa0 it’s not my fault. We’ve spent a couple of weeks living in a three storey serviced apartment here in Thailand, and having multiple living floors is terribly confusing.''Ok, so it’s not too confusing. More confusing is picking which of the three bathrooms to use. (We’ve settled on just the one, in an endeavour to save the planet from unnecessary cleaning activity. Yay planet!).''Let’s have a bit of context. For the last six weeks or so, we’ve been rocking around Northern Thailand, peering at mountains, visiting hill tribes, photographing temples (turns out Thailand isn’t short of a temple or two) and filling our brains with sights and knowledge.''So when the opportunity to spend a couple of weeks doing a little bit less (ok, very much less), in''a beautiful apartment a stone throw from two beaches''and with pretty much guaranteed sun, naturally we quietly leapt at it with open arms. After all, the whole premise of visiting Thailand was based around relaxing beach time and summery warmth.''So it was that we found ourselves in Hua Hin. This is a beach town around 150km south of Bangkok, very popular as a holiday spot with both Thai people and foreigners alike, which whilst fairly developed, is still interesting enough to make a visit entirely worthwhile.''Here we’ve been revelling in the small choices that suddenly become so important when you slow the pace down. Choices like where to eat, which beach to visit, and quite how best to do as little as possible in the time available.''We have been out, of course. We’re relaxing, but the spirit of exploration is still very much alive. We found the two beaches on offer, and having decided which was our favourite for day time visits, and which was best for walking by the light of the moon, we ventured a little further afield.''Vera, for example, discovered that there’s a shiny mall in downtown Hua Hin, where she’s been able to indulge in all kinds of retail therapy. She’s also found out that tall European bodies were perhaps not in the designers mind for the majority of the therapy items.''I would normally not enjoy that sort of thing, but as the mall also turned out to be home to a cinema complex, I was able to be tucked away with a copy of The Hobbit to get my''Lord of the Rings''fix on.''Having visited the''Hobbiton''set and also having thoroughly explored every nook and cranny of New Zealand in search of Tolkien goodness, it was rather delightful to immerse myself back into that world for a few hours of popcorn munching fun.''So we found a mall nearby. And two beaches, both excellent for swimming and walking on. And countless places to eat. If that’s not enough to keep you entertained, spacious apartment and all, here are some more ideas for things to do in Hua Hin should you drop by:''Things to do when you’re not doing nothing in Hua Hin''Visit the night markets''Central Hua Hin is home to two night markets. There’s a more upmarket touristy one, which has all kinds of incredible looking freshly grilled seafood up for grabs, and is popular with visitors.''Near the main Hua Hin mall is another night market, more popular with locals and slightly cheaper (although featuring less of the roasted lobster options). Both markets are entirely worth a wander, either for food or souvenir hunting.''Climb up the Monkey Mountain''At the south end of the Hua Hin beach, in a part of town called Takieb Village (where we happened to be staying), there’s a hill you can climb. This is home to a tall golden Buddha statue, and also offers rather lovely views across the two beaches in the area. Good for watching either the sunset or sunrise.''Go to the beach''Ok, so I mentioned the beach already. There are two beaches here – the main strip, which is dotted with high rise apartments and is easily five or six kilometres long. We loved walking along this by the light of the full moon at low tide, when there was often no-one but us on it.''There’s another beach at the south end of town, just past the above mentioned Monkey Mountain. Large parts of it are backed by the Thai Army owned golf club, so there is far less development, and once you get past the opening few hundred metres of crowds, it becomes an expanse of largely unvisited gorgeous sand, with the odd fishing boat parked up, presumably for aesthetic purposes. Lovely.''Thoughts on our apartment''The property we stayed at is operated by the owners of the Nern Chalet here in Hua Hin. The Nern Chalet is a beach front hotel right at the southern end of the beach, and Vera’s got a full review of that property on the way soon.''It’s been really lovely to have an apartment to ourselves for some downtime as part of our Thailand trip, and this apartment is wonderfully located, a bit back from the beach in Takieb Village, which is at the southern end of Hua Hin. It’s both quiet and private, and comes with everything you’d expect, including cable TV and wireless internet.''The top floor is home to two bedrooms offering double beds – great for friends or a family. These do share one bathroom though, so you’d need to put some rules in place in the case of friends. (There are six apartments to choose from and not all of them have the shared bathroom if that’s not your thing!)''The middle floor is home to the kitchen and lounge, as well as a nice big balcony and another bathroom with shower.''The lower floor is the property entrance, and has more living area as well as a large dining table. If you need plenty of space on your holiday, then you’d not need to look much further than this property!''In terms of local amenities, there are a couple of shops a five minute walk away which stock pretty much everything you might need. There are also a whole number of places to eat locally, and Hua Hin beach is about five minute walk away. If you want a pool, then the Nern Chalet itself is around ten minutes walk, and pool access is free for guests of the Ploen Terrace.''Getting into Hua Hin itself is also very easy. There’s one main street running all the way along the length of the beach, and covered pick up trucks known as Songthaew’s ply this route for 10 baht per journey (around 25 Euro cents). So if you want to visit the night markets or hit the cinema, you’re looking at around a fifteen minute ride, or around an hours walk along the beach.''As is fairly obvious from the post I expect, our stay at''Ploen Terrace''in Hua Hin was provided to us, in exchange for, well, actually, nothing. We just wrote this post anyway because we liked it so much. If you want to find out more, do check out''their website'',''SHARE ON''Despite having spent a great deal of time travelling around Europe, my trails have never taken me to Eastern Europe, other than a quick city break in Prague. So when Chloe contacted me asking if I’d host a post on Croatia, in Eastern Europe, naturally I was interested. Read on to find out why this is a country to add to your list!''When planning places to visit around Europe, the bigger nations in the west are usually the first areas that come to mind.''It’s common for many of us who have visited these countries, and particularly their major cities, to gasp over the high price of living. The reality is that places like Zurich, London and Paris are always going to be expensive. So what are your options if you’re looking for something a bit cheaper?''Since the fall of the Iron Curtain in the 90’s, a growing number of backpackers have found Eastern Europe to be a captivating – and cheaper! – alternative when it comes to discovering a different side of the continent.''Croatia for a change''Some countries are easily overlooked when it comes to planning a holiday in Europe. This might be because of time restrictions, distance – or just a lack of information. I would argue that these decisions can be a mistake. There are plenty of hidden gems in Europe that are often missed out, and one of these is Croatia.''Croatia’s''picturesque coastline''is just one of the many reasons why a growing number of Europeans are heading there for some R&R, with the lively harbours of Istria captivating many visitors, and a sailing trip along the Dalmatian coast providing unforgettable memories for others.''Croatia’s culture and history offer''multiple''other reasons to visit'', with''UNESCO sites''such as Diocletian’s Palace dotted all around the country. Even better, despite the tourism boost, the country is still relatively''affordable to travel''around''meaning you will have money in the bank to spend on entrance fees and dining out. Many travel guides are warming to Croatia as an''up and coming destination'', so get in early before the crowds!''if you plan on visiting Croatia you’ll find that thankfully, affordable accommodation isn’t impossible. As well as hotels and other slightly quirky accommodation options (see below) you could also choose the option to stay at campsites in Croatia. This is a great alternative, as Croatian summers are very pleasant and the scenery for camping is superb.''The right accommodation''With tourism growing in Eastern Europe, countries like Croatia like to live up to visitors expectations, and this has resulted in there being''several interesting accommodation options.''.''As well as hotels, you’ll be able to choose to stay in lighthouses''Whatever your budget, Croatia and Eastern Europe have something to offer everyone. The previously mentioned holiday parks are safe and popular amongst locals.''So if stretching your money out in Europe is your goal, why not head out East, and discover what other parts of the continent have to offer.''Thanks to Chloe for providing today’s post. If you’ve got any thoughts on travelling in Eastern Europe, do drop them in the comments below!''SHARE ON''I love''Instagram''. Since it became available for Android in early 2012 I’ve been really enjoying the way it lets me share photos of the moments that happen around me in near real-time.''I also find the square format to be fun to work with, and find it fascinating what you can achieve with a portable device.''We recently spent six weeks exploring the north and north east regions of Thailand, and saw a whole host of wonderful things, some of which I’ve already shared with you on this blog. I thought you might like to see some of my favourite Instagram moments from those six weeks, in case you don’t do the Instagram thing.''All of these photos were shot and edited on my Android powered smartphone:''Chains of money dangle in front of a huge golden statue of a monk in a temple near the city of Korat in north eastern Thailand.''The ancient Thai capital of Sukhothai was an incredible place to spend a few days exploring. It’s stuffed full of old temples and lovely old statues like this one. See my''full photo post on Sukhothai''to find out more!''You can’t have an Instagram round up post without some sort of food or beverage reference. Hence this shot of a tea pot, which we found in our''Chiang Mai hotel''. Basically, this showcases Vera’s entire approach to tea – a fuel – so it seemed somewhat appropriate!''I use a lot of applications to edit photos on my phone, with the recently launched Snapseed for Android being a new favourite. This is the sort of thing it can achieve, on a shot of a tower block in Chiang Mai. For more of my thoughts on Snapseed and photo editing on Android in general, check out this article I did for''tech blog Too Many Adapters''.''We took a trip up to the''Doi Inthanon national park'', home to Thailand’s highest mountain. One of the highlights''was this walk above the clouds along a ridge of cloud forest. Gorgeous stuff.''Doi Inthanon is also home to some of the most impressive waterfalls in Thailand it turns out.''The white temple of Chiang Rai is a deeply odd place. Find out more about it, and see more photos, in this''post on the white temple.''As part of our trip around the Golden Triangle, we took a tour of the Royal residence, which included these quite spectacular gardens.''We watched the sunset over the Mekong river in the Golden Triangle region of Thailand. Pretty spectacular stuff.''The exact same view the next morning was gloriously misty!''Flags outside a temple in the northern city of Chiang Mai''In Chiang Mai I loved the reflections in the moats, which reminded me of''our time in Girona'', and the reflections in the river there.''Here’s a self portrait of me shooting a temple with my SLR and tripod. Something a little bit different!''And the last photo – our train from Ayutthaya, where we turned our noses south and headed for the beaches!''And that’s it for my tour of northern Thailand by Instagram! I shared a lot more photos which I didn’t post here, do feel free to follow me on Instagram to see more! You can either just press the button below, or head over to my Instagram profile:''http://instagram.com/Lozula''If you use Instagram, do feel free to leave your username or web url in the comments below, so everyone can follow along!''Note, our trip in Thailand is being made possible thanks to some assistance from the''Tourism Authority of Thailand'', who have been helping us out with a number of aspects of our trip, from accommodation to tours to transport. All opinions, naturally, remain our own.''#travel #thailand #photos''SHARE ON''Having looked back at 2012 and ahead to 2013 already,, I thought you might to take a look at our year that was in the medium of photos, with one photo representing each month.''This was our first year based in France, so we naturally did a fair bit of exploring in our region around us. We also managed to squeeze in some trips a little further afield, including Germany, Spain and Thailand, so naturally they feature too. Without any further ado, let’s get cracking with our review of 2012 in photos!''January –''Oradour-Sur-Glane''We started off the year with a sombre''visit to the French town of Oradour-Sur-Glane''– home to the worst civilian massacre in World War 2 France. The village exists in the state it was left in on that day, and is a deeply moving place to visit.''February –''Perigueux''A visit to the''French town of Perigueux''was a highlight of February (well, that and my birthday of course). This town is stuffed full of Roman history, including a play park that used to be a Coliseum, so is well worth taking some time to explore.''March –''Nontron''Our closest town in France is the''little French town of Nontron,''famous for being the folding knife capital of France. It’s not that big, but it has a lovely location, perched high over the river Bandiat, and is a lovely place to while away an afternoon or two.''April –''Barcelona''In April we left France behind and rocketed down to Spain, where we spent a fantastic week in''Barcelona'', and thoroughly fell in love with this incredible city. It’s got something for everyone, and if you are visiting Europe, you really need to take the time to visit!''May –''Angouleme''Whilst our location in France is very rural, we do happen to be near some lovely large towns, including Angouleme. This is particularly notable for its yearly comic festival, which has inspired some quite''wonderful street art'', such as the piece above.''June –''Fitou''trip''In June we took another little venture afield, heading down to the south coast of France to explore the little town of Fitou in the Languedoc-Rousillon region. Here we discovered some fine wines, a lovely''apartment'', and a''castle hiding a deeply weird secret!''July –''Piegut Felibree''In July our local French village exploded into action, hosting the 93rd Occitan Felibree. I’d never heard of it either, but as it only happens to be hosted near us once every forty years or so, a visit was inevitable.''The village decorations were quite fantastic, and look literally months to put together. More on that one at this post on the''2012 Piegut Occitan Felibree!''Barcelona is a city with a lot to offer. We’ve visited a number of times, and always feel that we have so much left to see. Although that’s no bad thing – a return journey to Barcelona is always going to be a pleasure!''During our time in Barcelona we’ve seen all kinds of art, from wanders in the Picasso museum to the magnificently wacky architecture of Gaudi, through to the incredible''gothicness of the gothic quarter''.''The other type of art that Barcelona was stuffed full of was of course street art, which is one of our favourite kinds of art.''We’ve somehow managed to whittle these down to some of our favourites to share with you in today’s post!''We’re big fans of this kind of art – some of it is quite frankly incredible – and it was a highlight of the trip to Berlin that I took back in 2010. If you do go to Barcelona then I’m sure you’ll be able to find something that tickles your fancy. Here are some examples from our trip to give you an idea of what is in store!''The street art of Barcelona''Ok, so I’m not sure this can be classified as street art, being as it is on a breakwater. But it reminded me of some of the amazing art on the breakwaters of Australia’s coastline, so had to be included.''Doorways are a great place to spot street art – although you have to wander when shops are shut to get the maximum exposure!''Popular culture and famous characters can be found all over. Bonus points if you can name all the references in this post!''Speaking of pop culture, that chap in yellow seems familiar somehow…''Some of it is a bit more otherworldly…''And of course street art, like all other art, is hardly impervious to cute kitties. And yes, I know that one of these images may be stretching the cat thing a bit.''Naturally there’s some street art with a message.''And finally, the I-have-no-idea-what-the-artist-was-on-but-I-kinda-like-it pieces!''Further Reading For Your Visit To Barcelona''There’s a lot of information out there about visiting Barcelona – some we’ve written ourselves, plus some external resources. Below you’ll find some of the best of that content to help make the most of your trip to Barcelona.''Our recommended itinerary''for a day in Barcelona''And a''recommended itinerary for three days in Barcelona''A guide to the best locations for getting a''great view of Barcelona''Our comprehensive''review and guide to using the Barcelona Pass''to help you save money on your visit''Some of our favourite''photography locations in Barcelona''Want to see some of Gaudi’s creations? Check out our definitive guide to the''best Gaudi sights in Barcelona''The''Lonely Planet Guide to Barcelona''Rick Steve’s''Pocket Barcelona Guide''The''WikiVoyage guide to Barcelona''The official''Barcelona Tourism webpage''Links to the''Barcelona Pass''and''Barcelona Card'', two great options for saving money when you visit Barcelona''And that’s it for our piece on street art in Barcelona. What do you think – are you a street art lover like us, or does it not tickle your fancy? Let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Before I came out to to Thailand, I was informed on more than one occasion that the''Thai people are known for their friendliness''. I even hosted a whole photo essay from a fellow blogger all about Thailand being the land of smiles.''But third party information is only worth so much. I needed to find out for myself what the situation was, and handily my review of our Banbua hostel in Ayutthaya is a tale interwoven with general friendliness. First though, let’s hear it for:''The motorcycle lady of Ayutthaya''Ayutthaya is notable for a few things. One of these is that''the city is on an island created by three rivers''. Another is that it is home to enough temples to keep even Indiana Jones busy for a while.''After one heady day of Indiana Jones like temple exploration, where we had broken free of the city isle and were exploring the surroundings, we found ourselves in a bit of a pickle. We were standing on the banks of the Chao Phraya river, with the sun setting quite magnificently to one side, and our hostel a mere fifty metres away.''On the opposite bank.''We had planned to catch a boat to the other side, but those we had spied earlier lined up along the banks had conveniently vanished. We set off along the river in the hope that the ferry crossing we had seen some days previous was still operating.''After wandering for a while we had definitively managed to not find ourselves a ferry. Instead, darkness was rapidly falling and our options seemed to be shortening to walking all the way back the way we had come, some six or so kilometres in the dark.''Even the ever present tuk tuks were nowhere to be found. We paused to take stock, and peered in a vexed sort of manner at our map, which failed to mark anything useful like ferry routes.''At this point,''a lady appeared on a motorbike''. She asked us what we were attempting to achieve. At least that’s what I think she did, because she spoke Thai. We pointed at the far side of the river, and indicated we wanted to achieve that. She shook her head at us, gesticulated that we were going about this all wrong, and''motioned at the back of her scooter''.''I’m all for trying out new forms of transport, and I’ve certainly seen scooters carrying more than what I would suspect to be the manufacturer’s passenger rating whilst in Thailand, but I have to admit to a''certain amount of nervousness''as to piling ourselves onto the back of a stranger’s scooter, and heading off, helmetless,''into the darkening night''.''Still, what the hell,''the other option was a long walk'', which seemed less appealing. We hopped on and hurtled off, legs all over the place, as our driver chatted at the various oncoming traffic and I repeated in Vera’s ear the likelihood of''death being round the next pothole''.''Death obviously wasn’t round the next pothole as otherwise I’d not be writing this, and a short while later we were deposited at the actual ferry crossing, instructed the price was three baht, and sent on our way, with many a thank you tumbling from our lips. The yellow scootered lady of Ayutthaya who saved the crazy foreigners from a lengthy walk, I think I love you.''The Banbua House encounter''Last time I reviewed a hostel with''+HostelBookers'', I relayed the''sad story of a broken down bus and my inability to read a map'', followed by some magnificent customer service.''Arriving into Ayutthaya, I was determined not to make the same mistake. The hostel we were staying at was called the''Banbua House One'', which indicated that perhaps there were more than one of these properties out there. This turned out to be the case, as there are two, named''Banbua House One''and''Banbua House Two''.''With the right directions, and a savvy tuk tuk driver, we made it to the correct hostel, where we were welcomed by a trio of incredibly cute cats. Yay us!''Unfortunately, it turned out that the power to the neighbourhood was out, which meant that the rather lovely looking old wooden house we were meant to be staying at wasn’t going to be much good, what with nothing actually working.''The chap who met us at the property though, the son of the owner, wasn’t going to let a little thing like a lack of power spoil our stay. He bundled us into his car, and drove us to''Banbua House Two'', where we were put up for three out of our four nights in Ayutthaya.''From our perspective, this turned out to be A Good Thing. Whilst''Banbua House One''was incredibly lovely, it wasn’t as central as''Banbua House Two'', which was located within''easy striking distance of the main sights'', and near to a whole host of restaurants and shops. It was also handily on the banks of the Chao Phraya river, affording ample''beer drinking at sunset opportunities''.''Naturally everything you’d expect of a hostel these days was available to us –''free wi-fi, cheap laundry, bike hire, city information''and so on. And of course, an incredibly friendly welcome.''On our final night''Banbua House Two''was fully booked out, and as the power problems had been resolved, we were able to spend our last night in the old wooden house, on the edge of town.''The owner of the son again ferried us there, even stopping off to let us pick up some dinner at the local night market on the way over. The following morning, he took us to the train station so we could continue our journey in Thailand. Which was all rather lovely of him.''Thoughts on the Banbua House experience''I am a little torn on Banbua House. What I would like is for the best parts of the two hostels to be combined. I absolutely loved the building of''Banbua House One'', with it’s''classic old Thai style'', wood throughout, and charming rooms.''For exploring Ayutthaya though, it’s not that centrally located – unlike''Banbua House Two'', which was''perfect for getting to the majority of the attractions''very easily. It’s also beautifully situated on the banks of the river with gorgeous sunset views – even if it didn’t have the traditional wooden house thing going for it.''On the other hand, if you don’t mind being a little bit outside the action, then Banbua house One is a really''wonderful old Thai property''. The owner of the hostel has had it in her family for some time, and was in fact born there.''They have bikes available for free, making the main temple area a mere ten – fifteen minute journey away rather than a forty minute walk. It’s peaceful and quiet, and you’ll be able to arrange transport with the owners should you need to.''Overall, if you’re just passing through Ayutthaya, and want''somewhere central and easy''for one or two nights, then Banbua House Two would meet all your needs.''If you want to get under the skin of Ayuttayah over a longer period, and maybe you have your own transport or don’t mind cycling a bit, then Banbua House One could be the perfect combination of''relaxing location and local experience''. Choice eh. It’s always nice!''We were hosted for our stay at both''Banbua House One''and''Banbua House Two''thanks to''HostelBookers''. Our ability to get lost and rescued by friendly locals remains our own, as do our thoughts and opinions on all the services we encounter!''@hostelbookers #thailand''SHARE ON''Today’s post was provided by Jennifer on behalf of Jet2.com, writing about one of my favourite ways of getting around – the bicycle! Read on to find out why a bike is the best way to discover the isle of Cyprus…''What the hell, Ayutthaya. Seriously. Three hundred years ago you were the largest city in the whole world. The WHOLE world. A million people called you home. Empires vied for valuable trading positions. Other empires viewed you jealously. You were essentially the Brangelina of the early industrial revolution.''And yet somehow my history lessons seem to have skipped over you, in favour of other more exciting adventures like the peasant revolution in Russia, circa 1917. Or all that stuff with the Vikings.''This could be something to do with those rascally Burmese, who back in 1767 rocked up and rather unfortunately razed you to the ground, ending a period where you were both the capital of Siam, and arguably the trading capital of the world. The glory of Ayutthaya faded, and you were replaced by Bangkok, an upstart city to the south which had previously just acted as a port.''Nowadays, all you have left to show for your historical significance are a series of ruined temples and other important stone built buildings in varying conditions. The majority of the city having been made of wood wasn’t the long term survival plan you may have thought. River barges still plough your waterways, although their cargos are more likely to be camera happy visitors than exotic spices or royal personas.''Still, you’re more than worth a visit. Those temple ruins are some of the most magnificent in Thailand, despite repeated attempts by nature (earthquakes and flooding) and man (looting, ignorance) to take their toll.''This was recognised by you being awarded UNESCO world heritage status in 1991. So what do you offer today’s visitor, keen to relive your glory days of yore with an exploration of your crumbling ruins? Let’s take a look. And also, I’m going to stop talking to the city now. And address you instead, dear reader, and share with you my guide to what to do in Ayutthaya. Let’s go!''Contents:''What to do in Ayutthaya''How to get around Ayutthaya''How long to stay in Ayutthaya''Where to Stay in Ayutthaya''When to visit Ayutthaya''Getting there and away''Further Reading for your visit to Ayutthaya''What to do in Ayutthaya''1. The Tourist Information Office''I know, I know, Ayutthaya has all these crumbly epic ruins to see and I’m suggesting a visit to the Tourist Office. But there’s a good reason for that. First, you can pick up a free map of the city. Free is good, plus it lists all the highlights.''Second, and more importantly, the tourist office building also hosts an excellent exhibition on Ayuttayah, detailing the rise and fall of the city, as well as an overview on the food, the people, and the sights. A good place to get your bearings before setting off for the temples proper, and learning all of those facts that your history lessons may have glossed over.''2. Wat Phra Mahathat''Wat Phra Mahathat is mostly famous for having a buddha’s head entwined in the roots of a banyan tree. This is of course very impressive to see, but there is more to this series of ruins than a head in a tree, despite what the photos may lead you to believe, including several prangs and many many crumbly buddha statues.''3. Wat Phra Si Sanphet / The Grand Palace''The largest temple in Ayutthaya, this is one that you absolutely cannot miss. The main draw are the three enormous chedis in a row, which you will see featured as the symbol of Ayutthaya all over the place. They really are quite large, and rather photogenic.''Fun fact – this used to be the home of a giant buddha covered in a third of a tonne of gold. The Burmese invaders found this to be just too tempting, and melted it down as part of their pillaging.''4. Wat Chaiwattaranaram''This is one of most photogenic Wat’s in Ayutthaya, featuring a large central chedi surrounded by pagodas. Normally you can climb to the top for a lovely view of the city, and it’s also a good place to watch the sunset from.''I say normally because when we visited flood damage has resulted in it being closed. The bad news meant that we couldn’t climb anything, the good news was neither could anyone else, so the pictures were happily people free. And lack of access also meant the entry fee was waived. So it wasn’t all bad news.''5. Wat Buddhaisawan''Home to a wonderful reclining buddha (as seen in the first photo in this article), this temple on the banks of the Chao Phraya is still in use, unlike all the others on the list. Being in use means access is free of charge.''There’s a lovely courtyard with a huge prang, hundreds of intact Buddha statues, and even some ruined bits out the back. It’s a good place to visit to get an idea of what the other temples might have looked like, had the Burmese not done their thing.''How to get around Ayutthaya''Our preferred method for exploring Ayutthaya''was on foot'', although since no-one else in Thailand appears to travel by foot, we are usually the odd ones out.''The''distances aren’t too great''for getting between the sights by foot, although if you want to''speed things up a bit'', and visit more temples per day than we managed, then''a bicycle is going to be the best option''. These are easily rentable, and the tourist map that you can pick up comes with a suggested touring route.''Other options for getting around include''tuk tuks'', and covered pick up trucks known as''songthaews.''The latter are a bit like buses in that they will usually have a fixed price and ply a set route, the challenge is working out if that route works for you. The former will usually take you where you want to go – just make sure you''agree on a price beforehand.''Finally – don’t forget that there are countless places to cross the river by ferry. These are local services, so will be both inexpensive and not obviously signposted. Just ask a local for advice if you get stuck – they’ll probably be more than happy to help out.''How long to stay in Ayutthaya''Many people visit Ayutthaya as''a day trip from Bangkok,''with a temple run for the day, and maybe a river cruise in the evening.''It is of course totally possible to do this, especially if you use a bicycle or tuk-tuks to get between the sights. You are going to be''packing a lot in, though'', and might find yourself''fairly exhausted''by the end.''I’d recommend staying at least one night in Ayutthaya, and maybe even two. Buck the trend… go on! There are a lot of temples to see, and each ruin complex can take a couple of hours to fully explore.''Factoring in food stops, pauses to escape the ever present heat, and the sheer volume of sights on offer, and two or three full days will let you explore in a more leisurely fashion. We were there for four full nights, and didn’t regret this decision at all.''Where to Stay in Ayutthaya''If you do decide to stay overnight in Ayutthaya (good choice!), there’s no shortage of accommodation options to choose from. Our suggestion would be to check out the''accommodation options on booking.com'', where you’ll find a wide range of choices for the city.''For example, here is a''well rated and centrally located hostel'', and here is a''mid-range and very highly reviewed option''.''You definitely won’t struggle to find fantastic properties to stay in, whatever your budget!''When to visit Ayutthaya''To be totally honest with you, Ayutthaya is basically going to be hot and humid all year round. The best time to visit, as with much of this area of Thailand, is going to be between November and January, where it might be a little bit cooler.''This is a very relative use of the term cooler, though – temperatures are still going to be in the thirties and humidity is going to be high. Whenever you visit, make sure to keep hydrated and try to avoid prolonged exposure to the sun. It’s hot out there!''Getting there and away''Situated 85km north of Bangkok, Ayutthaya is easy to get to. The following options exist:''Train''Train travel in Thailand is generally slower than road transport, but the scenery is nice and cruising along with the windows open taking in the view can’t be beaten. From Bangkok,''trains depart several times a day from Bangkok’s Hualamphong station,''prices ranging from 30 – 250 baht depending on class.''Rail timetables are available in English from the Thai railway website:''railway.co.th''. The train station in Ayutthaya is located to the east of the city island – to get to the centre from the train station you’ll want to cross the river using the local ferry, which costs around 4 baht.''Bus''Bus is the fastest public transport option to Ayutthaya, with departures every 20 minutes or so from Bangkok’s northern bus terminal (Moh Chit). Buses also come to Ayutthaya from a whole number of other Thai cities, although timetable information is hard to find online. Ask at the local bus station if in doubt.''From Bangkok it takes around 1.5 – 2 hours to get to Ayutthaya, depending on traffic, and costs 50-100 baht. Minivans and tours also operate from popular tourist spots in Bangkok, price varies.''Boat''If you’re feeling like a river cruise, then you can take a boat cruise from Bangkok up to Ayutthaya. These aren’t scheduled services though, so you’ll need to book a tour in advance, and be prepared to spend at least a day on the river. It’s a beautiful way to travel though, so if you’re not pressed for time (or cash!), then this could be the way for you.''Further Reading for your visit to Ayutthaya''If you’re looking for more information to help plan out your Ayutthaya trip, then I can recommend the regularly updated crowd sourced''wikitravel entry on Ayutthaya'', which will have more up to date information on travel options and pricing.''Alternatively, the''Tourism Authority of Thailand''can usually help out with information on planning and information on booking.''Finally, if you’re looking for something a bit more physical, then Amazon have''a selection of books on Thailand'', including the ever popular''travellers bible to Thailand.''And that about wraps up my tips for a visit to Ayutthaya! Have you visited this ancient city, or were you, like me, oblivious to its existence? As always, let me know in the comments below!''travel, thailand''SHARE ON''I recently shared with you''my experience of visiting the White Temple in Chiang Rai''– a fantastical location reminiscent of something Gaudi or Dali might have been happy to have their names associated with.''There is another, slightly less visited and more off the beaten path arty type temple in Chiang Rai – the''Black Temple or Black House''.''This isn’t actually a temple at all, being instead the place where Thai artist Thawan Duchanee houses both himself and all his artistic endeavours in one, deeply odd place.''It is built in the style of a temple (and a feasting hall of Viking proportions, from what I could tell), and is very much worth your time to visit.''It was in fact my preferred of the two – the main reason for this being that it was overall a far more serene experience, with buildings set amongst large shady trees, and none of the crowds of the white temple.''The serene nature of the black temple was slightly jarred by the huge number of animal bones making up most of the place (the locals refer to the White Temple as Heaven and the Black Temple as Hell), but that aside, I can definitely recommend making the extra effort to fit both into your itinerary.''And now, for some photos to help explain why you shouldn’t miss the Black Temple.''A photo tour of the Black Temple''There were plenty of buildings of unknown purpose dotted around. Presumably for bone storage or something.''A guest room for very tall people. Even Vera had no problems with this doorway.''The roofs were very cool!''Even artists need toilets.''Looking into the great hall''I wasn’t totally convinced about the table cloth.''Looking out of the great hall''Yep, it appears to be a large whale room.''The interior of the great hall was a bit odd, too.''The main hall from the outside. I loved all the wood.''An outside area for sitting and relaxing, playing the drums, and peering at an enormous collection of animal heads.''Visiting the black temple of Chiang Rai''The black temple of Chiang Rai is a little off the beaten track, but not impossible to visit. Obviously the easiest way is to get a taxi from Chiang Rai but this isn’t going to be the most cost effective way.''You can instead get a public bus from the Chiang Rai bus terminal. Ask at the counter for the black house / black temple, or the official name, Bandaam Museum, and they’ll be able to point you in the right direction.''Let the driver know where you re going, and you’ll be dropped off on the highway, with a 500m walk down a local road to your destination. Repeat the same in reverse to get back.''Like the white temple, at the time of writing, admission is entirely free.''Our visit to the black and white temples of Chiang Rai were put together by the''Tourism Authority of Thailand''– big thanks to them for the support. We’d love to hear your opinions of this post – is this somewhere you’d consider visiting? Let us know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Freiburg im Breisgau. The name just rolls off the tongue, doesn’t it? This German town is tucked way down in Germany’s south west and serves as the entry point to the Black Forest – famous for its cake as well as its trees. It’s also mostly referred to as Freiburg as the whole name is a bit of a mouthful. Like the cake.''Freiburg is also notable for being the sunniest and warmest place in Germany, so the irony of the grey, damp weather for our visit was not lost on us.''However, we only had the one day to take in the sights of this thousand year old town, so we struck out onto the old cobbled streets for a wander. Here are some photos from that day for your enjoyment! Thoughts on places to get information for your visit to Freiburg can be found at the end.''The highlight of a trip to Freiburg is a visit to the''Freiburg Munster'', home to what is said to be the most beautiful spire on earth. Which was clad in scaffolding on our visit. Still, very pretty.''The other highlight of a visit to Freiburg is spending some time trying not to fall in the multiple little gutters, known as Bächle. Normally these are full of water but, despite the rain during our visit, they were all dry. Seriously Freiburg, what gives? You can find out more''about the Bächle at Ctrl-Alt-Travel''where Andy has a whole post on the subject!''The cobble streets of Freiburg have a unique way of showing which shops are which – via the use of cobble art! Can you guess which shops I was standing outside to take these photos?''Inside the Munster is just as pretty as it is outside.''Freiburg is one of the most cycle friendly European cities I’ve ever been in, with people whizzing all over the place on their bikes.''It’s an old town, and it has some funky buildings!''If it’s not watching out for bikes, it’s watching out for trams. A handy way to get around if you’re in more of a rush than we were.''The sun came out towards the end of our stay, although the sky remained fairly ominous.''Still, we did get a good sunset over the local brewery to finish the day with, which was nice!''And that was Freiburg! If you’re looking for''things to do in Freiburg'', check out Andrew’s posts on the subject over at''Grounded Traveler''. We stayed with Andy and his wife Ali, of''Ali’s Adventures'', for our two nights in Freiburg, and are very grateful to them for their splendid hospitality and intimate knowledge of the local watering holes!''SHARE ON''If you visit the northern city of Chiang Rai in Thailand, then I can highly recommend a trip to''the white temple''and''the black temple'', the former of which is the subject of today’s post, and the latter of which I''posted about here''. I won’t be surprised if you start looking for cheap airfare after you look at the pictures, even if it’s just to visit the Temples. They are that amazing!''The white temple, or''Wat Rong Khun''as it is more properly known, is a deeply weird construction, reminiscent of something that Gaudi might have thrown together. Were Gaudi alive in the present day and building temples in Thailand that is.''It is the work of the Thai artist''Chalermchai Kositpipat'', who for a long time had a style that wasn’t generally accepted as being art. These days his works are more favourably looked upon, and the white temple is certainly a busy spot to visit.''It’s totally worth it though – the incredible whiteness of the place shining like a blinding hospital corridor against your retinas, helped along by the millions of tiny mirrors that stud nearly every available surface. On a sunny day, it’s a bit like I imagine visiting heaven would probably be like. Or watching a temple themed nuclear explosion.''Along with the buildings, there is no shortage of deeply weird sculptures, and, drawing another parallel with Gaudi, the temple isn’t exactly finished yet. Although there is more than enough to explore still, including the incredible interior – which you are not allowed to photograph. Let’s just say religious murals in Thailand have never looked quite this contemporary.''And now… it’s time to take a photo tour around the White Temple, so you can get an idea of the weirdness for yourself!''It’s not just a temple. Oh no. There’s the odd sculpture or two as well. From a pit of hands, to tortured looking skeletons, there is plenty here to send your brain into a darkened corner for quite some time.''And you thought you were having a bad day.''The main bridge to the temple, after the sea of hands. Everything is incredibly ornate and beautifully put together. And sparkly. Did I mention the sparkly yet?''White is a recurring theme.''Two dragons guard the exit of the temple. White dragons, no less.''I said it wasn’t finished. But somehow even the unfinished bits are really cool. And sparkly.''Popular culture references are pervasive, even outside of the murals in the temple itself. Here a predator bursts out of the ground. I have no idea why.''Not your average traffic cone.''Side on to the temple, with the dragon guardians on the exit stairway. It’s kind of a miracle there’s no-one in these pictures.''Getting to the White Temple of Chiang Rai''If you want to visit the White Temple when you’re in Chiang Rai, you’ll find it about 13 kilometres outside the city. You can reach it via public bus, which takes around half an hour, from the bus station, or of course by taxi / other standard Thai transport options.''For more information on getting here, check out the''wikitravel guide to Chiang Rai.''SHARE ON''I love cycling. Since living in France it has quickly become my preferred method of getting round. It’s faster than walking, environmentally friendly, and you get to take in the scenery and fresh air. Plus the odd fly, for nutrition. So when the opportunity to spend three days cycling around Costa Brava presented itself, I jumped at the chance.''Ok, so the real reason I jumped at the chance was because the cycle trip''included a balloon ride''. But it turned out that cycling is one hell of a way to experience the gorgeous countryside of Costa Brava, even when not floating above it suspended by nothing but''hot air and ultramagic''.''I was initially a little concerned by the proposed itinerary for our three day trip. I like to think of myself as fairly fit, but the first day included nearly fifty kilometres of cycling. And the route was right up near the Pyrenees. And even I know that the Pyrenees are a fairly big pile of mountains. Fifty kilometres of leg busting sounded like hard work, even with a balloon ride as pay off.''I needn’t have worried though. Our route was all about taking in the old rail trails of Costa Brava, which have been converted into lovely cycling routes, as part of the''Girona Greenways programme'', known locally as the''Vies Verdes.''And one thing that most railways have in common is that they are usually flat, valley following affairs. So, despite towering mountains all around, our route took us gently meandering around the hills and through pretty villages, offering the scenery with not so much of the effort. Result!''Our little group explored all kinds of hidden spots, best reached via a leisurely bike ride. Some of the highlights were:''The gorgeous little waterfall and swimming hole''On the 57km long narrow gauge railway route which we followed between''Olot and Les Planes d’Hostoles'', we stopped at the picturesque gorge of Cogolls, where a little waterfall tumbled into an appealing swimming hole. We even dipped our toes in, to see how warm it was, though none of us were as brave as the local in attendance with his dog, who entered the water with gusto.''Had we had more time (and some swimming gear), we totally would have headed in to the water. As it was, lunch wasn’t far away, so after taking a few photos and admiring the wetness of the happy hound, our stomachs rumbled us towards:''A picnic feast of kings''My general memories of picnic lunches involve rain dampened grass and slightly moist sandwiches, followed by, if I was lucky, a bag of crisps and if I was unlucky, a piece of fruit. It was all well and good, but hamper toting affairs they weren’t.''Our picnic lunch in Costa Brava was a slightly different affair. Wine, for example, was front and centre (never mind the fact that we still had 20km of cycling ahead of us). A variety of different sausage types were on offer, as well as an array of cheeses. There was bread, along with garlic and fresh tomatoes. The latter of these two items are supplied in order for you to rub them vigorously against the first, to create a Catalan speciality. It’s also tremendously good fun.''Lunchtime entertainment was provided by''Shaun of Over Yonderlust'', who demonstrated to the group how to fall off a bike safely. Given the state of his hands afterwards, I’m not sure “safe” is the word I’d use. Still, the entertainment value was high, and with the food and wine, lunch had to be one of the finest picnics ever. Huzzah!''Making pottery''Of course, the rail trail wasn’t''all about food''and pretty little hideaways. There was some history along the way, and two highlights really stuck out. The first was at the''Quart pottery museum.''Here, at the site of the town’s original brickworks, stood Quart’s old pottery workshop, founded back in 1926. We took a tour of the facilities, peered in wonder at the vast drying kiln, and then had a go at our own pottery making.''I had, prior to the pottering, given Vera a quick run down of some key pottery techniques by playing her''that famous scene from ghost''that launched pottery into the global consciousness of the world as a sexy, Demi Moore filled activity. At least, that’s how I remember it.''Sadly, our pottery class was lacking a few key ingredients to enable us to recreate the Ghost scene in full. To start with, there was no Demi Moore at all. The Righteous Brothers were also notable by their absence. But perhaps most importantly, there was no potters wheel. We were going to be getting down and dirty by hand. Yay!''Presented with a lump of clay and some pieces of paper, I have to say my mind departed from it’s usual sane track, and I ended up creating a rather surreal scene featuring the figures of an angel and a devil fighting over the earth for man’s soul.''That’s totally what you got from the above image, isn’t it? Not some randomly arranged bits of dirt? I knew we were friends. Don’t worry though, I’m keeping to photography as my main artistic outlet.''And that was the pottery. The other highlight from the trip that stuck in my mind was:''The steam powered engine of yore''The railway lines we were cycling weren’t build for scenic purposes, as the above pottery museum demonstrates. Rail has always gone hand in hand with industry, and this was no more apparent than in the town of Angles, where we visited the site of the remarkable Bures d’Angles steam machine.''This puffing, steam driven monster dominated one of the rooms in the Angles factory, once home to over 1,100 workers involved in textile production. And the steam engine was the driving force behind this piece of Catalan industrial history.''All of that is of course terribly interesting, but who cares about a rusty bit of old iron mongery? No-one, that’s who. Which is why it was such a pleasant surprise to see this machine in all it’s finery, looking like something out of the pages of a steampunk novel, in fully working order.''I’m talking gleaming pistons, shining cogs and lubricated… well. I’m sure you get the idea. And then, as if it being in working order wasn’t enough, they flipped the switch, and like waking a dragon, the device puffed to life, giving us a glimpse of a world where steam was king. Quite fabulous stuff.''In summary''Those were some of the many experiences we were able to take in as part of our bike the rail trail experience. If you want to get another perspective on the rail trail experience in Costa Brava, then I can recommend Four Jandal’s take on''biking the rail trail'', which even features a rather nifty video, in which I may or may not have done a skid. Over Yonderlust also did an excellent piece, which features''Shaun’s aforementioned bloody hands''.''You may also want to hear some of the other highlights from this particular trip, including''how I managed to eat more than a camel'', and my thoughts on my''first ever balloon ride''.''There are of course some people to thank for making this trip possible, who you probably should check out if you were planning on doing something similar. The chaps behind the bikes were''Cicloturisme'', who lavished us with fine and sturdy steeds, including helmets, water bottle and even saddle bags. They also put on the finest damn picnic lunch ever.''The actual routes we followed were the''Vies Verdes Girona'', or Greenways of Girona, and''their website''lists all the various routes, difficulty levels and distances involved, as well as the highlights to look out for. It’s all very well put together and nearly impossible to lose yourself even for a navigationally challenged chap like me.''We were guests of the above companies as well as the''Visit Costa Brava''folks, as part of our''ten day Spanish adventure.''Don’t worry though, however much fun I might have had, my opinions remain my own.''SHARE ON''Some people always want to do something.''“I want to DO something!”, says Loz.''After a couple of weeks making the most of our Thailand stay, and now a few days without itinerary in Chiang Mai ahead of us, my tiny hope of thoroughly enjoying a meaningless, completely wasted day vanishes instantly.''“What is it then you want to do?”, I carefully ask.''My better half has just waited for this question, assuming it means that I am as excited as he is over the idea of doing something. Before I can even say ‘couch potato’, he has started browsing through a multitude of activities via''GetYourGuide'', who are an international online booking company of tours and activities, and mumbles away, deeply engaged in discussions with himself about the pro’s and con’s, until cometh the “Eureka”-moment, and with a rather meaningful voice he declares: “I want to go zip-lining!”''Zip-a-WHAT?''“Zip-lining! It’s fun! I did it in Costa Rica – you are attached to a line which is stretched between trees, and you just whizz through the forest, from platform to platform.”''“Wait a second; I thought you were afraid of heights – how can you enjoy THAT?”''“Because you start whizzing on the platform and don’t have to really jump off anything – it’s not scary. Okay, so in Costa Rica, I got stuck in between trees, which was a bit odd, but…”''“You got STUCK??”''“Oh, it’s completely fine; I just pulled myself to the next tree again. So what do you say??!”''What CAN I say? It does sound like fun, and the possibility of having the pleasure of watching Loz dangling in the middle of a rope between two trees is quite promising. Of course it doesn’t occur to me at all that I could be the one dangling. After all, I’m pretty much a ninja, right?''So on one of the following mornings, we are picked up by a mini-bus from the zip-lining folks from “Flight of the Gibbon”. I make a joke about how I’ve heard of “Fly like an eagle” but never of “Fly like a gibbon”, which horribly backfires as I am the one who is then stuck with an earworm of the said ABBA-song. Awesome. Other people join us on our quest – two ladies from Bangkok and two couples from Singapore. Everyone is cheerful and excited.''Coming from the busy city of Chiang Mai, the scenery changes as we make our way towards the rainforest in the Maekampong area.''Once we have arrived at the zip-lining base, we get to put all our valuables and general stuff, like the extra jumper I brought just in case it would be very cold (uh-huh), in lockers, after which we get dressed up in security gear.''I suddenly remember why I usually refrain from activities that require wearing special garments: they make me look seriously ridiculous. Always. Never fails to impress me exactly how any helmet brings out an egg-head condition that before seemed only underlying.''Well, I’m not here to win a beauty contest (and thank god for that, because it wouldn’t go well for me), although I’m a bit sad that our three guides have to see me like that, because naturally, they are these really cool, hip, good-looking guys, always cracking a joke… Just exactly the kind of people you want to get to know while looking like an egg-head. Argh.''Suddenly something else starts bothering me. I’m not afraid of heights, but that doesn’t mean I know how fond I will be of floating several hundred metres above the ground. What if I start screaming uncontrollably? What if I wee myself? Terrible thought. I start to sweat a little bit.''Our guide Goff introduces himself and the other two guys who’ll be taking care of our little seven-people-strong group, and goes through the safety instructions, which are fairly simple: lift your feet when flying towards a platform, and the only one who is allowed to hook you on and off the zip-line are the guides. I can remember that.''Now I only have to manage to be among the ones of the group who go last, in order to make sure that should I have an embarrassing moment what with the screaming and the weeing and all, it’ll go unnoticed.''“So has anyone done zip-lining before?”, asks Goff before we head to the first platform.''Loz confirms this, resulting in the group in unison voting for him to go first, and, since I’m his girl-friend, naturally I’m second. Brilliant. Just according to plan.''Before I can manage to think this all through, Loz has hopped off the platform, Goff quickly checks all my ties and hooks -“Your turn!” and WOOOOHOOOO! – off I zip! With the elegancy of a limp rag I fly towards the platform, and Utt, the other assistant guide, routinely catches me before I hit the tree, just as I’m crying out: “This is AWESOME!”.''The next two hours spin away on the fly – we never really stop, and 33 platforms, 18 zip-lines, 3 sky bridges, 2 abseils and 1 tree house later, everyone dons a big, fat smile for the closing group photo. Our guides wave us good-bye, as we jump on the mini-bus again back to the base, where we take our harnesses off, get our stuff from the locker – and are lead to a little restaurant where we have a delicious lunch, which, even better, is included in the package!''We’re asked to fill out a little review form on our zip-lining experience, and I honestly have to give 10 out of 10 points on every single question – I loved it! Loz still rambles on about his favourite zip-line where you are attached at your back so that you fly the line like superman (at least in your imagination – I can assure you that you will feel like superman, and I can also assure you that you will NOT look anything like him while flying) into a big net that you have to grab.''I can’t even decide what I liked best – spending time in the rainforest, the views from the platforms / the tree house, the actual zip-lining, the abseiling, all the laughing and screaming… I do decide that this is an experience I can wholeheartedly recommend – and it’s not even quite over yet!''After lunch we take another drive to a waterfall, where we have the opportunity to wander around for a little bit, and then it’s finally time to head back to Chiang Mai.''Later on the same day we receive an email with a picture of us in full harness before we set off to fly like gibbons. I’m already wearing the helmet, and therefore will refrain from sharing that one with you. It’s for your own good, believe me.''So my verdict? It was so much fun that I completely forgot being disappointed that nobody (including myself) got stuck at all! And throughout the whole time our guides made us feel really safe; constantly checking our equipment, always focused, answering all our questions; yet still goofing around all the time and showing off various crazy zip-lining techniques (I tried hard, but I didn’t get much further than the before-mentioned limp-rag style…).''One last thing that has me recommend “Flight of the Gibbon” is that a percentage of their profits goes to rainforest rehabilitation and protecting Gibbons and other native primates – win-win for everyone!''And there you have it – this was my take on zip-lining in the rainforest of Thailand; thanks for reading! Of course you still don’t know how loud YOU are going to scream when you’re flying through the tree-tops! Would you like to try zip-lining? Or have you already done it and adopted “Tarzan” or “Indiana Jones” as your middle name? The comment-section is all yours!''Note: our GetYourGuide''tree top zip-lining adventure in Chiang Mai''was provided to us by GetYourGuide. They are the ones responsible for letting us loose on their website in order to find something fun to do (not difficult!). All graceful swinging action, and thoughts about aforementioned graceful swinging action, remain entirely our own.''@getyourguide''SHARE ON''We recently took a road trip across France to Germany, and one of our stopping off points was the Bavarian town of Munich. This is mostly known for being the home of Oktoberfest, where strapping young ladies cart around gigantic jugs of beer to jolly tourists and locals alike.''We missed Oktoberfest by the skin of our teeth (although we did get to drink some beer in a large glass served by a lovely young lady, so we were happy about that), but we did manage to at least have a day of exploring the town, with the odd beer thrown in for authenticity.''It was a very wet day of Munich exploration, which didn’t make for perfect photography conditions, but I did manage to sneak a few shots I was pleased with, including some Instagram captures. I also managed to get incredibly wet feet – wellies would perhaps have been the better choice than my sponge like choice of trainers. We live and learn. Here are some memories of that day!''Photos of Munich in the rain''When I visit a town, I like to get a view of it from as high as possible. When we visited, this meant climbing''St. Peter’s church (Peterskirsche)'', which sits practically in the middle of the city, and offers spectacular views. Probably more spectacular in the sun, but still. You don’t get to frame buildings in rain droplets in the sun.''The rain meant the city streets were wet, which meant shiny reflections, and people wandering with brightly coloured umbrellas. I liked the effect I achieved with the HDR version of this shot of the Frauenkirche.''It wasn’t all rain of course. The day before our rainy tour, we were given a tour of some of the night time sights of Munich by''+Laurel Robbins''of''Monkeys and Mountains'', who was our host for our time in Munich. This is the palace of justice at night.''Munich was such a colourful city – this building for example was done out in yellow bricks. No idea why, but it was a nice juxtaposition to the rain!''This is Munich’s old town hall. Which oddly, looks newer than the new town hall, just across the square.''And this would be the new town hall (on the right), with the twin towers and red roof of the Frauenkirche in the background.''And finally – you can’t have a photo post of Munich without including a picture of a beer hall – which is also a handy place to escape the rain! This one is the Hofbrauhaus, arguably the most famous of the beer halls in Munich, partly due to it’s association with the Nazi party, who held meetings here.''And that’s it for my day of Munich exploration! Have you been to Munich? Have any thoughts on the above? Do share in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Heat. Waves of the stuff. It was a prevailing theme on our bus trip up to Chiang Mai. Sure, the bus had air conditioning, but this particular bus had more pressing concerns to worry about than keeping its passengers cool. For example: getting its passengers to their destination.''The bus we had chosen for the trip was perhaps not the most robust of creatures. An hour into the journey, it had a bit of a moment, perhaps existential in nature, and released a great deal of oil onto the road. It then plainly refused to start, thinking perhaps that life as an immobile trendy coffee shop was going to be a better future.''Our keen bus staff were not so sure of this decision, and spent a fair amount of time with the assistance of many peering passengers, rummaging around in the engine bay and poking at various complex looking mechanical contrivances. Then a scooter turned up bearing precious oil, which seemed to convince our bus, after the odd false start or ten, that she was ready to tackle the remainder of our journey.''Sitting in the sun during this whole episode did however mean that the interior temperature had soared somewhat, a temperature that the air conditioning system feebly attempted and entirely failed to overcome.''Luckily for me I was sitting underneath this air conditioning unit, which meant that every now and then it would show cooling enthusiasm by depositing quantities of refreshing water over me whenever the bus took on a particularly violent bend.''Seven or so hours of this later, and we arrived into Chiang Mai slightly warm and damp to the touch, where I consulted my hastily written note regarding the hostel we were staying at, after which we hopped into a taxi, and were deposited at the door of the Viva Chiang Mai.''Despite the fact that my clothes were stuck to my body, and the probably slightly desperate look in my eyes, we were welcomed very warmly and I have to admit, the place looked frankly incredible. Little thatched villas were arranged in a calm garden, with a serene looking pool to match. Heavenly.''The staff, though, seemed a little confused by our arrival. as there was no record of our booking on their system. After some to’ing and fro’ing, it turned out that my hastily scribbled note had failed to take into account the fact that there were two Viva locations in Chiang Mai, and I’d taken us to the wrong one. On the entirely opposite side of town.''The test of a good accommodations provider though, is how they react to these little upsets, even when caused by the blithering idiot of a customer standing in front of them, quietly perspiring, and the staff in this case were exceptional.''First we were offered the use of a villa to take a shower in (clearly in need by this point), and then we were to be shuttled across town to the real location, at no additional expense. That’s customer service, and the shower was possibly the best I’ve ever had.''Finally, therefore, and a little bit later than I had estimated, we arrived at the Viva Chiang Mai homestay, in the south east corner of Chiang Mai, around five kilometres from the city centre, which is the actual substance of today’s post.''Here we were welcomed by the owner Mǔu and shown to our room, where my preconceptions of a homestay were exploded. Six individual and natural looking chalets, all en suite (one of which is even a tree house!) were arranged around a large central garden.''In contrast to these, a minimalist themed central building featured an open to the elements TV room, a gym, and a dining area. There were also dedicated spaces for yoga and meditation, carefully placed to offer quiet places to relax and find one’s inner zen.''We chatted with Mǔu, who turned out to be an exceptionally well travelled lady (over 77 countries visited to date, hence the large collection of guide books in one of the shots!), about the concept she had come up with. The idea, she said, was that people should feel like they were staying in her home. She just happened to have a larger home than most.''Relaxation and retreat were the key themes – married with all the conveniences of a modern world. There was even a kitchen, a first for us on our travels in Thailand, where your own food could be made if you were so inclined.''Other services on offer included free wi-fi, bicycle hire, breakfast, and a massage studio, as well as local information and advice on how best to fill your time.''We filled our time taking maximum advantage of the relaxation on offer, writing out some posts, editing some photos, and all the other things that come with taking your office on your travels. We also managed to squeeze in some laundry, a trip to the Chiang Mai immigration office, and a zip lining day trip. So not all hard work.''Overall, we found the''Viva Chiang Mai''to be the perfect place to get away from it all, with the option to head into Chiang Mai there if we wanted it. We found it took just over an hour to tackle the journey by foot, twenty or so minutes on a bike, or about ten minutes by car.''Being situated in a little village of it’s own meant there were plenty of choices for eating out (including an incredible seafood restaurant about ten minutes away), or for a bit of neighbourhood wandering, where we made friends with the neighbours chickens.''If you are looking for a bit of an escape from the bustle of Chiang Mai, somewhere to recharge the batteries and experience some local culture, then the''Viva Chiang Mai homestay''in Chiang Mai is likely going to be somewhere you’ll enjoy staying.''If you’re looking for a central party hostel, then this is definitively not it – but there are no shortage of those to be found, and a change, as they say, is as good as a rest.''Note – we were hosted for our stay in''Chiang Mai''at the''Viva Chiang Mai homestay''by''HostelBookers'', in return for writing up our thoughts on the location. The type of thoughts were not specified – we’ll always write what we think!''@hostelbookers #travel #thailand''SHARE ON''Travel. It’s one of those things, like probably countless others, that I have a habit of taking for granted.''It is, after all, pretty easy to take things for granted. Often I forget quite how lucky I am that the most difficult decisions in my life are whether or not to go with the chicken or fish as I sit in a pressurised container, six miles up in the sky, and get confused as to how to operate the magic box in the seat back in front of me.''Of course, when I think about it a bit, and also as I travel, my eyes open as to the reality of the world around me, and how not everyone is quite so lucky to have the choices before them that I have.''This is why I’m pleased to say that this month I’m going to be working with a few other travel bloggers and doing a couple of charity related posts (there’s going to be''less nudity this time though''!), to see if I can use this blog perhaps to help out a bit. Hopefully that works for you.''In today’s post I’m going to be talking about responsible tourism, and given how much I’m into travel, being responsible seems like a wise way to go.''Particularly, today I’m going to be highlighting the issue of child protection in volunteer tourism, with some thoughts towards the end on how you can help. None of which require any financial contribution at all.''Let’s start with me. I’ve never taken part in any kind of volunteer tourism, like helping out at an elephant sanctuary or spending time with kids at an orphanage.''It has always felt like it is terribly difficult to tell if a charitable organisation is something that is an actual force for good. Questions float around in my mind. Is the money going to the right places? Are the people or animals who are supposed to be being helped, actually seeing any benefit?''Or is all the hard work, the money, the good intentions, all quietly filtered away as it gets closer to its goal, with no real impact on the ground? Even worse, is an artificial world of need being created, in order to milk guilt ridden consumers & travellers? I’m sure that there are genuinely great charitable organisations out there – but how does one sort the good from the bad?''In the case of children, the pond is particularly murky. Barbara Weibel, writing on her site Hole in the Donut, wrote''a fascinating piece on an orphanage in Nepal,''relaying a first hand experience of a case where charity doesn’t seem to be all it is on the outside. There was the documentary about''Cambodia’s orphan business''. As often seems to be the case in life – once money gets involved, morals start to get a bit loose.''My personal experience of tourism and children predominantly comes from that uncomfortable feeling of wandering around a country with children tugging at my clothing, and wondering if I should be giving them money, or food, or if by doing so I’m somehow feeding a giant monster of a problem that would be easier for me to ignore rather than address.''Luckily though, there are people out there, like the folks behind''People and Places'', who are actively working to increase transparency, to raise consumer awareness, and to ensure that the volunteer tourism sector actually does the good it aims for.''One of the campaigns that People and Places are running is the Better Child Protection initiative, which aims to raise awareness of the far-reaching impact that tourism can have on children’s lives, from child prostitution and sex trafficking through to street begging and the previously mentioned “orphanage business”.''They spoke at this years''World Travel Market in London''(link to presentation), and the linked video is a great way to get more of an idea of what they’re all about. We wanted to give them a hand in raising their profile, as well as sharing some ideas for how you can help!''Three ways to help''Words are all very well, but action is where it’s at. If you’re planning a volunteering trip abroad, or know someone who is, or just want to find out more on how your travel can affect lives locally, here’s what you can do:''Research:''Before heading off, get an understanding of some of the issues out there, and ensure that your actions are not doing more harm than good. If you need ideas for questions to ask prior to setting off on a volunteering project,''this list from people & places''is a good starting point.''Be ChildSafe:''The''ChildSafe Network''provides tips and ideas for travelling in a ChildSafe way, with hints including looking out for the ChildSafe accreditation, so you know that a product is not negatively impacting a child’s life.''Raise the issues:''If you find yourself on a trip where you think you are having some kind of negative impact, make your voice heard. Get in touch with your tour agent, or the local tourism office, or start making waves on social media. The voice of the consumer, particularly the angry voice, is a powerful tool in today’s world, and can be a real force for change.''The one thing you can do right now!''If you’d like to get involved, or show some support for this cause, then the easiest thing you can do right now is to very simply “like” the''Better Child Protection''campaign page on Facebook. You can do that right here, right now:''The more people who know about these issues the better. Join in to take part in raising awareness and getting more of an understanding of the issues.''Let them know you care! You can also follow along on their twitter account,''@pandpvolunteer'', and use the hashtag''#betterchildprotection''for more information and to get your thoughts heard!''Thanks very much for reading today’s post. I’d really love to hear your experiences of volunteering or charitable work abroad, and how you have found the experience. As always, take on the comments section below with your thoughts!''#betterchildprotection @pandpvolunteer''SHARE ON''When I saw our planned schedule for visiting parts of northern Thailand included visits to various hill tribes, I have to admit to feeling a little uncomfortable.''You see, I’m not really a big fan of seeing people as a tourist attraction. It often feels artificial, or contrived, or like we’re trying to preserve some aspect of life that would no longer be true had we not created a bizarre human zoo.''Being proud of your cultural heritage is one thing, but being forced to live out some tourists fantasy of what your life should be like just grates with me. After all, no-one visits the UK and expects to see folks walking around in Elisabeathan dress, fpeaking like fhakefeare. Do they?''Add to this the recent post I’d seen from Diana of dtravelsround on''her experience visiting a hill tribe in Thailand'', and, well, you could say my expectations weren’t exactly high.''So it was a rather nice surprise to find ourselves having quite the most magnificent of days visiting some Karen people in their village in the Doi Inthanon national park, just to the south of Chiang Mai in northern Thailand.''To start with, we were welcomed into the village with a coffee. Not just any old coffee mind you. Coffee turned out to be one of the villages principle chief products, and the coffee beans we were drinking had likely grown on the trees that we could actually see.''The coffee we drank first had to be ground from the recently roasted beans, and Vera got particularly excited about hand grinding the beans whilst the water heated in the wood fired kettle. These two were then mixed, in the Thai style, to create a fairly sublime brew.''With the experience off on the right foot, we were off to explore the village, just Vera and I, with the instruction to treat it like our home. I loved the style of the wooden buildings, up on stilts, with chickens and pigs providing the animal entertainment. Kids played, and largely ignored us, and we greeted everyone we saw with the Thai greeting of Sawasdee. I took a whole bunch of photos of the buildings and animals, but being largely uncomfortable with the idea of taking pictures of strangers, I failed on that front.''Wander over, we met up with our guide who was going to take us on a hike to see a series of waterfalls on the local river, which tumbled down the mountain behind the village and provided the water for the rice paddies. The best part of the hike being that we drove to the top, and hiked down, thus enjoying the view with less of the exertion.''Our guide, Ken, was a local himself, although not from this village. He was in fact standing in to help out some friends, and was just travelling around. His history was pretty interesting, having had stints as a monk, a security guard, and now being part of a business involved in the creation and export of dried flowers.''From Ken we learnt a lot. He told us how his people, the Karen, had left Mongolia during the time of Genghis Knan, largely because they weren’t into the whole empire building military thing. Over time they had spread across Asia, with different parts of the tribe taking different routes, some into Nepal, others into India, and other into Burma. This, he said, explained why the different people, although all Karen, looked different, due to the mixing of the bloodlines as they slowly migrated.''He also talked to us about the more recent history of the Karen. For a long time they had farmed opium, this being the most profitable of crops to grow in this area. With direct influence from the Thai King though, and the setting up of various Royal Projects, these days the principle products are rice, flowers and coffee.''The coffee was of much interest to me, being an avid drinker. I learnt that the trees were originally brought in to Thailand by various missionaries, who didn’t do so well in converting the local population to their religions, but did a wonderful job of opening their eyes to the world of coffee. Take the coffee, leave the religion was the overall result. Probably not the one the missionaries were hoping for.''For over thirty years now coffee has been a major crop of the village, with every stage of the production – from growing through to roasting – handled on site. And some seriously tasty stuff it was too – with as much free coffee as you wanted available to drink.''The waterfall walk we took was also beautiful, meandering along the side of the river, which occasionally tumbled off the edge of a cliff to produce a mighty spray and a beautiful view. There was even the option of swimming on the way, but we hadn’t come entirely prepared so gave that a miss.''As we walked, we also learnt about the various plants and roots that had different medicinal value, even trying out some berries that were good for the throat. Vera, who had been suffering from a sore throat, swore they helped. I found them rather on the bitter side.''Tourism is of course a contributing factor to the ongoing success of the village, but as a part of the whole rather than the sole income. This, I think, is what made the visit feel less contrived. These were not a people sitting around in dress that went out of fashion two hundred years ago, pretending to live a life that didn’t reflect a present reality.''These were a people, proud of their heritage, keen to share their lives with a passing world. If you wanted to know more, you could ask. Vera sure did, learning everything from the history of the drug trade to how to behave in the presence of a monk. It was really fascinating stuff, chatting over coffee and as we walked through stunning scenery.''Plus, there was no hard sell of anything. We bought some coffee beans as a gift, and the walk was a fixed price of 200 Baht for the guide, with whom we spent around three hours. This money, we found out, went directly to the village, to help fund schooling and other community projects. For those people who wanted even more of a local experience, there were home stays available.''If you want to visit Doi Inthanon, I can really recommend taking the time to visit a hill tribe and learn more about the people here. This is probably best done in as small a group as possible so you can really get to know the people more personally.''Our visit to Doi Inthanon was done in partnership with the''Thailand Tourism''board, who helped out with all kinds of logistics.''We launched our trip to Doi Inthanon from Chiang Mai, from where you can arrange tours like this, and our accommodation in''Chiang Mai''was kindly provided by HostelBookers at the''Vivacity Chiang Mai''. As always, opinions, and the ability to drink far too much coffee, remain our own!''SHARE ON''And we’re back with another round up of some of the most popular photos I’ve shared on my''facebook page''over the last month or so. The previous entries in this series have been some of my most successful posts to date, so why stop a winning formula!''I also love how this series lets me throw out a whole mix of photos from my travels around the world – although as I’m currently in Thailand for a few months you will see a fairly Thai based influence for a little while!''Enough of the chat, let’s get on with some of my most popular photos from facebook, as “liked” by my fans on facebook.''This is part of the ancient city of Sukhothai, which we visited as during our tour of Thailand''A seated buddha in the ancient city of Sukhothai. This one was captured with my smartphone.''Water droplets in close up on a birds back''This was where we stayed in the town of Kanchanaburi in Thailand, on the river Kwai. If you’re looking for seriously rustic accomodation with incredible sunset views, then you could check out the River Guesthouse for your visit 🙂''Not too far from the town of Kanchanburi we stumbled upon a large sculpture park which seemed to be in the process of being either built or renovated. No-one seemed to mind us wandering around and taking pictures though.''Whilst in Bangkok''we saw some very funky sunsets, like this one from Wat Arun.''Thailand has some wonderful waterfalls, like this one – Erawan Falls, a short journey away from the town of Kanchanaburi.''More from that weird sculpture park. We kinda liked it there.''Thailand has a lot of temples, something that will become apparent over the coming weeks. Some of them are more modern, like this one in Kanchanaburi.''We saw some spectacular sunsets over the River Kwai, such as this one, between some raft houses.''And obviously I couldn’t talk about the River Kwai without bringing up the famous bridge! It’s a sobering place to visit, with a lot of fairly horrific memories.''Here’s another sunset, but this time over the Chao Phraya river in Bangkok''Before I left for Thailand it was getting a bit chilly. These frosted leaves in New Zealand were a visual representation of that!''I got a little experimental with phone – this is a tree lit by a street light at night in France. I liked the effect!''Here’s a sunset from the bottom half of Australia – over the Cape Le Grand national park in Western Australia in fact.''Taken from our trip around''New Zealand’s East Cape'', this is the beautiful Tolaga Bay.''From beaches to gorgeous little European towns – this being Girona in the Costa Brava region of Spain.''More from Costa Brava – this is a hidden little swimming hole at the Gorge of Cogolls, which we reached by bicycle.''More experimentation with the phone here – this time trying to capture the essence of autumn which was in full swing in Europe when we left for Thailand.''A sunset from Germany now, this being a sunset in the town of Freiburg near the black forest.''I can see my house from here! Ok, not so much my house now, but this was where I grew up – Bird Island in the Seychelles.''A Costa Brava sunset, across the Cap Creus national park, near Dali’s birth place.''A wintery light filtering through the trees in France''And finally for today, a sailboat on Lake Constance in southern Germany at sunset!''Well, I hope that’s inspired you. Maybe you’re even keen to follow me on facebook if you’re not already a fan! Or, if you just want to check out what else you’ve missed, why not take a look at the''other editions in this series.''Enjoy!''SHARE ON''“What does it have in its pocketssss?”''If Gollum were to pose me this question whilst I was lost under the Misty Mountains, as he did to Bilbo, and I happened to be wearing my new''Scottevest'', the answer could go on for some time.''You see, the Scottevest comes with a lot of pockets. Like, a lot of pockets. So many in fact, that it even comes with a pocket map. A map of the pockets! It’s tech geek heaven.''I was pleased to be sent the Scottevest to review on my trip to Thailand, because usually when I travel through airports I seem to spend an inordinate amount of time fumbling with loose change, earbud wires, passports, tickets, boarding passes, keys and my wallet. Not to mention bits of fluff and wadded up pieces of paper that were probably once very important before I put them through the washing machine.''All of this stuff usually has to come out of my pockets and get deposited into a security scanner, and then retrieved. During the scanning process it inevitably becomes tangled into a giant wirey nest, which then has to be untangled and re-sorted back into pockets.''Inevitably the stuff all goes into different pockets to those it came out of, which causes that panicked “I’ve lost my passport feeling” as it’s no longer in the pocket I expected it to be in, which is normally the same pocket, except just after a security scanner.''The''Scottevest travel vest''for men aims to fix all of the above problems in a smart and stylish way. As long as it solves the problems, I’m generally happy, as those of you who know me will testify that practicality goes a lot further in my book than stylishness, but if I can be practical and stylish, then what the hell, I’ll go down that road.''Lets talk about a few of the features that really impressed me with my new Scottevest Travel Vest, starting with:''The Personal Area Network''First up, the wiring system. A jacket with a wiring system! Known as the “Personal Area Network”, this aims to solve the problem of your wires dangling all over the place as you roam across airport terminals, doing their best to snag themselves on whatever they can.''Very simply, this is a cunning system of loop cords and grab clips that channel your music wires around the back of your neck, and into your ears. It’s very convenient. Even more convenient though, are the earbud pockets.''These are probably my favourite thing about the jacket. In the collar on each side of the neck, there are two little pockets. If you stop listening to music, or have to keep an ear out for important flight delay announcements, you can pop your earbuds on either side into these little pockets.''No more unsightly dangling earbuds getting in the way or catching on anything just because you happen to not have them plugged into your ear lugs. It’s a very elegant solution to a niggling problem, and I thought it was a wonderful idea.''The correctly sized Travel Documents pocket''Boarding passes are the bane of my life at airports. They appear to be exactly the right size to not fit into any pocket. Instead, the little flappy bit that is of critical importance to about seventeen different people as I get closer to my seat, sits around just waiting to fall off the main body of the thing.''Invariably I put it inside my passport, where the flappy thing also just sticks out. I then try and get the passport-with-boarding-pass into my pocket, where it sticks out even more. Or bends over, and looks like it’s going to fall off.''Imagine my excitement then, when I learnt that the travel documents pocket is''exactly the right length to fit a boarding pass.''Yep, it was up there with the time that Bilbo learnt he was going on an adventure with some dwarves. Peter Jackson isn’t actually paying me any money for this post, it just so happens that the deluge of hobbit advertising going on at the moment has sort of invaded my brain. Did you know that Bilbo in France is called Bilbon? The French are weird.''Anyway, back to my Scottevest review, and…''The sunglasses pocket''A pocket for sunglasses is pretty cool in of itself. But the Scottevest Travel Vest goes one step further and adds in a built in sunglasses cleaner on a string – one of those snazzy microfibre ones. And as it’s on a string, it’s not going to get lost. So my sunglasses practically clean themselves in the pocket. That’s awesome.''And the rest''Don’t worry, I’m not going to go into all twenty four (!) pockets in exquisite detail. Just know that they are all very carefully thought out by people who have clearly travelled a lot.''From the little touches like the magnets on some pockets that keep them closed, to the see-through touch enabled interior phone pockets that let you operate your smartphone / music player without removing it from the pocket, to the pocket that is actually big enough to fit an iPad in, it seems that Scottevest have thought of everything.''Some of the pockets even have pockets in, presumably to keep each other company in case you don’t have enough stuff to fill them all with.''In practice – breezing through travel''I wore my Scottevest on my recent trip from France to Thailand, which involved three types of rail transport, two aircraft, one bus and three airports. Gone were the days of pocket fumbling. If I forgot where I had put anything, I could look at the little labels that adorn each pocket to remind me.''When it came to the security scanner, I was able to smugly remove the vest and pop it through the scanner, with not a pocket fumble in sight. I slept in it, and it didn’t so much as gain a crease. I was even more impressed by how it somehow managed to maintain it’s shape even when loaded up. No saggy pockets on this traveller!''In summary''As you can probably tell, I was delighted with the performance of the Scottevest. It’s light, well-designed, and appears to be tough enough to withstand the rigours put upon it by frequent travel. It’s even water and stain resistant, which is handy for someone like me.''The only thing I’ve not been able to do is test it over time to see how it stands up to frequent use. Don’t worry though, I’ll pop back and update this review once I’ve broken it in even more.''If you want to pick up your own Scottevest, you can do so at''Amazon’s UK store,''where Scottevest has recently started to ship their products from to meet European demand. I can totally recommend the travel vest, and would assume that the rest of the range is just as awesome!''Disclaimer – I received the Scottevest Travel Vest for review and got to keep it in return. The opinion above is my own – I had to wear it, and if I hadn’t enjoyed the experience, you would have been the first to know! As it was I can thoroughly recommend it!''@scottevest''SHARE ON''We recently had the distinct pleasure of exploring the original Thai capital of Sukhothai, the place where the Thai language as it exists today was born, and where much of Thailand’s culture is believed to have originated.''It’s also the place where the happiness of the Thai people is said to have started – Sukhothai translating literally as the “dawn of happiness”.''We were able to spend three days exploring the temple ruins of the old city, (of which there are many!), as well as some surrounding attractions, including the former city of Si Satchanalai, some 60km to the north. I’m going to be putting together a post all about our adventures there with some ideas for what to see and how to get around in the not too far of future, including some more photos.''In the meantime though, I thought you might enjoy a quick look at just some of the photos I took in my wanderings around this area, of which I have a very great many. These are some of my favourites!''The temples and sights of Sukhothai and Si Satchanalai''We had some pretty epic clouds during our wanders, which let me capture end of the world style shots like this, over the ruined columns of the temple.''We were lucky enough to experience the Thai Festival of Loy Krathong, which honours the water spirits, during our time in Sukhothai. This shot is of the lanterns being released into the sky as a long exposure.''As you can probably imagine, the image of Buddha is prevalent all over these two old cities, portrayed in four different positions. This would be the seated Buddha.''Water played a critical part in the design of this city, which had a triple moat around the outside, and was filled with lakes amongst the temples.''Wat Phra Si Ratana Mahathat is near Si Satchanalai, and has distinct Khmer influences. This was one of my favourite temples in the area, not least because you can climb up to the doorway for a great view.''It wasn’t all temples on plains we discovered – outside the Sukhothai city walls and in the Si Satchanalai ruins there were hill top temples hiding in the trees. I admit to the odd Indiana Jones theme tune whistle.''A standing Buddha''This is Wat Chang Lom, probably the most famous of the Si Satchanalai temples, which happens to be surrounded by 39 life sized elephant statues, in varying states of decay. Chang means elephant in Thai – so this is literally the elephant temple.''And finally, the view from the doorway in the previously photographed''Wat Phra Si Ratana Mahathat.''I hoped you enjoyed this whistle stop tour of some of my favourite temple shots from these two lovely old Thai cities. As always, let me know your thoughts in the comments below.''SHARE ON''I want you to conjure up an image of a hostel in your mind. It’s probably best for the purposes of this exercise if you’re the sort of person who wouldn’t normally stay in a hostel, filled as they are with unwashed backpacker types. Got that image in your mind? Rows of slightly unsafe looking bunk beds, a lazily turning fan, and a couple of people engaging in the age old traveller vs. tourist debate? Excellent.''Of course, if you’ve stayed in a hostel recently, or have been keeping up with my recent posts (you have been keeping up with my recent\xa0 posts, haven’t you?), you’ll realise that this quaint image of the slightly seedy backpacker hostel is rapidly becoming an endangered beast.''Ok, sure, there are always going to be dodgy hostels, in the same way that there are always going to be seedy motels and even gloriously faded hotels, living on their past reputations rather than any present reality.''But the rise of the internet, of peer reviews, of the concept of web 2.0 community driven travel, has in part led to a slow revolution in the quality and availability of accommodation on offer to your average traveller. Or at least, the ability to find said accommodation.''And of course, there have always been amazing gems of hostels tucked away, just waiting to blow your mind with what’s out there. Something I first noticed during my travels in''New Zealand'', home to some of the nicest hostels I’ve had the pleasure of staying in, run by people who know what travellers want. And tourists.''But Laurence, you chime in at this point, plaintively, I thought you guys were all about apartments when travelling? Isn’t that what we’re supposed to be doing now?''Like everything in life, it’s all about what works for you and what you want from your travelling experience. I love me a good apartment – the flexibility and, dare I say it, anonymity of an apartment is just fantastic as a base for exploration.''But sometimes you want something a bit different. A more social experience. A staff on hand who know about the local area, the activities available, and the quirky little things to do that you might not have found out about. And naturally, people to meet and share beers with. Maybe a common room, a kitchen, or even a bar. And that’s where hostels come in – usually offering a cheaper alternative to hotels with a more homely touch.''Travel is just wondrous in how many options there are to experience the world around us, one of the many aspects about it I love. You can travel in pure luxury, or you can travel on a shoestring, and you can strike a happy medium anywhere in between. All you need to do is be able to find the property to suit your taste and budget.''Enter''HostelBookers'', who asked us recently if we were interested in a partnership with them as part of our trip around Thailand, giving us the opportunity to take a look at some of the accommodation options that are available to book via their site. Naturally we said yes. Hence the fireworks photo which, incidentally, was my first ever attempt at fireworks photography. I hope you like it.''Having spoken to you at length about hostels now, and successfully, in around five hundred words, changed your whole outlook on this accommodation option (or reaffirmed what you already knew), I can reveal to you that HostelBookers, despite the name, don’t just do hostels.''These guys have got all kinds of things going on on their site, from apartments through to your more classy hotel option. Although the majority of their properties are of course hostels (otherwise a name change would probably be on the cards?).''Take the first property we’re staying in for example, in Chiang Mai. This is listed as a homestay, featuring individual bungalows and a yogic retreat. I don’t know about you, but that’s a far cry from my idea of a hostel. Then again, the hostel in Bangkok''which I recently reviewed'', came with clean towels every day and a maid service. Preconceptions, busted!''All of our thoughts on the Chiang Mai stay will be coming to this site very soon, naturally filled up with pretty pictures, as well as some thoughts on how the HostelBookers site works.''And going forward, starting with this Thailand trip, we’re going to be staying with HostelBookers from time to time, finding fun, funky, and hopefully slightly unusual properties to stay in, and telling you all about them and how HostelBookers works. Together we’re going to take on the wide and varied world of travellers accommodation, and emerge at the far end like wise butterflies emerging from their little butterfly pods. What a beautiful image.''In the meantime, take a look at this image that''HostelBookers''sent through to me, all about the brain of a backpacker. Brain of a backpacker or not (and on this trip I’m actually on rolling luggage, get me), I can totally identify with a number of these, although those of you familiar with the brain of a travel blogger (or, mine at least!) would probably enlarge the free wi-fi section a little bit more!''Have you used''HostelBookers''before? Got an experience to share? Is your wi-fi seeking brain nodule enlarged like mine? Do fire away in the comments below!''@Hostelbookers''SHARE ON''Charity. It’s a dangerous word. It’s the sort of word that makes people do things in its name. Crazy, terrifying, outrageous things. It also lets us do things that we would never in our wildest dreams have thought of doing. I’m looking at you, bottle of olive oil. This was all your fault.''It’s also a force for good. We do these crazy things ostensibly to raise money. Not because we’ve always secretly wanted to take off most of our clothes and get it on with a bottle of oil and a fake snake (if you do this regularly anyway, well done. It’s terribly liberating).''Ok, let’s rewind a tiny bit and introduce some context. A few months ago (ah, how heady and distant they seem now), a travel blogger by the name of Chris Walker Bush asked if any other travel bloggers were interested in getting together, in the name of charity (alert signs should probably have been flashing at this point), and putting together a “Men of Travel Blogging” calendar.''What the hell I thought. That should be a bit of fun. Grab some snaps of some blokes standing around, package it up with a sexy cover of a mountain or something, and voila! – countless Christmas present dreams come true whilst money is raised for charity. Naturally I signed up.''Some time passed, and before I knew it,\xa0 the whole thing was starting to snowball rather disturbingly. First – the girls wanted in. There was no longer just going to be a men of travel blogging calendar, but also a women of travel blogging calendar. Then the first photo for the calendar was shared – of some chap''sitting pretty much naked in a lake in Tasmania'', with some quite fantastically gorgeous scenery around him. And snow. Hats off, sir, that took some balls. Hopefully not literally.''I’m not going to lie. I may have slightly underestimated the professionalism of my fellow participants. The group started talking about hiring photographers. About props. About photo shoots. Naturally, I did what anyone else in my situation would have done at this point – I put the whole thing out of my mind, and assumed a solution would present itself in the fullness of time.''The months started to pass alarmingly quickly, and I managed to ignore the problem spectacularly well. Despite spending time''hanging out in a glorious villa'', road tripping across France and Germany and, well, generally having a whole host of amazing opportunities to take pictures of myself against glorious sceneries, I kept it firmly shoved down in the back of my mind.''You see, whilst I am fairly comfortable hiding on the viewfinder side of my lens, I’m not so great at the actual modelling thing. Put a mountain in front of me, with some tastefully arranged clouds, and I am a happy man. Put me in the frame and, well, I am less happy.''Hiding from my problem didn’t solve it though (I know, who would have thought?). Instead, as more and more participants started to share their images and their outtakes – in particular the ladies, who seemed to be really getting into the swing of it – it dawned on me that action was going to have to be taken. That, and the upcoming deadline of the 31st of October, by which point all of the photos were going to have to be submitted so the calendar could be printed. There’s nothing like the impending humiliation of letting down your peers to motivate.''I enrolled my style advisor and soon to be photographer (better known as Vera, my other half), and she came up with a sort of wild man of the jungle Tarzan theme. Admittedly, the pine forests of France are a little way away from say, the fern coated jungles of Borneo, but a bit of make up, a fake snake and a large knife go a long way towards creating a scene. Plus, if all else fails, I could enroll the chickens in the shoot. It was time to cover myself in olive oil and head outside.''Leaving things to the last minute to shoot a summery themed Mr. June shot was perhaps a bit of an error I quickly realised. Late October in Europe is not normally a time associated with balmy weather. Winter was firmly on the way, with a cool Siberian wind blowing. My nipples hardened into tiny bullets while the rest of my skin took on an appealing goosey feel. Nice.''Luckily, my assistant was on hand, quite literally, with copious amounts of olive oil to lather my skin in. The stuff is quite fantastic – I can highly recommend it to artic explorers. Who needs clothes when you’ve got oil? Feel free to quote me on that.''Nipple freezing issues resolved, it was time for the actual shoot, and we wandered around our locality searching for the ideal spot. We played with a fake snake, a tiny umbrella, and even spent some time posing with our local jungle fowl. Ok, some chickens. Who refused to present anything but their butts to the camera. Those shots didn’t make the final cut. I also had to give Vera a crash course in the use of my DSLR. Note for budding calendar shoot participants – train your photographer before the shoot.''Anyway. All’s well that ends well. We got a shot that we were both pleased with. Well done me – and of course, Vera, who had to put up with my ornery instructions from the wrong side of the lens.''So where is this picture then? And does it feature a snake? Well. The answer to this question and more is not in this post. No – you’re going to have to grab the calendar to see what I managed to achieve. And this is the bit''where''you get involved.''The good news is that the hard work has been done by a whole group of people who have put themselves out there, quite literally, entirely in the name of charity.''All you have to do is''click on through''to the official''Travel Blogging Calendar''2013 website, choose which sex you want to grace your walls with (or both) and know that your money is going to a good cause. Everything, apart from the shipping cost, is going to go to charity – none of the photographees are taking anything for this (of course!), and the nice folks at''uPrinting.com''are doing the actual printing for free. Plus, and trust me on this, the pictures really are worth it.''As always, a huge thanks for reading. If you’ve ever done anything for charity that scared you a bit, I’d love to hear about it in the comments below. Or, you can just tell me which calendar you chose. Hopefully the boys. I know those girls are sexy, but damn it, I got covered in oil for this! Your support is appreciated 🙂''SHARE ON''Here I am, travelling my way through the world, always stumbling over offers to taste wine. The world is a gigantic vineyard, it seems. Until recently, I didn’t care much. To be honest, I had this terrible fear that if I actually knew how to distinguish a very good wine from a not so good one, it would ruin many meals and evenings. I could not afford to become a proper wine snob.''The world of wine knowledge has always bewildered, yet fascinated me. Somehow, people swirling their glasses, taking a tiny sip, looking thoughtfully into nowhere and uttering weirdly poetic descriptions completely fail to impress me. They only challenge my self-control: “Must. Not. Giggle.”. Now you know. But the thing is: I could never shake off the thought that there might be something important to it. You know, what if I’m invited to dine with the Queen, and I don’t notice that the wine is a 1811 Chateau d’Yquem. I mean, she might not invite me again, right?''Then came the night that should change my life. It was a warm evening in the Costa Brava, and the moon shone bright on the beach as we had dinner in the restaurant of our hotel (the''Hotel Tamariu''). I asked for a red wine to accompany my meal, while everyone else had white.''The waiter came up to me with a bottle and asked me if I wanted to taste it. I handled this question logically, thinking: well, it’s a wine bottle, therefore there must be wine in it, and I am also pretty sure it won’t be undrinkable wine, which means I am going to drink it. So why go through the effort of pretending that there’s an odd chance I could refuse to drink it? I smiled kindly and told him it would be fine.''He hesitated. He was obviously confused and a tiny bit disappointed. He asked me again. This indicated that I had dropped a clanger (how very unlike me). I felt my only way out of this was consistency, so I stood with my decision. He nodded sadly, poured a bit of wine in my glass, then his face lit up with a glimpse of hope as he asked me one last time, and it broke my heart, but I couldn’t give in now, so I declined again.''Since he was such a nice guy, I contemplated for the first time my anti-wine-tasting-attitude, and I found that I would have liked to do him the favour of playing along, but that I had not much of an idea what the whole ceremony was about. There were probably a thousand catches coming with it. And I am already confused as how to hold the freaking wine glass correctly after someone told me off once. Hooray.''But you cannot avoid the wine, guys, you just can’t. Especially when you travel, you notice how wine is a serious touristic feature in so many places. Just think about how you know half of the French regions probably only because of their wine – Bordeaux, Burgundy, Champagne, anyone? So I came to the conclusion that I would not put up a fight to cling to my wine ignorance any longer. I was ready for my first ever wine tasting.''With all the things that you have mixed feelings about (since the process of learning usually means that I make a fool out of myself), said wine tasting came rather fast. When we stayed at our''Naturaki Villa''a couple of days later, our host Carme offered to take us wine-tasting at a 700-year-old, family-run winery. Which was great. I would therefore be able to insult multiple generations all in one go. People would turn around in their graves. Then again, this was a chance to learn from the best. So we accepted.''The next day, Carme took us to the cellar of''Mas Llunes'', which is in Garriguella, as are their 45 hectares of vineyards. Garriguella is part of the Albarran National Parc in Costa Brava. We were introduced to Pilar Naveira, who was going to show us around. First we took a walk outside to have a look at the little vine-trees.''I had avoided to out myself as a cretin yet, so I nodded casually to all the information given to me –\xa0 I only lost my cool when Pilar sadly pointed to a vine that the wind had broken and said that a vine needs to grow for freaking 35 years before you can use it for wine-making – well, she didn’t say ‘freaking’ but really, that’s a long time, isn’t it? The vines on that particular field were 55 years old.''Also, they were all crazy. Yes, crazy. But crazy in a good way, you know. It’s because of the wind they have in this region, the Tramuntana. Said to make people more open-minded and creative (which is really what crazy means – I knew it!).''I mean, Salvador Dali was born there – just look at HIS pictures. Or at a picture OF him. You’ll see what I mean. The wind is not all bad, though. It means that the wine-makers have to use less chemicals to protect their vines from pests because it’s so dry, but during winter, when the Tramuntana gets as strong as 200 km/h, it becomes powerful enough to break the vines.''Pilar invited us to try some of the grapes and pointed out how you can tell if they are ready to be harvested: you check the colour of the seeds. If they are green, they are not ready yet – they have to be brown.''She also informed us that the soil at Mas Llunes is clay on the plains and slate on the slopes. After I had nearly blown my cover with my reaction to the wind-struck vine, I decided not to ask what the soil meant for the vine. Which was a wise thing to do, because the answer is: a lot. If you feel like it, check out this list of''vineyard soil types''and be startled.''We went inside the factory, which looked very cool with all these gigantic metal containers full of WINE, and hoses running in between them. Pilar showed us where the tractor brings in the grapes, which then go into a steamer/crusher where they are separated from the stem. An apparatus they jovially call “the washing machine”.''The next step is fermentation and that is where you have to decide what’s it gonna be: for red wine and rosé the grapes are fermented with the skin, for white wine without it. The fermentation is initiated by adding yeast to the grapes in a container – different yeasts for different wines, even.''Then the mixture sits there for 20 to 30 days, developing alcohol. Not the worst pastime, I reckon. And it’s warm and cosy in these containers, because the temperature is set between 26 and 30 °C – it must not exceed 30 °C, though. Every day there is a quality control, and once there are no sugars left, it’s time for the wine to leave the womb. The skins get separated from the liquid, but can still be made into grappa. Yay for up-cycling! The wine itself is made into a first and a second quality. The second quality is used for table wine.''After so much information, we got to taste a 6-days-old harvest, which was bubbly and still had sugars in and about 7% alcohol – hang in, you’re nearly there!!''Next we went into the cellar, where the wine ages in barrels at a constant temperature of 18 °C. Wine barrels – how cool is that! But again, nothing is left to chance here: these barrels were made out of French oak which gives the wine a spicy aroma. The most common other sort of wood would be American oak, which results in a vanilla flavour. Even the way the wood is toasted influences the taste. And the wine doesn’t stay in it forever (for some reason, I thought that), but usually only 6 months to 1 1/2 years. The maximum would be 5 years – unless you want to produce a sweet wine.''The last step is probably the easiest – at least it takes up the smallest amount of space during the whole operation: the filling of the wine into the bottles. A machine cleans the individual bottles, then they are filled. All oxygen is sucked out of each bottle, the cork is put on, and the bottle is washed again from the outside. Finally, it is labelled and packed.\xa0 Despite the machine’s rather unspectacular look, it can fill up 3000 bottles per day. Nice!''And now it was time to actually try the wine. Since I had watched the whole process of wine-making and had learned that it is a mixture between accurate work and a lot more creativity than I had expected, I felt quite confident about the whole thing. I was basically a pro now, knowing all about toasted barrels ‘n’ stuff, right?''Also, none of my questions had alienated Pilar so far (little did I know, the day was still young), so I gave up completely on my mysterious position and revealed myself as an absolute newbie to wine-tasting. Pilar took it rather well. Most people actually do, when you admit that you don’t know anything about something you feel you should know everything about, and will let you in to what you need to know.''So Pilar demonstrated how you start off by swirling the wine in your glass to release and intensify the aroma. She swirled it quite a lot, I swirled a bit less, as I didn’t have the confidence in my swirling technique yet and also Loz beside me was wearing a white shirt.''After this followed the four phases of the tasting:''1) the visual phase, where you check clarity and colour – with red wine, for instance, you can hold your finger against the glass: the less you can see it, the older the wine.''2) the olfactory phase, where you hang your nose into the glass (don’t be shy) and smell away. There’s heaps of aromas to sniff out for; be they flowery, fruity, spicy – you might even find a hint of chocolate or tobacco (maybe not in this tasty combination)! I was quite surprised to perceive notes I would not have associated with wine.''3) the degustation phase, where you actually get to taste the wine and find whether it is sweet, bitter, acidy, and what the dominant taste is.''4) the aftertaste phase, where you evaluate what sensations linger after you swallowed (or spit out) your wine.''I did fairly well for one red and two white wines, but after that came my downfall (at least I had something to drink with it). We were offered to try Garnatxa, a sweet wine that is as Catalan as it gets – in April they even have a Garnatxa party in the village where the winery is! Now there was nothing different in the way of tasting it, but encouraged by myself doing so incredibly well on the humiliation front, I got a bit carried away with phase number two, and instead of gently sniffing the bouquet, I enthusiastically snorted the Garnatxa, which nearly gave poor Pilar a heart attack. I’m serious.''She struck me as someone who is not easy to unsettle, but now she was just stunned as to why on earth someone would disgrace a wine like that.''I could see that my mission was accomplished – once again I had learned something by making a fool out of myself. I rewarded myself with some more Garnatxa, and also bought a bottle for home. Then two more bottles of wine.''So this is all I can tell you: do not, I repeat, do not snort the wine!''Apart from that, the whole thing was rather interesting and nice, and lifted the curtain to the world of wine a bit, which turned out to neither be snobby nor scary, but full of professionalism and about focussing on your senses.''I do not claim that I got everything right that was shown and told to me that day, so if I didn’t, have mercy on me. I did want to share my experience with you, as an example for how it is rewarding to follow your curiosity, even if you have to bring up some courage to overcome the fear of appearing ‘stupid’. I also wanted to ask you to bring me another bottle of Garnatxa, if you happen to be in the region 🙂 !''…So what have YOU done lately to embarrass yourself in the name of the never-ending quest for knowledge? Hit the comments and already be assured of our deepest respect for your commitment. Thanks for reading!''SHARE ON''Industrial. It’s not necessarily a word I’d normally use to describe a place to sleep. Instead, I might associate it with somewhere like a steel mill. And experience has taught me that generally a place for making steel doesn’t normally make a relaxing place to sleep. Ok, I haven’t actually racked up that particular experience, but I’m fairly certain of the theory.''In the case of''Bangkok’s Lub d Silom''hostel though, industrial is exactly the sort of word I’m going to use to describe it, because industrial is what it is.''Loving the industrial feel of the central staircase''Lub in Thai translates as sleep, whilst D translates as well. And sleeping well is the end goal at this hostel that somehow manages to pull off a marriage of warm, friendly, welcoming hospitality and a funky industrial design.''They call Thailand the land of smiles, and the welcome at reception was no exception!''Opened back in 2008, this hostel was purposely built from the inside out to be a place to stay. It was apparent from the moment we walked through the door and were welcomed with smiles that everything has been well thought out.''The main areas are open and spacey, with loads of personal touches to bring a smile to the face. These range from the crashed elephant in the entrance hallway to the stuffed monkeys swinging from the bar lamps.''The large common area with bar for hanging out / web surfing / drinking beer / meeting new friends!''The leaft lined street of the front entrance and terrace. There’s useful information like this map all over the hostel, including handy Thai phrases and maps of public transport.''Oh yes, bar lamps. There’s a bar, serving reasonably priced beers, as well as food. The wi-fi is free, fast, and found all over the hostel. If you didn’t bring your own internet device (are you people still out there?), you can get online at the internet station, which is next to the tourism info stand.''Want some ideas for what do do in Bangkok and beyond? The tourism stand is where to go. Plus the hostel arranges various night time activities, from bar tours to snack events. Which you can get involved with.. or ignore entirely. The choice is yours!''There’s also a laundry room (with iron… people clearly holiday differently to me) and a movie theatre complete with bean bags. Or you can just hang out on the street facing balcony area and enjoy a nice cold beer.''A guest enjoys breakfast on the front balcony terrace of the hostel''Of course, all these features don’t really add up to anything if the most important part of the hostel experience isn’t up to scratch – the sleeping arrangements and cleanliness. Which, I’m pleased to report, are both entirely spectacular. They even won a''Hostelbookers''award for the latter.''I loved all the little details adorning the walls. And of course the movie room!''Accommodation at Lub d Silom comes in four flavours. There are mixed dorms and female only dorms, which range in size from 6 to 8 beds. Great if you’re on a tighter budget or just feeling more social.''Alternatively, if you want the privacy of your own gaff, you can have a twin room featuring bunk beds, or go all out for the private double with en suite and TV. Not exactly what you’d expect from a normal hostel, but then, Lub d struck me as anything but normal.''The clash of industrial design and drying laundry. I suspect the cleaners would have got right on this 😉''The beds themselves are well made and sturdy. We were in the twin room which meant having a bunk bed, but the beds were wide enough that we could cuddle up in just the one when we were feeling loving. Alternatively, even with Vera up top (in the bed – get your minds out of the gutter), there was nary a squeak to be heard.''There were lots of other details that made the room a pleasure to both be in and write this post from. Plentiful power adaptors. Intelligent lighting positioning. Little shelves behind each bed. An electronic safe to keep valuables locked away. And even towels, fresh sheets, and a daily cleaning service.''This was our actual room. Even the view wasn’t bad. Although I need to practice not sitting on the bed before taking the picture.''The room also came with AC, which I’m not normally a big fan of. Bangkok though, is hot and muggy, especially after arriving from an autumnal Europe, so the in-room air conditioning was wonderful relief. And as the hostel is in a quieter (for Bangkok!) part of town, there’s barely a peep to be heard from the outside world. Add this to the spaciously comfortable mattress, and I had some of the best night’s sleep I’ve ever had in a hostel.''In summary therefore, if you’re looking for somewhere to stay in Bangkok, I can wholeheartedly recommend the''Lub d Silom''. Friendly staff, on-site bar, free wi-fi, comfortable beds, and incredible cleanliness. What more do you need?''Disclaimer: we were guests of the''Lub d''for our stay in Bangkok, but this didn’t mean we had to write a favourable review. We did that because we believe this is an awesome hostel! Cheers 🙂''SHARE ON''Well, as that''incredible photo essay from Nomadic Samuel''explained only recently, I’m in Thailand. And more precisely, I’m in Bangkok. A trip which, for a time there I have to admit, worried me a bit more than it excited me.''The thing is, and this is a little strange to say, I was a bit apprehensive about setting off for a longer term adventure again. Since the move to France about a year ago, all my trips have been rather safer shorter adventures. Excellent adventures yes, including such pinnacles of excitement as''hot air ballooning''and''banana flavoured beer,''but safe, localised ones.''Nothing that has really challenged me. Nothing that has stretched me. Nothing that has really required much in the way of thinking.''Looking up at Wat Arun temple during sunset''And so, I was a little worried that perhaps I had lost my travel mojo. Maybe I was a “shorter trips” sort of person now. Maybe I needed lots of downtime between trips to write them up, and edit the photos. Maybe I had accumulated enough travel experience, and I was happy to just sort of retire. Maybe the buzz just wasn’t going to come back to me, as described recently in a bloody awesome post from the Globe Trotter Girls on''losing the magic of travel.''These many maybes, and indeed fears, circled my head in the days leading up to our departure.''Of course, it turns out that my fears were an unfounded load of pre-travel bollocks. As soon as we stepped off the plane and sniffed the warm, moist, Bangkok air (through a fug of Jet A1 aviation fuel, although that stuff is pretty heady in of itself), I knew that it was all going to be ok.''Even such trivial things as seeing signs in another language, taking on immigration, and dealing with a new and unknown transit system sent a thrill through me.''And then of course, there’s Bangkok itself. The place is a sensory overload – I can see how it could be almost too much. It’s noisy, crowded, hectic, scented, never ending. It explodes all five of your senses and challenges you to deal with the fallout. It’s chaotic. I think I love it.''From the insistent tuk tuk drivers, to the roaming street cats, to the insane array of street food, to the temples, to the wiring that would give any Western electrician a heart attack, it’s all just fantastic. Fantastically different.''And that is what has always driven me to travel – the search for something new and different. Sure, Thailand is a country that has been well-explored before – but it’s never been explored by me. And the newness is gorgeous.''Boats on the Chao Phraya river''Bangkok has been the best way to begin the adventure, with the city jump-starting my enthusiasm. The coming few months are loaded with adventures, in part thanks to the lovely folks at the''Tourism Authority of Thailand'', who are sorting us out with all kinds of incredible stories to share, including nights on raft houses, mist-laden national park exploration and long-tailed boat trips between impossible to pronounce islands.''From what I can tell it’s going to be a hell of trip, and I’m so pleased you’re coming along for the ride. Stay tuned – and as always, thanks for reading! I’d love to hear your thoughts on this post in the comments below.''Entry to the Memorial bridge, Bangkok''SHARE ON''If you imagine the Costa Brava in your mind, I’m guessing a whole host of images pop into your mind, and I suspect many of these images have a largely marine based theme. Costa, after all, means coast. So we’re talking gorgeous coastline, tucked away coves and beautiful sunsets. Oh, and tasty, tasty food.''Despite the name though, the Costa Brava is more than just coastline. The Catalonia region is jammed right up against the mighty Pyrenees mountains which divide Spain and France, and so Costa Brava is also a hill walkers delight. Which, if you know me at all, means it’s my delight.''We were therefore rather pleased to be invited to spend a day exploring the Nuria Valley, a hidden valley, accessible only by foot or rail, which is surrounded by mountains reaching over three kilometres in height. Who could turn down an invitation like that?''Getting to the Nuria Valley''The journey in to the Nuria valley is breath-taking stuff. There are two options – you can walk, or you can take the rack railway from Ribes de Freser rail station. For time reasons we took the latter option, although I was sorely tempted by the hike.''The rack railway though is an adventure of itself – given that the train takes you up over a thousand meters. Operating since 1931, the line has a maximum gradient of 15% (that’s pretty steep!), and for the most part runs near the footpath. So you get the same lovely views as the walk, with none of the blisters! Maybe the train up and a walk down is the best option – an option that''Laurel of Monkeys and Mountains chose.''What to do in the Nuria Valley''Once up in the valley itself, there’s no shortage of things to do. We visited in late summer, so the main attraction was the hiking, with plentiful trails available to explore, all of which offered epic views of the mountains. We took a gondola up to the top of one of these, and walked down (yes, it was a lazy sort of a day!).''The Val de Nuria also has lots of history to discover. From a spiritual point of view it’s an important place of pilgrimage, being as it was the home of''Saint Giles''back in 700AD. You can visit his chapel, which dates back to the 16th century. It’s pretty tiny, but it’s very cute, and there’s a shrine where you can write your wishes on a piece of paper and with any luck they’ll come true. My lottery numbers are still waiting to come up.''The pilgrimage aspect also means that the valley is rather full of religious iconography, largely in the shape of crosses and shrines. These are all over the place, and make for some interesting photography opportunities, even if you’re not terribly religious.''The Val de Nuria is also important as a historical place of refuge. Being so close to the French border meant that it wasn’t far from here that refugees from wars on either side would escape the various troubles in their lands and find a new life on the other side of the mountains.''If history isn’t your thing, don’t worry – the Nuria valley has you covered. The hiking opportunities, as previously mentioned, are plentiful, and if you visit in winter than it turns into a snow lovers paradise, with skiing & snowboarding featuring front and centre. There’s a children’s play park to keep the kids interested, and special events are regularly held, both spiritual and not.''The large lake in front of the main sanctuary building offers boating (although I’d advise against swimming, the water doesn’t get much above 4 degrees C, even in summer!), and you can do archery, crazy golf and also horse riding. There’s even an animal park and a little wooden train to play on. Which Vera got a bit carried away on. So yes – something for everyone!''When we visited it was clear that this was a popular destination for a day trip, as the grassy area was full of people having picnics, collapsing from the walk up, and just enjoying the scenery. If we’d been able to stay longer, I would have totally been tackling some of the more interesting looking hiking routes. As it was, we were just able to get a taste of what the Nuria Valley had to offer – which I’ve been able to share with you today.''If you’re interested in heading up to the Nuria Valley, check out their''official website'', or connect with them''on facebook.''In the meantime, here are a couple more photos to whet your appetite!''I hope you enjoyed today’s post. For our trip to the Nuria Valley we were guests of the''Costa Brava tourism board''and the lovely people of the Nuria Valley. Naturally, our opinions remain our own!''SHARE ON''Sun beaming down on the golden Chedi at the Grand National Palace – Wat Phra Kaew (Bangkok), Thailand.''So we’ve had''sunsets''and''waterfalls'', it only makes sense that this weeks Travel Pinspiration theme from''ytravelblog''is on the subject of glorious stretches of unbroken sand. If you’re new to the #travelpinspiration thing,''check out my earlier posts''to get an idea of what’s going on. Otherwise, welcome back, let’s dive right in!''I’ve had the privilege of seeing some quite fantastic beaches on my various travels. Here are five of my favourite, drawn from all from around the world. Enjoy!''This is the beach on Bird Island in the Seychelles, home to some of my favourite beaches in the world. They’re about as perfect as you can imagine!''This is the beach on''Fraser Island in Australia'', which is also notable for being a road. Australia has over 30,000km of coastline, so as you would imagine, has a pretty wide selection of beaches to choose from. Here’s a post of some of my''favourite beaches of Australia''for your viewing enjoyment.''Across to Europe now, and to the south of France, near the Spanish border. This beach isn’t too far from the town of''Leucate'', which is a very popular holiday destination in the Languedoc-Roussillon region.''Cities with beaches rule! Like Sydney or Miami,''Barcelona''has it’s very own beach, and it’s glorious. We visited in April, when it wasn’t so busy (or warm!), but I could imagine that in the heat of the summer this would be a welcome respite from the heat.''Finally, my beach tour of the world takes us to''New Zealand'', which is also where the title picture is from. Prior to my year in''New Zealand''I had no idea that this country featured such gorgeous beach scenery. I was happy to be proven wrong, as this shot of the''Kaikoura''headland demonstrates!''So those were five beaches from around the world – this week’s Travel #Pinspiration theme. As always, let me know what you thought of them in the comments below!''SHARE ON''When you travel to Spain and visit the lovely town of Girona, you will see the statue of a lion. They say, if you kiss it, you will return to Girona. I nearly didn’t kiss it. Because, you know, it’s not like I have not fallen for this kind of bollocks before. Yeah, I threw coins in plenty of fountains and wells. Yeah, I rubbed the cold feet of plenty of statues. And did I ever become invisible at any point? Did I ever start to fly? Did Ewan McGregor ever come to marry me? NO! And so, my faith in all these little make-a-wish-thingies withered away.''Yet I still kissed the lion in Girona, because Loz wanted a picture of it, but afterwards, I made a lot of snide remarks. It’s not that I didn’t WANT to come back, because I actually did. We had only spent half a day on a tour there, which was nice and compact, but in a way just an appetizer. Not enough time to get lost in all the little streets. But I knew that kissing the lion would probably only ensure that I would get a cold sore, and not much else. And it was on that day that I realized: I had lost faith. I was disillusioned.''It was okay, though. Ewan McGregor had married someone else by then, anyway. And maybe invisibility had some really bad side effects. Not that I would know, of course. We made our way back home and I forgot all about it.''A couple of months after that trip we''decided to participate in a travel blogging conference''. We signed up, only to find out that it would be in Girona. This revelation initiated a mighty cough attack on my behalf, since instantly it became clear to me: I had mocked the lion, and it would not let it slip. I took it well, though. There are bigger things than me out there, and I am not talking about elephants.''But I felt that this was not over. I was being tested. And damn right would I pass that test. I switched my radar on to recognize the next challenge. It came soon.''We were contemplating how to get to Girona. By train? With our (at this point not really yet converted)''van''? Fly down and''rent a car from Girona airport''? Walk the Camino de Santiago trail? But the Girona lion took care of it:''arguscarhire.com''contacted us entirely out of the blue and provided us with a rental car.\xa0 A development which very obviously had lion written all over it. I mentally prepared myself.''We went to pick up the car. It was a Chevrolet Aveo. Neat. Now we all know, a car is not just a car. It’s the modern variant of horses. It’s your trusted steel steed.''It needs a name'', otherwise it’s all going to go wrong. This one was easy: Schnevy. Elaborate, elegant and eloquent. Chew on THAT, lion.''Then came the biggest challenge. I knew this wasn’t going to be easy:''What would be the talisman we were going to take with us on our road trip?''You might think this is a ridiculous question, but let me tell you a little story:''When I left Germany to go work & travel in Australia, I carried about a dozen talismans with me. From a metal key ring angel which weighed close to a solid kilogram, to Lemmy the lemon, to a medallion with a picture of my cat, to a blanket and a flattened piece of metal saying “Safe journeys”. Everyone wants you to take something along that reminds you of them and protects you on your travels. I guess the protection results from the fact that your backpack is then too heavy to move around with it much.''But when it came to picking a talisman for the rental car my friend, who was there for three weeks, and I had hired, I made a mistake. A mistake that in hindsight was completely unnecessary.''At that time, they were promoting one of the “''Ice age''” movies in the supermarkets, and I could not bring myself to walk past the toy model of Scrat, who in the movie is a little saber-toothed squirrel that is obsessed with an acorn and has a habit of breaking things.''Bedazzled by his cuteness, I made him the official talisman for our car – which I bitterly regretted when a stone thrown up by a passing car on a dirt road destroyed our wind-screen. A wind-screen that was not covered by the insurance we had, it turned out.''So I learned the hard way that if you choose a talisman which stands for a personality that breaks things, it WILL affect your car’s Feng Shui. That’s right, I’m not afraid to use the big words.''I’m sure you have understood how careful you have to be with all this stuff that you probably didn’t even take seriously until now. Oh, I was once like you, too, don’t get me wrong. But that sweet innocence died when we got the bill for the bloody wind-screen.''So I was really nervous about the talisman choice for Schnevy. I knew I was in the middle of a power struggle with the Girona lion, and I had to make a point and show that I could handle this task.''Suddenly it hit me and everything became very clear: I needed to make a move the lion did not expect. Something new, outrageous, yet simple and clever.''I would not take any talisman at all. BAM.''And that’s what I did. We drove to Girona, determined and cold-blooded. At the beginning my hands were shaking a bit, but after a couple of hours, I relaxed and enjoyed the ride. All went well. When we arrived in Girona that day, I knew I had completed the lion’s challenge.''We had a good time in Girona. It was nice to be back. I didn’t kiss the lion again. I knew I didn’t need to. But when I passed it on my way downtown, I winked at it, confidentially, and you may believe me or you may not, but I swear by Scrat’s acorn: it winked right back.''So, folks, don’t give up hope if you haven’t won the lottery yet although you ALWAYS throw coins in any well in sight (you do know that you need to buy a lottery ticket, too, right? Just saying.) – it may just not be your time yet, but it will come. And if you too have chosen a really counterproductive talisman in the past, you can tell me about in the comments. I won’t judge. All the best to all of you, and thanks for reading!''SHARE ON''Travel provides an amazing opportunity to meet up with people and to peep through the keyhole of their lives, even for a fleeting instant of time. It’s one of the things I love about it – being a sort of life voyeur.''Vera and I recently undertook a bit of a road trip across Europe, ostensibly to attend a wedding in the Bavarian alps (post on that coming soon!), but also in order to meet up with all kinds of wonderful people. I thought you might like to meet them too, and grab a bit of a look into their lives. We’ll start with:''The Monkey Lady of Munich''Ok, so Laurel is probably going to kill me for that heading. Vera and I met Laurel''down in Spain'', where we had the pleasure of''overeating''and''ballooning''together. She mentioned that if we were ever passing through Germany, we should pop in. I suspect that maybe us turning up two weeks later on her doorstep wasn’t quite what the poor girl had in mind, but there we are. (Possible tip for other people: don’t invite us to stay unless you really mean it. We will appear.)''We stayed for two nights, and had a jolly time in Munich. We’d just managed to miss Oktoberfest, but this didn’t dampen our enthusiasm for trying out hilariously sized beers, exploring the city in the rain, and spending time trying out voodoo on her slightly neurotic cats. That didn’t quite work out.''We also talked about all sorts of things travel blogger related – Laurel being the lady behind''Monkeys and Mountains''. If you want to find out more about her, I’d recommend starting off with her''German hospital experiences''. Because reading about other people’s suffering is always amusing, right? Otherwise, keep an eye out for a photo post on Munich, which will be coming up at some point in the future, moistness and all.''The girl from the far side of the world''Not too long ago, Vera and I had the pleasure of living and''travelling in New Zealand'', where for a period of time we managed a hostel. Whilst this''didn’t end too well'', the time we were actually there did let us meet all kinds of awesome people, including the lovely Anaelle, who also happens to be based in Munich.''We met up with Anaelle in Munich for coffee, having last seen her on the other side of the planet, and before you knew it, I had invited us to spend the night with her family down in Überlingen, on the Bodensee, which the non-German speaking world knows as Lake Constance.''Überlingen, which I had never heard of previously, turned out to be a bit of a gem of a town, with a gorgeous lake front surrounded by some seriously antiquated buildings and a rather impressive history of habitation dating back to the stone age. It’s also home to some rather other worldly geological features, notably a number of ravines, which were used as a sort of natural defence for the city, back in the days when cities needed such things.''The best thing, of course, about staying in Überlingen, was the amazing welcome we received from her family. We sat and ate''raclette'', and chatted late into the night over various bottles of wine. We also admired the rather fabulous view that their house commanded across Lake Constance and the town of Überlingen, with the alps in the distant background, which has to be one of the best living rooms views I’ve ever seen.''The good news is that you can appreciate this view yourself, as part of the house is given over to a number of rather beautiful holiday apartments, which are available for rent. We took a look around all four of these, and they were all beautifully decorated, with just epic views. You can find out more about them at their website,''Little Paradise''. Which it is.''The Grounded Traveller and Adventuring Girl''You know, being put up by people who you’ve only ever met online does have serious potential to go terribly wrong. Luckily, in the case of Andrew and Ali (the''Grounded Traveler''and''Ali’s Adventures'', respectively), this wasn’t the case. Probably because just about the first thing we did when we arrived in the Black Forest cloaked city of Freiburg was head out for some rather delicious beer.''I have written previously on the topic of Germans and their beer, and their weird propensity for mixing it with other liquids to form ungodly concoctions…''like this''. So it was with some trepidation that I found myself ordering a Banana Weissbier – essentially a wheat beer with a whole banana blended in for good measure.''Unlike the beer and cola fiasco however, this was actually a damn fine tipple, rather as I imagine a beer milkshake should taste. Admittedly, everyone around me thought I was deeply weird, and even the waitress appeared ready to burst into hysterics when she brought it over, but well. I liked it.''Freiburg was also eminently explorable, and a post on that topic is going to be coming up, featuring rubber ducks and supposedly the most beautiful cathedral tower in Germany. You can be the judge of that.''If you want to get to know Ali and Andrew more, do check out their blogs. In Ali’s case, here’s a great read about''adjusting to life in Germany''. Andrew, on the other hand…''likes his beer''too. And who can blame him… although not a banana in sight. Shame.''Visiting Dumbledore''When I was fifteen, I decided that living on a gorgeous tropical island in the Seychelles just wasn’t cool any more, and I demanded to be sent to school in the UK to meet some peers. I’m not sure this was the wisest idea I’ve ever had, but my parents decided that since I was crazy enough to want to do this, they were going to support me fully, and signed me up to an all boys catholic school. Funny folk that they are.''It used to be that explaining the system of an English public school to folk, with its latin mottos, debating clubs and strange house system of accommodation was a bit of a challenge. Then J.K. Rowling rocked up with Harry Potter, and now I can tell people to imagine Hogwarts with less magic, and that’s that.''As it was on our trip, my old housemaster from my schooling days was right on our route, so a stop over to see him was added to our plan. He was certainly more Dumbledore than Snape, hence the reason for our visit. That was pure luck on my account – no such thing as a sorting hat at the school I went to.''He happens to live in a quite spectacular location up in a region of France known as the Vosges, which is all pretty lakes and mountains. In summer, it’s an outdoor lovers dream come true, with hiking, cycling and water based activities galore. In winter, it turns into snow bunny land, with ski and snowboard runs all over the place.''We visited outside of both these seasons, with the leaves on the trees turning pleasantly autumnal. The evening was spent over wine, reminiscing on school days,stroking some rather excitable spaniels and feasting like kings on a fantastic home made feast. The morning was spent touring lakes and enjoying fine French coffee against some bracing mountain air. All refreshing stuff.''If you want to know what the Vosges area is all about, fear not! It turns out my old housemaster has moved on from teaching and into the tourism trade, with a rather well appointed''holiday apartment in the Vosges''mountains region available for rent. We’re talking gorgeous views, log fire, and all the other comforts you’d expect. You can even partake of the homemade food. Magic, sadly, is not included.''I have no idea why so many people I visit have holiday accommodation available, and sharing it with you is the very least I can do as a thanks for the warm reception we got everywhere we went. I hope you don’t mind.''And that’s it for my tour of the people we met on our mini-adventure through Europe. Coming up, I’ll be taking you on a photo tour of Freiburg and Munich, talking about a Bavarian wedding… plus all kinds of stuff from Costa Brava that I still want to share. In the meantime… if you’ve got a great story to share about the folk you’ve met on the road – feel welcome to do so in the comments below!''SHARE ON''A while back, I was lucky enough to spend an afternoon wandering the Hobbiton movie set, which can be found near the town of Matamata in New Zealand. When I visited, I was made to sign a lengthy and complex non disclosure agreement, which meant that whilst I could drink in all the hobbity wonder on offer, I couldn’t share it with you.''Instead, I wrote a post about''what visiting Hobbiton taught me''. Which was all jolly good, but lacking in pretty round doors and party trees.''Now however, with the filming of the upcoming Hobbit movies all done, the NDA has been lifted, and I’m free to share with you everything I saw in the two hour tour. Which is totally worth doing by the way.''It’s been a while since I’ve done a L''ord of the rings themed post'', and these photos have been burning a hole in my hard drive for nearly two years now. So let’s get on with it!''This is the famous party tree, where Bilbo did his disappearing trick in the Lord of the Rings movies.''It’s just like being in the movies. You have no idea how excited I was!''The mill, and the famous Green Dragon pub. Rumour has it that this is going to open as a real pub. Now that would be an awesome addition to the tour!''It seems that hobbits distinguish their holes with different door colours.''This lichen looks good doesn’t it? Amazingly, it’s all fake. Impressive stuff.''A blue doored hobbit hole.''This is the big one – it’s Bag End where Bilbo lives on Bagshot row. The window on the right is where Sam was found eavesdropping.. and the other door is the main entry to Bag End. Also, that tree on top is entirely fake. Movies, eh.''And this is the view that Bilbo has from Bag end. The set is pretty massive as you can see – the tour took just under two hours!''Close up of a hobbit door. The work that went into making this stuff look aged was a little bit impressive.''As you can probably tell, there are a LOT of hobbit holes on this set. 37 in fact. Don’t worry, I’m not going to show you pictures of all of them.''And finally, that fake tree on Bag End again.''If you have the urge to take a tour of the Hobbiton movie set – which I can highly recommend, if you are any kind of movie or Tolkien fan – then take a look at the''Hobbiton Movie Tours website''for all the details. Tours run from the towns of Matamata and Rotorua, as well as from the Shire Cafe itself, which is located just near the set, a short drive from Matamata.''SHARE ON''One thing that I love about travel is the variety of accommodation available. Even though it hasn’t been too exotic for me yet (I’m talking about tree houses and ice hotels, for example), I’ve had my fair share of houses, apartments, bungalows, lodges, hotel rooms, guest houses, bed & breakfasts, motels, hostel rooms, night trains, cabins, camper vans, yurts, underground caves (alright, that IS exotic -yay!) and tents.''Now different places and different occasions call for different lodging, right? From the purpose of your journey (say it’s business related), to your time-frame (relaxed approach or tight schedule) to your own preferences (“One night on an air mattress equals five massage sessions. No thanks.”) to what is available (“Well, there’s still room in the stables, now that you ask…”), you have a variety of options to choose from. Okay, so the underground caves are not everywhere, but let’s not split hairs here.''This year Loz and I discovered something new that hit the bullseye with us: renting an apartment for a city-break. Before, I had never really thought beyond hotels and hostels, which are admittedly fine options, but just can’t beat living in my own apartment during a holiday.''It seems that renting an apartment has not made it yet into the classic accommodation-while-on-vacation picks, and that means a lot of people might unknowingly miss out. Now don’t be afraid yet, maybe you’re not one of them. Maybe you’re more like Coco Chanel or Jimi Hendrix or other famous people who enjoyed and enjoy living in hotels for whole years. Although we might talk a slightly unusual lifestyle here. As for me, I can neither sew very well nor play the guitar, hence that lifestyle is at a whole different level.''So why do I prefer renting an apartment over a hotel room on a holiday?''I really do feel more like a local''. I can pretend I just moved here and this is my new flat. To the people I meet in the hall way it might as well be like that and they treat me as a part of their everyday life.''I am independent.''I can come and go when I want. I can get in and out of bed when I want – and don’t have to worry about missing breakfast, because I can make my own meals, having a kitchen at my disposal. Good for one’s budget, too. And usually apartments are conveniently located with a local supermarket being not too far away.''I feel at home.''This is a base where I can relax on a couch with a blanket after a day of stepping three times into dog poo. A hotel room usually consists of a bed, a study and an en-suite bathroom. To me that doesn’t quite translate into “Enjoy hanging out here!” but into “You may sleep here, brush your teeth here and sit straight while you write a letter to your tax consultant here”. Sadly I don’t have a tax consultant.''I feel inspired.''Hotels often come across kind of sterile to me, no matter how well they are furnished, lit and decorated (there are some quirky exceptions, though). I understand that this is a desirable feature, because it should translate into clean and proper, but sometimes somewhere along the way it also translates into soulless, and that has a tendency to slightly depress me. Apartments, on the other hand, will express more individuality and creativity. You will also be amazed at how many different coffee-making apparatuses exist in this great big world of ours once you have entered the universe of apartment-renting.''It is totally within my budget.''If you think renting a whole apartment versus a hotel-room must be quite expensive, think again – or check it out yourself at''Wimdu'', and you will find that you can choose something to match your budget, however small or big that may be. Plus it’s fun to virtually peek-a-boo into peoples’ houses :).''I like trying out something new when I feel it could really benefit me.''As I said, renting an apartment for a vacation / a city-stay does not yet come automatically to mind as an option for each and everyone, and since it is kind of a ‘new’ thing that works via the internet, you might have your doubts. Very reasonable, as nobody wants to be scammed, less than ever when it comes to arriving in a foreign city after a long journey and just wanting to put your feet up in the apartment you have booked. But if you are anything like me and feel that staying in your own apartment instead of a hotel could significantly raise the quality of your stay, do a bit of research and you will find that there are rules in place to ensure that everyone involved is safe-guarded – so why not give it a try?''Tea.''The biggest reason though why I personally prefer apartments is because it enables me to drink my daily minimum of three litres of tea. That’s right. I drink tea. A lot. Oddly, European hotels (with the refreshing exception of England) don’t believe that a ‘cuppa’ is a human necessity several times a day. In my case, several litres a day. A kettle is therefore a must – a must not found in most hotel rooms, but in every apartment. And there you have it.''Should you now have gotten the impression that I feel that a dentist practice has more charm than any hotel room, I must correct you. I do also love staying in hotels. It just depends on the circumstances I’m in.''I have for instance fond memories of a fantastic hotel stay for one night in downtown Seoul, South Korea, on my way back from Australia, courtesy of the airline I flew with. Yes, there were a kettle and tea-bags in the room, but after several months of back-packing, I was really over the moon to have an amazing room to myself (did I mention it had a kettle?).''And we’re talking fancy shizz-nizz here: the toilet was so high-tech that I couldn’t work out how to flush it – 5 minutes before I had to go downstairs for dinner. I pressed many buttons until I found the one that cheerfully shot a water fountain straight at me, wetting my only pair of pants in a fashion that indicated serious incontinence on my behalf. So that was kind of interesting. After that, I immediately found the right button, of course. But that was AWESOME! I wish I could have seen my face…''I conclude: in the end it’s really all about the memories that you end up creating in a place, isn’t it? And if that place is one that manages to be in accordance with your preferences, all the better! So I hope this post has opened up options for you.''If it hasn’t, you will at least have learned that you should never stand IN FRONT of a high tech toilet while figuring out how to flush it. Unless you fancy a free shower.''So, thank you for reading, and if you have any questions or know about other forms of accommodation that you feel are truly bodacious yet under-represented, you are very welcome to hit the comments!''Disclaimer – we were hosted by''Wimdu''for our recent trip down to Girona, and most of the photos in this post are from the apartment we were loaned for our four days. Opinions remains our own – no amount of kettles can buy our thoughts!''SHARE ON''This is the second of my''TravelPinspiration''themed posts, following the lead set down by Caz and Craig of''yTravelblog'', where I share five of my favourite sunset themed shots from around the world to inspire and pin on the Pinterest platform. You can find out more about this in''my first post''.''Last week, the theme was''waterfalls'', which are one of my favourite things in the world to photograph, only narrowly superseded by sunsets. Hence two posts in such a short space of time along the same lines! What can I say.. I love to share photos! Let’s get on with doing just that, with a selection of sunsets from around the world:''Spectacular sunsets from around the world!''Sunset across the Seychelles islands''Sunset in the Australian outback''Sunset in the streets of Barcelona''Sunset at Muriwai Beach, New Zealand''Sunset across a French wheatfield''If you want to join in with TravelPinspiration, take a look at how you can take part with''ytravelblog’s Travel Pinspiration guide''. Otherwise, as always, let me know what you thought of these photos in the comments below, or head over to the''facebook page''for even more photos from my travels!''SHARE ON''Edition four! Who knew the time was going to fly by quite so effectively? The good news is that if you are new to this series, you have three other wonderfully photo rich posts to read, namely''Edition 1'',''Edition 2''and''Edition 3''.''If you aren’t new – well, here’s a round up of some of the most popular photos that I’ve shared on my''facebook page''over the last month or so. Handy if you missed any.. or if you’re one of the six out of seven people on the planet who doesn’t have facebook. I know you’re out there! As always, enjoy the photos, and let me know your thoughts in the comments at the end!''This is a shot of Autumn in the Alsace town of Munster, France. The eagle eyed amongst you will notice this is an Instagram shot, taken with my camera phone. Munster is famous for its storks, which nest in great quantity on the roof top, are are quite the sight!''Continuing the Autumn theme, because that’s what’s going on around me in the Northern Hemisphere at the moment. This shot though was actually taken in New Zealand in''the Wairarapa region''of the north island.''These would be the rather spectacular Bungle Bungles – only accessible by plane or four wheel drive – in Western Australia. Check our more photos of these amazing rocks in my''photo essay on Purnululu National Park''!''Still in Western Australia – and another four wheel drive only location, this time the beaches of the Francois Peron National Park. Want to find out about some more''stunning places in Australia you can only visit by four wheel drive''? Check out the guest post I did for Matt Gibson,''right here''.''Vera and I were down''in Costa Brava''recently, where we were lucky enough to spend some time in an''absolutely gorgeous villa'', courtesy of the kind people at''Naturaki''. This was the indoor LED lit pool!''Yep – it’s a sunset. Can’t have a facebook page without many gorgeous sunset pictures, right? This one is over Lagoon Beach in Tasmania, and is one of my all time favourite sunset captures.''You’re never too old to play on the swings, right?''This is one of the Costa Brava region’s most famous bridges – leading into the picture postcard town of Besalu. We caught it at sunset, and it was beautiful! If you head over to the''facebook page'', you can''see a picture of me taking this picture''!''We had the great pleasure of going''ballooning in Costa Brava''. Lots of photos from that one, as you might imagine – and a''post full of them right here''!''New Zealand’s gorgeous east cape''was one of the highlights of our year there. So much so that I managed to squeeze it into my recent post on''how to spend a month in New Zealand''. Worth a read if you’re planning a trip out there I reckon!''It’s not all serious high falutin’ stuff, folks. Here’s the classic Instagram capture of a cup of coffee. It was just too cute not to share! If you’re an Instagrammer, you can follow me as @lozula – or just follow my stream on''my statigram profile''!''The''French town of Angouleme''in the Poitou-Charentes region of France is full of just gorgeous stuff, including some''incredible street art''. When I posted this I was feeling a bit under the weather, so this shot seemed appropriate!''Another one from Costa Brava – this time of a church at the point in the coastline where the region got it’s name. This was also a darn fine sky!''Here’s a rare one – a photo of me taking photos! This one was shot by Vera just outside our villa in Spain.''Slightly less rare – we took a break from the TBEX conference to have a quick shoot in one of Girona’s lovely parks. I liked this one of Vera!''It’s the Sydney Harbour bridge at night!''And finally for this round-up, this shot of the Girona waterfront. Admittedly, I didn’t share this one this month, but as a result of it being posted to the Costa Brava tourism board website, it went fairly viral, and became my most popular facebook photo to date – garnering over 1200 likes and hundreds of shares. Which made my day!''As always, thanks so much for reading! Let me know your thoughts on this post in the comments below!''SHARE ON''I know – a blog post with a hashtag. I am so web 3.0. In fact, I think I may re-defining cool when it comes to blog post titles. Yep.''So, what’s this all about? Well, Caz and Craig, the lovely folks behind''ytravelblog'', have started a weekly series called''Travel Pinspiration'', cunningly mashing up the words “pinterest” and “inspiration”. See what they did there? Yes, there’s a reason they’re so successful at what they do.''Pinterest'', in case you’ve been living under a rock for the last year or so, is sort of a virtual pin board type thing, where you “pin” things that you like, largely in the form of pictures, to your online boards. And the idea that Caz and Craig came up with, was to take a whole load of inspiring pictures from travel, pin them onto these boards, and share them with the world. So Travel Pinspiration was born. With its own hashtag and everything. With me so far? Good.''Every week the theme changes – and this week happens to be on the subject of waterfalls. Which, if you spend any time at all on my''Facebook Page''(it’s basically your only reason for using facebook, right?), you will know I am a bit of a fan of. Almost as big a fan of as sunsets, which conveniently is next week’s theme. Seriously, I think they designed this whole thing around me.''Ok, enough waffling. All I have to do is pick five of my favourite waterfall pictures, and post them below. The actual rules say I should find pictures on Pinterest, but I’m going to just use my own photos. Feel free to pin them! So… I’ve no idea how I managed to spend nearly three hundred words explaining all that, but if there’s one thing I do other than taking pictures of waterfalls, it’s waffling. Less waffle, more waterfall, I hear you thinking. Let’s do this:''Pretty waterfall pictures!''Fernhook waterfall in New South Wales, Australia. 90 metres, straight down!''Mangawhero Falls, New Zealand, with Mount Ruapehu in the background.''Waitonga Falls, New Zealand.''Whangarei Falls – New Zealand. Supposedly the most photographed waterfall in NZ!''And finally, the Edith Falls in Australia’s northern territory!''Those were five of my favourite waterfall photos from my travels in Australia and New Zealand. I hope you liked them – as always – share your thoughts in the comments below, and if you want to see more photo themed posts like this, check out''all my photography posts here''!''SHARE ON''I may have''mentioned in the odd post''recently that Vera and I have been down in Spain, attending a travel blogger conference and then being whisked around the incredible Catalan region with the folks from Visit Costa Brava.''The travel blogging conference itself was pretty epic, with two long days of workshops and networking events, as well as three evening parties. Fun, and exhausting. (If you want some thoughts on the actual conference, check out Laurel’s post on the subject over at''Monkeys and Mountains.''Just don’t freak out about the voodoo cat thing).''Of course, the conference was only the tip of the iceberg for us. We also spent a day exploring the Nuria valley. We did a photo walking tour of Girona with''Gary Arndt of Everything Everywhere''. And then we spent three amazing days exploring Catalonia by bicycle,''being stuffed silly with gorgeous food'', and even going ballooning.''All incredible stuff, and all of which I’m going to be sharing with you in the coming weeks. Seriously, if Costa Brava wasn’t on your list before, I can recommend pencilling it in.''The takeaway of all the above though, other than how much of a great time we had, is that Vera and I were, well, fairly knackered after all the above rolled to a conclusion, not to mention that all this contact with travellers meant we both came down with something flu-like. Yay.''It was a bit of a relief therefore that the wonderful people of''Naturaki''had conspired to sort us out with''an entire villa on the Costa Brava coast'', all to ourselves, for four nights of pure relaxation, following the above. And what a place this was. Let me share some facts about it with you:''It had an indoor lit LED pool with sound system. I could basically stop there, but I’m going to go on, because the villa did.''It had two hammocks outside, and one of those hammock swing chairs on the veranda in case the whole horizontal thing was a bit scary''It had its own mini golf course.''We had three bedrooms to choose from, and two bathrooms, one of which housed a truly mighty bath.''There was a ping pong table, and an outdoor barbecue!''The enormous open plan dining / living / kitchen area (which led on to the indoor pool, which I may have mentioned already), was vast, and yet somehow cosy even for the two of us. No idea how they did that. Clever candles I suspect.''Plenty of benefits then, as you can see. It also, of course, came fully stocked for surviving the apocalypse, which in travel blogger terms means it came with free wireless, plus every kind of cooking utensil you could imagine. Suffice to say, we were impressed.''We were met at the villa by Lluis, who was the owner. He showed us around the place in a fascinating combination of English, French and Catalan, and ensured we knew which buttons did what. I admit to slightly losing concentration after the secret of the LED pool lightning was revealed. Then, with a big smile, he left us to our own devices.''Of course, a villa is all very well, but if you are of the exploring kind, then you need more than just a building, even if you could probably live in this building very happily for the rest of forever. Luckily, Lluis and Naturaki had us sorted on that front too, having equipped the villa with a host of documentation about the surrounding area, which happened to be the rather stunning Cap Creus national park.''This meant that we were liberally surrounded by epic coastline, towering cliffs, crumbly old monasteries, snug little ports and some of the region’s oldest vineyards. Dali’s birthplace was just over the next headland. One of Europe’s “GR” walking routes, which span the continent, even went past the front door. Clearly, the spot for this villa had been chosen carefully.''Obviously, with so much adventure right on our doorstep, we got down to doing as little as we could for the first day. The villa (and her pool) needed some “us time”.''A day of “us time” seemed to be enough to start with, so we spent the next day exploring the region a bit more, with a tour of a local vineyard, lunch at a nearby restaurant, and then a trip up to a monastery at the top of the world, which offered amazing views of the Pyrenees, as well as the coastline. Not a bad way to spend a day – and huge thanks to Carme of''Naturaki''for putting it all together for us and taking us round.''Our last day, where we had all kinds of exciting adventures planned, conspired against us in terms of the weather, and meant that we had to stay indoors again with the pool. We did get to see some amazing sunsets as a result of the weather though, so all was absolutely not lost.''If you’re planning a trip down to the Costa Brava region, and feel like spoiling yourself silly in a luxurious villa, then I cannot recommend the friendly family-run Naturaki service enough. At the time of writing Carme and her brother have 18 properties available for rent, ranging from a''cosy loft with jacuzzi for two to four people'', through to a''twenty person mansion of awe.''Something, basically, to suit any group make up, from families, to friends, to just a quiet getaway with the one you love. As we found, in our own personal four day heavenly retreat at''Caseta del Mar.''Disclaimer – we were hosted for our stay at Caseta del Mar by the team at''Naturaki''. Even though my mind is easily blown by such things as an LED lit pool, I assure you that my opinions are still entirely my own.''Have you ever found your slice of relaxation heaven while travelling? Share it with me in the comments below!''SHARE ON''When I learnt, about a month before I was due to head down to Costa Brava, that I was going to be going on a ballooning trip, I was a teeny bit excited.''Ok, so I may have wandered around for roughly the next month in a happy daze, mumbling the word “ballooning” at every opportunity. I was very, very excited. Although, given my history with non-standard means of flight, this may have been an error.''You see, I’ve tried all kinds of other flying machinery, from hang gliding (crashed, wrote off hanglider), to powered gliding (nearly crashed on landing requiring emergency go-around), to micro-liting (engine cut out ten metres after take off, necessitating emergency landing in field), and of course more traditional planes. The latter have never caused me any trouble, thankfully. Probably because I’m kept well away from the actual control surfaces.''So ballooning – what could go wrong? It’s about the oldest form of flight, and the kinks must have been worked out by now, right? And all you’re really doing is hopping into a picnic basket, accompanied by some people who you’re about to get fairly cosy with, several hundred kilos of incredibly flammable gas, and no means of control other than going up and down. Oh, and that minor''fear of heights''thing I’ve got going on.''Luckily, we were in the hands of actual experts. Our trip was with''Globus Empordà'', a company who have been soaring over this region of Catalonia for over a decade. Plus, their pilots have taken balloons across the Amazon, the Sahara and Mount Kilimanjaro. Wafting us across the gorgeous Catalan countryside was no doubt going to be a serious walk in the park for these pro’s. And for the most part, this was totally true. Let’s find out how it turned out using my preferred medium for story telling – my camera.''Ballooning requires a bit of an early start, with most trips starting not far off sunrise. It’s not a time I’m splendidly familiar with, but in this case, it was totally worth it.''Fire it up! We dressed warmly for the occasion. It turned out this wasn’t necessary, what with the two enormous Bunsen burners right over our heads.''There were two balloon trips on our day, which was nice, because it gave us another balloon to look at, as well as the incredible scenery. We got airborne first!''The others weren’t far behind us. We drifted lazily at low altitude for a while, getting used to the incredible feeling of floating.''Before long though, our pilot decided it was time to head up into the wide blue yonder, and give us some views. I wondered what peering over the side might be like. Turned out, just like being in an airplane, it wasn’t scary at all. Ok, so maybe a little.''Who brought the marshmallows?''The views across the Catalan countryside were spectacular, and other than the odd sounds of flame from our burners, and the occasional gleeful cry of joy from one of the four of us passengers, it was eerily quiet. Oh, and the dogs we passed over. They got very excited about the whole thing.''After just over an hour or so of flight, and enjoying some incredible views, across both the countryside and out into the Mediterranean, it was time to find somewhere to set down before we ran out of land.''You see that field over there, the one we’ve just tried to land in? Why aren’t we in that one? Oh, the wind changed. Exciting! Still, lovely view of this peach field. Which we also can’t land in, as the peaches would be sad. Let’s go avoid some power lines and find somewhere else instead.''Don’t panic – here’s a better place to land – the back of the truck! Ok, so we didn’t really land in the back of the truck. But we did touch down safely (if a little bumpily due to the wind picking up, and Vera failing to heed the “brace” instruction, resulting in her throwing herself on me during landing. This happens more than you might imagine.). All’s well that ends well!''And so the adventure was over, and the balloon put to bed for another adventure with other friends. All that was left was for us to be''stuffed silly with the included Catalan breakfast'', and toast our success with some Catalan Cava.''Our balloon experience, and subsequent epic breakfast, was kindly provided by''Globus Empordà'', as part of our Costa Brava trip in partnership with the''Costa Brava tourism board.''Our pilot for the day was Joan, (photographed on left!) who was a total pro, and looked after us expertly.''When he wasn’t busy ensuring we were having an awesome flight, he regaled us with tales of his previous ballooning exploits, which sounded legendary!''All balloon based opinions are my own! If you want to learn more about this amazing experience, and how you can do it yourself, check out the''Globus Empordà''website for pricing (very reasonable, seriously!) and booking information. You won’t regret it!''PS – you didn’t really think it was hot air that kept them up, did you?''SHARE ON''I spent a''very happy year''living,''working''and travelling in New Zealand, and in that time I got to see quite a fair bit of what this magnificent country has to offer.''But what if you don’t have a year? What if you’ve got a more normal holiday period set aside for your trip, and you want to see as much of this phenomenally beautiful country as possible? Say… a month?''Well, fear not. New Zealand, unlike its vast neighbour, is a country which is eminently explorable in a month. Let’s get started with some pre-trip planning, and then look at a detailed one month New Zealand itinerary.''Pre-trip planning''Transport''For this trip, I’m going to recommend that you have your own transport. Whilst New Zealand has a number of tour buses, and a limited rail service, the best way to experience the country at your own pace is with your own vehicle.''For a month, the easiest option is to rent, and my advice would be to''rent a car''and pay for hotels / hostels rather than rent a campervan. Those babies can be expensive, and for the most part you have to pay for campsites anyway, whilst you can likely hire a cheap car for around €100 / $125 a week, saving you bundles of cash in campervan rental. We usually recommend and use''AutoEurope’s car rental price comparison tool'', which works worldwide to find the best price on a rental car – it checks all the major car hire companies and we find it usually comes up with the best deal.''You could also try and''buy a car and then sell it at the end'', but in a month, you might not have the time or inclination to go down this road, despite the potential savings.''There are other options of course for getting around New Zealand, from buses to local flights, and even a train, but I don’t believe these offer the flexibility that you will need to get the most out of your trip, so I’m going to ignore them.''Accommodation''There is''no shortage of accommodation in New Zealand'', from tucked away B&B’s and backpacker hostels right through to pricey high end establishments. There are also campsites galore, for the tent based travellers amongst you.''Prices vary. For a campsite, you will pay anything from 5 – 25 NZD per night per person. Hostel dorm beds go from around 22 NZD, whilst double rooms start at around 60NZD for two.''My advice would be to seek out the smaller, more personal accommodation providers, like the little hostels or B&B’s with personality. New Zealand is home to some truly wonderful hideaways, which cater to all types of traveller and every budget. You won’t be disappointed! Take a look at the''booking.com listinsg''for New Zealand''to get the best deals.''When to go''New Zealand has a fairly temperate climate, with four distinct seasons. It is busiest during the summer months (Dec – Feb), which is also when you are likely to get the better weather. Spring and autumn are also great times to visit, being less crowded and a bit cooler. If you’re visiting for the snow, then you will want to go in winter, (Jul-Sep).''My itinerary is for a more summery visit, as in winter many attractions become snow bound and harder to visit.''Budget''New Zealand isn’t a budget destination by any stretch of the imagination. Your main costs are going to be accommodation, transport and then food and any activities you want to take part in. You could skimp on experiences, but my advice would be to budget for them and enjoy. Expect to budget at least 75-100 NZD per person per day all in.''Safety''New Zealand is a safe destination, assuming the volcanoes don’t go off while you are there. The main problem that affects travellers is having their vehicles broken into when leaving them parked for longer periods of time. Just ensure you take your valuables with you, and leave nothing at all on display, and you should be fine.''Let’s get on with this then. Based on my experiences,''this is what I’d do for a month in New Zealand.''One month New Zealand Itinerary''1. Week 1 – The North Island''You’re going to arrive into Auckland, pick up your hire car, and head out of the city.''Auckland has its charms'', but you’re only here for a month, and you want to get started, right? So turn your motor south, and head down to the fabulously smelly town of Rotorua, around 3 hours drive south.''Rotorua''– Volcanic Wonderland and Cultural Experience – 1 day''Rotorua''is famous, predominantly, for being the home of volcanic activity on New Zealand. It’s also one of the more important places for experiencing Maori culture. I recommend spending a couple of hours on a day trip to''Wai-o-Tapu thermal reserve'', around 30km south of the city.''You’ll want to arrive in the morning to see the Lady Knox geyser go off, and then spend some time exploring the park, taking in incredible sights like the below pictured champagne pool.''Other highlights of staying in Rotorua include spending some time in the''Polynesian spa''(which some say is a possible cure for jet lag?), exploring the Rotorua Museum (itself a former bath house from the Victorian era), and of course, experiencing a''Maori cultural evening''. I went to both the''Mitai''and''Tamaki''performances, and felt that the latter had the slight edge.''Save money on these by booking via a hotel or the tourist office''– this is usually cheaper than booking directly.''After you’ve filled up on culture and volcanoes, you’re going to head east, and take on the''amazing East Cape''of the north island – visited by less than 1% of visitors to New Zealand.''East Cape''– Deserted wilderness and spectacular coastal scenery – 2/3 days''I’ve never understood why''New Zealand’s East Cape''is so under visited. Sure, it’s a bit out of the way, and it doesn’t have the sweeping majesty of the peaks of''Tongariro'', or''Mount Taranaki''out on the west coast, but what it does have are epic deserted driftwood coated beaches, sweeping vistas from switchback tarmac, and fascinating Maori heritage.''You’re going to need at least two days to do this area of the world justice, with highlights including the beautiful Tolaga Bay, black sand beaches, the east cape lighthouse and picturesque Raukokore Church.''The route winds from Opotiki to Gisborne along state highway 38, and there’s''no shortage of accommodation along the way'', from tiny guest houses and hostels to campgrounds. This is one road trip you will never forget – and we’re only in week one!''East Coast to Wellington – Wine tasting and Art Deco – 2 days''After getting away from it all, what better way to get back to civilisation than by visiting the unusual''art deco town of Napier''on the east coast, and then spending some time exploring the world famous wineries of the Hawke’s Bay area. You could even''explore the wineries by bicycle'', if you were so inclined.''From here it’s down through the''beautiful Wairapapa region'', where you can explore more gorgeous coastline (such as that found at Castle Point), ancient cemeteries, and a town built in honour of one man’s travels. New Zealand really does have everything.''Now… with a car full of wine and memories, it’s time to do the last stretch of the drive, and pop down to Wellington, New Zealand’s capital, and the place where you’re going to get your ferry to the South island.''Wellington''– 1 day''Wellington''is New Zealand’s capital, and is one of the cities in New Zealand that really deserves your attention. It’s also not very big, so you can easily squeeze in most of the highlights in a day, or even less.''My tips would be to take a walk (or drive, if you’re feeling lazy) up Mount Victoria, for incredible panoramic views of the windy city, and then spend some time getting seriously culturalised in the''Te Papa museum''– probably New Zealand’s best museum by far. This also happens to be free, and free is good.''Once you’re done, hop on the three hour ferry to the south island (''in itself a beautiful trip''!), and prepare to be amazed by mountainous beauty.''Alternative route from Rotorua''.''The standard route for the north island followed by most goes as follows:''Auckland – Rotorua – Tongariro National Park – Wellington.''This route is well worn, and for good reason – it showcases some of the''best of the North island''in an easy to follow route.''My advice takes you off the beaten track, to the beautifully wild and deserted east cape region, and then down the wine region of the east coast. But if you just want to focus on the classic highlights, you won’t go wrong with the route down the middle – although you’re going to have your fill of epic mountains on the south island pretty shortly!''If you’re looking for more to do on the North island, or want to spend a bit longer here, check out my''five must do’s on the north island''for more ideas!''2. Week 2 – South Island North Coast''The ferry ride in through the sounds of New Zealand’s south island should have whet your appetite for what is coming next. This island couldn’t be more different from the north island – and lovers of majestic open scenery are about to get their minds well and truly blown. Let’s start off with a tour of''Queen Charlotte sound.''Picton to''Queen Charlotte Sound''for inspiring fjord like scenery –\xa0 1 day''The Queen Charlotte Sound is home to one of New Zealand’s great walks, and is, by all accounts, a fabulous bit of a walk. For the less walk inclined amongst you though, you can drive along the Kenepuru road, which offers lots of exciting views with none of the muscle strain.''And what views they are. Low cloud will hang like fog over the sounds, grasping on to the mountain ridges with trailing fingery tendrils. The reflections of the sky in the mirror perfect water will make you want to cry out with joy, with only the perfect stillness that surrounds you holding you back. And I promise you, the south island is only getting started.''There are''a variety of places to stay in this area'', either in Picton itself or in a little hostel or B&B. Ideally though, you will have packed a tent and some rudimentary camping gear, and you’re going to be able to set up camp at one of the fabulously located''DOC campsites''in the area. Don’t worry if you forget to pack the coffee though, the next stop on the tour will sort you right out.''Queen Charlotte to Nelson''for incredible coffee and a laid back vibe – 1 day''If you are at all into coffee, then Nelson needs to be on your to do list. New Zealanders are about as obsessed with coffee as any nation I’ve ever met, and Nelson isn’t a bad place to get that coffee fix going.''You’ll be able to find places that literally roast the coffee beans in front of you, before serving it up in whichever style you prefer (and yes, New Zealand has its own name for every type of coffee – you’ll want to read up before visiting!).''Nelson is also a pretty town for a wander, and a great launching point for heading to the north of the south island.''Abel Tasman''and''Golden Bay''for sea kayaking along the coast and amazing birdlife – 3 days''The Abel Tasman national park is famous for gloriously golden sands and sparkling waters, with the highlight of a trip here being a''kayaking expedition along the coast''. Alternatively, if you’re not into water, then you’ll want to take a hike along the coastline and find out what there is on offer in New Zealand’s smallest national park.''I’d advise setting aside a couple of days to really explore this area, doing some hiking, and seeking out the wildlife opportunities on offer, such as penguin watching or getting up close with fur seals. Then, head further north to Golden Bay – home to the 26 kilometre long Farewell spit, which is New Zealand’s longest sandspit.''This is one of New Zealand’s most diverse areas for birdlife, but if birds don’t get your engine running, then wandering the dunes as windswept sands caress your ankles and azure skies meet endless ocean all around surely will.''For more ideas and inspiration on visiting this area, check out these posts on visiting''Golden Bay''and the''Farewell Spit''region from another travel blogger.''3. Week 3 – West coast of the South Island''Ok, so I’m playing fast and loose with how many days there are in a week, but I’m not expecting you to be following this guide to the letter. Take it as a template to dream upon, and build your dream trip around it. Now, let’s head to:''Karamea''for a laid back vibe, pounding seas, and the amazing rock formations of the Oparara Basin – 2 days''For reasons of time, many visitors to New Zealand miss out''Karamea'', which, like missing out the East Cape, seems to me to be an oversight. This is a quirky little laid back town on the far north of the west coast of the island, which requires a bit of a detour to visit, as the only way there is a one way road up from Westport.''Most adventurers shirk this trip, and head south for the grand glaciers. We’re going to get to those, fear not. But first, lets try out some whitebait, and visit Australasia’s''largest free standing limestone arch.''To get to Karamea from Golden Bay you have to go back on yourself a way until you hit state highway six, which will take you over to the wild west coast. Turn north instead of south via Westport, and follow the road parallel to the stretch of sand known as the Karamea Bight, with a gorgeous scenic drive through the mountains thrown in, before you emerge in the peaceful plain that is home to''Karamea''.''In Karamea you need to try out the whitebait (the towns principal attraction), and take some time to explore the Oparara Basin, which is a geological marvel about an hours drive north in the hills. Here you will find hollowed out limestone caves, arches spanning over 200 metres in length and a place known as the Moria Gate. Worth the detour, I assure you.''Glaciers'', Mountains and''Possum Pie''. Time to get epic on the West Coast – 3 days.''It’s now time to head south, and start to take in some of New Zealand’s serious masterpieces. I’m talking of course about the glaciers that can be found breaking free from the mighty spine of the southern alps, which stretch from one end of the isle to the other.''On your way down to the Fox and Franz Josef glaciers, you’ll pass by the''Pancake Rocks'', weird shaped rocks which look just like stacks of pancakes. If you’re lucky, it might even be sunny when you''try to photograph them''. You’ll also have the opportunity to stop off at the Possum place, and learn more about this introduced pest than you ever thought possible. Then eat it, in a pie.''Finally, with the incredible backdrop of the southern alps to motivate you on, you’re going to come to one of New Zealand’s serious highlights, the''Fox and Franz Josef glaciers.''There are a multitude of ways to experience these glaciers, from a short walk to just take a look at them, through to scenic flights and guided glacier walks.Whatever you choose to do, you will not fail to be inspired by quite how insignificant man is compared to the might of nature.''Whilst you’re in the area, you’ll also want to check out the Mirror Lake (Lake Matheson), for gorgeous photography opportunities of stunning reflected alpine scenery. Because why not?''Across the''Haast Pass''to Wanaka & Queenstown – 2 days''Glaciers dusted off, it’s time to head back across the spiney southern alps at one of the few crossing points, this one being the''Haast Pass''. This is another''glorious bit of road''through gorgeous alpine scenery, with the Mount Aspiring National Park providing the back drop. As well as incredible mountain vistas, there are also lakes galore to be impressed by.''If you choose, you could''stop off at Wanaka''on the way across for a break, and take a wander along the lake. This is principally a skiing town, and is busiest in Winter, but there is plenty of scenery and hiking to enjoy all year round.''Then, head down to the adventure capital of New Zealand,''Queenstown'', where if there’s anything you could imagine your body being made to do, the Kiwi’s will have invented it, given it a name, and be willing to charge you to do it in Queenstown. Fun for everyone except your wallet.''4. Week 4 – Back to the mountains, and the home stretch to Christchurch''Te Anau & the''awe inspiring Milford Sound''2 days''There’s a list in New Zealand, of the top 100 things that every native must do before they die, and visiting Milford Sound and seeing Mitre Peak is number one on that list. Since we’ve got a month instead of a lifetime, it’s a no-brainer that this one has made it into our itinerary as well.''It’s a bit of a drive from Queenstown, as unfortunately the mountains didn’t erode in quite the perfect way to create a logical transport route, but the drive,''like so many trips in New Zealand'', is worth it in of itself.''There are loads of things to see as you drive in, and the landscape changes dramatically as you drive along, from grassy plains to towering mountains. I’d advise stopping at the Te Anau DOC office for up to date route information and attraction opening times.''Once you get to''Milford Sound'', you are going to take a cruise. You are going to see mile high mountains, waterfalls cascading hundreds of metres over cliffs into the sea, and you are going to realise how incredibly glad you are to be alive. Because Milford Sound really is that special. Take as much time as you can to visit this special place, and surrounding attractions, because it is worth it. Read more about visiting Milford, including advice on cruises, weather and getting here, in my''Milford Sound post''.''To''Mount Cook'', for a mighty impressive bit of mountain – 2 days''You may think that by now you’ve had enough of mountains, and you want a bit of break. And that’s cool. If you want, instead of heading back inland, you’re welcome to pop out of Te Anau, and spend some time exploring the coast, with a trip to the''Catlins'', or some time in''Dunedin''. I wouldn’t blame you for wanting to diversify. Even if it meant you might miss sights like this:''Because for me, the southern alps are the most impressive sight in New Zealand, and none is so impressive as''Mount Cook'', which towers above all his brethren at just shy of 4000m. This is the mountain that Hillary cut his teeth on before tacking Everest. I promise you, however many mountains you think I’ve taken you to on this trip – you need to do this one too.''It’s a fair old drive up from Milford Sound to Mount Cook, so you’ll probably want to break it up a bit. Maybe a stop off in quaint little''Arrowtown'', a historic gold mining village just past Queenstown, would be nice.''Once you get to Mount Cook, I can recommend taking on some of the short hikes in the area. The excellent''DOC office''can fill you in on all the details, as well as weather conditions and safety advice – this is a high up alpine region after all. There’s even a''posh hotel''if that’s your thing.''Personally, I can recommend the''four hour hooker valley walk''which takes you as close to Mount Cook as you can get, as well as the''walk to the Tasman Glacier and lake''. Both offer incredible landscapes with not too much effort.''Across to Christchurch, and some''relaxing in a French style''– 2 days''Ok, you’re running out of time in New Zealand. It’s time to turn your nose to the coast, and high tail it to Christchurch, not forgetting to stop off at the above pictured''Lake Tekapo''on your way for a last view of spectacular southern alp scenery reflected in the eerie blue of a glacial lake.''Christchurch, as you are probably aware, was very badly damaged in the earthquake of 2011, which caused widespread destruction, loss of life, and serious damage to property. The city is much recovered since then, but continues to undergo construction work as it turns itself into a garden city, so it may not be as accessible as it once was.''All is not lost, though. Just outside Christchurch you will find the Banks Peninsula and the charming French inspired town of''Akaroa'', which is just the perfect place to relax for however many days you have left on this incredible journey, take in some local air, and perhaps visit one of''New Zealand’s most scenic toilets.''Then, return your hire car, hop on a plane, and pat yourself on the back. You did it!''5. The End! Well done!''Whew! That’s it for my round up of my ideal month in New Zealand. As always, a month is never going to be enough, but you should be able to see a lot of what this country has to offer in the time available.''Further reading''If you found this post helpful, you might like to check out my''New Zealand guide section''of the site, where I offer all kinds of advice, from''must see attractions'', through to''awesome day hikes'', as well as practicalities such as''buying a vehicle'',''finding a job''and even''finding free internet''.''For other reading,''a fellow blogger''wrote an excellent''guide to your first time in New Zealand'', which I found to be invaluable for my trip.''I also like''this article'', the first of an excellent four part series on planning the ultimate New Zealand road trip.''If you’d like some''more resources to further plan your trip'', then the following should help:''This collection of''New Zealand travel guides''on Amazon.com (''Amazon UK for EU readers'')''The Lonely Planet Guide to New Zealand''on Amazon.com (''UK / EU link'')''The Rough Guide to New Zealand''on Amazon.com (''UK / EU link)''Enjoy – and if you have any feedback on this monster of a post, do share it in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Today I’m delighted to introduce another guest post from Vera, talking all about the very fine art of travel photography. Enjoy!''Mesdames, Messieurs!''If you think Loz has been the only photographer I travelled with, you’re wrong. Dead wrong. There have been others. And so I have witnessed first hand (and you might already know that): it takes many, many pictures until they snap THE ONE. Sometimes some of these many pictures are downright crappy. It is the dark truth of the art of photography. (''Editors note: clearly all of my photos are works of art, awaiting their moment in the sun. “Downright crappy” is a slur upon my artistic integrity!)''While I myself might struggle to shoot the kind of picture you automatically feel sucked in to (must be my camera), I sure don’t miss out on the, er, other ones. But you know what? They tell stories, too – incredible and special stories. And not only that: they are the reason you can tell a good picture from, uhm, a not so good one.''So this is a very educational post. I hope you can handle it. I will take you down to the smelly bottom of photography, using my five personal favourite crap pictures. If you have severe difficulties with relatives who make you sit through multiple-hour-sessions of unfiltered picture-viewing after their vacation, you might find this helpful. Or it might trigger a panic attack. In any case, I deeply believe that you can do this. So let’s go!''5)''I was given ‘Lemmy’ as a good-luck charm before I set off to Australia. He would have been one famous little lemon, if only I could have gotten the focus right, but that turned out to be quite a task. Lemmy was too high maintenance as a model and therefore went to many places undocumented.''4)''New Zealand has been very kind to my photographic try-outs – except for the''Pancake Rocks on the South Island''. The first time, I was very understanding and generously overlooked the rainy greyness, but when I came back one year later, it was still grey and rainy. Not cool, Pancake Rocks. Not cool.''3)''Uluru''(Ayer’s rock), Australia. The warden at the sunset look-out excitedly reassured us how valuable our pictures would be because “It NEVER rains here – this is VERY special!”. Somehow I would have preferred the regular and, you know, effortlessly awesome SUNset picture.''2)''Can you guess what caused this rather interesting twist? The wind. Yes. The wind. We were on a Dutch beach and I took pictures with my first ever digital camera which hadn’t cost a lot of money. My brother, who actually believes that if you want good quality, it’s gonna cost you a bit, just sadly shook his head when I complained.''1)''My camera on acid at the beer can regatta in Darwin, Australia. I have no idea why it started doing this, but when we reached the point where it would be a permanent feature, our ways separated. It’s not me, it’s you.''So you often don’t get a second chance to shoot a better picture on your travels – it’s now or never. And although many locations are very kind to you with the light, the colours and the objects, making it hard to take a bad picture, there are always these days when the sky rocks that washed-out dull grey-tone and there’s not much you can do about it.''There are moments when you realize that you should have read the camera manual because then you would maybe know how to choose a setting that could rescue your shot.''There are times when you agree that one picture of a crocodile is better than no picture of a crocodile, even though a solid 100% of people you show the picture of the crocodile to fail to see the crocodile.''There are situations where your camera might just not be good enough.''There is the case of your camera breaking (usually just before a once-in-a-lifetime-moment. Yup.).''Finally, there is the point of acceptance that no camera can do the amazing stuff our eyes do.''But you know what? Perhaps that would also be the perfect moment to just put your camera down, take a deep breath, relax, start enjoying what you see, and begin to smile.''Oh, and if you should see me anywhere frantically shooting away, and missing out on the actual experience, feel very free to poke me (gently – when I’m absorbed, I tend to bite) and remind me of what I just said. Because in the end, as long as YOU can see the crocodile, that’s all that really counts, anyway. Right? So, happy travels to all of you, and don’t forget to also take some pictures with your mind!''PS: Lemmy, it’s not personal. I love you, man.''SHARE ON''Those of you who follow me are probably aware that I don’t exactly focus on food on this blog. Sure, I did that post on''my favourite burgers'', and I do enjoy the act of eating food, but I’ve never really gotten round to real “food blogging”.''There are a variety of reasons for this. The main one is that to be a dedicated food blogger, you generally spend more time looking at and photographing food than eating it, and I generally like to focus on the eating side of food. The resulting photos of empty plates don’t seem to excite you guys. You’re more into this sort of thing:''Usually this isn’t so much of a problem. The world probably won’t dissolve due to my lack of contributions to the food blogging space. Just occasionally though, the spread of food in front of me is just so mouth-wateringly incredible that I feel the need to pull myself away from posts of pretty mountains, gorge myself silly, and tell you about it.''And this is what happened during my trip down around Costa Brava. The food photos are from Vera, who is a little more restrained than I when it comes to actually taking pictures of the food before consuming it.''It turns out, you see, that Costa Brava is home to a whole plethora of incredible foodstuffs. From platters of deep fried fish bits, to cheeks of cows, as well as everything in between (I’m not sure what comes in between those things, but trust me, it tasted good), I was able to sample food from some of the finest chefs in the world.''Literally''.''And so, I feel I should tell you about it at least a little, even if only to justify the serious overeating binge I went on. Because if I put it on the blog, then it wasn’t eating for leisure, it was eating to tell you about it. And that makes it ok. So now I’ll take you on a run through one day in Costa Brava, for you to understand what I was dealing with.''This day starts early. Earlier than I have been used to in some time. This was ok though, because with the early start came the opportunity to go ballooning, one of the few things in life that are worth getting up early for.''I’m not normally a fan of early morning eating, but since I had no idea what time our next meal might be, I bravely filled up on rolls, cereal and pastries. Nothing out of the ordinary here, but I felt it necessary to set the stomach scene. Here’s a little sketch to help explain the situation a bit better:''Scene 1. Opening location – hotel buffet somewhere on the Costa Brava coastline.''Laurence walks sleepily into room, surveys breakfast buffet. Decides the next meal may never come (ballooning is not a zero risk activity after all), and consumes breakfast like he may never eat again. Cut to slightly distended stomach. Fade to black.''So far, so simple. After breakfast our merry troop of fellow aeronauts set off to our ballooning trip, which was about as amazing as you would imagine, and fear not, will be the subject of an upcoming photo filled post. The actual balloon ride didn’t feature any food though, so isn’t going to warrant a further mention.''Once safely back on the ground, we were whisked off to a little restaurant for a mid morning champagne breakfast, which as I understand it, is mandatory following successful reunion with the ground. This breakfast though, was a little different…''Scene 2: Location – restaurant not far from balloon landing site. Large square table filled with jovial post ballooning travellers.''Laurence surveys the fare on offer, which consists of a variety of cold dishes such as anchovies, tuna-stuffed boiled eggs and roasted vegetables, accompanied by some chilled wine. This looks to be a fine mid morning snack, and so Laurence piles his plate high.''Enter stage right, waiter staggering under the weight of the previously unmentioned hot course. Plates of ribs, omelettes, deep fried fish balls and other Catalan specialities. Not necessarily traditional breakfast fare, but what the hell, this stuff looks good. Slightly nervously, Laurence piles his second plate high. This might be lunch too, he thinks. Fade camera out as Laurence pushes his plate away, barely capable of standing.''Our day was pretty jam packed I have to admit, with our next destination being a fishing village where we were going to be given an overview of the Catalan relationship with the sea, as well as witness a live fish auction. The space between second breakfast and the fish frenzy was filled with a bicycle ride, which isn’t always the easiest on a full stomach. But I made it, and the show continues:''Scene 3. Location – Demonstration kitchen in fishing village on Catalan coastline. Gorgeous views from windows of harbour, boats, and coastline. Seagulls drift lazily past.''Enter group of travellers who nervously eye the enormous and immaculately laid out table in the centre of the room, wondering who this might be for. The fleeting hope that it might be for someone else is quickly lost as the enthusiastic chef introduces himself and starts talking about the four separate courses he is going to be preparing, to showcase the wonder of fish based dining in Catalonia.''The chef asks which of the group is gluten intolerant, and a hand is raised, perhaps hoping to be freed from the task ahead. The chef proudly reveals some gluten free dishes. The hand is slowly lowered.''The gluten free individual desperately falls back on the back up plan of not being fond of fish. And not wanting to distress the chef by sending back plates, a quick survey is done as to who might be able to help out. Laurence kindly volunteers, intrigued by the idea of gluten free dishes. Laurence’s stomach is not amused, but is silenced by some fine Catalan wine, which serves to numb the stretch receptors.''Somehow, all four courses are consumed. Laurence’s vision starts to blur slightly, but presumably this is the end of the eating adventure. Something fades to black. Some travellers take a nap on a nearby table.''By this point, if you’ve been keeping a tally, I had managed to somehow eat my way through two full breakfasts and a mighty lunch. If I was a hobbit, this would have probably feel fairly normal. Instead, what I had to show for it was a creaking belt buckle and the desperate urge to lie down in a corner and focus on not exploding.''Instead, it was time for the exploration of a local monastery, and then a viewing of one of the finer cliff based sunsets I’ve seen for a while, before arriving at the hotel in the evening. Luckily, the chef here was also keen to demonstrate his culinary skills. Yay!''Scene 4. Hotel dining room, filled only with my companions. No other hotel guests in sight. Nervous giggling now coming from the group as a menu is read out by a keen young waiter.''Laurence reaches across the table, and deploys what he refers to as the “kebab strategy”. This is the theory that alcohol always makes you hungry, no matter what your condition. Plentiful quaffing of wine commences.''A side effect of this is that the vegetarian sitting opposite Laurence renounces their vegetarian tendency, and has a lamb sacrificed for dinner. This decision was later regretted.''After plentiful wine, Laurence is able to eat a delicately prepared cheek of roast beef, force down some incredibly fine chocolate ice cream, and then quietly drink until darkness literally comes from the corners. End of sketch.''So that was my day of overeating in Costa Brava. The food was quite literally fantastic, and worth the two or three kilos of extra weight I seem to have found.''Massive thanks to all the incredibly talented people who conspired to work together to put this trip on, including the hotel who''provided the first breakfast'',''the balloon people''who also provided second breakfast, the''fishing village''people who demonstrated incredible lunch talent, the''cycle tour folks''who got us''between the places''safely, the''hotel who provided us with a dinner of kings''and a bed to sleep it all off in, and of course, the''Costa Brava tourism board.''If you’re interested in taking part in any of the above activities (try not to eat as much as I did if possible), do click through the links to find out more!''Note – Vera and I were guests of the''Costa Brava tourism board''for our adventure, but the ability to eat twice my body weight in food and then write about it remains my own.''SHARE ON''As''previously alluded to'', Vera and I are popping down to the Costa Brava region of Spain for the next ten days to take part in the TBEX travel bloggers conference, which is being held in the rather charming Catalan town of Girona.''I thought I’d give you a sneak peek of the itinerary we’ve got lined up, which will be helping us fill the pages of the blog with pretty photos and magnificent words for some weeks to come. I’m also giving some shouts outs to some of the companies who are helping us on our way! Here we go:''We’re heading down to Girona on the 20th September, by car, thanks to the kind folks at Argus Car Hire, who sorted us out with our''car hire in France''in the form of a rather jolly Chevy. Vera has already named him Schnevy. I assume this is a German thing. Argus also do''budget car hire in Spain'', but we’ll be bringing Schevy back with us. In fact, we may have to pry him from Vera’s fingers, she seems fairly attached already.''When we get to Girona, we’ll be checking in to our city centre apartment which has been provided by Wimdu>\xa0 for four nights. So I don’t have to sleep in a van after all.''Sorry Fleurie.''On the first night in Girona, there’s going to be a massive party in a castle, hosted by the Costa Brava Girona tourism board folks, with food provided by restaurant''El Celler de Can Roca''. I don’t really know what that means, but apparently''foodie bloggers''are already exploding at the thought of the world’s second best restaurant feeding us all. Ok, so I’m salivating a tiny bit.''Then there are two days of actual conference. I can’t really remember the last conference I attended, and this is certainly the first one I’ve ever actually looked forward to. Although I am slightly worried that my previous corporate life has created an in-built phobia of PowerPoint. Time will tell if that is survivable. (The eagle-eyed amongst you will see that I am easing myself back into the whole thing with a nice bullet pointed list, the rules of which I am breaking my writing far too much in each bullet point. My career advisor would have been proud.)''Providing the book end to each day of conference there’s going to be more partying. There’s a beach party planned for the first night of conference, and a party in a cathedral garden for the closing night. What could go wrong?''The day after the conference, we’re hopping on a Costa Brava tour up into the Pyrenees for a day to''experience the Nuria valley''. Think big mountains, and me taking pictures of them breathlessly. If you’ve been here for a while, you’ll already know I’m a''fan of the odd mountain'', so this should be fun.''Then, and''this is the bit we’re probably most excited about'', we’re thrilled to be taking part in a three day press trip across the Spanish countryside by bike, where, amongst other things, we’re going to be learning how to do pottery (we’ve watched the''requisite scene from Ghost''in preparation), and taking a balloon ride. A balloon ride! I’m packing extra digital film already.''Finally, all of the above is clearly going to be terribly exhausting. Thankfully, the lovely people at''Naturaki''are providing Vera and I with a villa all to ourselves to unwind for four days on the Costa Brava coastline, as well as some activities in the local area to keep us occupied if we unwind too much. The villa comes with everything you’d expect, as well as some things you might not (indoor LED lit pool anyone?), and looks to be a fabulous way to finish off our trip, as well as provide the location for my “Men of travel blogging” calendar shoot (don’t ask, yet), before we head back up to France.''Well, as you can see, it’s a busy few days ahead. But don’t worry – I’m going to be snapping away like crazy, and filling you in on all the adventures right here! You can also keep up by following the site’s''Facebook Page'', and for more real time updates you can find me on Instagram, where my username is Lozula. Let’s go!''SHARE ON''If you’re new here, this concept might need some explaining. if not, feel free to scroll down for more eye candy.''As it is, this is the third blog post summarising some of the facebook photos that I have shared to my''facebook page''over the last month or so. These are shared on a largely daily basis, although sometimes I miss the odd day, and occasionally I get terribly excited about a discovery in my archive, and share more than one.''But, you know, not everyone has facebook access yet. So I created this series to ensure that the naysayers still get to stay up to date. And maybe even if you do use facebook religiously, worshipping at the Zuck-altar, you missed a few due to the pernickety facebook algorithm. Whatever. Here’s a bunch of photos, I hope you like them. if you do, leave me a comment, or press one of the buttons at the end randomly. I promise free unicorns and everything.''A friend and I spent a week in New York in the mid-noughties. I dug this photo of Brooklyn Bridge up from that adventure.''This wheatfield has been featuring quite heavily on my site of late, as I tracked it across the seasons. Sadly the wheat is now gone, but it’s still a darn good place to catch a sunset!''I loved this cathedral in''Barcelona''– the Sagrada Familia in Barcelona. A facebook commentator remarked that they hadn’t previously realised the purpose of the lake, until they saw this photo. I’m not sure if that was why it was built, but it makes for some funky photography opportunities. More on''Gaudi’s Barcelona in this post.''The windy back streets of Girona, Spain''I am a bit of a fan of sunsets! This one is over a mill in rural France''I love this quote. And I also love clouds. So when this cloud wandered past, it seemed appropriate to merge the two!''To Australia now, and a trip along the Great Ocean Road to see these rock formations – the last remaining of the 12 apostles. This part of Australia made it into my''ideal itinerary for six weeks in Australia''.''Last month, August 2012, the world celebrated a''blue moon'', and lost the''first man to set foot''on our cheese flavoured sky friend. This shot of the moon rising in Western Australia was my way of remembering those events.''A long seagull patrol the beach at the southern end of New Zealand’s south island, with the end tail of the southern alps forming the mountain ridge on the horizon.''This isn’t Easter island. But if the easter islanders has chainsaws, large lumps of wood, and lived in France, the whole place would probably look a bit like this.''Part of my highly irregular waterfall Wednesday series. These are the twin falls in''Kakadu National Park'', Australia.''Sometimes I lose the plot a little bit, and starting turning dials wildly until they hit 11 all across the board. This is what happened here, with this shot of Spirits Bay in New Zealand.''The''Moeraki boulders''in New Zealand. Well, they claim to be boulders. Personally I’m of the opinion that they are unhatched dragon eggs.''There’s that wheatfield again. This time with actual wheat in. Poor wheat. If only it knew the terrible fate it has in store. Toast anyone?''If I recall correctly, this is a river, on a beach, in Tasmania, Australia.''Water crashes against the western Australian coastline. This sort of photography results in a very wet photographer, desperately trying to protect his camera from the salt spray.''As part of''our trip down to Fitou''in southern France, we went a-wandering around a variety of interesting looking ruins. This was one of those. Also, the nearby blackberries were awesome.''And finally, another recent achievement by humanity was the landing of a nuclear powered laser toting robot on the surface of another planet. In homage to that event, I took this photo of some sand dunes in Australia, and Marsified it. I also invented the word Marsified for the process. Good eh?''Thanks for reading! Don’t miss''edition I''and''edition II''🙂''SHARE ON''We’ve had the privilege of visiting''Barcelona''a number of times, and on each visit we see a whole host of wonderful sights.''But what if you don’t have the luxury of multiple days in the city? What if you’re just passing through, and only have one full day to explore the city? Well, fear not. We think you can squeeze a lot of adventure and sight seeing into one day, from magic fountains to spectacular churches.''In this post, we’ve put together a recommended itinerary for a day in''Barcelona'', and included some information on transport options. Then, at the end of the post we have a couple of extra stop-offs for those of you who really want to fill their day up, as well as some tips and ideas for getting the most out of your day. Let’s get started!''1 Day in Barcelona''1. Placa de Catalunya''The Placa de Catalunya is slap bang in the middle of Barcelona, and a good place to start your day. The main''Barcelona Tourism''office is situated here, and you can prepare by stocking up on maps, leaflets, and information. It’s also where a number of transport options converge. Sorted? When you’re all ready, it’s time to take your:''Transport to the next stop (Casa Batlló)''Five minutes to walk the 400m up the Passeig de Gracia to the Casa Batlló, which will be on your left.''2. Casa Batlló.''Visiting Barcelona is inevitably going to result in you seeing some of the masterpieces that Anton Gaudi left scattered around the city. And this is the case with the Casa Batlló, one of his more famous houses, and one which is entirely open to the public for viewing.''Like many of the tourist attractions in Barcelona, there’s an entry fee, in this case of around €18, but this is totally worth it. You will be issued with an audio guide to take you around the rooms, which explains all the highlights of the building, as well as the history behind its’ construction. I’ve put this as the first stop in the tour as it is a very popular spot, and can only accommodate so many people at a time.''Once you’ve explored as much as you can, and boggled at the dragon like roof, head on out into the sunshine, and decide how you want to get to the next stop on your tour, arguably Barcelona’s most famous attraction: the Sagrada Familia.''Transport to next stop (Sagrada Familia)''Option 1 – 20 minute walk of 1.7km along Carrer d’Aragó, turning left at Avinguda Diagonal onto Carrer de Sardenya''Option 2 –''Public transport, 15 minutes. Walk back towards Placa de Catalunya, take metro line L2 towards Badalona Pompeu Fabra for three stops, disembark at Sagrada Familia stop.''3.''Sagrada Familia''I do not believe that the opportunity to see one of the most spectacular buildings in the world should be passed up, so any itinerary I suggest for Barcelona is going to include this fantastic building. In fact, if you don’t see anything else, just visit this building. It doesn’t even matter if you aren’t a church type, or have been around every church in the world already – nothing is going to prepare you for the interior of Gaudi’s magnum opus. Apart from this picture of course.''Entry isn’t cheap at around €20, but the good news is that you are contributing to a bit of actual history here, as your funds go towards the on-going construction of this incredible building. It’s also a massively popular destination, but for good reason, so don’t be tempted to skip it. You’ll barely notice the crowds anyway, as you gaze upwards at a forest of coral trees…''Transport to next stop (Urquinanoa, Gothic Quarter)''Option 1 –''30 minute walk of 2.4km. Walk southwest along Carrer de Mallorca, turn left onto Carrer del Bruc and keep going until the streets narrow.''Option 2 –''Public transport, 11 minutes. Walk southwest along Carrer de Provença around 400m. Take metro line L4 at Verdaguer for 3 stops, direction La Pau, and disembark at Urquinanoa.''4.''Gothic quarter''(and lunch!)''Now, I’ve allocated you three and a half hours in the''gothic quarter''. Sounds like a lot, right? Well, to me, this is one of the best parts of Barcelona, and worth taking the time to explore. Nearly entirely pedestrianized, this quarter is just one crazy mess of tiny winding streets, stuffed full of history and opportunities for aimless wandering.''There is lots to see, from the world heritage listed Palau de la Musica, to the spectacular gothic cathedral, to the Picasso Museum. You could literally spend days wandering in this maze – and you just might if you lose your bearings.''This is also a place stuffed full of eateries. I’d recommend finding an attractive looking menu of the day and gorging yourself silly. Then spend time indulging your inner tourist up and down the street known as La Rambla (Barcelona’s most touristy street, and for good reason), and exploring the Mercat de la Boqueria – Barcelona’s most famous market. When you’re sated, head along to the Liceu metro stop on Las Ramblas which is where you’ll find the…''Transport to next stop (Castell Montjuic, Gothic Quarter)''Option 1 –''40 minute walk of 3.2km. Up a hill. If you’re still keen on walking, then head down La Rambla towards the ocean, and turn right onto Carrer Nou de la Rambla. Turn left for a block onto Avinduda del Paral-lel (feel free to hop on the cable car about now), then right onto Carrer de Cabanes and then follow the windy road up the hill until you get to the castle at the top. Well done, you deserve an ice cream.''Option 2 –''Public transport, 20 minutes. From the Liceu take line L3 to stop Paral-lel (diretion Zona Universitària, two stops). From here, take the cable car up to Castell Montjuic.''5. Castell Montjuic and Grounds''If you still have time in your day, then I can recommend heading up above the city and finishing your day in Barcelona with a bit of time in the''Castle Montjuic''and surrounding gardens, followed by a visit to the Magic Fountain. Yes, Barcelona has a magic fountain. How can you not love this city?''Castell Montjuic is perched 180 metres above the city, and will give you a great evening view as the sun starts to lower herself down. It’s free to enter, and is open fairly late.''After you’ve sated your castle and city viewing needs, then I can really recommend timing your visit around Barcelona to take in the magic fountain display, and watch the sun set across the city from the steps of the Palau National. This is either a 20 minute walk from the Castell Montjuic, through a variety of pretty gardens, or a 20 minute bus ride on the 193 bus. Not a bad way to end your day in Barcelona!''Check''here for opening times for the Castle Montjuic''for your visit, and''here for information as to when the Magic Fountain''is doing a display, if you get your timings right you will finish your evening off in style, with the streets of Barcelona below ready to envelop you in an evening of food, music, and good times!''Some optional extras:''If you feel you want to squeeze even more into your day, here are a few optional trips you could do on your day in Barcelona.''Park Guell''– This is a big garden complex slightly north of central Barcelona, originally planned as a garden housing development. Only two of the sixty houses were actually built, but the park itself is a remarkable showcase of Gaudi’s talents and ideas. It’s worth a visit, but it is likely to be very crowded. It also offers splendid views across Barcelona. It’s not that central though, so would be a bit of a detour.''If you wanted to add this onto the route, the optimal way would be to go after visiting Casa Battlo, via subway line L3 to stop Vallcarca.''Casa Milà''– Also known as La Pedrera, this is another famous Gaudi designed house. It’s only a short walk from Casa Batlló to La Pedrera, so you could do this as an alternative if you wished, although less of the building is open to the public. It’s worth taking a look at the exterior at least, which is free to gawp at.''Tips for your 1 day in Barcelona''My route above includes the option of using the metro. Pick up a one zone day pass at the start of your day and you’ll be able to take any transport option in Barcelona for the duration of your stay''If navigating the metro or walking seem like a bit too much, then the''Barcelona Bus Turistic''is a great option. Sure, you’ll have to throw away my carefully planned itinerary above, but you will be whisked in fine style between every important sight in Barcelona, with commentary to boot.''Barcelona is notorious for pick pockets. Keep your belongings secure and locked up. Pay particular attention in busy tourist areas, and on public transport.''Barcelona is a popular destination, and is likely to be busy year round. Take a look at my''tips for surviving a European city in summer''for some ideas as to how to stay sane.''Barcelona is in the Catalan region of Spain, which has it’s own language as well as Spanish. This will explain the signs in a language you don’t understand.''Food is remarkably cheap compared to many other European countries. Aim for a weekday lunch deal, where you should be able to score a three course meal, possibly even with drinks and wine, for under €10.''Grab a''guide to Barcelona''to have something to take with you''A map for 1 Day in Barcelona: Attractions and Route''View''Barcelona day itinerary''in a larger map''Plan your Barcelona Accommodation now!''Finding the best deal on your accommodation is an important part of trip planning – helping you to''get the most from your budget,''as well as''find the property that is right for you.''It’s worth bearing in mind that Barcelona is a city which is a little overwhelmed by tourism, and as such, is taking measures to ensure that residents are able to afford to live in the city.''In particular, there has been a crackdown on city centre AirBnB accommodation, as well as a restriction on new hotel builds in the city centre. So we’d advise booking a hotel if you can.''We usually find booking.com has the best deals on accommodation when we travel. Check out their''Barcelona listings here''.''If you prefer an apartment or more of a hosted stay, then we recommend''AirBnB''. I’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get a discount on your first booking with''this link!''Just be aware that as mentioned, AirBnB’s have been restricted in the city centre, so make sure it is licensed (it should have a tourist license number in the listing to be legit).''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''How to Save Money on Your Barcelona Visit''There are two main options for saving money in Barcelona that I’ll quickly cover here.''The Barcelona Card''First, the''Barcelona Card''. This is the official city card from the''Barcelona Tourist Office'', which is available in a standard version, and an express version. The normal version can be purchased for 3, 4 or 5 consecutive days, whilst the Express version is valid for two days. The normal version includes free access to a range of attractions, as well as discounted admission to a number of other attractions. It also includes free public transport. For a one day itinerary such as that described in this post, the Barcelona Card is unlikely to be worth it, however you may consider investing in the Express verion.''The''Express version''comes with free transport for two days, as well as a range of discounted admission, but doesn’t include free entry. However, it is very competitively priced.''The Barcelona Pass''Newly launched at the end of 2016, the''Barcelona Pass''is from the same people who make the''London Pass that we love''. It is more expensive than the Barcelona Card, however it includes free entry to a number of attractions on our one day itinerary including''Casa Batlló''.''It also comes with a day of free''hop on hop off bus transport'', a free''Barcelona Walking tour'', a free''Bike tour'', a''free boat tour'', and a number of other attractions. If you are planning on visiting the''attractions covered by the Barcelona Pass'', it can quickly save you money. Jess has written a comprehensive''review and guide to using the Barcelona Pass''to help you decide if it is a good fit for your trip to Barcelona.''Should You Get the Barcelona Pass or Barcelona Card?''For a one day trip to Barcelona, we’d suggest that neither of the above cards is going to be worth it in order to get maximum value from the purchase. However, if you’re staying for two or more days, then one of these passes is very likely to save you money if you plan on visiting a number of the attractions included on them.''Further Reading For Your Day In Barcelona''There’s a lot of information out there about visiting Barcelona – some we’ve written ourselves, plus some external resources. Below you’ll find some of the best of that content to help make the most of your trip to Barcelona.''If you’ve got more than a day, here’s our''recommended itinerary for three days in Barcelona''A guide to the best locations for getting a''great view of Barcelona''Our guide to the''best photography spots in Barcelona''Our comprehensive''review and guide to using the Barcelona Pass''Some of our''favourite street art in Barcelona''Want to see some of Gaudi’s creations? Check out our definitive guide to the''best Gaudi sights in Barcelona''The''Lonely Planet Guide to Barcelona''Rick Steve’s''Pocket Barcelona Guide''The''WikiVoyage guide to Barcelona''The official''Barcelona Tourism webpage''And that’s it for a day trip around Barcelona! I’d love your thoughts and feedback as to what I’d put in, left out, or anything at all! Hit up the comments below and share your feelings with the world!''SHARE ON''In today’s''travel blogging tips''interview (the 27th''in the series''!), I’m shining a spotlight on a green corner of the travel blogging world – namely the lovely Bret and Mary, the blogging couple behind''Green Global Travel''.''Set up nearly two years ago, these guys are on a mission to save the world, one story at a time. Their site features a heady mix of green news, interviews with the movers and shakers of the eco world, and photos and tales of adventure from exotic destinations. A worthy read.''I managed to steal some time from Bret and Mary’s busy schedules to find out what makes their site tick, learn how they scored interviews with an ex-POTUS, and understand what success means to them. Read on to learn more!''Hello Bret and Mary! Tell us a bit about yourselves and your quest to save the world!''Hi, Laurence! Mary and I met in 2008, fell in love, and almost immediately went on our first big trip together to Hawaii’s Big Island. From that point on, even before we launched GGT, we’ve travelled as often as possible. We both have a huge sense of adventure, a love of nature/wildlife, a thirst for knowledge and a desire to explore other cultures.''It was through founding Green Global Travel in late 2010 that we realized we could use our passions for travel, writing and photography to promote ecotourism, which we believe can help''save the world’s unspoiled places''.''Why did you first start writing a travel blog?''Honestly, it was because the editors I worked with in my freelance writing career didn’t seem all that interested in stories on nature/wildlife conservation and cultural preservation.''They wanted (and still want) stories on the best hotels, best spas, best golf courses, etc., which I really didn’t care much about (OK, spas are really nice… but you get my point). It felt like mainstream media was more about selling ads than telling good stories, and the more we traveled, the more great stories we had to share.''From''jamming with Zulus''in South Africa to a traditional''shaman’s blessing''ceremony in Peru, these stories seemed WAY more interesting to me than the assignments I was getting. When Mary got laid off in 2010, it seemed like the perfect opportunity to follow our passions, and in November of that year Green Global Travel was born.''What are your dreams for your blog?''Our long-term vision is to be a big multi-author site a la Matador Network or Mother Nature Network, but focused on ecotourism, wildlife conservation, and indigenous cultures. Eventually we’d also like to start a philanthropic arm to help fund conservation and preservation projects, so we can get more hands-on with regards to our core mission.''Lastly, we’d love it if one day Green Global Travel is mentioned in the same circles as WWF, National Geographic, Sea Shepherd, and all the other great organizations that inspired us.''How do you define success in terms of your blog?''That’s a tough question, because I’m one of those entrepreneurial types who’s always striving to be better. I don’t really believe that success is a destination, but an on-going journey of discovery and evolution. So I really don’t spend much time looking back on our last accomplishment before I’m trying to figure out the next mountain we can climb.''Traffic, followers, comments, awards and recognition from your peers are all awesome. But for me it’s about exploring the world, telling great stories, and creating a body of work we can be proud of. Oh, and some press trips to dream destinations like Kenya/Tanzania, Morocco and Antarctica would be nice!''You (Bret) have a background in writing, how has that helped with the blog?''I think the fact that I’ve been a professional writer, editor and photographer since 1995 has been a huge help in terms of knowing how to run a publication, how to work with writers and interns, how to work with PR people, and how to use words and images to tell a compelling story.''Unfortunately, the whole SEO/WordPress/social media side of the business is completely different nut to crack. If we’d understood that stuff better from the get-go, I can’t even imagine how much further along we’d be now. We didn’t even get on WP until last November! So in many ways we’re still playing catch-up as we head into GGT’s second blogaversary later this year.''What has been the best thing about having a travel blog?''Telling the stories I want to tell, and having readers really respond to them. Blogging allows you to communicate directly with people on a very personal level you rarely see in the print world, and the immediate feedback you get when you tell a good story that touches people in some way is extremely rewarding.''I also like that I can try creating different series, such as our''World Travel Bucket Lists''and our''Endangered Species Spotlights'', and get people’s opinions on them immediately. They’ve ultimately proven to be some of our most popular posts.''Do you follow any metrics in terms of traffic analysis / site ranking, and how important do you think these are?''Oddly enough, I focus on them less and less as we grow. For a while I was really obsessed with Google Analytics, to the extent that my mood would often swing from day to day based on our numbers. But now I’ve realized that that approach doesn’t work for me. Instead, we occasionally will check GA, Alexa, Klout, Domain Authority, FB/Twitter/SU referral traffic,\xa0 etc. just to make sure our numbers have an upward trend. As long as there’s slow, steady growth, I try not to worry about it too much.''Which social networks are you active on, and what tips would you give for success on these?''Try though I might, I’m just not a huge fan of Twitter. We use it regularly because you kind of have to, but I find it has shortcomings as a content curation tool and I loathe communicating via 140 characters.''We love Facebook and StumbleUpon, so much so that I’ve actually taken some flack about the latter. But I think in terms of drawing sheering numbers of new readers to your site, whom you can then try to convert into regular readers, no other social media outlet comes close. I also like it because, if we follow someone on SU, we never miss a story they share, so we can then choose the very best of their work to share with our readers.''What other techniques have you used to improve your traffic, and how successful have these been?''We’re still experimenting there. Right now we’re in the middle of a huge SEO overhaul, because we knew nothing about it when we started and now have nearly 500 stories we need to go back and tweak. We’ve done the usual guest posting and commenting on other bloggers’ pages,and we’re getting ready to launch a big PR campaign to try to get some press from the traditional media. Hopefully they’ll consider what we’re doing newsworthy in some way.''You have interviewed some pretty impressive folk. How did you manage to pull that off?''That’s actually how I made my career as a writer. I started out as a music and movie critic, but eventually moved into celebrity interviews. After talking to hundreds of people from the worlds of music, TV and film, I got into interviewing folks like Ted Turner, Jimmy Carter and Al Gore. So when we started GGT, it just made sense to include that as part of what we do.''Now, getting to interview the world’s greatest environmentalists, and working directly with the people who work to change governmental policies, is extremely rewarding. Look for stories on Jacques Cousteau’s son Jean-Michel, folks from Kiva and Survival International, and hopefully even the Prime Minister of Palestine soon.''Elevator pitches can be important for the aspiring travel blogger. What information do you put in yours?''Well, I have the benefit of working in the blog and print journalism worlds simultaneously, so I usually try to emphasize that stories from our press trips typically wind up in at least 3-4 different outlets. I make sure my award-winning professional career is highlighted and include links to our media kit, which has case studies and recommendations from our previous press trip. Basically, we try present a case that says, “Of course you should want to work with us!”''How do you split the work of running a travel blog between the two of you?''In general Mary handles the Business side and I handle the Creative, but sometimes the line gets blurry. Mary is very organizational and professional: She can do spread sheets like nobody’s business, and is great at tracking our interns’ progress. At the same time, she also does photos and videos when we travel, including video editing.''I’m really good with big picture ideas and concepts, like Don Draper but without the addiction to cigarettes, drinking and philandering. I handle all editorial, work with the writers, handle a good bit of our social media and come up with new growth strategies, as well as the obvious writing, editing and taking photos.''What have you found to be the hardest thing about running a travel blog, and how do you overcome this?''It’s extremely time-consuming, and I’m not sure we’ve overcome it or found the right balance yet. It takes up a lot of time we could be on romantic dates, or hanging with friends, or chilling with our families. Some days are better than others, but there’s a definite burnout factor in pay. When that happens, we shut off the computers and head to the lake. I’m not sure there are problems a day out on the boat can’t fix!''If you started your blog today, what would you do differently?''First of all, I’d focus on GGT right from the get-go. We launched an improv comedy company not long after GGT, and wound up spending a better part of a year focused on that. I’d also have started on WordPress rather than Joomla and learned SEO sooner.''Does your blog generate any form of income, and if so, how did you achieve this?''We’ve sold some advertising, but we didn’t start trying to monetize until about two months ago and Google has obviously pooped on everyone’s parade lately. But we did pretty well in June and July, and we have some other monetization ideas (including social media consulting and offering 1-on-1 writing mentorships) that we’ll be unveiling after we finish the re-design.''If you have questions or problems with your site, where do you go to find answers?''Usually the FB groups, especially''The Business of Blogging''. Guys like Michael Tieso and Adam Costa have given exceptional guidance on everything from SEO to tech support. Which is helpful for somebody like me who’s pretty clueless about the bells and whistles of running a site.''You have carved yourself a great niche with a focus on green travel. A niche gives great focus, but do you ever find yourself constrained in what you can write about as a result?''Not really. Our travel interests are pretty diverse, ecotourism is a fairly broad field, and our niche is an honest reflection of the way we like to travel. Cities are not really our thing in general. But, whether it’s exploring the history and culture of''Cartagena''or finding the green side of''New York City'', we can always find elements of a destination that work for us.''And on the flipside, how important do you think focusing on a niche is for a travel blog?''I can say that it has been very important for us, but I am a big believer in the idea that every blog is unique and has its own focus. Your mileage may vary.''And finally, what key advice would you give to people running, or thinking about setting up, their own travel blog?''If you believe in your blog and you’re truly passionate about what you’re doing, do not give up. Other, more experienced bloggers may tell you that you should do it this way or that way, but what they really mean is that’s the way THEY did it, and it may or may not work for you.''Take the time to really define your brand and its central mission. Decide what kind of blog you want yours to be, and what ultimate end game is: Do you want to make lots of money, travel the world, sell to the highest bidder, or simply help make people’s lives better? There’s room for all of it, just make sure you follow the path that works best for you. We’ve always just kind of stumbled along on a quest to find our own path, and so far the changes in our life have been AMAZING!''Massive thanks to Bret and Mary for taking the time to answer all my questions! You can follow along with their mission to save the world over on their blog,''Green Global Travel'', as well as on their''facebook page''and''twitter''account. And if you’ve got questions for Bret and Mary that you want answers to – hit up the comments below!''If you want to read more travel blogging tips from some of the biggest names in the industry, check out the rest of my''travel blogging tips''series. Or, if you’re a travel blogger keen to take part in my series, get in touch and we’ll schedule you in!''SHARE ON''Dear readers, it is another post by not-Loz, also known as Vera. My dad recently emailed me a link for an article published by a respected German magazine. The title was “Dangerous student trips to Australia” which instantly made my heart-rate go up: Oh god, I had been to Australia! Had I unknowingly put my life in danger?''I started reading and learnt that “not every Australian is your mate”. And that young travellers are 4 times as likely to be the victims of theft and rape and everything bad you can imagine. If you don’t get somehow assaulted, you probably die in the outback, because “there are no human settlements for miles and miles”. All this was supported by individual cases. My eyes were glued to the screen. Terrifying stuff. What a god-forsaken place.''Then I remembered: wait a second, I had actually spent a year in Australia. Yet it must have been a different one. Most of the commenters on the article had been to a different Australia as well and were quite taken aback by the fear mongering.''Now I am not saying bad things don’t happen. And when you are travelling, always be safe. But don’t let horror stories ruin your trip or your anticipation for it. Take whatever valid information you can get, and remember to better be safe than sorry.''I will now share with you the tale of how I nearly died in the outback. I don’t think you will learn a lot, but I certainly did.''I was spending three months in Oz together with my sister Julia, who was there on a working holiday visa. She had been working quite a while as a bar-maid in a tiny town (around 250 inhabitants) in Queensland, about 530 kms inland from Cairns, before she met up with me in Sydney and we went on a road trip. While we were in Western Australia, her former boss rang her up and asked her if she could once again help out for two or three weeks.''By this point I had realized that Australia was somehow bigger than I had expected and that there was no way I could see all of it within three months. Consequently, I had already decided to come back eventually, so I didn’t mind interrupting our roaming for some outback action.''We flew from Perth over to Cairns. A friend of Julia’s had agreed to lend us his jeep for the journey. We set off one sunny morning from Cairns -with a collective mean hangover. The night before, we had gone downtown to have “one or two” drinks. That hadn’t worked out somehow. It’s Cairns, after all, a place with a reputation for backpacker partying.''Now, you should know that the vehicle generously given to us was not without fault. We were informed that there was something wrong with the oil sump. It ran through a lot of oil and we were told to immediately fill up the oil the moment the red light came on. And everything would just be fine. Sure thing.''The trip was relaxed. What is probably rather unspectacular for an Australian, was still exciting to me. Enormous road trains, road kill in various states of decomposition, the level poles for the wet season, the landscape, the common courtesy to greet the other, rarely passing-by drivers…''On the last 150 kms the sky got dark – a storm was a-coming. Julia’s hopes to make it to our destination before the tempest started were shattered when it started hailing so much that we could hardly see anything anymore. The hail went eventually and was replaced by quite an impressive down-pour, accompanied by thunder and lightning – a lot of lightning. It felt like someone was constantly flicking a light-switch on and off to mark the beginning of the end of the world as we know it.''Right then I thought I had seen the oil light come on (good timing, man! GOOD timing!), but no, it had gone off again. Two minutes later, Julia asked: “Did the oil light just come on?” and yes, it had, but then it also went off again immediately. We were not prepared for this: was this already indicating a problem (according to our instructions, the light was supposed to stay on!) or was it just random (because we happened to drive over a bump when the light came on), but the interpretation of the situation was instantly ended when the motor died on us the next moment. Oh no.''Oh no indeed. There we were, in the middle of nowhere, really, with 99 problems, and the car was only one.''The motor was truly dead. No gentle whisper or hefty curse could bring it back from the other side.''Turned out that the battery was dead too, so we couldn’t even have the headlights on to indicate to other drivers that we were on the edge of the road (Julia had steered the car to the side, so we were off the lane, but not off the road yet, so basically in expectance of a big monster road-train to hit us).''It poured down with rain, and everything we had ever heard about the wet season and the flooding of the roads came back to mind. The level poles suddenly got a dark meaning. We weren’t ‘sinking’ yet, were we?''We couldn’t do anything, as in: step out, take a look at the motor and evaluate the situation (“Uuuuhm…” – yeah, I don’t think it would have helped much, anyway, but you know how you always feel better when you do as much as you can), because every 20 seconds, lightning hit the area around us, giving us the next grief…''We were in a Faraday cage, right? That meant we were safe, or did it? After a day of driving (being slightly sleep-deprived in the first place) and now in a quite stressful situation, we weren’t so sure anymore. Plus, my physics teacher in school had made a point of not ever getting an experiment right, no matter how simple it was – it would not work in his demonstration. I was eagerly waiting for the day he would drop an apple to demonstrate the law of gravity. That apple would have never hit the floor. Never. So my trust in the science of physics wasn’t exactly stable. We were probably going to die.''But it got worse. After an hour we realized that by now, we needed to wee really, really badly. It was then that we decided that we were going to start singing to distract ourselves and to lift our spirits a bit. Church hymns seemed appropriate. We desperately sang how the blossoming of the almond tree is a sign of how love is true. We giggled a bit, but only half-heartedly.''It’s actually not very easy to figure out whether you are probably going to die or if you are making a fuss. Just in case we told each other how great it had been knowing each other. I am not going into details, but you have seen that scene in the movies plenty of times. Ours was pretty much like that.''Finally the rain ceased and the lightning struck the ground a hundred metres from us instead of within ten metres. I opened the door to get out because despite all the drama, I had managed not to wet myself (I’m tough like that), so some business needed to be taken care of. I prepared myself mentally for now being bitten by a poisonous Australian snake (since life was so good today) but instead I stepped into a pile of bones that happened to conveniently\xa0 lie just beside my door, all adequately illuminated by another strike of lightning. Oh man.''At least we were still alive. The rain had stopped, the thunderstorm had moved even further away, and finally we opened the engine hood, playing around with the battery, refilling the oil, without any results, of course. What now?''A car approached from the opposite direction. Should we try to stop it or was it one of these nasty highway murderers everyone always talks about? We couldn’t decide, and the car drove by. Only to stop a bit further down the road, turn around and come back.''The man driving it was a mechanic. Fate has its’ ways, doesn’t it? He managed to get the motor running again, but turned it off immediately, because he said something was going to explode otherwise. He destroyed our last hopes that it was all just a big mistake and a tiny screw had come undone and had caused all this, and there wasn’t any REAL problem, when he stated that this was it and we were not going anywhere anymore.''Turned out he was wrong because his wife was not going to leave us behind just like that, and so they towed us all the way to our destination.''They needn’t have done that – they could have driven home, called the town’s pub and somebody would have come out to pick us up – but they did.''We thanked them a thousand times and didn’t mention that we thought they might kill us. Probably for the best.''So that’s how I nearly died in the outback. But even though this experience was already funny the next day (well, maybe apart from the destroyed motor in our friend’s car), it showed me how quickly you can get really confused when you are in a challenging situation whilst abroad. It’s then when you realize that you don’t know half as much for sure as you thought you did.''I definitely realized that my school teacher deeply affected my belief in the Faraday cage. And that if oil is an issue with a vehicle, that’s a fact not to be taken too lightly. And that it is so annoying that one has to''wee all the time''. And that when it comes to the last moments of your life, you are likely to say something quite cheesy. And that there are some really decent people out there. I hope you have met that kind, too, and will do so plenty of times in the future!''May your travels be adventurous and always safe – take care!''SHARE ON''A short while back I was thrust into the local community spotlight via''a microphone and a badly rendered version of Sonny & Cher’s''“I got you babe”. My partner in crime even had her photo in the local paper as a result.''This was a part of our ongoing effort to integrate into our surrounding community and learn more about the local French culture beyond the baguette and beret. These efforts are continuing. Recently we were enrolled in a local traditional French grillade (a BBQ to you and me). This is that tale.''Like anywhere else in the world, the French have a unique take on the international cuisine that is gently burnt BBQ meat, a tradition that I have observed in various forms in my travels.''Us Brits, for example, have perfected the art of cooking chicken with a seasoning of rain, delicately charred on the outside and frozen on the interior. The Ozzies have their barbie’s, often mysteriously prawn free, accompanied by any beer but Fosters. Down in South Africa, a''braai''is accompanied by an improbably spiracle sausage. Germany, France’s neighbour, enjoy a good old fashioned pork fest accompanied by around three tonnes of pasta salad per person, to the strains of David Hasslehoff’s latest hit. I could go on, but I’m sure you get the idea''The French BBQ is no different, featuring key signature ingredients, without which no grillade would be complete. One of these is Walter Raleigh’s tuber import, prepared by being dunked in a vat of hydrogenated vegetable fat, and crisped to perfection. Yes, I’m talking about chips. It turns out that the French BBQ is just not complete without an item that doesn’t even go on a BBQ.''Obviously chips are not the only thing to feature. Pork belly and sausage are two other staples of a grillade. I am yet to attend a grillade evening in France which isn’t in fact uniquely composed of pork belly, sausage, chips, and a healthy side of baguette. Clearly the belief is that the formula doesn’t seem to be broke, so why fix it?''I was asked to take part in the grillade evening, and my particular role was of critical importance. You see, I was put in charge of the deep fat fryer, and tasked with creating the chips. This is big stuff. Forget the sausages and the pork loin. The French Fry has that name for a reason. And here was I, a foreigner, entrusted with this weighty task. To paraphrase Churchill, never has so much responsibility been held by so few.''I was given some handy tips prior to commencing. First, the importance of the double fry. This is apparently essential to creating the perfect chip. Even McDonald’s does it, so it must be important, right? Next… actually, that was it. I was told it was important to double fry the chips, and that was it. The rest was up to me.''I should point out at this point that my culinary career does not contain many highlights. I did actually have a job as a chef once. It was my shortest job ever, clocking in at three hours before I was let go. I never had one of those summer jobs at McDonald’s, where I would probably have learnt the fine art of generic chip creation. But here I was, in France, presumably the home of the French Fry, tasked with feeding a host of actual French people. Cooking doesn’t get tougher than this.''I am pleased to say, that it went very well. I produced multiple batches of perfectly golden, crispy fries, which were wolfed down with appreciation. I got happily coated in oil. I ate way, way too many chips in the interest of quality control. And at the end of the day, I received a spontaneous round of applause for my chip creating efforts. Which was rather nice. Even better – I’ve been invited back to wield my chip frying paws again at a future event. Clearly, I’ve made it. Now all I need is to step up to the actual meat part of the event…''And thanks for reading this post from the''My Life in France''series. Click through to find more posts like this one, or use the categories at the top of the page to search for more posts to entertain, inform and educate!''SHARE ON''The northern half of Australia was one of the highlights of my year long road trip around Oz. And a place that holds a particularly special place in my heart is the''World Heritage Listed''Purnululu National Park, part of the Bungle Bungle Range in the Kimberley Region of Western Australia. It even made it into my''Unmissable Western Australia''post.''So today I thought we’d take a bit more of an explore into this park via some photos of my time there. After the photos, I’ve got information on where this park is, how to get there, when to visit and where to stay. Enjoy!''The main highlight of the park are the quite frankly bonkers looking rock formations. These were formed by a combination of oxidisation and cyanobacterial action – or bugs and rust to you and me. However it happened, it looks darn cool!''A dried up river bed that must be impressive during the Wet. All that water has to go somewhere!''That river bed above, looking the other way.''Pretty impressive stuff alright.''This is the entrance to Cathedral Gorge, one of the walks you can take around the area. The following few photos are of the walk into Cathedral Gorge.''The previously photographed dry riverbed is fed from this impressively sized waterfall, which must be fairly amazing in the Wet season!''The view looking back out of Cathedral Gorge, one of the Purnululu highlights.''It’s not all about the funky coloured rocks though. The outback scenery in this area is outstanding!''And if the beehive domes weren’t quite enough for you, then maybe a trip to the more classic billion year old mountain range that the rest of the Bungle Bungles is made up of will impress you. This is that, at Sunset.''And now for some information to help you''plan your trip to Purnululu National Park.''Where is Purnululu National Park?''Purnululu National Park is in the top right corner of Western Australia, in the Kimberley Region. The closest towns are Kununurra, 250 km to the north, and Halls Creek, about 125 km south.''How do I get to Purnululu National Park?''The only vehicle access to the park is via a 50km long four wheel drive only track off the highway between Halls Creek and Kununurra. This track does have river crossings, so cannot be driven in a normal vehicle.''The other way into the park is by air, with flights available from a variety of locations including Kununurra.''When is the best time to visit Purnululu National Park?''Like much of the northern half of Australia, the best time to visit is during the dry season, which runs from around April to November, give or take a month or so. The vehicle track is impassable during the wet season. The later on in the dry you go, the hotter and more humid it is going to be. For more thoughts on planning a trip to Australia, and when to go, take a look at my''planning a trip to Australia''post.''Where can I stay in Purnululu National Park?''For me, the best way to experience a park like this is to get as close to nature as possible, and so camping is the way forward. If that’s your sort of style, too, then there are two campsites to suit, the Kurrajong Campsite and the Walardi Campsite. These are fairly similar in terms of facilities – i.e., you get bush toilets, and taps featuring bore water, which needs sterilising before drinking, and tastes, frankly, a bit shit. You’re probably better off bringing in your drinking water.''Both campsites require you to pay a small fee, which can be paid at the visitor centre in the park.''If rough camping isn’t quite your style, then you can go for one of the more upmarket luxury camping options, which feature such glamorous options as hot showers and actual meals. Although, you have to pay somewhat more for this option!''The palms of Echidae Chasm, another highlight of the park. Here you can squeeze into a chasm, with mighty rock walls towering up all around you.''I hope you enjoyed today’s post on the Purnululu National Park! As you can see, this is a pretty special place amongst many in Western Australia, with loads to see and experience. I’d advise taking at least a couple of days to soak it all in.''Now all that’s left is for you to tell me your thoughts on the post! Is this somewhere you’ve been, or is it firmly on your to-do list? Which is your favourite of the above pictures? Let me know in the comments below.''SHARE ON''I thought I’d do something a little bit different today. Instead of regaling you with tales of my adventures, or sharing my''photography''(well, I’m going to do that anyway, all text posts are so 2010 on this blog), or sharing my''tips on photography'',''travel'', or''technology''(I write about a random pile of stuff it seems), I’m going to tell you some things you might not know about me. Yes, me. The camera turns inwards, folks.''To make this easy, I’m presenting the information in a snappy, bullet point format. You can award yourself marks out of 14 at the end if you like. If you get all 14, congratulations, you must be my mother. HI MUM!''I always wanted to be a pilot. When I was 17, I took my first solo flight in an aircraft, after 7hrs 35min of training. I loved it, then decided I didn’t want to be a glorified taxi driver. Now I see the world from cattle class.''Talking of planes, I’m the only person I know who has taken the controls of a commercial aircraft, with double digit passengers on board, and performed a take off. With no actual training. Or license. Or those other reassuring things you expect your pilots to have. Also at the age of 17.''I was on honeymoon with Paul McCartney. His, not mine.''Whilst we’re on the subject of celebrities, I had lunch with Tony Blair while he was PM. I don’t think I made a terribly memorable impression.''I grew up on a tiny island in the Seychelles, which meant I had to teach myself much of what I know today. This probably explains a lot.''Douglas Adams is by far my favourite author.''I once caught a fish eagle when tiger fishing on the Zambezi. This was somewhat unexpected. No fish eagles were harmed in the making of this post.''I really despise liquorice. And sprouts. Although the latter is apparently,''genetic''. At a stretch, I can force sambuca down my throat. For social purposes, you understand.''I’m quite afraid of heights. I tend to try and get over this by standing as close as possible to large drops.''I have a scar that goes up my leg from when I fell over a rusted 44 gallon oil drum / flower pot at the age of three. When we meet, I may claim it was a shark attack. This will not be true.''I lived in a tent for a year in Australia. Here I was able to set a personal record for days without a shower of 14. Although after seven days I did break, and threw myself into a potentially crocodile infested river out of desperation.''I was engaged. That didn’t work out.''Cat Stevens and I shared a flat in London. Admittedly we needed a time machine to actually see each other, but the thought is there.''I love video games. I’ve pretty much gone cold turkey on them though, as they took up too much of my time. Now I play with photo editing software instead.''Well, that was painless. How did you do? And what is there about you that I don’t know? Let me know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Something like 1 in 7 people have a facebook account. Which sounds like a lot, but given that we’re tipping over the seven billion people on the planet mark, that means that there are still six billion of you who are missing out on the zucker-world, which also means you are missing out on all the photos I share on my''facebook page'', almost daily.''Fear not though. Since I’m such a nice chap, I’ve decided to do a vaguely regular round up of some of the more popular photos I’ve shared on my facebook page, right here for your enjoyment. The''first edition of this series is here.''This is.. the second edition! Enjoy…''Water crashes through a blowhole on the''Western Australian''coastline''You find the strangest things on rocks sometimes. This is at the Port Macquarie breakwall, New South Wales, Australia.''More rocks here, but no sign of any street art. This is a sunset (I like sunsets!) across the Devils Marbles in Australia’s Northern Territory. A must visit if you’re doing a trip through''Australia’s red centre!''These are the peaks that make up the dual world heritage listed Tongariro National Park in New Zealand. The cone on the right is Mount Ngauruhoe, better known these days as the stand in for''Mount Doom''in Peter Jackson’s''Lord of the Rings''trilogy. The blob on the left was once a giant mountain that would have dwarfed every other mountain in New Zealand, had it not exploded in awesome fashion some 20,000 years ago.''On my recent trip down to the''southern french coastline'', I took a whole bunch of photos. In this one, I experimented with the tilt shift effect. Still learning on that one!''Our nearby village of Piegut here in France recently came out in flowers as a result of the yearly Félibrée festival. The place looked stunning – I have more photos like this in my post on''the 2012 Occitan Piégut Félibrée!''What’s better than a sunset? A sunset with a beer! Here a friend enjoys a cold one against a spectacular outback sunset in Australia.''Still on the sunset vibe – here’s the wharf in Tolaga Bay with a beautifully muted sunset. It’s the longest in New Zealand, and can be found on''New Zealand’s east cape.''I know that wind turbines are big, but man, getting up close to them really blew my mind. This is also from our''trip down to Fitou, southern France.''The garden has gone bonkers recently, with the explosion of summer. Flowers started to feature heavily in my camera’s memory card…''..''but I still had time to sneak in the odd sunset shot, like this one across the fields here in France’s Dordogne region.''I have this vague idea that the #waterfallwednesday hashtag should be a “thing”. It’s not really working, but it gives me a good excuse to share photos of waterfalls. Like this one of Waitonga Falls, tucked behind Mount Ruapehu on New Zealand’s north island.''More outback Australia sunset goodness. I love sunsets!''I spent a while in Rotorua when I was travelling New Zealand.''Visiting the Wai-o-Tapu thermal wonderland''was a real highlight of my time there.''I’m also a fan of waves crashing. These waves are on the Western Australian coastline.''And the last of the waterfalls for today. These are Fitzroy Falls from a variety of different angles. Health and safety were not involved during this photo-shoot of these 90m high falls…''It’s a picture of a cat! Well.. this is the internet after all. Captions welcome 😉''And to finish, like last time, with something a little different. Not a picture of me''modelling the futuristic hobo look''.. instead.. a piece of street art in the''Taranaki''region of New Zealand.''Well, that’s you mostly up to date with my photos from the''Facebook page''. I also have an instagram account (lozula), and will probably post a round up of those photos at some point soon! In the meantime, let me know which is your favourite from the round up above, in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Update:''As of 2015, this castle is no longer open to the public due to a change of ownership. So the dark secret remains within. Still, if you want to know what it used to look like – read on!''In the warm, balmy, sun filled air of southern France there perches upon a hill a medieval castle. In fact, there perch upon many hills medieval castles in this part of France, this being the area of the world where the Cathar Castles are planted. And they sit on their rocky outcrops like crows sit around a battlefield, waiting to feast on the fallen dead.''Filling in the time between battles though, some of these castles have taken to passing the time in slightly unusual ways.''The particular castle that I am describing today, in the town of Fitou, holds within its’ walls a darker secret than many of the others. And that is saying something, as the medieval times were not necessarily a terribly jolly place to be. Violent, torturous punishment for the tiniest of crimes was their equivalent of pay per view, with some really quite inventive folks out there creating ever more impressive ways to end life in as slow and gory a manner as possible.''And let me not mislead you – the section of Fitou Castle dedicated to medieval torture instruments is very complete. Very complete indeed. The descriptions, lavishly translated from French into gloriously descriptive English, should be rated R. The waxwork figurines of the torturers and their victims, who all seem terribly happy with their lot, do not help.''But it was not the torture scenes, or the descriptions, that I brought you here for. Those are to be expected in a medieval castle. No. The secret that I am going to tell you about looked like this:''I’m not really sure where to start with describing this particular pleasure dome of a display. Whatever event this is depicting, it was clearly one hell of a party. From the headless raver to the rabbit/donkey headed party girl, presided over by what appears to be\xa0 long eared fox creature and a seriously distressed sheep, this was one vision that even the most tortured of guests from Fitou Castle’s history would have struggled to conjure up.''This wasn’t all that there was on show. Oh no. Let’s take a look at what else Fitou Castle has to offer the medieval castle connoisseur looking for that little bit extra…''A bat corset dress thing. From the Moulin Rouge, no less. How the hell this ended up attached to a chimney underneath a sooty ceiling eluded me somewhat.''Party attire from some time in the past. Heads optional.''A Cartier designed pearl dress. Because for some, a pearl necklace just isn’t enough.''Now this is more like it. Your run of the mill masked ball mannequin collection. Barely a headless figure in sight!''Some of these dresses were worn by famous people. Famous people with beaks.''After that lot, the room of torture instruments was a walk in the park.''Ok, so the court jester was a bit creepy. Still.. the background entertainment was a stable full of torture victims. So there’s that.''And we’ll finish of with this. The rat heads presiding over activities were my favourite bits.''And that was Fitou Castle. Certainly worth the visit. If you’re into this kind of weirdness, then I can highly recommend you take a trip over to fellow travel blogger Raymond’s site,''Man on the Lam''. He practically oozes weird discoveries everywhere he goes. Like this''gopher museum'', for example.''I’ll leave you with that thought. If you’ve ever discovered something weird on your travels, hiding within something like an otherwise innocuous symbol of medieval oppression, I’d love to hear about it in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Ah. Yes. Hello. You know, let’s talk. Just you and me. Let’s pretend I’m sitting next to you. Maybe we’re down by the beach. Or in a pub. Perhaps we’re in two comfortable chairs, and we’re grasping happy glasses of cognac. Happy, presumably, that they have been released at last from their bottle, and are finally ready to serve the purpose that they were conceived for.''I have already digressed. Anyway, I hope that by now you have this picture of me, sitting next to you, in a “let’s chat” sort of manner. Not in the creepy “I can see what you’re wearing” sort of way (you are wearing something, right?). If the picture is still hard to conjure up, it might help if you close your eyes.''Oh wait, now you can’t read on.''Ok, I’m going to assume you’ve opened your eyes, and not fallen asleep. Because I’d love to talk to you. Even though you can’t really talk back right now. Ah, the narcissism of the writer. Feel free to skip right down to the comments at the end and just throw me some talk if you like. That would be nice.''What would I like to talk about? I’d like to talk about this. This writing thing. This thing that you are hopefully here for. Unless you’re here for the photos of course. Here’s one of those, to keep you interested. It has nothing to do with the post at all.''Voice, I feel, is very important. The voice of the writer that is. Not the voice, either the TV show, or the sound I make when I speak. Which, I suspect, is going to surprise you the first time we meet in person.''Anyway, I was having a long chat with my significant other recently. Thus far she has written''two''rather''excellent''posts on the blog, and I am confident a third is being hatched. And what we talked about mostly was the importance of voice, and what the voice of the blog is, and where we are now with the blog, and where we are going with the blog. Because as well as tripod management and grammar checking, she is also a tremendous sounding board (did I ever tell you how we met, by the way? You can find that in a lovely little post about''folks finding love on the road'', in case mushy romance is secretly what you were after).''We talked about how I still don’t feel like I’ve quite worked out what the voice of the blog is. Or maybe, in fact, I have, I just haven’t figured out that I have. After all, we’re over three hundred posts in – I’ve had enough time to figure it out. If you’ve been here for a while, I guess you probably have an idea, too (that comment box is just itching for you to hit it up)!''Here’s what I want. I want this site to be a fun place to visit. With humour, because, frankly, life is far too much fun to take seriously. Humour, though, is hard, contextual, and needs to have the appearance of ease. Take''this guy''for example. Or''this lady''. They have humour nailed (I hope you came back after clicking those links and I didn’t lose you forever. If so, I hope you’ll remember me fondly as that guy who introduced you to those guys. Maybe we’ll bump into each other in a future life, and not quite make eye contact, and shuffle our feet a little awkwardly, and perhaps clear our throats, before moving on, sentences dangling unsaid).''Maybe I’ve made you smile. That would be jolly nice. I mean, really, when all is said and done, that is all I would like to do (man, writing this post is really helping me figure out what I want. Hopefully you’re coping at the other end of my pen).''So, you leave smiling. And that’s good. What else can I offer you, if smiling isn’t enough (you are a tough cookie!)? Well, I would hope the photos tickle you a bit (here’s another one, just in case your attention is wandering..''a photo IN a bracket. I’m breaking new ground.) and maybe you’ve learnt something about somewhere in the world that you didn’t know. And that would be jolly nice too. A fun filled, pretty, loosely educational experience. Basically, I’m the virtual version of a hooker with a PhD. Better at least than an STD.''If you hadn’t figured it out already, this is a very cathartic, thought sorting, self indulgent post. Sometimes to figure out what I want, I find long walks, idea bouncing and then frantic writing to be the answer. It seems to have helped.''There is another reason for me to be pondering this stuff with rather refined urgency. You see, in a few short weeks Vera and I are going to be heading down to''Girona''for a massive travel bloggers conference (don’t give up on me yet. I hear there are going to be drinks and everything).''There will be all kinds of people there, including some amazing travel bloggers who I have been keen to meet in person for some time to come, and also all kinds of industry reps, who may be able to open doors. Do I want doors to open? If they lead to magical castles and unicorns, probably. But for those particular doors to open, I probably need to have what I’m all about and The Voice of The Blog more clearly defined in my mind. Hence this post. Yes, I know, I’ve made that point already. Sorry, the cognac from earlier is starting to fuzz the pages a little.''So what is my purpose and what is my goal with the site? What do I write about? Where do I want to take you? Where are we going on this adventure?''I have a feeling that’s not something I’m going to enjoy, because then somehow my life will have come full circle, and I’m going to have brand guidelines for the site explaining what size font I want you to read my musings in. And then my head might explode. How hilarious the world can be sometimes.''It all sounds like terribly hard work, doesn’t it? Often, of course, the things we want the most in life are. I certainly want this blog to remain a big part of my life going forward, and hopefully you were planning on coming along for the ride. Together we’ll have a bit of a giggle.''And, as it is, the blog has already''opened some rather lovely doors''for me, in a way that made me feel comfortable and happy. And that was without a presentation or anything.''So maybe, and far more likely, I’ll just wing it, making stuff up as I go. Because pretty slides and numbers aren’t everything. And winging it seems to have worked so far. I am who I am, and what I do, and that’s all about being happy, comfortable, and, well, hopeful that you’re having a good time. You are having a good time, right? Here’s another photo just to be on the safe side:''In the meantime, thanks for putting up with my rambling today. It has helped. Helped me, that is. I have no idea what it’s done for you.''If you didn’t fall asleep already, I’d love to hear your thoughts. You can tell me what you think about all the above, whether or not you’d like me to send you that presentation I’m probably going to avoid writing, or you can ignore that entirely, and tell me your story.''Do you write? Have you found your voice? Do you know where you’re going, or is just knowing you are on the way enough? Is a travel bloggers conference a place you think you’d enjoy, or is it your idea of hell?''Wherever you are on your journey through''life, the universe, and everything'', share away! And maybe not having a powerpoint presentation and clearly defined strategy won’t make me feel so odd and undefined after all…''SHARE ON''When you get an e-mail that asks you if you want to try out a peer to peer accommodation service, with no restrictions on destination, I would suspect that nine out of ten cats would meow a resounding yes.''In my case, the yes was very quickly followed by some excitable globe spinning, a review of my''2012 wish list'', and the happy realisation that the world is a fabulously big place with plenty of exploration ahead.''This was then followed by the thought that what Vera and I really wanted for a short break was somewhere hot, not far from the beach, and within driving distance of our current French base. Ideally this would be an uncrowded affair, which is''a bit of a stretch for a European summer'', but hey. A boy can dream.''With these thoughts in mind, I fired up the''Wimdu''search engine, expanded the map of France, and put in some filters to narrow the impressive results list down to a more manageable thousand or so options. We wanted somewhere with parking, as we’d be driving. Also, being a geek and a blogger, I wanted free internet access. Finally, and naturally the main factor.. price. We did have a budget after all.''After much ooh’ing and aah’ing over the pin cushioned map of France, we managed to narrow our choices down to two places – one on the Atlantic Coast and one down on the Mediterranean. I fired off an e-mail to both hosts to confirm availability, and the first one to respond got my vote. To the Mediterranean it was!''The place we chose was a lovely looking apartment in the town of Fitou. This is in France’s Languedoc region, which, if you’re not familiar with French geography, is the bit just before Spain. It’s famous, mostly, for wine. And sun, with 300 days of the stuff a year. Sun and wine. How could we go wrong?''Prior to heading down, we exchanged e-mails with our host. She confirmed that the apartment came with everything we wanted (no need to pack pans!), including a welcome bottle of wine. Good vibes positively oozed from my screen.''Before we knew it we were packing our belongings (well, mostly bits of camera, our bikes and suncream) into our''trusty steed'', and heading seawards. Sun ho!''After quite a drive (through some sunflower and castle filled scenery), and one phone call from the apartment owner to check we weren’t lost (lost? with wine waiting?), we arrived in the sleepy little village of Fitou, where our quite spectacular apartment was awaiting us.''There was a cute lounge-cum-kitchen, a comfy proper bed, gorgeous ensuite, and, my favourite of all, roof terrace with castle view. Where we promptly placed ourselves and enjoyed a fine bottle of 2008 Chateau Fitou, which had been thoughtfully provided by the host.''Every detail had been thought of to make out stay pleasurable, from''a little booklet the host had put together''outlining all the highlights of the region, to maps and recommendations for places to eat and drink. And drink certainly wasn’t going to be a problem. The main street of Fitou was just one wine tasting ‘cave’ after another. Fitou is clearly a place that take its’ wine seriously.''As you can imagine, our four days passed quickly. We visited the castle, wandered the streets, popped over the road to the local market, relaxed on the beach, ate copious amounts of ice cream, and just generally felt good about life. The apartment meant that we could do as we pleased,''on holiday as if we lived there''. We were nodded at, chatted to, waved at and smiled to. Even the local hippie commune seemed keen to adopt us as their own.''So, all in all, a thoroughly marvellous stay, and one I cannot thank Wimdu enough for. The place we chose was perfect for us, and at €25 a night each, almost as cheap as a dorm bed in a European hostel. I love the apartment concept, and being able to borrow one from real people who live in the places you’re visiting really helps you get your local vibe on quickly.''The only potential downside with a service like this is of course that you are renting from real people rather than a company, and so your experience can be different each time. Wimdu do their best to verify each listing, and there is a review system in place to help out, both for the hosts and the clients (we’ve already been reviewed as good guests, whew!).''As it was, we had a fabulous experience in a funky apartment with a great host. It couldn’t have been better. Based on our experience we’ll be leaving a positive review for our host and apartment, and recommending them both unreservedly. And if you’re planning a trip somewhere soon, do check out''Wimdu''as an option. It is totally worth it.''Then.. keep an eye out for my upcoming post.. which is going to reveal the dark secrets hidden within the innocuous walls of Fitou Castle. Until then…. cheers!''Our stay in Fitou, as you can probably already tell from the post, was provided courtesy of''Wimdu'', and our host was Christine who runs the''fimidi''website and''facebook page''. We stayed in''the red apartment''. All the opinions are my own, as my brain isn’t (yet) for sale. Do chime in with your experience of this sort of accommodation in the comments below!''SHARE ON''Europe''. It’s jam packed with incredible places to visit, and the cities are no exception to this rule. From the gondola clad waterways of''Venice'', to the Gaudi wackiness in''Barcelona'', to the romance that is''Paris''– there is truly something for everyone.''The problem with this mass appeal is that the masses are appealed. And in the height of the summer months, these cities can become, quite frankly, a bit of a nightmare to visit. Crowded attractions, price hikes, long queues and oppressive heat (unless you’ve''visiting the UK'', in which case that is less likely to be a problem) – the trip of a lifetime can very quickly become the trip from hell. So what to do?''Well, if you are absolutely set upon visiting a European city in summer, maybe to get the best of the weather, or because that’s the only time you can get away, fear not! I’ve come up with some handy tips and ideas for how to''make the most of your time''without driving yourself insane. Let’s get started with some:''Tips for surviving a Europe trip in Summer!''Tip 1 – Stay healthy & safe''Something a lot of folks neglect to do when travelling is keeping an eye on their personal health and safety. There’s so much to see and do after all.. who has time to stay on top of boring stuff like hydration and sunscreen? But, since you don’t want a holiday to be cut short because you neglected the basics, here’s what to remember:''Apply sunscreen!''Sunburn isn’t fun in the short term and skin cancer is even worse in the long term. Get plenty of high factor stuff, and apply it liberally.''Drink plenty of water''. Dehydration is seriously uncool, and will ruin your trip. Drink lots, even if you’re not thirsty. This may have the side effect that you need to visit the WC more often.. check''out this guide to finding public toilets''for keeping on top of that need!''Keep an eye on your belongings''. An unfortunate fact of life is that not everyone in the world has your best interests at heart. Pickpockets and scammers exist all around the world, and crowded tourist spots are prime locations for easy pickings. Keep your belongings with you, secure, at all times. Don’t carry all your cash on you at once, and consider having an emergency supply tucked somewhere unlikely on your person.''Ensure you have adequate insurance''. I’ve banged on about insurance plenty on this blog, so you should know my views by now. If the worst should happen, you want to be covered. Insurance isn’t that expensive, and is worth it for the peace of mind, particularly for the medical stuff.''Tip 2 – Plan your accommodation & transport properly''Summer time is peak time, which means the prices for everything are liable to go up. Luckily, there’s a whole world of options out there that the savvy traveller can save with.''Rent an apartment''. Rather than a traditional hotel or hostel stay, I can recommend an apartment rental. You get more room, more flexibility, and you can save your food budget by cooking for yourself if you want. Check out''our guide to the best apartment rental sites''for more info on where to get the best deals.''Compare deals online.''There’s no shortage of places where you can compare rates and get deals. You can get last minute deals and compare prices across a whole range of transport and accommodation options. I have a''list of flight tools here'', whilst for accommodation there is a massive choice. We recommend''booking.com''as a starting point – they have everything from\xa0hotels to apartments to hostels, and in our experience have the best prices and range of options.''Get some kind of pass.''If you’re in a city for more than a few days, you’ll probably be able to save money by getting a city pass that will get you in to multiple venues, and include public transport. For example, check out our''detailed review of the London Pass''.''Tip 3 – Get off the beaten path and avoid peak times''If you’re anything like me, you’ll find that large crowds of people can detract from your overall travel experience. In a major European city, in summer, large crowds of people are pretty much the status quo at every major attraction. What to do about this?''Visit the less popular attractions''. Do a bit of research into your destination before you go.''Check out guides''for longer term visits to a destination, and do the things at the end of the list instead of the beginning of the list. You’ll still see some amazing stuff, you’ll be able to talk about your off the beaten path adventure, and you can visit the highlights at a quieter time!''Do something alternative''. When I was in Berlin, I took one of the''alternative walking tours'', which took in the incredible street art. The tour was entirely free, with an optional tip, and took me to all sorts of places I’d never have thought to go (sticker museum anyone?). Totally worth it, and there were only six of us in the group. This sort of thing exists all over Europe, from food tours to walks with locals, so do a bit of planning and away you go!''Go when everyone else is asleep.''You can avoid the crowds at even massively popular sights by foregoing your lie in and turning up when the gates open, having bought your tickets in advance. I’m not saying you’re going to be alone, but you might be able to get some relative peace and quiet!''So those were our tips for helping you save your sanity when visiting European attractions in the summer! Personally, I’d avoid the places like the plague, and consider chilling out on a surf crusted beach, umbrella adorned cocktail in hand.''Enough about me though. What about you? Are European cities viable as a destination in summer – or are you more the beach bum type? Do you have any more tips to share? Hit up the comments and let me know!''Plan your Accommodation now!''Finding the best deal on your accommodation is an important part of trip planning – helping you to''get the most from your budget,''as well as''find the property that is right for you.''Our''current favorite way''to find the''best deals on accommodation''is with''HotelsCombined''. These guys let you search over 100 booking sites at once, including booking.com, Agoda and TravelPony, and nearly always get the best price.''Try them and see!''Alternatively, if you prefer an apartment or more of a hosted stay, then I recommend''AirBnB''. I’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get''a $25 discount''on your first booking with''this link!''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''SHARE ON''When I was in''Barcelona''I was offered the opportunity by the nice folk at''Barcelona Tourism''and the''Catalunya Bus Turistique''to take a day trip. A whole variety of destinations were on offer, but I chose the tour that went to the pretty looking towns of Girona and Figueras.''I mostly chose this tour because Figueras was the home of Dali, and is where the museum that he put together to house his works can be found. The museum also happens to be where he’s buried. Being a fan of Dali, I was keen to see what a museum created by him might look like.''Generally, I’m not really a tremendous fan of your standard coach tour. This is largely due to memories from my childhood of the odd bus tour to seaside towns with my Mum and funny smelling old people. Weird how that can put you off. Plus there’s something about being part of a managed group that just, well, doesn’t work so well for me.''On the plus side, a tour like this is a handy way to see a fair amount of stuff in a short amount of time, with lots of information thrown in to boot. And this one was no exception. Our guide, who chatted to us as we drove between destinations kept us entertained and informed with stories of the Catalonian regions admittedly fascinating history, as well as with titbits about both Girona and Figueres. He was also very good at shutting up the noisy crowd at the front of the bus. All round, a jolly chap.''The bus ride from Barcelona to Girona, the first stop, was about an hour, and the view along the Costa Brava coastline was very pretty from the windows, with the sound of our guide burbling away happily in the background. The hour flashed by in comfort, and it wasn’t long before we were arriving in Girona itself, where we set off on a guided walking tour of the highlights.''A quick tour of Girona''I knew essentially nothing about Girona before I got there. I quickly learnt that it’s one of those cities, like so many in Europe, that has had its fair share of conquerors, rulers and invaders. Everyone from the Romans to the French have had a go at conquering the place, with an impressive 25 sieges to date. Presumably your average Gironian back in the day was fairly au fait with basic siege warfare tactics. The overall result of all of this is a town that consists of a fascinating pile of cultural collisions.''These days the only sieges the locals have to deal with are the army of tourists, of which we were but a small bastion. Our guide whisked us around the main highlights, including the crumbly old Jewish quarter, the spectacular cathedral, the Arabian baths, the colourful river frontage, the statue of the lion that you have to kiss for luck (and, presumably, to also contract a variety of fascinating diseases from other lucky folk) and myriad winding back streets. Our brains were filled with all manner of information, most of which I failed to heed as I was too busy glued to my camera’s viewfinder.''Because Girona is, if it’s anything, a magnificently pretty place, and if you’re obsessive about trying to capture beauty and bottle it, then it’s the sort of place you might find yourself being excited about. As I was. We finished our time there with a rather fine lunch (Spanish food is both excellent and great value), before heading back to the bus.''In conclusion for this part of the tour, we saw just enough of Girona to get a taste of the place, but I’ll certainly be needing to go back.''For now though, let’s head on to Figueres.''Figueres – it’s all about Dali!''The town of Figueres is a little further away from Barcelona, requiring another ninety minutes of coach action. Again, the tour guide burbled as the scenery flashed by, with the foothills of the mighty Pyrenees mountains hoving into view.''Before we knew it, we were arriving into Figueres, which is mostly famous for being the home of Dali, the worlds greatest surrealist artist. The main draw is the Dali Theatre and Museum, created by the artist, and home to the largest collection of his works, as well as the remains of the artist himself.''As it was designed by Dali, the whole museum can be treated as one of his pieces. There are giant eggs all over the place, a huge dome over the top of the main stage, and seriously weird stuff throughout. It was also possibly the busiest place I’ve ever visited. Clearly there are a lot of people with a passion for Dali. Or a lot of people on bus tours carefully checking off destinations. One of the two.''It was certainly an experience. The museum was fascinating, and I was able to see a lot of Dali’s work that I hadn’t previously been aware of, including some of his later styles.''Unfortunately, the incredible press of people meant that it wasn’t the worlds most enjoyable visit, and I have to admit to being a little glad it was over and not having to battle for elbow room. Vera and I escaped into the late afternoon rain and ate croissants instead. I would love to go back, perhaps at a quieter time of the year. If the TBEX people are reading this.. a late night private opening would be lovely. Thanks!''In conclusion''We managed to pack a great deal into a day that we would otherwise not have not done, and it certainly opened our eyes to what is available outside of Barcelona. If you’re on a tight schedule, and want to see some highlights and get some knowledge, a bus tour might be just for you.''Alternatively, you could roll your own experience, and grab a train from Barcelona out to Girona. It’ll take about an hour, too, and may give you more time to explore if that’s what you need. Whichever you choose, I can definitely recommend spending time in Girona. Also, If you’re a Dali fan, and can find a quiet time, then the museum is also totally worth the visit. But I do implore you to find a quiet time!''Thanks to both''Barcelona Tourism''and the''Catalunya Bus Turistique''for providing us the opportunity to take in these experiences during our trip down to Barcelona. Whilst the trip was complimentary, all the thoughts above are entirely my own. Do share your experiences in the comments below!''SHARE ON''The title of this post is possibly a little boggling if you’re not familiar with some vaguely old French history, which I wasn’t until I did a bit of reading up around the subject. Here’s what I learnt. (Warning – history ahead. Feel free to skip to the photos section if you’re not into it. I won’t tell anyone!)''Félibrée & Occitan Facts!''Back in the day, some time after the Romans did their whole Empire thing, a region of Europe which covered much of what we know today as southern France, Monaco, some bits of Spain and a teeny bit of Italy, were united by the use of a language known as Occitan. As a result of this common language, and national borders not withstanding, this region became known as Occitania.''This language still exists today, and is an official language of Catalonia (whose other language, Catalan, is very similar), as well as Monaco and parts of Italy. Despite the majority of the speakers being based in France, and around half of France being part of “Occitania”, it is not classed as an official French language.''So that’s the language, which has been quietly dying off since the middle ages. To help rectify this death, in 1903 a chap came up with a brilliant idea to have a massive annual party to celebrate all things Occitanian, and there have been 93 of these parties since that day, a party which is known as a félibrée, or to in Occitan: a felibrejada. With me so far? We’re nearly through, I promise.''The festival changes location every year, and this year it just happened to take place in the village down the road from me, something which happens only once every forty years or so. Handy or what!''Photos of the félibrée''The festival lasted for three days, but the decorations, which clearly took some time to put together, are up until September. And, when walking around, you can really see why they want to leave them up – this was a serious labour of hand-made love. People from all over the surrounding communes banded together to help get this thing sorted out. Everyone pulled together, and the result was absolutely spectacular. As you can see from the photos!''Every single street was coated in these flowers. Each one hand made.''Even the road signs didn’t get away with it''The Piégut church was surrounded too!''The local Mairie got in on the act''A cross covered in flowers. I’m sure there’s a message here.''The village well got its own flower ring…''There was a show in Occitan. I had no idea what was going on, but it seemed to go down well.''No surface was left unattended.''Even the old horse drawn carriages got the treatment!''And that was the 2012 Piégut Felibrée in photos! Next year the festival will be taking place in the town of Bergerac – is this something you might be interested in attending? Let me know in the comments!''SHARE ON''I was recently tagged to take part in a photography competition by one of my favourite photographers out there – Dave Bouskill of The Planet D. Sometimes competitions such as these can be a thinly disguised popularity contest, but it turns out that this is a real competition, with actual judges and real prizes! No sign of a Facebook-like frenzy in sight! So thanks for the tag Dave – much appreciated.''All five of the judges are awesome photographers, plus the competition has some amazing prizes for the contestants, including iPads and actual cash. Yes… actual cash! And you all know how much I like cash.''So obviously I’m entering, which is what this post is all about. And, unless you’re judging, you don’t even need to do anything. Just enjoy some of my favourite pictures from my various travels. (Well, ok, you’re welcome to bribe the judges on my behalf. But that’s it.)''The competition is called Capture the Colour, with the theme, as you have probably figured out, involving colour. (Update – the contest is now closed.) Enough of the chat. Let’s get on with the five colours, starting with:''White''White means all sorts of things to me, from lovely fresh snow through to a''collection of clouds''.''Mount Taranaki''in New Zealand, the centre piece of this particular shot, is no stranger to either. He’s a beast of a mountain, rising 2.6 vertical kilometres out of the surrounding flat land, and providing one of''New Zealand’s most challenging day hikes.''If you’re on the North Island for any period of time, you need to visit this mountain. You will not be disappointed!''Red''Australia''is, without doubt, a''land of spectacular contrast.''I found myself particularly entranced by the outback, with the vast open spaces and scorched earth look. The contrast was nowhere more apparent than on the west coast, where the red outback literally meets the sea in the world heritage listed Francois Peron National Park.''I just loved the contrast of this shot, with the white of the beach, the red of the sand dune and the blue of the sky. In fact, it was\xa0 tricky picking which colour category to enter this one under. But in the end, the Australian outback is synonymous with red for me, so Red it is!''Blue''New Zealand’s Maori name is Aotearoa, which translates as land of the long white cloud. And often this is a land which is filled with clouds. But when the clouds part, it could quite easily be called the Land of the Endless Blue. There are vast blue skies, spectacular blue glaciers, and eerily blue lakes fed from said glaciers.''This shot is of Lake Tekapo in New Zealand’s south island. I took it on a perfect, crisp, autumn day, and I was standing on the shores of the lake looking across to the endless spine-like ridge of the southern alps, which dominate this incredible island. It’s one of my absolute favourite shots from my time in New Zealand.''Green''For me, greenery is all about nature. And I couldn’t resist entering this photo I took of a national park in France known as the Perigord-Vert, which literally translates to Perigord-Green. This shot was taken in the area of the park which is famous for its’ granite boulders, and seemed like a great opportunity to play around a bit with my ever patient model, also known as my girlfriend. Thanks Vera!''Yellow''I know, I know. Dave (the judge) specifically says he is looking for more than flowers and sunsets for the yellow theme. As it is, my favourite pictures that heavily feature yellow are either flowers or sunsets. So hopefully this field of French dandelions will pass muster!''SHARE ON''Dear fellow travellers! It’s me again, Vera, and today I am going to talk to you about finding public toilets.''A task that is somewhat essential to a smooth travel experience, yet hardly addressed – until now.''There is of course a chance of the odd TMI happening, so brace yourselves! However, we have to be courageous here, because not finding a public toilet when you need one can seriously cast a dark shadow over your otherwise delightful travels. Or over your pants. Right.''Luckily Loz already did a post about''scenic toilets'', and possesses a multitude of loo-pictures, hence you are not going to lack the eye candy (I heard that sigh of relief!).''So let’s get down to it – and I am sure you can relate to the following scenario: wherever I roam, sooner or later I am faced with somewhat of a dilemma. I feel recently taken in fluids stretching my bladder in a fashion that indicates the necessity of immediate relief, and rather suddenly, I get very nervous to find a loo. Then I get very upset upon realizing all WCs seem to have magically vanished while I was happily admiring sights.''I am glad to announce that I have never weed myself (Loz keeps telling me that it is actually a hard thing to do), but I am not saying that I wouldn’t have liked to, just to prevent an implosion. I have even toyed with the idea of carrying a catheter (I am sure people who have to have one would rather not have it, but there must be moments of appreciation), because I am pretty annoyed that my otherwise glorious travel experiences are being affected by the much less glorious (but by all means equally exciting) need to urinate.''As us travelling folk come to learn, the state and distribution of public toilets varies a lot throughout the world, and it can be a pleasantly surprising experience (“There’s a free and clean public toilet everywhere I go!”), a somewhat confusing one (“What do you mean, I have to PAY to use a public toilet??”/ “What’s the hose for? -Oh.”) or a rather repelling one (“Hm, by the sight of this it seems that the aim is to NOT hit that hole. Interesting!”).''I do believe, though, that everyone everywhere does it the best way they can and the way they are used to do it, so if the situation seems less than ideal to you, it’s nothing to judge a culture upon – it’s just a different approach! Once again, it all boils down to how well we deal with the challenges which are thrown at us.''Since a proximity to mother nature, aka the country-side, usually somewhat minimizes the dependence on a public toilet and therefore the challenge, let us focus on towns/cities here.''So now, without further ado, comes the handy list of my bag of tricks!''Vera’s take on finding a public toilet''Not drinking is not an option'', in case you were promoting this as a solution. I’m happy for you if you get by like this, but I don’t support it, as I believe in the importance of staying hydrated, and in the burning unpleasantness that is a urinary tract infection.''Preparation comes in handy''– keeping some change in case you have to pay & tissues, in case your hand, reaching for that toilet paper, comes back shockingly empty. Sanitizer if you wish.''You can actually''browse the Internet for public toilets in a specific city''(for the whole of Australia, there is for example this:''http://www.toiletmap.gov.au/map.aspx'') or you can even''get an app''(e.g.''http://www.elbatrop.com/toilets''), whereas I have the impression that these have not evolved equally everywhere, depending on which continent-country-town you’re dealing with, so you might get lucky – or not.''Public buildings'', like libraries, courts, hospitals, universities, administrative offices are a good option (the ace up my sleeve I like to call them).''Museums, galleries, etc.'', sometimes deeply disappoint you by having their toilets cunningly located past the admission.''The fact that often the''tourist information''in bigger cities does not have a public toilet never fails to surprise me –but at least they can point out to you where you can find one!''Train stations''are worth the shot, but can let you down with toilets that make breaking out of prison seem easier when trying to figure out how to enter them.''Indoor markets''sometimes offer toilets, too.''Malls, shopping centres, big stores, Fast-Food-chains''– there’s a chance you might have to pay, but it’s better than…''…''automatic to-pay-for public toilets'', which don’t work both of the two quite desperate times you actually want to use them (‘want’ maybe being a\xa0 bit of an understatement), which is very, very bad for your wee-mentality which was convinced and prepared to be able to let go more or less NOW, and not in another 15 to 20 minutes, which is hopefully the maximum amount of time you need to find something else. Ugh.''Cafés, bars and restaurants''are a possibility, but the staff often DON’T like it when you degrade their work-place to your public toilet (and that’s their right absolutely), so I either order a drink (“Hooray! More wee to come!”), or sometimes I’ll ask if I could use their toilet and offer some change for it. I can’t remember exactly, but I don’t think I was ever denied access to the porcelain gods using this method.''Train your ability to casually''register and remember the location of any potential public toilet''opportunity – I tend to create a map of a place in my head with a net connecting various public toilets (because they don’t hand you one in the tourist-office, do they?); as in: “I know exactly where I am – basically in a Bermuda triangle of three public toilets, which is two more public toilets away from my hostel”. Bonus: it helps you with your overall orientation, too!''An option that is not for me that much, but I will mention it, since it might be useful for somebody else or in a specific situation, is''asking at a private house''if you can use their bath-room.''But what if there just isn’t a toilet? I actually found a''last resort'', but since I don’t want to promote public weeing and am not so sure that this proposal doesn’t require an awful lot of comfort zone violation and practice, I’ll hand it to you more as a fun thing and hope you don’t find it offensive: this link (NSFW)''https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2MsEaRbVuzs''takes you to the video “How to pi** in public”.''…and it made me think about how it is ‘unfair’ that men always seem to be better off when it comes to weeing – until I stumbled about loads of information''how women can actually wee while standing'', too; either with the help of funky objects (''https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Female_urination_device'') or just like that (''http://www.wikihow.com/Pee-Standing-up-Without-a-Device''). Pretty intriguing stuff – I can think of situations where this ability would be helpful, although I am not that keen on the part where you need to practise the whole shebang…''Last words: I’ve seen public toilets come and go, and they often go because the maintenance is too hard to keep up with, with people vandalizing the place repeatedly, or just having that “devil-may-care” attitude, resulting in unpleasant experiences for others, and I would like to encourage everyone to''respect existing toilet facilities'', as they are built for all of us.''Seeing how differently towns can handle this challenge makes me think that there are people with good intentions involved, and I can understand why they would give up on their project that they are investing time and money in when the beneficiaries seem to, frankly, sh*t on it. I know, that’s not you, but resist the drive of adding to it “because it doesn’t matter anymore, anyway” – it does make a difference if you do.''Preservation is the underestimated ingredient to successful loo-finding!''So this was my take on that! I sincerely hope it might have included a point that is of interest to you, and maybe we all will deeply enjoy more proud moments when finding a public toilet like a secret agent would find the location of a mole.''However, I still do not exactly feel like an absolute pro with this task, and I still experience myself vehemently cursing when AGAIN I need to wee and have no clue where to go. Which is why I am now shouting out to you people: if you have additional advice, let it go and pour it all out… in the comments! Share away –and thank you!''SHARE ON''There is a reason I am standing in front of an entire French village clutching a microphone and preparing to launch into a rendition of Sonny and Cher’s “I got you babe”. That reason (other than beer, and the effect it has on my perception of my singing capability) is the insidious figure that society generally refers to as “the man”. Allow me to explain.''Wherever you go in the world, there will exist “the man”. As far as I can tell, this man is responsible for ensuring that anything that might be deemed to be a fun and exciting activity is carefully frowned upon, and metered out in small chunks.''Ideally, the fun activity will generate some money for someone somewhere, someone who exists solely to carefully meter out the fun, and who has no actual control involvement in the fun itself.''Take music for example. (And yes, this post title is going to result in some very confused searchers. Although if you are still searching google for “free music” then you need to move on with your life.) In most countries there is some sort of music licensing authority. Their purpose, apparently, is to ensure that artists get their fair share of royalties from any performance of their music. Fair, that is, after necessary administration fees, taxes, marketing costs and so on.''This means that anyone who wants to play music in a public space, pretty much anywhere in the world, has to pay some sort of licencing fee to some organisation, who somehow figure out what music you are playing, and pass some money on to some artists. It all seems very vague to me.''This rather puts a damper on any venue that wants to host the odd party, or people who just want to have an impromptu street party with a bit of music, as suddenly the cost goes up. “The man” must have his piece of the pie after all.''In France, this problem has been noticed, and the solution is fairly novel. On two days of the year, anyone anywhere in France can play whatever music they like at any venue they wish, entirely for free, without incurring the wrath of the music licencing authorities. One of these days is New Years Eve. The other is known as the “Fete de la Musique”, and occurs every June 21st.''On this day in France, the place goes, quite frankly, music bonkers. Villages spontaneously erupt parties. Towns and cities host free concerts. World class orchestra’s crop up on street corners. Sleep generally goes out of the window as an option. If you’re a fan of music, France suddenly becomes the place to be, with Paris arguably being the highlight.''I wasn’t in Paris. I was in a tiny village deep in rural France, where the local tradition had it that a street party be held, with a BBQ, plenty of beverages and a Karaoke machine. Hurrah.''Which brings me back to the start of my story. I’m fairly new to the French lifestyle and still finding my way around the local community. There is, however, a golden rule, recognised across the world, for successfully integrating into a community. It requires you to make a fool out of yourself. The bigger the fool, the greater the likelihood of welcome.''And what better way to make a fool out of myself than by singing the English songs that no-one else was willing to tackle, with my''partner in crime''. Which was how I found myself nervously grasping a microphone, as a whole village peered at me, wondering who the hell this dreadlocked stranger in their midst was.''Still, as far as we could tell, the locals seemed to enjoy our efforts. We started out with Sonny and Cher, warbled our way through Yellow Submarine, and before you knew it, were rocking our way through Get Back. As the night progressed, total strangers came to share the microphone with us, apologising for their accents. There was no need to apologise – one of the things about the French accent is that is makes any other language or song instantly sound sexier. Then it was back on to the French songs, and the partying took off in earnest.''After the singing was over (I’m not going to say I wasn’t slightly relieved) we were suddenly everyone’s best friend. Drinks were liberally thrust at us, the bar lady refused to accept my euros. Everything was on the house. Conversation flowed, much in the manner that hedgehogs mate (carefully with much tentative poking), oft found between inebriated folk attempting to communicate in each others languages.''The overall impression, as the night progressed and wound down, was that we are living surrounded by people who are welcoming, friendly, and like to have a damn good party.''Dancing to Ray Charles hits under the street lamps of a small French village, attempting to communicate in broken French, munching on grilled camembert and sausage baguettes as the stars revolved overhead was, I concluded, not a bad way to celebrate the northern hemisphere’s longest day. However you found yourself, I hope you managed to have a little dance as well. Keep smiling!''SHARE ON''Sophie, who is writing today’s piece, is about to abandon her house-boat based UK lifestyle and venture to the Orient, where she’s going to be writing full time for''HeadingThere''. Sounds like a bit of alright to me. Anyway, enough of me, and on with the post, which is all about WWOOF’ing. This, despite the name, is not about dogs!''‘Where does milk come from?’ I ask.''The group of ten children look at me as though I have finally lost the plot. ‘Bottles, miss,’ one despairing five year old informs me and rolls his eyes.''When they learn the truth, a stunned silence descends. Cows make milk? It is almost too weird for them to comprehend. One day soon, I realise, I will have to reveal the truth about their ham sandwiches.''This experience when teaching in London was a real eye-opener, but little did I know that I would soon be on the receiving end of such lessons as I headed out to a farm in Italy. There, I would come face to face with natural laws, discover enlightening facts about how foods are made, and learn that, in some places, money isn’t as important as the ability to make a good wheel of cheese.''I was going to volunteer on a WWOOF farm, and would visit many more across the world thereafter.''WWOOFing, not to be confused with ‘dogging’ (a difference I had to clear up with my mum before I left), is an exciting way to travel the world and give something back to the communities you visit. The acronym stands for ‘World Wide Opportunities on Organic Farms’, and describes a global network of organisations that link volunteers with organic farmers in their destination of choice. You really can do this anywhere; my adventures have led me from Milton Keynes in England to Manabi in Ecuador.''The closest I had got to farming before this was growing a mini cactus in my bedroom when I was eight. It died. I was thus a little apprehensive about being put in charge of living things.''Well, luckily for me, our first host, Silvia, was an expert. Basically, if there was a superhero with organic farming powers, Silvia would be it. She ran the farm in the Piedmont region of Italy singlehandedly, where she grew all her own fruit and vegetables and made enough goats cheese to sell.''Amongst the delights growing on her land were raspberries, asparagus, plums, tomatoes and mustard greens. She also had a few chickens and a modest herd of goats who, I found out after having a hole chewed in my flip flop, really would eat anything (would this, I asked in dismay, disqualify their meat from being organic?)''My friend and I had a lovely bedroom in the farmhouse and worked for around 5 hours a day in exchange for our food and board. This work included making hay and cheese, weeding vegetables and picking fruit, and cleaning the house when there was a dramatic lightening storm. At the weekend, we headed out on rickety old bikes around the hillside villages and lakes of the region.''Each country has a list of WWOOF hosts, which you will gain access to once you are a member (the UK’s annual fee is £20). Some hosts are Eco communities, whilst others are small-holdings run by families.''I would say that WWOOFing is perfect for anyone who wants to travel cheaply, learn some skills and make friends with local people. It’s also a great opportunity to feel like an extra from Jean de Florette, for anyone who’s a fan.''Sophie McGovern is a writer, musician and full-time nomad. She will soon be moving to Thailand to write for''HeadingThere''.''Keep up with Sophie’s adventures and writings over on the''HeadingThere facebook page'',''twitter stream'', and of course, the''HeadingThere''site itself!''If you’ve got any experiences of WWOOFing to share, or any questions about the program, do drop a note in the comments and Sophie will be happy to answer!''SHARE ON''It has been brought to my attention that not everyone out there has this thing called Facebook. You poor hapless individuals you.''In the case of this blog, I share a lot of photos over on Facebook, many of which don’t make it here. Rather than force you into using Facebook merely to keep up with the Joneses, I’m going to address the problem by doing the odd round up post here of particular highlights from the page of late.''If you then feel the urge to like the''Facebook Page''(or, heaven forbid, sign up to facebook), then you may do so. I just don’t want you to feel all left out and alone because you’ve not joined the Zuckerwagon. Because, frankly, I love you. On with the eye candy!''It’s a random bit of art in Barcelona!''Sunset across a wheatfield in France''It’s all gone a bit floral of late round here.''Who needs mountains when you have dandelions!''One of Joan Miro’s bits of art in Barcelona''Sunrise over the southern alps in New Zealand. So mountains are still cool.''Sunset over the UK’s lake district, circa 1879. That time machine is coming in dead handy.''More of''Angougleme’s street art''And that is that! Let me know if you like this kind of summary post and if I should keep it up – either in the comments below or.. you can always ping me an e-mail (laurence at findingtheuniverse dot com) if public commentary is just too gauche for you 😉''SHARE ON''I started this travel blog quite a long time ago. Just over two years ago in fact, as''this recent post illustrates''. Throughout that whole time, I’ve had a silent partner who has been helping me out, providing handy feedback, checking my grammar, researching destinations and carting bits of camera kit around.''And other than the odd mention, she’s never really had a voice of her own on the blog. Not that I haven’t offered, of course. In fact, I’ve had a long standing open invitation to Vera to hop on in and post something. But, as you’ll see in the post below, if there’s one thing Vera is better at than anything else, it’s procrastination. Why do today what you can do next year? (Anyone who has ever e-mailed me will notice that it’s a trait we share). Anyway. Enough about me. Here’s Vera’s first ever post. Hopefully the first of many!''Hi there, it’s me, Vera, Loz’s better half. (''I’m starting to think this was a bad idea.)''He suggested ages ago that I should write a post for''Finding the Universe''which I thought was a very cool idea, but then something totally unforeseen happened: I procrastinated actually doing it. This has never ever happened before. It’s completely unlike me! But I heard some wise words once about how to deal with procrastinating. Are you ready? You have to find something else to procrastinate which is, at that moment, more important than the task you procrastinated before. It’s also the base for the phenomenon why you find yourself thoroughly cleaning your flat when you should be studying for an exam, for example. You get the idea.''So what is the more important thing to procrastinate for me right now? Without further tantalizing: it is calling up my French Health Insurance because I received a letter from them telling me that they cancelled my membership, which clearly must be a misunderstanding, and I just need to call them to resolve it.''Quite a simple task. Now wait. Call them. In French. Hm.''It’s not that I don’t speak any French. In fact, school-wise my French-career was a rising star, culminating in an official piece of paper being handed to me at my graduation authorizing me to study at French universities without having to take the language test before-hand. That’s pretty good, isn’t it?''Except that I never felt that schools prepare you very well for life-outside-or-after-school. So having an ‘A’ in a French Exam does not necessarily mean that you will be able to understand a single word when having a conversation with a regular French person in a French-speaking country. No, sir! They often tend to speak bloody fast. Or not that clearly. Crazy stuff, I know. And definitely a different experience from my ‘Madames’ who taught me back in the day.''‘Real’ French people still sound very French and sexy and all, mind you. I just don’t understand half of what they are saying (but a lot of them carry baguettes around, and it is weirdly comforting).''Add to that the fact that the type of conversation I’m going to have is a phone call instead of a one-on-one, which means I’m even being deprived of all my little helpers like smiling and flailing my arms. And on top of that it’s not about making a reservation at a restaurant (mmmh… French food…), but about insurance-related talk to someone who is probably already annoyed (because they often tend to be underpaid, over-worked and unfulfilled with what they do) and just longing to speak to someone who struggles with the language –so yeah, procrastination does make sense at this point: let’s write a blog-post instead!''I mean, I love languages. I want to speak them all! I deeply envy all the people who seem to effortlessly switch between three, five or even more languages. Language is the ticket into a culture’s heart, isn’t it? There’s just something about the sound, the flow, the reflection of a people’s personality that comes with it (since I’m German, it feels a bit ironic to waffle about it like that, but oh well).''So I’m all excited about the cultural side of a language, a country, people, life, but actually less than impressed with the bureaucratic side. The latter tends to annoy me. A lot.''Which is an excellent reason to love travelling because all that very important bureaucratic hula-hula can be miraculously down-sized, it turns out. As a backpacker, you can get a bank-account within a few hours in New Zealand or Australia (and get rid of it even quicker). You can get a car, get insurance, all in one day. It’s all relatively simple and practical. And it’s the start of your time-out from civilisation as you know it, with all its’ massive amount of paperwork, sticky processing and unpleasant surprises and people founding little clubs where they complain about the ridiculous complexity, complications and demands of the bureaucratic machine, evolved to something that no one can explain anymore.''Because that machine is a rumbling little monster, and as soon as you’re settling somewhere (anywhere), it starts nibbling on you; but it’s okay, you just have to get everything set up, and then you’re fine. Unless you are Vera in France, and the setting up takes more than 8 months, and then you get kicked out of your Health Insurance you didn’t even get a card for yet, for reasons that are mystifying, mainly because you dread calling up.''I did write them an email, by the way, as a cunning attempt to avoid ‘THE CALL’, and I got an automatic confirmation that it arrived safely on the other side, and then nothing happened anymore. I could also write a letter, but I have written letters before, and I never got a reply. I think it is safe to say that they are living in some kind of worm-hole where everything you send gets sucked into oblivion. But there’s a light at the end of the tunnel (or in front of the worm-hole): you CAN call! Yay.''This post has turned out rather different from what I thought I would write. I shall hold “The magic of the intentional powers of procrastination” responsible for that, which I just made up, but they don’t know that, so it’s all good. I feel a bit better now, and I sincerely hope you do, too, because you might have needed to read this in order to procrastinate something fairly important yourself, and so I congratulate you on your accomplishment, and say: “Well done, my fellow friend, well done!”.''And that was Vera’s first post. She was last seen staring wilfully at the phone. Let her know what you think in the comments below!''SHARE ON''I found Barcelona to be a remarkably photogenic city. In fact, I’ve already shared some of my favourite''photos of Gaudi’s Barcelona''. Today I thought I’d highlight Barcelona’s Gothic quarter.''This is a very windy, largely pedestrianized part of Barcelona’s city centre. The streets are narrow and looming, making for challenging photography conditions, and the whole place just drips in''gothic.''Bram Stoker would be proud.''When you visit Barcelona, you will end up walking through this area. You’ll also get lost. It’s part of the fun… just don’t forget your camera!''Bicycles are a popular way to get around Barcelona. This one looked like it had seen better days, but it was brightly coloured nonetheless!''Barcelona’s main cathedral, which is the first photo in this post, has a fairly impressive rear end as well. Not to mention its side door, photographed below.''Here’s another of those churches that dots the place. I haven’t the foggiest what this one was called.''And finally, a hobbit hole! Actually, Barcelona doesn’t have a resident hobbit population. This is the original ticket booth for the Palau Musica, a world heritage listed building in Barcelona and well worth visiting for a guided tour.''Those were some photos from Barcelona’s gothic quarter! Have you been to Barcelona? Do you plan to go? I’d love to hear your thoughts in the comments below!''SHARE ON''The Queen and I have a fairly relaxed relationship. She gets on with being all regal and attending charity events and wearing hats, and I get on with, well, the sort of things I get on with. Mostly our lives don’t overlap terribly, and I am totally fine with that.''I have no problem with being a subject, so long as I am not subject to. I suspect some fairly important grammar rules have just been broken.''Of course, occasionally the Queen will crop up in my life, and I tend to have to notice her. This occurred only recently, despite me being about as far away from England as you can possibly imagine, in rural France (Ok, we’re just separated by a stretch of muddy ship-bearing water and some fields, but it certainly feels far away).''The Queen, as you are probably aware, unless you’ve been living in a very distant cave with no access to the media spigot and have for some reason decided that your first point of contact with the outside world is going to be my blog (I am touched), has recently celebrated her 60th year of successful ribbon cutting and hat wearing.''This is not a milestone to be sniffed at. Those scissors can be sharp, the ribbons tentacle like. Many an unsuspecting monarch has succumbed before achieving a service this lengthy.''In order to celebrate this achievement, the Queen was loaded onto a boat, surrounded by a great number of other boats, and promenaded along the Thames in the sort of ceremony that only the British can really manage to achieve. Obviously, despite it being early June, the whole affair was somewhat damp. And, I suspect, quite cold.''I’m not sure as to the actual temperature, because the closest I got to the whole thing was sitting in a pub in aforementioned rural France, sipping manfully on a fruit beer (for some reason, the only beer left, I declined the spiffy looking cocktail umbrella), and watching the French barman being entirely mystified by the squadron of Brits who had turned up to watch the event on the pub TV.''It is probably hard to explain the obsession the British have with our monarchy. No-one really seems to understand their purpose any more, but gosh darn they are good at impressive ceremony. And, as it turns out, giving everyone an excuse for a good party. Which I suspect is really what was going on.''Because if there is one thing the British are good at, it’s finding some excuse for a party. Normally we have to celebrate major sporting defeats, or the weather being particularly inclement. But here we had an actual proper celebration type thing. Sixty years of ribbon cutting! That has got to be worth waving some bunting and propping up a bar, any bar, anywhere in the world, and thinking how good we are at finding an excuse to party, whilst the locals look on mystified.''So thank you, Your Majesty. Last year you saw fit to sacrifice a grandson in the name of global party enablement. This year, you braved the weather to lead an armada up the Thames, waving in that manner that only Queens evolve to do, with the result that pretty much everyone who clasps a British passport, or who looks fondly on the quaintness of the British and their Queen, was given a good excuse to have a party. And finding an excuse for a party is, as far as I’ve figured it out, what life is all about.''Whatever your views on the monarchy, I hope you have found an excuse for a party lately. Cheers, and here’s to another sixty years!''SHARE ON''In today’s travel blogging tips article I’m delighted to be able to share with you the thoughts of Robert Schrader, the creative talent behind''Leave Your Daily Hell''.''Robert believes that travel should be something that everyone is able to experience, regardless of income, and his site focuses on how folk can travel more for less. Robert also manages to generate around half his income from his travel blog. Let’s find out more about his approach to travel blogging, and his tips for success!''Hello Robert! Tell us a bit about yourself!''I’m a writer and photographer, and I’ve been lucky enough to spend most of the past three years traveling. Well, not just lucky — there was a lot of hard work involved. I’m currently writing you from Medellín, Colombia.''Why did you first start writing a travel blog?''I started''Leave Your Daily Hell''in January 2010; but I maintained small travel blogs for previous trips as early as 2005!''What are your dreams for your blog?''That it continues to become a go-to resource for travellers who need information, advice and/or inspiration; and that it becomes profitable enough that I can compensate others for sharing their experiences. I would like to eventually build a team of like-minded travel writers.''What has been the best thing about having a travel blog?''It makes a great ice breaker with other travellers. It also allows me to create a living, breathing document of my life, which is priceless.''Do you follow any metrics in terms of traffic analysis / site ranking, and how important do you think these are?''I use Google Webmaster Tools and Google Analytics. These are important because they allow me to set prices for advertisers and make money on my blog. I don’t use or go by Alexa; I think it’s a complete scam.''Which social networks are you active on, and what tips would you give for success on these?''I am active on Facebook, Twitter and, increasingly, Pinterest. No matter which social network you use, the key to success is to post frequently, post high-quality content, share others’ content if it interests you, thank others for sharing and, most importantly, interact with your fans.''What other techniques have you used to improve your traffic, and how successful have these been?''I’m pretty big into search engine optimization, or SEO. I also frequently guest post for other peoples’ blogs; and do interviews like this.''What have you found to be the hardest thing about running a travel blog, and how do you overcome this?''The fact that I am never truly “on vacation.” I only rarely “lose myself,” because every travel experience has the potential to become a new article. I am in many ways the eyes and ears of my readers, so I sometimes have to sacrifice being completely present in the moment in order to take my blog to where it needs to be.''If you started your blog today, what would you differently?''Nothing, probably. The most valuable part about starting a travel blog from scratch, without any idea of what the future might bring, is having to figure it out as I go along. The reward is that I’ve acquired priceless skills and countless connections along the way.''Does your blog generate any form of income, and if so, how did you achieve this?''Yes. I allow businesses and organizations to advertise in the form of sponsored guest posts and sidebar widgets. I also sell contextual links. I earn about 50% of my monthly income from my blog, with the rest coming from freelance writing for commercial clients.''If you have questions or problems with your site, where do you go to find answers?''Google and, if it’s really severe, my web hosting company. But generally, I have learned to solve all technical problems with my site; I am a bit of a control freak.''Travel blogging is becoming more and more popular. How do you differentiate yourself in such a crowded market?''The quality of my writing, photography and design. Many of the most popular travel blogs are terribly designed and written; their photos are embarrassing.''I go to great lengths only to put out “filet mignon” content; many of the rest of the travel blogs I read are more comparable to Big Macs.''And finally, what key advice would you give to people running, or thinking about setting up, their own travel blog?''If you want to be a successful travel blogger, you need to travel a lot and blog even more. This will necessitate a huge amount of work; it will detract significantly from your social life; and it might even drive you temporarily crazy. If you’re OK with this, go for it and go hard; and persist: Becoming successful literally takes years.''Oh, and don’t buy e-books certain bloggers sell that “teach” you how to become a travel blogger; these are pyramid schemes. Chart your own course and write about it. Aim to inspire others, but don’t assume you can or need to instruct them.''Thanks very much to Robert for taking the time to answer all my questions. You can read more from Robert on his site,''Leave Your Daily Hell'', as well as find him on both''Twitter''and''Facebook''.''Got any thoughts on this interview? Hit up the comments below!''SHARE ON''Cheers! My blog has just turned two, which as far as I can tell, means it’s about ready to walk and talk on its own. Kindergarten is probably just around the corner.''To mark the occasion, I’ve written this shamelessly self congratulatory post (the 331st post of the site!), to celebrate the fact that my blog and I have successfully orbited a giant nuclear furnace twice.''Normally at around this point in the speech, one would turn outward and thank all the people who made this possible. Luckily that’s very easy for me, because you are right there.''It is very nice to write, but even nicer to be read, and so thanks very much for all your eyeball time, and your comments, and your general love on my''facebook page''. (If you’re not on my facebook page you still have time to get over there and like it by the end of the post. I have a habit of self indulgent rambling, so I’ll probably not notice you’re gone.)''Luckily this post isn’t all take and no give. I thought I may as well share some of the things I’ve figured out in this two year journey. In no particular order, here are:''Some things I’ve learnt in two years of blogging…''If you’re going to write a blog, you have to love it, first and foremost. Don’t do it for the money (there isn’t very much) or the glory (there’s not much of that either), or really, for any reason other than because you really want to. Glory and riches might come, but both are unlikely, and even if they come, they will take their time about it.''Use lots of good quality photographs. I’ve gradually been increasing the number and size of photos I use in my posts, and I’d like to think the end result is far nicer for you.''Be yourself on your blog, and well, everywhere you can.''Finding your voice is important. If you haven’t found it yet, don’t panic. It’ll come.''Decide what you want from your blog. (I’m still not exactly sure what I want, but I’m working towards figuring it out, and I’m certain that having fun with it is way at the top of my list).''Talk to other bloggers, and take the time to build up relationships with them, both in your niche and across the (horrible word alert) “blogosphere”. Do some guest posting. Share content beyond your own. If you have problems, you’d be amazed how likely it is that others have already faced and overcome them! Plus you’ll likely make some friends as you go.''If you want your blog to be a business, run it like a business. If you don’t, don’t.''Listen to the advice of others. Feel free to ignore it, because what is right for you is not what is always right for everyone else.''If you’re going to use social media, do it right. I’m not really sure what that actually means, but I think there’s something about being yourself and using it as a place to be social that should be in the rulebook somewhere. Oh, and if you have a tweet button on your site, please include your twitter handle in the code. That’s a personal pet peeve.''Write well. If you want people to be able to read your stuff that is. Paragraphs, headers, bullet points, grammar (eek!). I’m awesome at ignoring all the above and waffling on, but well. Doesn’t mean I can’t advise you not to.''Turn off for a while. It’s unlikely the internet will care. Staring at your stats isn’t going to make more people visit. Experiencing awesome things to write about, and then writing about them, is.''Stop writing the post when you’ve run out of things to say.''..and that’s it for today folks. As always, comments welcome!''SHARE ON''I spent a year traversing the vast nation of Australia by four wheel drive, and in that time I took in some absolutely spectacular sights.''I was asked to put together a guest photo post by the wonderful Samuel of travel blog''Nomadic Samuel'', on a theme of my choice, and I thought I’d share some of my favourite shots from Australia with his readers.''So, if you want to grab an eyeful of fifteen of my favourite shots from Australia, including that one of Uluru above, check out the post''here''!''SHARE ON''I recently undertook a 3000km round trip across Europe for entirely unexciting reasons. Unless sorting out stuff in a loft you’ve not been in for four years counts as interesting. This trip allowed me two things. One, lots of time to listen to Abba, as my Mum was in charge of the music selection. Two, lots of time to think of adventures to relate. And it occurred to me that you might like this story, about a slightly unfortunate boat ride I once took…''I was rather lucky at one point in my life to be able to call a tiny island in the Seychelles my home. The island really was tiny – far too small for such conveniences as a runway. Or a port for that matter.''Were I the owner of the island, or a proper hotel guest, or anything other than a dishevelled student, my mode of transport to the island would have been the rather glamorous helicopter charter.''Sadly, I didn’t quite qualify for the helicopter option in the eyes of whoever was in charge of these things, so my usual way of getting to this island was a boat.''On the particular occasion of this story, I was accompanied by a friend from University, who wasn’t what I would term a strong swimmer. Not in the sort of water that goes up and down and doesn’t have a nice tiled floor anyway.''The tale starts off with us in a little boat, not much bigger than a bathtub really, puttering across the magnificent turquoise waters of the Indian Ocean. Sea birds drifted lazily by. Fingertips trailed in the sea. Nina Simone was probably singing in the background. I’m sure you get the picture.''On the way over, the boat driver chatted to us about the fishing, and said it hadn’t been so good of late what with the giant hammerhead shark that had been seen off the island. (That was the end of the fingertip trailing). Not the sort of thing you really want to hear about when you’re bobbing across the ocean in what is essentially a bathtub with an outboard, but there we were. Nina Simone was quickly replaced by the Jaws theme tune at around this point.''As it was, we arrived at our destination entirely uneaten and landed safely on the shore. Palm trees fringed the pure white sands. Waves gently molested the beach. Hopefully I am setting the scene for you as this being a nice place to be, with solid, non shark-infested ground underfoot.''As soon as we arrived, the island manager popped down to the beach, and mentioned that there was a large buoy that needed placing on the other side of the island, and would we be interested in helping take it round in the boat and putting it in place?''Having just arrived on nice safe shark-free terra firma, the correct response would probably have been “no, thanks, we’ll be in the bar, let us know when you’re done”. As it was, it sounded like a fun and exciting adventure, so we loaded a gigantic buoy into the (did I mention it was bathtub sized?) boat, squeezed four of us around it, and set off to the far side of the island.''This other side of the island was a far less inviting place. Barnacle coated granite cliffs rose out of the water, and the sea pounded them mercilessly. There were no palm trees to be seen. Just deep, grey, angry water, hammering itself against the rocks. Not a place for a nice swim.''We reached the location where the buoy was to be put, where an anchor had already been put in place with a smaller buoy as a marker.''At this point it became apparent that not much planning had gone into the operation. Getting the enormous buoy into the boat on the land had not been an easy operation. Getting it out again on a squishy unstable surface was going to be even less so.''We peered at the problem facing us for a brief while, before someone had the brilliant idea to attach the buoy to the anchor whilst it was still in the boat. This seemed like an exciting option, so we did that.''What this resulted in was that our boat was now attached to the sea bed by some rather hefty bit of cabling, designed to moor rather larger oil bearing vessels. A sticky situation quickly arose.''The motion of the waves was attempting to move us away from the mooring (towards the cliffs), whilst the cable we were attached to was attempting to keep us (or at least the buoy) firmly anchored to the surface of the sea.''The result of this was that the boat attempted to make both parties happy, with the back of the boat which was where the buoy was going down to sea level so the buoy could float, and the nose going happily skywards, following the waves. Large quantities of water entered the boat over its stern.''In fact, we took on rather more water than was strictly necessary to enable floatation.''All this water inside the boat started getting quite excitable. As the waves rocked the boat, the water inside the boat started to slosh from side to side. Clearly, it wanted to be reunited with the rest of the sea, not cooped up in a wooden shell. Within seconds, the boat was rocking from side to side to a tremendous degree, and the boat man uttered the words:''“Get ready to go over the side.”''At this point, my friend looked at me in a sort of nervous terror and said''“What does he mean, go over the side?”''I was wondering a wise response to this, when the boat answered for me, and turned turtle.''As a brief aside, I should point out that I have a background in dinghy, or small boat, sailing. One of the drills that you practice when sailing a dinghy is known as a dry capsize. The idea is that when a boat capsizes, you are fast enough to realise this, and as it rolls over, you pull yourself up over the side and onto the bottom.''If you practice this properly, you can actually climb around the boat as it rolls over, and remain entirely dry. With a small sailing dinghy, you can then reverse the process, using the keel to righten the boat, and get back in it. It’s a neat party trick, and one I practiced a fair amount back in the day.''This similar process was possible with the boat we were in. As it went over, the two of us with a background in this sort of thing ended up sitting, still dry, on the upturned bottom of the boat, whilst the boat driver (also not a strong swimmer) and my friend, who had less experience with this sort of thing, got rather more thoroughly dunked.''It was at this point that our only real stroke of luck occurred. The boat had flipped entirely and trapped the buoy underneath it, which meant that it was still floating, and even better, still anchored. The buoy was very neatly jammed in the boat, so that wasn’t going anywhere. Even more excitingly, the boat had lifejackets on board (which, admittedly, none of us had been wearing). I fished some out of the sea and put them on everyone.''Then, the decision of course, what to do. There were no other boats on the island at this point, and even if there were, no-one was likely to notice we hadn’t returned for some time. There was no easy way to flip the boat back over, and even if we had been able to, the outboard motor was unlikely to burst into life after sitting upended in the sea for a while.''There was, really, only one choice. Someone was going to have to swim the couple of kilometres back around the island to get help. It wasn’t going to be the boat man or my friend, who were clearly much happier sitting on the keel of the boat than splooshing around. The island manager and I looked at each other, and figured that we’d have to go for it, sharks or not.''Leaving my friend and the boat driver sitting on the keel, carefully wrapped up in life jackets, we set off. The topic of conversation largely revolved around what sort of swimming action was least likely to attract a large shark. I believe the conclusion was splash free.''After a good period of swimming, which we achieved without being nibbled on by anything other than some seaweed, we made it to shore, and headed to summon help. The nearest boat which we could find that was available to help out was a few hours away, so that was summoned.''Help arranged, I decided that I would walk over to the other side to signal to the shipwreckees that help was on the way. I picked up a soft drink as I walked. On the other side of the island, I attempted to signal that help was coming, whilst supping from my beverage.''The response I got was less than enthusiastic. To this day, in fact, my friend believes that the only reason for my coming over was to point out that I had a chilled beverage and was on dry land, whilst he was bobbing up and down in shark infested waters, getting, as we discovered later, quite seriously sun burnt.''Still. All is well that ends well. Eventually help did turn up, and towed the survivors back to land. The next three days were spent sitting in the bar, me talking about the exciting adventure, my friend quietly dying of sunburn. No further boat trips were undertaken. Until it came time to leave….''SHARE ON''In today’s travel blogging tips interview I’ve been able to grab hold of Cailin O’Neil, the writing and video talent behind no less than three travel blogs covering her life, her travel stories and food. There was me thinking one site was hard enough to run!''Cailin is the first person I’ve interviewed in this series to focus heavily on video as part of her work, and her dream is to have and host her own travel series. A dream that is quickly becoming a reality! Read on to find out more about what motivates Cailin to do what she does, and how she finds time to fit everything in.''Why did you first start writing a travel blog?''After finishing University with a major in Film I started traveling a fair bit and the blog just came naturally, originally as a way to keep friends and family updated back home.''After a few trips I thought to myself why not start making travel videos and my first time filming was in Spain in 2009 with my own camera man who followed me around for a week making the first episode of my own travel TV show and from there''Travel Yourself''was born.''At last count you were running at least three separate sites. What’s that all about?''Sometimes I ask myself that same question 🙂''Travel Yourself''was originally meant to be a travel video specific niche site to create a following for my own travel TV show / webseries.''Cailin Travels''was set up to be a more personal blog about my travels outside of''Travel Yourself''and the newly launched''The Taste Of Travel''was an idea I had over a year ago and finally just put in motion this January.''Food is such a big part of the way I travel and who doesn’t like food? I thought it would be great way to put two of my favourite things together food and travel just like''Travel Yourself''put two of my favourite things together film and travel.''One of your passions is video. What tips do you have for travel bloggers looking to include video on their blogs?''My number one tip is don’t force it. Video isn’t for everyone, if you don’t feel comfortable in front of the camera or can’t afford the proper equipment then maybe it isn’t for you.''My other tips are, 1. Use a tripod as often as possible. 2. Get a good microphone to record your audio. 3. Have good copyright free background music. 4. Have fun with it and make sure your personality shines, don’t be dull and don’t forget to smile.''How do you define success in terms of your blogs?''I think the success that I have had for my sites is far from what others might think success is but honestly as long as you are doing something that makes you happy and you can stick with it and sometimes other people read it too then you are pretty successful in my books.''What are your dreams for your blogs?''I think this might be an obvious answer from some of my previous answers but of course my long term goal is to hopefully (fingers crossed) get my own travel TV series out of this and to essentially get paid to travel the world for the rest of my life.''(Since sending this interview over, Cailin has''announced a partnership''with Ocean Entertainment to bring a new travel series to life. Way to go Cailin!)''Do you follow any metrics in terms of traffic analysis / site ranking, and how important do you think these are?''I check Google Analytics from time to time but I try to not get my head wrapped up in it all. I think they are important if you are wanting to make a business out of this but if you spend too much time worrying about it or putting yourself up against other people you are most likely going to make yourself crazy.''Everything is important for its own reason but try to not make it something you are going to lose sleep over.''Which social networks are you active on, and what tips would you give for success on these?''I use Twitter and Facebook the most and my only tips might be are stay consistent, be yourself, share other peoples posts/links just as much as your share your own and don’t post too much.''What other techniques have you used to improve your traffic, and how successful have these been?''I link to my sites on my videos on''YouTube''and I use StumbleUpon. Also commenting on various other blogs gets your name out there as well.''What sort of time commitment do you put in to your travel blogs on a weekly basis, and how do you manage your time between your various ventures?''This isn’t anything that I have actually thought about to measure. I put as much time into it as it requires to post about 7-8 posts a week amongst the 3 sites combined with more time being put into it when I have a new video being put out.''What have you found to be the hardest thing about running a travel blog, and how do you overcome this?''Often finding time to maintain the sites while traveling. I would much rather want to be out exploring a new place rather then sitting indoors hunched over a computer and sometimes it’s hard to find a nice balance between the two.''As I sit here and write this I am actually in Sydney, Australia but thankfully the weather hasn’t been the greatest so I don’t mind being inside instead of exploring.''If you started your blogs today, what would you differently?''I probably would have kept''Travel Yourself''and''Cailin Travels''as the same site. I also would have started making videos earlier than I have, aside from that I’m not sure what else I might of done differently.''Do your blogs generate any form of income, and if so, how did you achieve this?''I have made a small amount of money from links on one of them but aside from that they are not currently generating income. I am working towards changing that in various different ways through partnerships, sponsorships and more.''If you have questions or problems with your sites, where do you go to find answers?''Two words, Chris Richardson. I’m sure this is the answer many people give to this question. (''It is!)''Chris runs the site''The Aussie Nomad''and is a long time friend of mine that I have travelled with a couple times, once in Copenhagen and more recently to Cardiff, Wales. He actually just recently quit his job and created a website called''RTWLabs''to give technical support to travel blogs.''Travel blogging is becoming more and more popular. How do you differentiate yourself in such a crowded market?''I think I have the benefit that I have been doing this a lot longer than others and would like to think that I have a “known” name in the biz. Aside from that I just keep making videos and doing what I’m doing and try not to worry about things like that. Just being myself will hopefully be enough to keep me different from the others.''And finally, what advice would you give to people running, or thinking about setting up, their own travel or video blog?''Good luck. Hahaha 🙂''Tremendous thanks to Cailin for taking the time to answer my questions! You can find Cailin at her above linked blogs, as well as on Twitter as''@TravelYourself'',''@Cailinoneil''and''@tasteoftravel''or over on facebook at''The Taste of Travel''and''Travel Yourself''! Get following!''SHARE ON''When I arrive in a new city, I have a bit of a thing for finding the highest point around. This is for two reasons: first, because I like a good view, and second, in an attempt to orientate myself.''The orientation part only vaguely helped on my recent trip to Barcelona. The city is seriously maze like, particularly the old pedestriansed parts of the city centre. However, since wandering around maze like alleys getting lost is another thing I enjoy about a city, that wasn’t really a terrible issue.''If you’re heading to Barcelona, and like me have a tendency to head for the high points of a city like a fly that’s been''taken over by a brain controlling fungus'', here’s a quick run down of my four favourite places to get a great view of the city for free!''Parc Güell''I have''mentioned the influence''that Gaudí has had on Barcelona''already''. Parc Güell is one of the highlights of his legacy, and a UNESCO world heritage site to boot. It has incredible features, from raised balconies, to enormous sculptures, to weird and wacky houses.''What it also has is one of the finest views of Barcelona, available from a number of locations in the park. The most popular is up by the cross above the main entrance, but you’ll be able to get a fabulous view from pretty much everywhere in the park, what with it being up on a hill, without fighting for the perfect spot to take a photo.''If you go to Barcelona, you will visit Parc Güell. You may as well enjoy the view whilst you’re there!''Castell de Montjuic''If you have a convenient hill with a cliff situated next to a large harbour, it makes sense to build a nice big castle on top of it complete with guns to guard said harbour.''Montjuic Hill, rising to just over 180 metres above Barcelona harbour, is just such a hill, and features a rather splendid bit of fortification at the top, complete with rather large bits of defunct weaponry.''From here you are able to get a commanding view across the city of Barcelona as well as the harbour. The reverse view, in fact, that you can see from the photo taken from Parc Güell above.''You can also explore the Castle for free, although it isn’t really a castle so much as a large pile of walls designed to keep people safe, coupled with incredible views.''As an historical aside, Castell de Montjuic was also the place that the calculations that defined the measurement of the metre took place. In case you weren’t already aware, a metre is defined as being one ten millionth of the distance between the north pole and the equator. Which seems a marginally less arbitrary measure than the length of some blokes foot. A great view and a bit of metric history. What a combination!''Tibidabo''As you wander around the city of Barcelona and explore the other high bits that I’ve mentioned here, you will notice in the distance a large hill with a big church sitting on the top.''This is Tibidabo, the largest hill that looks over Barcelona, rising to a rather impressive half a kilometre above sea level.''Perched atop this hill are all kinds of things, including the Temple de Sagrat Cor, an amusement park, and an absolutely enormous telecommunications tower. You can go up the latter for even more staggering views, but that’s not free.''Getting to the top of the Tibidabo can be achieved on foot, making it free, but if you’re short on time, or not feeling up to it, you can drive, take the bus, or hop on the funicular railway. You can see the communications tower and church in the next photo which is taken from the:''Roof of Las Arenas''We stumbled across this location quite by accident when heading to Barcelona’s Magic Fountain. A city with a magic fountain! What’s not to love? Anyway, Las Arenas is a large circular shopping mall just near the Magic Fountain.''This probably doesn’t sound too exciting, until you realise that it has been transformed from what was once Barcelona’s famous bull fighting stadium, also known as Las Arenas.''When bull fighting fell out of favour in this corner of Spain, the building became somewhat derelict, until its recent revival as a shopping mall.''Its entire roof is a circular promenade, upon which you can wander to your hearts content, gazing across such sights as Montjuic Hill, the Magic Fountain, the nearby Parc Joan Miro and the wonderful skyline of Barcelona. Not bad for free!''Have you been to Barcelona? Any other places you’d recommend for a great view? Do let me know in the comments below!''SHARE ON''One of the best ways to get to see the real Greece is to explore it by bike – and Greece is one of the best cycling countries in Europe with many different routes to choose from.''Cycling the Cyclade Islands''The Cyclade Islands are a group of 30 islands which offer the best of what Greece is all about. Throughout the islands you will discover some traditional villages and a way of life which has not changed too much over the decades.''Cycling through the islands will allow you plenty of opportunities to get that perfect photo of white-washed towns and blue seas that pop into most people’s minds when Greece is mentioned in conversation.''Many of the towns’ buildings have distinctive blue shutters on the windows which really give off a unique feel and are certainly aesthetically pleasing. Be warned however that the islands are in places hilly, so there will be uphill cycling involved, although these can always be avoided if you prefer a gentle ride to a hardcore cycling session!''Discover the Mythical Ionian Islands''Greece is perhaps as famous for its mythical tales as it is for its attractions, and if Greek myths and legends interest you, you may want to consider a holiday in Greece which incorporate cycling the Ionian Islands.''These islands are located off the west coast of Greece, and each has something a little different to offer.''Hellas for example is green and vibrant whilst Corfu has many undiscovered corners which have managed to avoid the downsides of mass tourism. The island of Ithaca is said to have been the home of Odysseus and is a must for all you myth buffs.''One common recurring theme that runs through these islands though is the food – the diet on these islands is said to be one of the healthiest in the world, so if you combine the food with all the exercise you’ll be doing on your bike, you could come back home healthier than you were before you left!''Mountainous Crete''If you like to cycle rough terrain whilst having plenty of opportunities to take in some fantastic views, explore some of the best beaches and relax in laid back fishing villages, consider a cycling holiday to Crete.''The island is famously mountainous so you also have the option to take on some challenging peaks, with Mountain Gingilos, which stands at 2080 metres, being a particular challenge. The island is full to the brim with ancient sites from Hellenistic, Roman, and Byzantine eras, so a popular thing to do is identify the sites which interest you and find the best route to explore them all!''Thanks to Ricky of Beat the Brochure for today’s post! Have you been to Greece? If you’ve got any tips to share, do hit up the comments below!''Today’s photos were sources from flickr users:''Wolfgang Staudt'',''eflon'',''SHARE ON''Today, I’m going to do one of my rare''technology''themed posts. I’m writing about what I’d like to see from my technology in the coming years. Don’t worry. I’ll be back to talking about the rest of the world’s awesomeness soon enough.''I’m not one to complain. I already have the equivalent of a 1970’s supercomputer available to me in my pocket (there’s a joke there somewhere), with a great percentage of the worlds knowledge available a mere few screen taps away.''I can call friends around the world for free, with video. I can control my bank accounts, book flights, find my way, get restaurant recommendations, look up the weather, and learn how to build a fire with nothing but a bucket of water.''Ok, that last one I made up. Hopefully my point is made. We live in an incredible time. But there’s nothing wrong with a bit of dreaming. So. If I was in charge of a giant tech company, with billions of dollars sitting around, wondering how to make a travellers life easier, this is the sort of thing I might be thinking of doing. As well as driverless cars that is. And clean drinking water and free healthcare for all. You know, the little things…''Near-instant wireless charging''When travelling, you can’t escape the need to take some devices with you. Be they cameras, phones, laptops, e-readers or music players (or one device that does all of the above properly, come on world… let’s get moving on this convergence thing!), they all have the same thing in common, a requirement for power.''One thing that doesn’t appear to have kept up with the pace of technological change is the humble battery.''Firstly, there is no universally accepted charging solution, which means taking a mass of wires with you when you travel. Second, devices take time to charge. Promises of “fast charge” batteries have been around for a while, but as yet not delivered.''The future, therefore, should fix both of these complaints. First, I want to be able to charge my devices wirelessly. This''technology exists'', but it’s not exactly a common standard as yet, plus it’s darn slow. I want charging to happen very quickly, ideally in less than a minute.''I hope for a future where power charging pads are like vending machines, available all over the place. You take your fading device, pop a credit in the unit, hold your device against the charge pad, and moments later, you are ready to rock, all charged up. With a charge that lasts more than a day. Can’t be that hard. Right?''Real-time translation''Communication is important. It would be so nice to have a''little yellow fish I pop in my ear''that automatically translated everything I heard, but that’s somewhat unlikely to happen. What is more likely, is that a smartphone app evolves to let this happen.''Currently,''Google translate''works to a point. And''Microsoft''are working on this one too. Both options currently require a connection to the internet, which isn’t generally available in all the places you want to translate things. (That is another point, but I’m ok if the technology folks roll out clean drinking water for all before free internet for all.)''Of all my future dreams, I think this one may come true first. Then I’ll be able to order beer everywhere I go, and even understand how much I’m supposed to pay for it! Hurrah!''A single universally accepted payment option''In every science fiction novel ever, there is a universally accepted payment option, usually known as a credit. A single world currency would be a utopian solution, but even just one form of payment that is accepted everywhere would be nice.''And yes, I’d like it to be something electronic too. Because nice though sacks of beans or''gigantic triangular rubber coins''are, they do have some impracticalities when it comes to ease of packing. Google Credits. Apple iCredits. I can almost taste their electronic goodness.''Electronic paperwork''One thing you can’t escape when travelling is the need for documentation. A passport is the most important bit of paperwork, but you probably also carry all kinds of other bits of paper with you. From insurance receipts to booking confirmations to other forms of ID, it all adds up.''I’d like all this to be replaced by something less tangible. Various attempts at biometric ID have come and gone. For a while you could sign up to enter and leave the UK''using a retinal scanner''. The future was here!''Sadly, technology revolutions don’t seem to happen entirely overnight. Or for free. That system is being canned, presumably because passports are still what everyone in the world uses. So whilst my passport has a chip in it, and is terribly Passport 2.0 in that sense, I’d really like to not have it at all. Because if I lose it, for some reason I am no longer me to the border authorities. Which just seems wrong. So yes. I want to be my own document. Surely there is some part of me unique enough that I can be identified by it…''Virtual addresses''When you travel long term, not having an address or permanent base can start to become a serious hindrance. The world does not seem to be entirely set up for people who don’t have some form of postal address. The common solution is to use a friends address… or that classic fallback, a parents address. (Also useful for long term storage of all those things you couldn’t bring yourself to throw away.)''This does seem rather ridiculous though, as you’re not actually living there. It’s a loophole in a flawed system. If only there was some way to have an address that large institutions actually recognised as being linked to you, without the need for actual bricks and mortar. Like.. an electronic mail address, to which “electronic” versions of documents could be sent. It could be called.. “e”mail. Patent pending on that one folks.''Well, that’s what I’m hoping the not too far off future may hold from a travellers technology viewpoint. As well as flying cars of course. And teleporters. And space flight.''Got a wish for some future technology that would make your travels or life easier? Do share below!''SHARE ON''Today’s featured post was provided by James, representing skyscanner.net. I’ll be the first to admit I wasn’t entirely au fait with Thailand’s Contemporary Art scene, so thought you might find this post as interesting as I did! Enjoy!''First-time and returning visitors to Thailand alike can’t help but be drawn to the stunning works of ancient art found in temples like Wat Phra Kaew and museums such as the National Gallery of Thailand or Prasart Museum.''Yet there is a thriving contemporary artistic community in Bangkok and beyond that is also worth exploring. Whether you are interested in investing in a piece to take home or simply want to hobnob with Bangkok’s bohemians, there’s bound to be a gallery for you.''Notable Artists''Thailand is still a deeply traditional country, and cultural traditions as well as the influence of Buddhism are seen in the work of many current artists. The artwork of Kamin Lertchaiprasert is reflective of this, with his meditative, almost surrealist photographs and prints. Chusak Srikwan is an artist attempting to bridge the gap between traditional Thai arts and contemporary fine art, with his emphasis on playful shadow puppetry used in whimsical installations.''For an interactive take on modern Thai society and commerce, Surasi Kusolwong is a multimedia installation and performance artist who has replicated a typical kitschy marketplace in various locations around the world, including London’s Tate Modern.''Galleries and Museums in Bangkok''Bangkok’s art scene is still somewhat disjointed compared to other cities, with many galleries being far-flung or touristy. The city’s universities are always a good place to start looking at new artists, with art schools throwing exhibitions. Bangkok University has its own on-site art gallery with rotating works by current students.''If you’ve come to Bangkok seeking works from more established artists, you may want to start by visiting the Bangkok Art and Culture Centre, which opened its doors in 2008. It features several floors of galleries, as well as a film and music program. Lectures by local and international artists take place on a regular basis here.''The Bangkok Art Map is a free guide published monthly offering a roundup of what’s happening in the city’s galleries. This is distributed throughout the city’s cafes, hotels, and museums, although you can also check the listings online. You can find 9 art galleries housed inside of the Silom Galleria, along with antiques and jewellery traders.''There are several more located on Silom Road, making this a prime location for a one-stop art shop. Sathorn Road is another centre for art galleries, with the H Gallery being one of the most prominent in this area. Gallery Ver is run by a local conceptual artist, Rirkrit Tiravanija, and is known for staging interactive and thought-provoking installations.''Further Afield''Thailand’s art scene is not confined to Bangkok by any means. While you are exploring the countryside, you may stumble across artisans of all types, including painters, sculptors, and video artists. There are also galleries worth exploring in cities such as Phuket.''The Bodega is a café and hotel with local art for sale, while the D Gallery showcases art from Thai artists as well as other fresh talent from across Southeast Asia.''Chiang Mai also has a lively art community. The centrally located Chiang Mai City Arts and Cultural Centre gives a rundown of art from ancient times up until today, and the Chiang Mai University Art Museum exhibits work from students as well as visiting contemporary artists.''Thanks to James for providing today’s post. At the time of this posts publication I hadn’t been to Thailand so the photos within were all sourced from flickr user''MikeBehnken'', under a creative commons license.''SHARE ON''Gaudí''. It’s kind of hard to visit Barcelona without spending your time gaping in awe at the architectural and artistic genius that he left behind all over the city.''A great deal of my week in Barcelona was therefore spent, gaping in awe, at his many truly incredible constructions. As well as gaping, I was also taking the odd photograph, which I’m sharing with you today. I wasn’t able to visit every bit of work he did, but I’d like to think that I took in the serious highlights.''In a future post I’ll be going more into the details of what to see and do in Barcelona. For now though, less detail:''more eye candy.''Lets start with…''The Sagrada Familia.''We might as well start at the top. The Sagrada Familia is Gaudí’s masterpiece, the building that obsessed him in the later years of his life, and which is still under construction. It’s an ever evolving masterpiece, an easily visible part of the Barcelona skyline, and one of the most incredible buildings I’ve ever visited. You cannot go to Barcelona without visiting it.''Parc Güell''Parc Güell was Gaudí’s attempt at creating a garden city development. I say attempt, because of the 60 buildings planned, only two were built, neither of which was actually designed by the man himself.''Instead, Gaudí spent his time focusing on the little details, like the enormous terrace. Gaudí also lived in the Parc for 20 years. These days, the garden is open to all, and is well worth the visit.''Casa Batlló''Casa Batlló, also known as the House of Bones, is one of the finer examples of a town house designed and built by Gaudí for a rich Catalan family. It is most well known for it’s striking exterior wall, made up of balconies which to my mind looked rather like the masks one would wear at a ball. Should one be invited to a masked ball that is.''My favourite bit of the house was up on the roof, where what appeared to be the spine of a dragon was laid out as the roofline. I’m not sure it was a dragon, but given''Barcelona’s close connection to St. George'', I have hope.''Casa Mila, also known as La Pedrera''Not far from Casa Battlo is Gaudi’s other famous Barcelonian town house, the Casa Mila, which is known by pretty much everyone as La Pedrera, which translates as the Quarry. The locals at the time not being entirely enamoured of Gaudi’s style choice with the building.''As with the Casa Battlo, this was built for a wealthy family, and broke pretty much every planning rule in the book when it was put up. The price of great art in this case coming with plenty of building regulation fines, and rather irate owners.''Cascada in Parc de la Ciutadella''This fountain, in the pretty Parc de la Ciutadella, near Barcelona’s parliament building, was mostly erected by Josep Fontsere. It is understood that Gaudí did work on it, during his early student years. It’s nowhere near as organic as some of his later works, but is still a great looking bit of building! When we visited, it wasn’t in operation, and had a wonderful air of decay going on.''So there you have it. Five of my favourite bits of Gaudí work in photos. Obviously Gaudí left behind more than these pieces, and Barcelona is just stuffed with incredible architecture from people other than this great man. But for sheer madness, it’s hard to beat what he got up to! Let me know what you think of the photos, of Barcelona, or of life in general, in the comments below!''Also… don’t forget to check out my site’s''facebook page'', where I share lots more of my photos!''SHARE ON''I’ve just spent a week visiting Barcelona. I’d like to say that I did a whole bunch of research before setting off, but to be honest, I’m not that great at research. For example, I managed to get through an entire University degree without stepping inside a University library.''This is my third post on Angoulême! Who would have thought one French town could hold so much appeal? Admittedly, Angoulême cheated slightly, by seducing me with awesome street art. That’s a good way for any city to get my attention, and more than one post. See''Berlin’s street art''for example.''So I have now thoroughly covered the paintings on the walls of Angouleme in''this post''and''this post''.''There is, I am pleased to tell you, more to Angouleme than''just''great street art. Although, if you ask me, that’s enough to make a city worth a visit anyway.''Angoulême is the capital of France’s Charente department, in the Poitou-Charentes region. Charente is also notable for being home to the town of Cognac, for the drinkers amongst you.''The Charente department is named for the river Charente, above which the main centre of the town of Angoulême perches. The rocky outcrop upon which the old town sits was, back in the day, splendidly defendable, and this is a town which has seen its fair share of sieges and plunders, with a history of invasions dating back to the 5th century.''These days the fortifications that surrounded the old town have been turned into boulevards which sit upon the old city walls, and afford the visitor a rather jolly set of views across the valley surrounding. A valley which is, admittedly, rather full of industry, but still. The thought is there.''The old centre of Angoulême is rather more interesting than its surrounding industrial area, being home as it is to a fine pedestrianised and cobbled town centre, which is just stuffed full of restaurants and quirky little streets to explore.''It also has its fair share of interesting looking buildings, including a fine cathedral (as seen in the photo above), and the “hotel de Ville” (first photo), which incorporates into its design the old chateau of Angoulême.''Angoulême is a very vibrant town, made so perhaps by its large student population. There is a really positive buzz in the city centre, with lots of people wandering and plenty to see down the twisty alleys.''When wandering, if you’re in the mood, there are a number of museums that could while away a rainy afternoon. These include the Fine Arts and Archaeology Museums, as well as the Paper Museum and Comic Book Museum. The latter sounding more interesting to me, although to be honest, museums have to be pretty damn amazing (or featuring Dali) to get me excited.''If you’re like me, and wandering aimlessly peering at street art or sculptures is more your thing, then you should swing into the tourist office and pick up the map of the notable street art in Angouleme, which will guide you past the main highlights.''If you’re more into formalised art with a side of greenery, then there is a lovely park under the ramparts to the west of the city, which features sculptures and fountains. A nice way to round off a bit of exploration.''Finally, Angoulême is also notable for its events and festivals. As well as the yearly international comic book festival, held every January, there is a classic car race which takes place around the roads of Angoulême , held every September since 1939. There are also music, food and animation festivals. Something to suit every taste!''If you’re in the area, I can really recommend taking a bit of time out to explore Angoulême. It’s a fascinating town with loads to see and do, and no shortage of excellent restaurants to fill up on fine French food!''As always, I’d love your feedback on this post! Is Angoulême somewhere you’ve been, or somewhere you’d want to visit? Never heard of it before now? Hit up the comments below, and let me know!''SHARE ON''Venice is without doubt one of our favourite cities in Europe, and when we came to choose somewhere to hold a small wedding ceremony for our wedding, Venice was our pick. If you’re visiting Venice for one day, as is often the way, you might be wondering what you should do. Well, in this post, I’m going to tell you everything you should do with one day in Venice.''Venice is a city that just''captures my imagination''in a way that few other cities are capable of. It’s a maze of tiny streets, a collection of islands linked by bridges and waterways, and the whole thing is possibly going to sink one day. There is art, music, architecture and food.''Most importantly of all, perhaps,''the whole place is pedestrianized'', what with there being no roads capable of fitting a car on. Seriously awesome for someone who loves to get to know a place by foot, like me.''So. When you’re in Venice for a day – what should you do? Here’s the answer.''1 Day in Venice''1. Visit St. Mark’s Square''St. Mark’s square, or Piazza San Marco, is an absolute must for any visit to Venice, and the starting point of our one day Venice itinerary.''Oone of my most enduring travel memories is having the whole square to myself during an immense thunderstorm, when everyone (including the pigeons!) scurried for cover, and I didn’t. I ended up somewhat wet, but happy. It’s also where we held our impromptu wedding ceremony with friends and family. Suffice to say, a special place for both of us.''The Square is home to a number of sights that are worth taking some time to look at. First, I’d highly recommend getting your legs into shape with''a quick scoot up the Campanile di San Marco''– the large bell tower at the corner of the square.''This will afford you with quite splendid views across Venice, and the surrounding lagoon and islands. The orientation probably won’t save you from getting hopelessly lost down the many back streets, but it’s great for taking some panoramic photos all the same.''Back down at ground level, you’ll want to take in the''Basilica di San Marco.''This is one of the most famous churches in Venice, and it’s also handily free, which is a rarity in this town.''Around the Piazza there are also a great number of museums and other churches. Entry to these is not normally free, although you can save money by buying a ticket that gets you access to multiple venues, if that is your thing.''Otherwise, the square is also home to a number of cafes, many of which have''live orchestral music''. You’ll pay handsomely for the privilege, but sitting in this square listening to classic music and enjoying a cup of fine Italian coffee is an experience that everyone should have at least once in their life. Apologise to your wallet later!''2. Explore the innumerable back streets''Venice has a lot going for it, with''churches, museums and incredible bits of architecture''literally jumping out at you on every corner.''The other thing that Venice has is a lot of people. The funny thing though, is that most visitors seem to stick to the main street that takes you on a big loop past all the main highlights.''If you duck off the main streets, as I usually do, you will find yourself in a maze of back alleys. I’d advise abandoning the map and just giving up on trying to maintain any sense of direction – just wander freely and lost. Venice is, after all, an island, and you won’t be lost forever.''You will, however, be rewarded with a side of Venice that is often overlooked and far less busy than the main thoroughfares. And then you will realise why Venice is my favourite city in Europe.''3. Head out to the other islands''The most well known part of Venice is the central area made up 118 islands. But there are more parts of Venice that are worth a visit.''The four islands of Burano''are well worth a visit, a fact that is corroborated with wonderful pictures by Ayngelina of Bacon is Magic on her''blog post on Burano.''There are many more islands, including Murano and Torcello. My point is – don’t forget that Venice extends beyond the central area that you will first come upon, and has plenty of opportunities for exploring! Don’t be afraid to jump on a boat and get out there… which brings me to my next point…''4. Take a Gondola Ride''Now then. Venice is a city of waterways, and no visit to Venice is really complete without''a trip on some form of water borne transportation.''If you’re travelling with your significant other, and your idea of heaven is a''gentle meander down the back waterways''of Venice, just the two of you, luxuriating on some pillows while a muscle bound man serenades you.. well.. you’ll sure be able to find an experience approximating that.''Although, as with the coffee in St. Mark’s Square, it’s an experience you best keep secret from your savings account.''If you’re not overly romantic, and you just want to''experience Venice from the water'', singing be damned, then you have no shortage of options. If your heart is set on a gondola, then you can take a gondola taxi from one side of the river to the other. It’ll be over quickly, but as least you can tick the gondola box.''Alternatively, there are water taxis, water buses, and''water sight seeing tours''. Take everything you would normally find on a road, imagine it on the water, and you will find it in Venice. Whichever one you do, you’ll be sure to enjoy it!''When to go to Venice and other practicalities''Venice gets very warm (and very crowded!) in the summer months, although you can escape the crowds by hitting the back streets. My preferred time to visit would be the quieter shoulder months, when it is a little cooler and likely to be less busy. Although this is a tourist town, so don’t expect to be on your own whichever time of year you choose to visit.''If you want to visit the churches, remember that it’s common practice for there to be a dress code, which usually means no short skirts or bare shoulders. You don’t want to be turned away after queuing for a long time, so make sure you are dressed appropriately!''Where to Stay in Venice''Finding the best deal on your accommodation is an important part of trip planning – helping you to''get the most from your budget,''as well as''find the property that is right for you.''Our''favourite way''to find the''best deals on accommodation''is booking.com. They’re easy to use, usually have the best prices, and have everything from hotels to apartments.''Try them for Venice and see!''Alternatively, if you prefer an apartment or more of a hosted stay, then I recommend''AirBnB''. I’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get up to''a $100 discount''on your first booking with''this link!''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''So – have I sold you on Venice? Do you think it belongs up there as my favourite European city? Or are you firmly entrenched in the camp of people who believe that it’s a tacky, overpriced, overflowing tourist trap that just smells awful in summer? Hit up the comments below and let me know!''SHARE ON''In''my previous post''I shared with you the rather fabulous trompe l’oeil that can be found on one of the walls in Angoulême’s old town centre, where two chaps do their best to break into reality.''Today’s post is about some of the rest of the street art that Vera and I found and photographed as we wandered around the lovely old town of Angoulême on a recent trip. Enjoy!''So what do you think? Does Angouleme have sufficient street art to tempt you.. or do you need more from a city than just pretty paintings on the walls?''Let me know in the comments, and keep an eye out for the next post in my Angoulême trilogy, where I’ll be sharing my thoughts on the other attractions!''SHARE ON''The town of''Angoulême'', capital of France’s Charente department, is notable for many things. It boasts''an impressive location'', high up on a rocky outcrop overlooking the Charente river. It has a rather fabulous''collection of old buildings'', from churches to castle ruins. And it has a''wonderful old town''that is just ripe for exploration.''And I’m going to save all that for another post, because over the next couple of posts I just want to share with you the other thing that Angoulême is famous for, that being it’s yearly''international comic festival.''This has resulted in the walls of Angoulême being coated in a myriad of wonderful street art, from small pieces through to huge trompe l’oeils, or eye deceivers.''The first part of this two part series focuses on six images which take up a whole section of the street wall. Which, despite appearances, is''entirely flat''. Enjoy!''Escaping reality''Shout if you need a translation! Keep an eye out for the next couple of posts on Angouleme, which will cover the remainder of the street art.. and then some thoughts on the city itself.''SHARE ON''I was recently asked for my recommendations for a two week UK itinerary, starting in London, and using a rental car as the transportation method. Further interests included castles, haunted things, and long walks on the beach (ok, I made the last one up).''This sounded like the sort of challenge I could get my teeth into. I have, after all, spent a great deal of time living in the UK. Putting together my perfect two week UK trip in itinerary form should be no problem at all.''With that in mind, I have put together a UK itinerary (which also includes Ireland) that covers England, Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales. It’s a self-drive road-trip, although could also be modified to support travel by public transport if you prefer. If you haven’t driven in the UK before, do check out my''guide to driving in the UK''for helpful tips. We also have a guide to''how much it costs to travel in the UK''if you need budget planning help.''Without further ado, allow me to present:''My perfect two week UK itinerary''1.''London''– 2 Days''The''UK’s capital''is one of my favourite cities in the world. It’s been hanging around for over 2000 years on the banks of the Thames, and there is just an incredible wealth of things to see, from historical sights, to amazing museums, to crazy street markets.''It’s a wonderfully walk-able capital, and you can easily take in the major central sights in a day or so, leaving you the second day to explore museums, art galleries, or go a little further afield and take in some of the other sights, from crumbling cemeteries to massive parks. And if all else fails, you will never be short on an incredible pub to while away some time before heading on.''My advice for London is to''invest in an Oyster card''to save money on your transport (don’t hire a car until you leave the capital – and''check here for great rates on car hire''), and if you think you’re going to use it, look into''buying a London Pass''to save money on London’s top attractions.''Available in 1, 3 and 6 day versions, as well as a version with an included Oyster card, the savings can really be quite impressive if you plan on visiting a few locations. You can read a full break down on when the''London Pass is worth buying here'', and buy one yourself''here''.''Finally, London is probably going to be the most expensive city in the UK for your accommodation. We recommend booking well in advance to get a good deal – check out''London hotel listings on booking.com here''.''2. Oxford & the Cotswolds – 2 Days''One of the stipulations of the original question was the wish to avoid feeling too much like a tourist. Unfortunately, this is nearly impossible in''Oxford'', as nearly everyone there is either a tourist or a student. I lived in and around Oxford for a number of years, and generally felt like a tourist most of that time too.''Part of the reason for that is that this tiny city is absolutely jam packed with incredible buildings, largely in the form of the Oxford Colleges. These are seriously wealthy establishments, who clearly had no problem flaunting that wealth in an architectural fashion back in the day.''This means that yes, it is full of people wandering around, mouths agape, at quite how pretty the whole thing is. Yes, it’s jam packed with tourists. But for good reason! So strap that camera on and snap away. Then go for a punt on the river, and enjoy some Pimms or a cream tea. Read more tips for''spending a day in Oxford, here''.''From Oxford you are also well located to take in the incredibly picturesque''Cotswolds area''– all quaint villages and rolling countryside. The England that everyone imagines England to be like, with country pubs, village greens and cricket ovals. Lovely stuff. Check out hotel prices for''Oxford here''.''3. Peak District and Manchester – 2 Days''From''Oxford''I’m going to suggest heading “up north”, towards the Peak District national park. Think rolling hills, quaint villages, and beautiful walks. There are also some fabulous''stately homes to visit'', not to mention that on the way from Oxford you can stop off at''Warwick Castle''– one of the UK’s best preserved castles.''Part of the request I was posed asked about the yarn industry in the UK – and Manchester is certainly no stranger to the fibre industry – in the 19th century she earned the nickname Cottonopolis. Plenty here for the yarn enthusiast in you.''Of course, if fibre isn’t your thing there are plenty of other reasons to visit Manchester, including excellent retail therapy and a variety of architectural highlights. Not to mention the music scene! See hotel prices for''Manchester here''.''4. York – 1 Day''Not that far from Manchester (England is so quaintly explorable!), the city of York is another of my favourite UK cities. From the incredible Gothic''York Minster''(a climb to the top is highly recommended) to the winding, tumbled down alleyways of the shambles, to the Viking history – this is a city that just cries out for exploration.''It’s also an awesome place if you’re into ghost stories. There are a whole number of ghost walks that take in the spooky past of York, so if you want an evening of entertainment and intrigue, likely accompanied with a number of fine drinking establishments, an evening ghost walk is a great bit of fun.''I’m not a great believer in this sort of thing usually, but I took a tour and thoroughly enjoyed it! Check out''York hotel prices here''.''5. Edinburgh via Northumberland – 2 Days''From York we’re going to wave farewell to England, and head up to''Scotland’s capital city, Edinburgh''. On the way though, you’ll be passing through some of England’s least travelled, yet stunningly beautiful, landscapes.''I am of course talking about Northumbria. From miles of deserted beach, to crumbling castles, to the Roman equivalent of the great wall of China, Northumbria really has a lot to offer someone looking for a slightly off the beaten track England experience. The rolling landscapes are breath-taking and you’ll find yourself alone much of the time. Worth taking a bit of time to explore, in my opinion.''Then of course, it’s up to''Edinburgh'', where you’ll not be short of amazing things to look at. From Edinburgh castle, to Arthurs Seat, from fine whiskeys, to Princes Street, there really is enough here for a number of days of entertainment. And if you visit during the Fringe festival… well… plan on being entertained for a good many weeks!''See more ideas on spending some time in Edinburgh in this''detailed two day Edinburgh itinerary''that I put together, and''check and book your Edinburgh hotels here.''6. An Irish adventure! – 3 Days''Because the UK is an easily explorable place with decent roads and relatively short distances to drive, it is totally possible to include another country – Ireland! – in a trip like this if you’re up for it.''Do be aware that if you are renting a car, some car rental companies have restrictions on taking cars on ferries, or into other countries – so make sure you check before you go as there may be an additional fee to pay.''Of course, you could also fly to Ireland (Edinburgh to Belfast or Dublin for example), and use different rentals for different parts of your adventure!''If all that sounds like too much hard work, you could extend your time in Scotland, or alternatively, you could take in the west coast of the UK, including''Glasgow'', the Lake District, and Liverpool, as well as popping into Wales for the stunning Snowdonia national park, and rejoin this itinerary in South Wales or''Bristol''. The choice is yours!''If it is Ireland you want though, it’s a short ferry ride from Scotland (Cairnryan to be precise, 2-3 hours drive from Edinburgh) across to Belfast, from where you can spend a few days exploring the Emerald Isle.''I’ve''explored Dublin''and her surroundings, taken a trip down to the''Dingle Peninsula'', kissed the Blarney Stone at Blarney Castle, gazed at the''Cliffs of Moher'', and had a few''more Irish Experiences''besides – enough to know that this is a wonderful country for exploring. There’s''the Guinness Factory'', of course, as a main highlight, but also oodles of Gaelic history and culture to get excited about. We’d recommend basing yourself in Dublin – check out''Dublin hotel prices here''.''There are also of course the Irish people, well known for their love of a good time! Personally, I’d head on down the coast from Belfast, through Dublin and down to the port of Rosslare, where after three exciting days in Ireland another ferry service will whisk you across to the last of the four countries to make up the UK: Wales!''7. South Wales and Cardiff – 1 Day''In Wales you will arrive either at Fishguard or Pembroke – both excellent places to explore the''Pembrokeshire Coast national park''. Here you will find beautiful beaches, rugged cliffs, and fabulous opportunities for walking.''You’re also not too far a drive from Cardiff, the Welsh capital. Four capitals in a fortnight – not bad going! Here you’ll find castles, sporting venues and more Welsh based culture than you can shake a stick at. Plus, arrive at the right time of year and you’ll find the Great British Cheese festival in full swing. What’s not to be excited about? Find and book your''Cardiff hotels here''.''8. Bristol & Bath – 1 Day''From Cardiff you’ll cross the enormous Severn estuary over the impress Severn road bridge and be back in the UK, or''Bristol''to be precise. Here you’ll find all sorts of interesting items of historical interest, largely running on a nautical theme, as well as some of the''best street art in Britain''.''For over a thousand years Bristol has been an important English port. From early explorers and traders, to the dark years of the African slave vessels, to filling Australia with immigrants, it is hard to understate the role that Bristol has played in Britain’s sea faring history. There is, after all, a reason for the expression “ship-shape and Bristol fashion” having a place in the English language.''I can highly recommend''taking a trip round the SS Great Britain''when you’re in Bristol. Built in 1843, and designed by the engineering genius who was''Isambard Kingdom Brunel''– the man who almost single-handedly revolutionised both engineering and public transport in the UK.''The SS Great Britain is notable as being the first steamer to cross the Atlantic – setting a record pace for the time of 14 days. An amazing bit of history. For more ideas in Bristol, check out our guide to''things to do in Bristol'', which should give you plenty of ideas to fill your time. Find the best prices on''Bristol hotels and book here''.''From Bristol it’s on to the Roman spa city of Bath, a world heritage site. Like''Oxford'', this is a difficult place to be anything other than a tourist, but it is so worth it all the same!''9. Back to London, via Stonehenge! – 1 Day''Our last day of our just over two week whistle stop tour of the UK takes us back to London. No trip to the UK though would really be complete without taking in perhaps our most famous monument – the circle of rocks known as Stonehenge.''There is just something about the place that makes you wonder. A circle of rocks, built by a people who had nothing but their hands and some bits of wood to help them out, in the middle of the Wiltshire countryside, hundreds of miles from an actual quarry, is just mind blowing.''Add in the pagan ritualism, the relationship between the rocks and the sun, and the sheer mystery of the place, and you have somewhere that is capable of really capturing the imagination. Worth your time to visit (see more thoughts from''a trip to Stonehenge here'').''Plus, while you’re there you can pop into Salisbury and enjoy the cathedral, which boasts the highest cathedral spire of any church in the UK.''And then… back to London, where this tour finishes!''2 Weeks in the UK: Road Trip Map''Here’s''a map of the route'', for your reference.''When to Visit the UK''You can visit the UK at any time of year, although for the best weather and longer daylight hours, we’d definitely suggest visiting in the warmer months – from May to September. May is probably our favourite time of year, the weather is usually quite reasonable but the tourist crowds are not too intense.''Christmas, and the period leading up to Christmas, can also be a wonderful time to visit, when the streets and shops are all brightly lit and decorated for the festive season. For a good example of this, check out our''guide to visiting Edinburgh at Christmas''.''Where to Stay in the UK:''For''accommodation'', there are a great many options to choose from, ranging from cosy B&B’s through to upmarket hotels, and everything in between. Finding the best deal on your accommodation is an important part of trip planning – helping you to''get the most from your budget,''as well as''find the property that is right for you.''We’ve tried a lot of booking sites, and nearly always find ourselves using Booking.com. They have an extensive selection of properties, many with no-fee cancellation policies, and often run discounts and special offers. Click on each city title to see their listings:''London'',''Oxford'',''Manchester'',''York'',''Edinburgh'',''Dublin'',''Cardiff''and''Bristol''.''If you prefer an apartment or more of a hosted stay, then I recommend''AirBnB''. I’ve tried all the others, and''AirBnB''consistently has the most options for locations around the world. Plus, if you’ve never used them before, you’ll get up to''a $100 discount''on your first booking with''this link!''If you can’t find what you want on AirBnB, or you want some new options to try out, we have some alternatives we also use. We suggest trying''VRBO'',''Flipkey''or''HomeAway''to start with. For even more ideas to help you save money and get the best choice, we wrote a whole post on the''best alternatives to AirBnB''which you should check out!''Between these options, you should find the best prices and places to stay for your trip, as well as a good selection of reviews and feedback to help you make an informed decision.''How to Get Around the UK''For this kind of trip I also obviously recommend that you look into''renting a car''. We have used and can recommend''Enterprise Car Rental'', they usually have great rates, especially for one way rentals.''A hire car will give you a lot more flexibility than public transport, and prices are generally fairly reasonable. However, if you would prefer to do a trip like this by public transport instead of driving yourself, check out our''UK itinerary by public transport''for ideas.''Further reading for your UK Trip''We’ve got lots of resources to help you plan your trip to the UK, from posts we’ve written ourselves to third party content we’re happy to recommend. Here it is:''If you want a shorter trip, taking in some more off the beaten path destinations, check out this''one week itinerary of the UK''that I put together. If you’d prefer not to drive yourself, we also have a''10 day UK itinerary by public transport''.''To prepare for your trip to the UK, we’ve put together a''detailed UK packing list''which covers both London and the wider UK at any time of year''This is a self-drive trip, so you should definitely check out our''guide to driving in the UK''for helpful tips.''We also have a guide to''how much it costs to travel in the UK''which will help you cost out a trip like this.''We have guides to many of the cities and sights in the UK for you to bookmark, including:''A guide to driving Scotland’s epic''North Coast 500'', as well as''accommodation options on the North Coast 500''When you’re near Glasgow, you should check out the beautiful''Devil’s Pulpit in Finnich Glen''A two day Edinburgh itinerary''&''21 Highlights in Edinburgh''Edinburgh: Getting off the beaten path''A Two Day Glasgow and Loch Lomond itinerary''A guide to''10 of the best Stately Homes in England'', to give you some ideas as you plan your itinerary''For London, we have some detailed itineraries to help you plan your visit. These include a''1 Day London Itinerary'', a''Two Day London itinerary''and a''Six Day London itinerary''The top Harry Potter sites in London''The''Best Photography Locations in London''Tips on Buying and Using the London Pass''Eight Things to Do in Kensington''The''Highlights of Oxford''Visiting''Blenheim Palace and the Cotswolds''20 Things To Do in Dublin''A''Guide to Touring the Scottish Borders''Getting online when travelling in a foreign country can be daunting – check out our''guide to getting online when travelling''to help you figure out the best options for your trip''If you’re interested in getting better photos when you travel, take a look at my''online photography course'', where I’ll teach you everything you need to know about getting better photos – whatever camera you have!''If you want a physical (or digital!) book to accompany your travels, then Amazon do a good line in''UK Travel Guides'', and there is naturally a''Lonely Planet''and a''Rough Guide''to the UK available.''If you’re planning on visiting a number of historical properties, there are a couple of options you have for saving money as a visitor to the UK. Two main organisations exist to preserve these properties, the National Trust, and English Heritage.''Both of these organisations offer specific passes for visitors to the UK, which represent great value for money for visitors.''For the National Trust''you can pick up''a National Trust touring pass''. This is valid for 7 or 14 days, and gives you access to every National Trust property in the UK.''For English Heritage'', you can get an''English Heritage Overseas Visitor Pass''. This is valid for 9 or 16 days, and gives you access to every English Heritage property in the UK.''So those were my thoughts for taking in a slightly longer than two week trip in the UK. I’ve obviously missed out a great number of places, as no two week trip can possibly hope to see everything, but I’d like to think I covered a great many highlights of this truly fascinating country.''Whilst you are there, don’t forget to sample some classic English dishes.\xa0In the meantime.. if you’ve got any thoughts on this post, do hit up the comments below!''SHARE ON'