'After 9.5 years, 110 pages and 319 stamps, it’s time for me to renew my passport. Here’s a''short video''I made that talks about my torn and worn out passport and why it’s the stories behind the stamps that is really the most important aspect of this little book.''How’s your passport? Care to share any stories behind your own stamps?''Previous video:''My Visit to a Remote Village in Nepal''I’m sorry, Sri Lanka.''For many years, I chose to ignore you, to shun you, to shrug my shoulders and say “Eh” whenever you were mentioned.''After a quick 3-day visit to Colombo back in 2002, I never thought about paying a visit to your shores again. This was despite 30 trips to India, your neighbor to the north, and despite rumors from other travelers that you really were an excellent and affordable beach destination.''Why did I treat you so?''Honestly, you just didn’t sound that appealing to me. You didn’t seem like the kind of destination I would enjoy or be interested in and so, I never found it justifiable to spend the money for a visit.''But today, I sit here and say, “''I’m sorry.''”''Back in January this year, after spending a month in Bali and after a couple of unexpected hiccups with our travel plans, my girlfriend and I found ourselves in''East Timor''of all places, unsure of where to go next.''We had two and a half weeks and nowhere to go.''We threw around some potential destinations – Taiwan, Malaysia, Thailand and so on – before deciding on Sri Lanka. My girlfriend told me that her friends loved their experience there and that was all it took as we really needed to choose a place.''We did some research. We chose the beach town of''Unawatuna''as our base. We booked our flights and accommodation.''The deal was done.''The Arrival''Our flight from Kuala Lumpur to Colombo, Sri Lanka arrived late at night and so we stayed at a guesthouse near the airport. The following morning we hired a taxi for the 3 hour ride down to Unawatuna, sharing it with two other travelers we had met.''Before long, we arrived in Unawatuna, coming in along the main road. And I began to get nervous. I simply didn’t expect there to be a heavily trafficked main road in this supposedly quiet town. But just as the sweat began dripping from my forehead, the driver turned right into a small lane, and the traffic instantly disappeared.''A few minutes later we were in front of our accommodation.''And just like that, we began to fall in love with Unawatuna and Sri Lanka.''Asia’s Perfect, Affordable Beach Destination?''It very well could be.''I’m honestly not sure if there is another affordable beach destination that offers the same value in terms of accommodation, food and activities along with such a high quality beach, lack of crowds and incredibly welcoming atmosphere. And I love my beaches!''Let me give you the run down…''The Town of Unawatuna''It’s a small town, with really one main lane that winds around from the main road, along the beach and then into the forest. There are smaller lanes that branch off here and there and then you have the 1 kilometer long beach. For the most part, nothing is more than ten minutes walk away from anything else.''Also, even though we were there in high season, the town was by no means crowded. You could easily meet other people if you wanted to but you could also have a quiet vacation as well.''The atmosphere is very laid-back, most of the travelers here are backpackers or mid-range tourists and while you can find some nightlife, it’s not a huge party place. I’d say this town has just a little bit of everything you could possibly want from an affordable beach destination.''The Value''It’s simple. For a beach town, Unawatuna is a great value. You could get by for as little as $35 USD per day if you stayed in a budget room at a guesthouse and ate at the local restaurants or food stalls around town.''Here’s what we paid for various things:''Beer''– $1-2 USD''Coffee''– $1-2 USD''Beach chairs''– free if you order a drink or meal''Local meal''– $3 USD''SUP rental''(stand up paddle boarding) – $8 per hour''15 minute rickshaw ride''– $2-$ USD''5 liters of water''– $1 USD''Large, comfortable double room at a top-rated guesthouse''– $45 USD''It’s pretty hard to spend money here since it’s the perfect setting to just relax on the beach and partake in some simple activities, but when you do have to open the wallet, it rarely makes much of a dent.''The Unawatuna Beach''Beautiful. Really beautiful.''Unawatuna Beach''is a long stretch of pinkish golden sand with clear, warm, turquoise water. As I mentioned, we were there in the middle of what was supposedly high season for tourists and the beach barely had any people on it. It was simply perfect, in every way. (I really was shocked by how beautiful this beach was and the fact that I had never heard of it before!)''Also, the entire village is within a few minutes walk of the beach, so you can always pop down for a quick swim or a breath of that fresh salty air whenever you want. There are very few vendors on the beach and the restaurants are set back quite a ways from the water, leaving the beach itself remarkably quiet and peaceful. In the evenings, several restaurants set up on the sand right as the sun sets, creating a pleasant atmosphere ideal for a drink or meal.''But at any time of the day, it always remains quiet, making it feel as if you’re in some far more remote and less affordable beach destination!''As a bonus, Unawatuna is only a 25 minutes walk (or 5 minute rickshaw ride) away from''Dalawella Beach''. This idyllic stretch of sand never had more than 4 or 5 people on it and while the sea was rough and swimming pretty much impossible, it’s a gorgeous beach worth visiting nonetheless!''The Accommodation''There are dozens of options for all budgets – dirt cheap dorm rooms, well-priced private rooms in all kinds of guesthouses, nicer rooms in boutique hotels, simple shacks down by the beach, rooms for rent in family homes and so on.''We chose the''Silva Rest Guesthouse'', pretty much based on the photos of the room and the lush, tropical property. And it turned out to be one of my favorite places that I’ve stayed at, ever! It all starts with the young couple that owns the place, and their staff, all of whom are beyond lovely and helpful as they go out of their way to ensure that every detail of every guest’s stay is perfect.''The rooms are spotless, spacious and creatively decorated, with super comfortable beds, a sitting area and a great bathroom (weird to say but it was!). We had a front terrace with two chairs and a table and the building was set in a remarkably quiet plot of land that was full of lush trees, bright green grass, a garden and mini-jungle and a mountain backdrop.''The only noise we heard was of the colorful birds hanging around outside our room. There were also massive lizards wandering around the property and even the odd peacock flew by from time to time.''We had an outdoor communal kitchen to use, with all the equipment you could possibly need, and a covered seating area, ideal for enjoying the freshly made, local and huge breakfast the owners serve up every morning.''And to top it off, the''Silva Rest Guesthouse''is only a 3-4 minutes walk from the middle of the beach. As you can tell, we really loved this guesthouse.''*''For accommodation,''you can save up to $30 USD''(and I’ll receive the same) by using this link to''Booking.com''The Food''Unawatuna is full of dining options. There are cafes with sandwiches, large restaurants on the beach serving up all kinds of fresh seafood, popular hangouts with menus full of local Sri Lankan curries and other dishes and simple roti stalls. You can also find western food, pizzerias, bakeries serving great coffee and tea and best of all, fruit stands selling dozens of tropical fruits at very low prices. (We made a huge fruit salad every single day of our stay with rambutan, melons, coconut, lemon bananas, mangoes and more!)''Meals ranged from $3 USD for local curry and rice to $8 USD for a whole fresh fish or proper stone-oven pizza to $15+ for a full seafood meal on the beach.''Our favorite places to eat:''Happy Spice''– fresh home-cooked food, local curries and western dishes''Me-nu Restaurant''– always crowded, with excellent food and cheap prices''Baby’s Bistro''– great seafood dishes in a relaxed setting''Shifting Sands Cafe''– run by some nice local guys, diverse menu, tasty Sri Lankan curries''La Boheme''– on the edge of the main road, very laid-back and good pizza joint''And be sure to visit this guy and his fruit stall, located right next to Jina’s Vegetarian Restaurant!''The Activities''Right in Unawatuna, apart from strolling up and down the main lane and hanging out at the beach, there are also a handful of other options to spend your time.''You can rent stand-up paddle boards for about $8/hour. There are jet skis, too. A bunch of yoga teachers advertise their classes and there’s a meditation center. You can hike 45 minutes to the more remote''Jungle Beach'', visit the Japanese Peace Pagoda, go snorkeling or scuba diving, take cooking classes or even go whale watching at the right time of year.''You can rent scooters for a few dollars per day and cruise up and down the coast, stopping in dozens of villages and random beaches along the way.''And of course, you can hop into a rickshaw for the 15 minute ride up to the town of''Galle'', where you’ll find the''Galle Fort''. This old Portuguese, and then Dutch, fort is still a living, working town and we ended up visiting twice because it was such a pleasant experience.''You can wander the quiet lanes of''Galle Fort'', walk on top of the outer wall along the water and listen to live music or check out the local stalls in the park at Fort Square. You can step into one of the many cafes on Pedlar Street for an excellent meal and check out some of the free art galleries and free museums (the''Historical Mansion Museum''was especially interesting with it’s huge collection of antiques!). In the evenings the town becomes even more atmospheric once it’s all lit up and things quiet down a little.''Given its proximity to Unawatuna, it’s the best, and easiest, escape whenever you want to hang out somewhere different for a few hours. (The rickshaw ride to/from Unawatuna should cost around 350 rupees each way.)''And of course, you have the rest of Sri Lanka to visit as well. We were exhausted from a few months of traveling non-stop so we didn’t venture too far away from Unawatuna, but if you have the time and energy, there’s always…''– Tea plantations''– Kandy''– Dambulla cave temple''– Sigiriya rock fortress''– Wildlife''– Colombo''– Udawalawe, Horton’s Plains, Yala National Parks''– Even more beaches!''…and plenty more than that of course.''So, on that note, thank you once again Unawatuna!''You gave us a brilliant two and a half weeks. Never did we expect to find one of the most perfect and affordable beach destinations in all of Asia. And we’re quite confident that you’ll feel the same if you choose to visit too!''Any questions about Unawatuna?''If you’re thinking about visiting East Timor, this post is your quick travel guide to Dili and its surroundings. My goal is to provide the main information you need to start planning your trip, and all of the details below are based on my own recent travels to this country.''Of course, once you have a read, if you still have any questions, just let me know!''Travel Guide to Dili: PART 1''As time goes on, it takes more and more for me to get excited about a destination. Yes, after 18 years of constant travel, I have seen a great deal. And just like anything we do over and over again, travel has just become the norm.''So, to combat this, I need to head beyond every now and then, I need to cross borders that for one reason or another, feel a little different.''This was the case with''Yemen''and even with the''Seychelles''and with''Kyrgyzstan''.''Recently, it was the case when I decided to travel to''East Timor''(Timor-Leste).''Travel to East Timor: The Good''A lot of people have never heard of this country, but…''East Timor sure is a beautiful place. Mountains, beaches, coffee plantations, lush tropical forests…check, check, check and check.''East Timor also has some of the''friendliest people I’ve encountered anywhere on this planet''. Almost everyone we walked by or came across gave us a wide smile or an enthusiastic thumbs up or quick “hello” or “bon dia” or a handshake. There are many ‘friendly’ countries out there but this was WAY over the top.''The capital city, Dili, offers grand sunsets from the waterfront, a laid-back vibe and an immediate glimpse into Timorese life. It’s not the prettiest of towns but it was real and raw. There are no ultra-fancy shopping malls or built up waterfronts designed just for tourists, that’s for sure.''When we hailed taxis, not a single taxi driver tried to overcharge us. I don’t think I’ve been to any city where taxis don’t use meters yet they still offer foreigners the normal rate. Of course, the drivers almost never knew the street names, even the main avenues, but we always figured it out with some fun back and forth chatting.''The drivers also didn’t seem to know that being able to see out the windshield of their vehicle should be a priority…''During our stay, we also ventured out of Dili. We took a trip, with a local guide, to the town of Gleno, set in the mountains. We drove down the coast to the tiny communities of Liquica and Maubara. We also visited museums, the famous''Cristo Rei statue'', beaches, markets and a variety of places to eat. And of course, we tried to interact with people wherever we went.''And to top it off, we didn’t see any other tourists during our stay.''Yes, when you travel to East Timor, it can indeed be fascinating.''Travel to East Timor: The Reality''This is where tourism gets confusing.''Sure, I could say ‘''travel to East Timor, it’s great, everyone should visit!''’. But I wouldn’t mean that in the usual way.''Despite the fact that we did have a good time, that we did meet some wonderfully friendly people, the truth is that going to this country without an interest in digging deeper, without an interest in venturing beyond the beaches, mountains and sunsets, would be a real injustice to the people that call East Timor home.''As travelers, we tend to avoid this deeper digging. We tend to be quite satisfied labeling destinations based only on our limited experiences and what our eyes, or camera lenses, see. If we’re honest, we’ll admit that it is our pure lack of interest that prevents us from learning what life is really like in a place. We just don’t care enough to learn about the reality behind the sights and food and cafes and cool activities.''Usually, we just want to have a good time and leave it at that.''When it comes to East Timor though, I found that it wasn’t possible to just''leave it at that''.''Alongside those sunsets and lush mountains were towns and villages full of people without any work. Over 40% of the Timorese population survives (or tries to) on less than''$1 USD per day''.''Everywhere we went around Dili and its surroundings we saw and learned about massive, yet failed, projects – failed resorts, failed harbors, failed attractions, failed development schemes – that are now sitting ‘temporarily’ abandoned, billions upon billions of dollars possibly having been wasted.''All the while, in comparison, the rural communities supposedly receive little attention or assistance, there are slums around Dili without any electricity or sanitation and things such as healthcare and education don’t seem to be high up on the agenda. Locals we spoke with pointed out that the population is being neglected while the government pins its hopes, and the economy, on large-scale, quick-fix solutions that rarely seem to work out.''The infrastructure is poor at best, trash is piling up, too. Believe me, that stunning white sand beach in the photo at the top of this post has its fair share of plastic bottles scattered all over it.''Markets were full of stalls yet barely any shoppers. Everywhere you went people were just hanging around with nothing else to do. This is East Timor, too.''Travel to East Timor: The Challenges''With a history that involves Portuguese rule starting in 1702, Indonesian occupation from 1975 – 1999, brutal massacres and starvation thrown in, as well as literally being far removed from the rest of the world, it’s understandable that this relatively new country is struggling to get on its feet. It’s only been fully independent since 2002.''Spending an hour in the''Timorese Resistance Archive and Museum''(their website is quite barebones) is enough to leave anyone overwhelmed with grief at what the people of this country have had to endure. It’s not pretty.''Also, the population of just over 1 million people speak a couple of dozen different languages. I imagine it’s quite difficult to create a strong sense of unity or a real identity to build upon when everyone isn’t on the same page in terms of general communication.''Imagine walking through your capital city. One sign is in Portuguese, the next in Tetum, the next in English and then there’s one in Bahasa Indonesia. Now imagine that you can only speak one, maybe two of those languages, at best. I only met one person, who had the good fortune to be educated in Portugal, that spoke all of the main languages above. There are 14 languages with at least 10,000 speakers and while Portuguese is one of two national languages (the other is Tetum), it’s the first language of only 600 people.''That’s a challenge.''It was tough to see so many people struggling in this current situation. A great deal of work needs to be done for it all to improve, however, most Timorese I met were not too hopeful.''Anyway, this is not a political post. I wanted to travel to East Timor, I went and this post is the first result.''Travel to East Timor: The AMAZING''So, I’ll now say this.''What really is fascinating in this country is not the beaches or mountains or colorful fish swimming around the reefs. It’s the fact that despite all of the above, somehow,''almost everyone we met showered us with those beaming Timorese smiles and enthusiastic thumbs up that I will never forget.''I can barely crack a smile when I feel a little tired or I need to spend an hour sending emails. Quite pathetic when I think about it, I know.''The word ‘amazing’ is quite overused these days but I really don’t hesitate for a moment to use it in order to describe the kindness and warmth we experienced as we wandered around.''Amazing.''I’ll end the post with this.''Go and travel to East Timor.''Really.''Enjoy the beaches and mountains and snorkeling and markets and all that. Buy the handmade crafts. They are colorful and impressive and they cost so little. The people need it. They need the money, the jobs, the infrastructure and perhaps even more importantly, they need the awareness of their story.''The only way to help with that last part is to remember that, wherever you venture in this country, the people all around you have gone through quite an ordeal and are struggling more than you could possibly imagine.''So be sure to smile back, give a thumbs up, too, introduce yourself and get to know as many people as you can. They are wildly friendly and they would love to interact with you, in whatever combination of languages you can.''Believe me, it’s these interactions, and what you will learn from them, that will turn your trip to East Timor into a trip like no other.''Digging deeper is the key and it should be on every traveler’s itinerary.''Have you ever thought about traveling to East Timor? Any questions?''(''More details on how to travel to East Timor, getting around, where to stay and more in my next post.'')''It’s January. It’s Monday. I’m on the island of Bali. It’s my 6251st day of travel.''I’m sitting here at a nice wooden table, with a ceiling fan whirling above my head and a mosquito whizzing around my left ankle. To my right I hear the occasional churning of an espresso machine. Behind me I hear some chatter in accents ranging from Australian to German to American to others my brain is not able to recognize.''In front of me is a wall with a painting of a man with a unicorn on his head. It says “''I believe in unicorn''” in blue writing. Behind that wall is the rest of the''Dojo Bali co-working space''that I’ve been hanging out at lately.''There’s a swimming pool in the back, a loft, a water dispenser, tables everywhere and some good people working away on their laptops. I think they’re good people anyway, I don’t really know.''I’m a bit jittery this morning. It’s not the coffee though, as I’ve only had one sip. Maybe it’s because I haven’t done as much exercise lately as I was planning on doing.''Either way, I need to get some work done.''Let me check my to-do list for the day:''– answer emails''– look at new ways to promote this year’s''Wandering Earl Tours''– clean my flip-flops''– order a birthday gift for my mom (important!)''– update my''How to Work on a Cruise Ship''eBook''– create a presentation for the workshop I’m giving on Thursday at the co-working space''– 2pm: Skype call with a travel startup based in Dubai about possibliy becoming an advisor''And write a blog post. I didn’t actually put that one on the list for some reason.''Shrimp burrito, please. That’s what I’ll have for lunch. A bunch of people from this co-working space are going to a nearby Mexican restaurant at 1pm. My girlfriend and I will join them. I just pre-ordered a shrimp burrito.''How could I turn down an offer to visit a remote village in Nepal?''After all, I’ve known my friend Bhudiman for over 5 years.''When I first started organizing tours to India back in 2012, I was connected to Bhudiman through a mutual friend and he instantly became my most trusted driver for these group trips. Not only that, despite his limited English and my limited Hindi and Nepali, we became quick friends.''Bhudiman has now been the main driver for all of the tours that I’ve led to India and my tours would not be the same without him. And while he’s lived in India for over 20 years, he’s originally from Nepal, which he travels back and forth to several times per year in order to spend time with his family.''He has always invited me to join him in his home village too, but I usually couldn’t fit it into my schedule. So, after a few years of this, Bhudiman put his foot down this year and basically demanded that I visit his home.''After my Wander Across India tour ended in November,''I finally went to Bhudi’s remote village in Nepal and this is how it went''…''VIDEO: My Visit to a Remote Village in Nepal''The Journey''To make this trip happen, Bhudiman and I flew from Delhi to Bagdogra, a small town on the opposite side of''India''. From there we took a bus, followed by a taxi, until we reached the simple border crossing at the town of Kakarbhitta. The Nepali immigration office there consisted of a small, unmanned desk in a dark room. I eventually found an immigration officer out back, I handed over the $25 USD fee and received a 2-week visa in my passport.''We then took another bus and another taxi until we eventually arrived at Bhudiman’s village, Asculchon, in the Jhapa region of the country.''I actually can’t even find anything at all about it online. I’m not even sure if Bhudiman is 100% certain that this is the name of his village!''The Experience''As you can see, I enjoyed two full days of hanging out with Bhudiman and his family, meeting his brothers and sisters, visiting markets and schools and friends’ homes, riding a motorbike through the countryside, eating wonderful home-cooked food, chatting late into the night, walking through the rice fields, having a drink at the local bar, throwing down dozens of cups of chai, taking bucket showers in the very simple outhouse and basically having such a unique experience that it can barely be put into words.''It really was beyond memorable.''Also, Bhudi and his family are always happy to have visitors so if you ever want to visit this village in Nepal too, let me know and we can try to make it happen!''Have you ever been to a remote village? How was your experience? Is this kind of travel for you?''As the end of the year approaches, I want to share my travel favorites from all the experiences that I had in 2017. It was a wild year, one that took me to 28 different countries, led me to 71 different accommodations and gave me some of the most memorable moments of my entire 18 years of travel.''So, here are my favorites from this year of adventures…''Travel Gift''Tinggly''This has to be the perfect gift for someone that loves to travel. You choose from one of the ‘experience collections’ and the recipient receives a gift box containing 300 – 500 experiences in over 80 countries around the world that they can choose from. They then have 2 years to redeem one of the experiences. There are even versions that allow 2 people to share an experience together. Birthdays, weddings or any other occasion…who wouldn’t want to receive such a gift? Really creative and fun idea from the folks at Tinggly!''Luggage''Timbuk2 Co-Pilot Luggage Roller''With my luggage, things are getting confusing. My excellent''Eagle Creek Load Warrior''had to be retired as I really gave that thing a beating over the past few years. It was an excellent piece of luggage though and I would highly recommend it. With that said, I decided to replace it with something different – the''Timbuk2 Co-Pilot''. It’s a smaller company but they make some really quality luggage and this thing is tiny, yet has more volume than my previous bag (up to 50 liters). It fits as a carry-on with any airline, keeps things very organized and is remarkably sturdy (even has ultra-strong skateboard wheels). So, this is my new luggage of choice and I’m loving it so far!''Accommodation''Riad d’Or''– Meknes, Morocco''Riad d’Or''is just silly beautiful, with unique rooms scattered around an old labyrinth-like mansion right in the heart of the old market.''Mango Beach House''– Zanzibar, Tanzania''It doesn’t get more chill and impressive than''Mango Beach House'', especially if you want a beachfront room away from the crowds.''Merovigla Studios''– Santorini, Greece''Mmergovigla Studios''just might be the best value on the island of Santorini, with unbelievable views from good-sized rooms and a great location…all for a fraction of what most hotels cost here.''Jaiwana Haveli''– Udaipur, India''I’ve been using the excellent''Jaiwana Haveli''on the India tours I lead and with their new renovated rooms, along with their rooftop views, awesome breakfast and lakeside location, this place has become even better.''Food and Dining''Orivy''– Hoi An, Vietnam''I could eat Vietnamese food at''Orivy''every day. Everything on the menu was award-worthy.''Fish and Zelenis''– Novi Sad, Serbia''We found this tiny place by accident while wandering around and we were blown away by the local appetizers and seafood they served. It’s also run by super kind people that treat everyone like an honored guest.''Soy''– Berlin, Germany''We went to''Soy''three times in one week during our stay. Let’s just say that doesn’t happen often.''Argo Restaurant''– Santorini, Greece''Argo''just needs to be visited if you’re ever on Santorini – the traditional Greek food, the view, the atmosphere, the staff, it’s all something special.''New Country Visited''Morocco''It was my first time to this country and just the landscapes alone were enough to keep me in awe for two and a half weeks. My favorite parts were the seldom-visited, but spectacular, Dades Valley and spending a night out in the Sahara Desert. I loved the experiences so much that I’ve put together another''Wandering Earl Tour to Morocco''for 2018 in case you’re interested in an unforgettable adventure 🙂''Cool Town for Hanging Out''Las Palmas, Gran Canaria''My girlfriend and I spent 5 weeks in''Las Palmas''a few months ago and we liked it so much that it just might become our more permanent home base starting next year. It’s walkable, very affordable and easy to reach, it has beautiful city beaches, great food, a relaxed lifestyle, food markets, history and no shortage of excursion opportunities around the island (that’s an understatement as you have more beaches, mountains, canyons, little villages, national parks, lakes and more to explore). And most of the tourists that come to Gran Canaria stay in other parts of the island, leaving the main town relatively quiet. It’s not a town that many people think about hanging out in for a while but it definitely deserves a look. I have nothing but excellent things to say about this destination!''Tropical Destination''Seychelles''I love tropical destinations and islands and beaches and all that. And now I am certain that I have seen the best out there. There is simply no other tropical location like this small Indian Ocean country and the gorgeous beaches, of which there are dozens, make the''Seychelles''true paradise in every single way. The island of La Digue was my favorite spot. If you like gorgeous beaches and laid-back island life (almost no cars on the island), it simply does not get better than La Digue in particular.''(''Boracay''came in second for me, a distant second, but nothing can match the Seychelles. Although, here’s''a video I made on Boracay''last week so that you can have a glimpse of this paradise too.)''Airfare Booking Site''Kiwi.com''For years I would use''Kayak.com''and almost nothing else but this year, it seems that things have changed as I began noticing other websites were offering lower fares much more consistently. And''Kiwi.com''has become my new favorite because, to put it simply, I’ve found the cheapest fares on this site more times than any other site out there. They also make it easy by often combining separate tickets into one ticket, instead of forcing you to purchase two separate flights yourself if your journey is with more than one airline. That’s a huge bonus when hopping around the world.''Hotel Booking Site''Agoda.com''and''Booking.com''This is a toss up but it’s always one of these two. With''Agoda'', the prices are often lower and you earn ‘Gift Cards’ almost every time you book with them. In just the past 3 months I’ve racked up $40 of gift card money to use on future bookings. But with''Booking.com'', once you get to the Genius Member level (only takes 5 bookings), you can really get some good discounts and perks. Between the two, I always find the lowest price for accommodation anywhere I go around the world. (I also use''Airbnb''a lot when an apartment would be more suitable than a hotel or guesthouse.)''*If you use this''Booking.com''link, you’ll get $25 off your booking (I will too!)''.''Travel Credit Card''Chase Sapphire Reserve''This credit card is simply incredible. While it’s only for US citizens, the $400 yearly fee is nothing once you see the benefits. Those benefits include a $300 yearly travel credit, Priority Pass membership (access lounges in airports worldwide for free), great medical, trip and luggage insurance, 50,000 point sign up bonus, 3 points per travel dollar spent, Global Entry fee credit and 1.5 times points redemption ($1500 worth of points is actually worth $2250 when you redeem it for travel) and more. I’ve had the card for over a year now and it’s saved me a ton of money, led to a couple of free flights and the airport lounge access has been extra sweet. Well worth looking into if you travel a decent amount!''Headphones''Symphonized NRG 3.0 Earbuds''When I wear these on an airplane, I can’t hear any of the noise around me. The noise cancelation is that good and the sound quality when I’m listening to music is excellent too. These are not a $300 pair of Bose noise cancelling headphones, but for $25, they do an awesome job. They’re also very sturdy, great for a traveler like myself that just stuffs everything in their bag.''Travel Clothes''Clothing Arts''High-quality, pickpocket proof, good-looking travel clothes. That was the goal of founder and friend Adam Rapp when he set out to create a travel clothing brand. A few years later that brand has grown big time and he’s definitely producing some of the highest quality travel clothes out there. They’re not super cheap but they are super comfortable and super durable while protecting you in very unique ways from potential pickpockets as you travel.''Travel Apps''TripIt''I use''TripIt''pretty religiously as it helps me stay organized. Every travel booking I make, I simply forward to TripIt and just like that everything – dates, airlines, hotels, reservation numbers, reservation details, etc. – are all in order and neatly visible in my app. I pop open the app and I can access any reservation I need in mere seconds.''Trover''Trover''is great for finding random things to do wherever I might be. Open the app, let it find your location and suddenly you have recommendations, along with photos and usually additional details, of places to visit and check out nearby. It’s better than a guidebook in my opinion and much more enjoyable to use!''WiFox''WiFox''was created by my friend Anil from''FoxNomad.com''and it allows you find Wifi networks and passwords in airports all over the world. Choose an airport from the map and a box pops up with the details you need to log onto the internet. All of the information is crowdsourced, allowing you to also add networks/passwords to the app that you find as you travel yourself.''Excursions''Masai Mara Safari, Kenya''Our 3 day trip from Nairobi, Kenya into the''Masai Mara Game Reserve''was an absolute highlight of the year. With barely any other travelers around, we pretty much had the place to ourselves, with a private safari vehicle, a very comfortable and budget-friendly log cabin in the park and endless sightings of the Big 5 as we ventured across the wide savannah each day. We also had a chance to hang out with some Masaai villagers that invited us on a wander through the local town. A lot of people have asked me if a safari in the Masai Mara is really worth doing (and paying for) and I can definitely answer with a huge YES!''Lost Campers Road Trip''– USA''Renting a van from''Lost Campers'', we set out for a''trip through California''a few months ago. And it was brilliant as our reliable van allowed us to explore every destination we wanted to visit (including some remote state forests and mountain ranges) while always having a place to sleep. The van came with all the gear we needed, as well as a comfy mattress inside, and with a handful of locations in the western part of the US, picking up and dropping off the van is a breeze.''*''Lost Campers''has also given me a great discount code that you can use. The code “''WanderingEarl''” will get you''10% off ANY Lost Camper campervan, at any of their 4 locations, with no duration limit from December – March 2018''Airline''Qatar Airways''For a few years now this has been my favorite airline. From aircraft to comfort to service to price, I’m not sure there’s a better value out there, at least for many of the routes I’ve flown. With that said, I only flew with them a couple of times in 2017 as I was traveling in different regions of the world than normal. But I still haven’t found another airline that matches what''Qatar Airways''can offer overall.''Specific Flight Route''Yeti Airlines''– Biratnagar to Kathamndu, Nepal (''right along the Himalayas'')''Any flight across Nepal is an absolute treat if you get a window seat on the correct side of the plane. A few weeks ago I was able to stare out at the Himalayan Mountains as I soared through the sky, at pretty much the same altitude as some of the peaks. It’s something to experience at least once and will instantly become one of your own travel favorites!''Precision Air''– Dar es Salaam to Nairobi''(right over the summit of Mt. Kilimanjaro'')''Our February flight in East Africa caught us by surprise when the pilot suddenly announced we were only five hundred meters directly over the summit of Mt Kilimanjaro. We rushed to the window on the left side of the plane and looked down. It was absolutely surreal.''And that’s my list of travel favorites for 2017. I’d be curious to hear what some of your favorite experiences, destinations, gear, meals and more might have been from your own travels!''Did I miss something? If you have a question about any of my travel favorites from this year, just let me know and I’d be happy to answer!''(''By clicking on some of the links above, I may earn a small commission if you do purchase a product or service. This helps support the blog and I will never mention anything that I don’t truly believe in.'')''About two years ago, I started doing something that pretty much guarantees I get an Airbnb discount every time I book accommodation with''Airbnb''(the website that allows you to book rooms, apartments and homes all around the world).''It wasn’t some crazy secret that I had uncovered or some complicated trick that I figured out over time. It was simply an idea that came into my mind one day.''Here’s how it works:''I send a message to the host before I make a booking.''Yes, I write the host a message, and as you’ll see below, there’s a good reason for it.''First, while Airbnb does try to keep the blue “''Contact host''” button quite hidden, it does exist and is usually right there on each listing page, just under the property description.''So all I do is click that “''Contact host''” link and write my message.''In my message,''I simply ask for a discount''. This really does work and it works even better if your arrival date is less than a month away. Why? At this point, the host will naturally be more motivated to rent out their place for fear of not renting it at all during that period of time.''With that said, this little Airbnb discount trick still tends to work no matter how far in advance you are making your booking, which is why you should always give it a try.''What I typically do is come up with an amount that I want to pay for my stay and I write something such as, “''I see your apartment is listed at $500 for two weeks. If you could make that $400 I’d book it right now.''”''And then I also provide some details about myself so that the host feels more confident in me as a renter. I’ll include something like “''we’re clean, laid-back, we work from home and we don’t party or cause any issues.''”''Basically, the idea is to explain to the host that they don’t have to worry at all about you or their apartment/house, making the deal even better for them.''In addition, I’ll also try to use some of the local language as it shows some respect to the host and lets them know that you are an experienced traveler.''An overall message might look like this:''—''“Dobry den Eva,''I hope you’re doing well. We’re coming to Prague from September 10th – 20th and your apartment really caught our attention. I noticed the price for 10 days is $410 USD. If you could offer us the place for around $330 USD, we’d book it right now. We’re laid-back, we’ll definitely keep the apartment very clean, we actually both work on our laptops from home most mornings and then we like to just wander around the city in the afternoons. We’re not party people and we’ll always respect all the rules of your place. Let me know when you can and we look forward to hopefully staying at your beautiful apartment!''Regards,''Derek”''—''What happens next is that I’ll usually receive a reply from the host followed by a “''Special Offer''” email from Airbnb. These emails come in when a host has changed the listed price and is offering you a stay at a discounted rate.''I just went through my last six Airbnb stays (''Gran Canaria'', Prague, Dubrovnik, Kotor, Athens and''Mauritius''). Sure enough, a discount was received on all of them. The smallest discount was 6% and the largest was 25%.''And it all happened by sending one quick email to the host. That one message creates a human connection which is something that a normal Airbnb booking, or any accommodation booking, lacks if you just book it right away.''When we make a personal connection, everyone involved tends to worry less and feel more confident in whatever we are trying to do. In this case, a host will feel more inclined to give a discount and trust their incoming guests if those guests reach out and give a good first impression.''At least that’s how it’s worked for me!''For those wanting to give this Airbnb discount trick a try, here’s an''Airbnb link''that will also give you up to $40 off your next booking.''Have you ever tried the above? Any success? Any other Airbnb discount tricks to share?''It’s time for the second episode of my “''Life of Travel''” video series. This episode was filmed on the rooftop of the wonderful Dev Niwas Hotel in the magical town of''Bundi, India''.''Bundi is one of my favorite destinations in all of India and as you’ll see in the video, it has a lot to do with its setting. With a massive palace dug into the side of the mountain and a huge fort covering the summit, with a maze of lanes full of old, charming, pastel-colored homes and a population that is perhaps the warmest and most genuine in the country, there’s a reason why travelers have a hard time leaving.''In this episode, I talk a little about Bundi before answering some more of the travel questions that you’ve submitted to me over the past couple of weeks.''I hope you enjoy!''If you have any questions about Bundi or India or anything else travel-related, simply leave a comment below, send me an email or get in touch with me on social media. I’d be happy to assist in any way I can!''It’s video time.''From here in my living room in the Canary Islands, I’ve put together a video this morning.''In Part 1, I provide a short update on exactly where I am, what I’ve been up to and what’s next as I continue my 18 year adventure around the world.''In Part 2, I answer some of the interesting travel questions I’ve received from readers over the past week. Topics include…''– how to access funds while traveling''– how long it takes for a blog to start earning money''– would I recommend the Maldives or Seychelles for snorkeling/diving''– getting the most out of a short trip''– dealing with friendships and relationships while constantly traveling''– finding work while traveling''– how I handle bribes''– the best ways to meet people in new destinations''…and more.''I hope you enjoy the video! (All feedback welcome.)''Any travel questions?''If you have any questions you’d like me to answer on the next episode of''Life of Travel'', just reply to this email and let me know. The next video will be from India in about a week.''Two weeks ago, we were in Prague for a 5 night stay. It’s a popular city of course, with that impressive Baroque architecture, imposing castles and Gothic churches and an Old Town that everyone in the world seems eager to explore these days.''As a result, it should’ve been no surprise when we ran into some difficultly finding accommodation.''I’ll admit, we started looking for a room a little late, about a month before our arrival, but we still didn’t expect such a lack of availability. Hotels and guesthouses were full, the handful of Airbnb places left were extremely expensive and hostels only had beds open in their dorm rooms.''We eventually did book an Airbnb apartment in a decent location that popped up out of nowhere one day. It was a little risky though as it only had a few reviews and not much information to go on. But the price was pretty good so we jumped on it.''But then, a few days later, I began communicating with a company called''Small Charming Hotels''. A friend of mine put me in touch with them as they were looking for a blogger to check out their''small hotels in Prague''. I figured, why not? I was going to be in Prague anyway and I do like finding lesser known things to do, places to eat and places to stay. And if things went well and they really did offer the kind of accommodation I’d stay at myself, perhaps we could collaborate.''That’s how I ended up meeting their friendly office manager, Hedvika, inside the lobby of''Hotel Anna'', one of the handful of properties this company manages.''Here’s how I’ll describe''Hotel Anna''– cute, cozy, located in a central, yet quiet, part of the city, more like a family-run guesthouse, with good-sized, simple, but comfortably furnished rooms that are ideal for budget travelers.''There you go.''Breakfast is included, the staff are all very helpful and full of smiles (something you don’t see everywhere in Prague!) and the prices are more than reasonable for what you get. The hotel is only a 20 minute walk from the heart of the old town (known as Prague 1) which is perfect for those of us that don’t want to be among massive crowds every time we step out the door. As one of the''hotels in Prague 2'', it’s right in the hip''Vinohrady''neighborhood, which is where our local friends in the city actually wanted to hang out in the evenings. Plenty of lively cafes, unique bars and great restaurants all around.''Remember, this isn’t''Bucharest''where you can still find a great hotel room in the heart of the city for $45 USD per night or even less. This is the even more popular Prague, so you can expect to pay more. But in terms of value, for this location and style of accommodation,''Hotel Anna''is without a doubt very fairly priced.''<''Had I known about them beforehand, and had I not been traveling to Prague during high season when it seemed there were no rooms available anywhere, I would have booked a room with them myself.''The idea behind''Small Charming Hotels''is exactly what the name suggests – to create a collection of small, charming hotels in this city that are all run with the same laid-back, personal approach. A guesthouse feel with the comfort of an actual hotel.''It’s like the trend we’re seeing with hostels these days. Upscale hostels are on the rise where you get the budget-friendly prices of a hostel with a few more hotel-like facilities. This company in Prague simply offers the key benefits of a proper hotel while adding the more personal and inexpensive characteristics of a guesthouse. It seems to be the way things are going.''That’s my experience learning about''Hotel Anna''. For budget travelers heading to Prague, especially if there’s two of you, their rooms are definitely worth checking out.''Even better, for a''10% discount''at any property managed by''Small Charming Hotels'', use this special promo code:''BLOG''(code is valid for 2 months)''Have you been to Prague? Any questions about Hotel Anna?''On October 26th, I’ll be leaving Gran Canaria and making my way to India. And with that trip, I shall say a big goodbye to all the countries in Europe as I won’t be back before the end of the year.''I’ve actually spent a decent amount of time traveling around Europe in 2017 though, much more than usual. I think it’s been 12 countries.''My European experiences began back in February when I flew from Miami to India, changing planes in Frankfurt. I had a long 6 hour layover there, most of which I spent half-asleep in one of the airport lounges (thanks to the Priority Pass that comes with my Chase Sapphire Reserve credit card). I remember eating a sandwich at some point and then, before I knew it I was boarding my second flight, Frankfurt to Kuwait.''It was a quick stop but my subsequent visits to this continent would certainly be longer.''This post is a recap of all the countries in Europe that I’ve visited this year, with my personal highlights and a couple of recommendations in case you happen to be headed to any of the same destinations.''12 Countries in Europe''GREECE''In May, I landed in''Athens''. My girlfriend and I were in Greece to meet up with my mom who had traveled in from the US. We spent 5 days in Athens followed by a week on the island of''Santorini''. I really enjoyed Athens. With a nice list of interesting neighborhoods to explore, plenty of historical sights beyond the Acropolis, excellent food, markets (the Monastiraki Flea Market is definitely worth a visit) and pretty good weather year round, it’s a city that offers plenty to do no matter what kind of traveler you may be.''Highlights (Athens)''– The food. I mean, it was nice walking around the Plaka neighborhood and all that but the food, anywhere we sat to eat, was the real highlight. Give me eggplant, fava (split peas), saganaki (grilled cheese), tzatziki, salad and stuffed vine leaves every day and you will have no complaints from me!''Highlights (Santorini)''– I could just say everything and that would indeed be true but to be more specific – the magical village of Imerovigli, the stunning walk to Oia, renting a car and driving to Akrotiri, sunset every single night over the caldera and the Venetsanos winery…and the food (''Argo restaurant''= some of the best food I’ve ever eaten).''Accommodation (Santorini)''–''Merovigla Studios''– Great low-key, budget place with large rooms and perhaps the best location on Santorini, with perfect views across the island and water (see the photo above!). It’s situated in the small, cliff-top village of Imerovigli, away from the big crowds of the more popular Fira but only a beautiful 20 minute walk away.''ALBANIA''We came to''Tirana, Albania''pretty much for no reason. We had a few days in between Greece and meeting up with one of my closest friends in Montenegro so we chose the conveniently located Tirana as our stopover. It was my second time here and we spent most of our four day stay wandering around various neighborhoods, hanging out and working at a handful of cafes and just taking it easy. There aren’t a ton of things to do or see here but that was perfectly fine with us. Besides, as you’ll see below, the main highlight of our visit was exactly the kind of main highlight that I prefer!''Highlights (Tirana)''– My favorite experience by far involved a hair dresser in the Blloku district of the city, the Italian language and a local fish restaurant. Here’s the''full story''.''Accommodation (Tirana)''–''Vila e Arte''– Small, quiet hotel with comfortable budget rooms right in the city center. For around $35 per night, it’s a great deal. Includes a nice breakfast, too.''MONTENEGRO''Once it was time to meet my friend, we took a ride from Tirana across the border and up to the small town of''Kotor, Montenegro''. It was also my second time here but this is one of the countries in Europe that I wouldn’t mind returning to over and over again. Montenegro itself is small and the town of Kotor is tiny, and quiet, but the setting is gorgeous right there at the end of a mountain-lined bay. The old town is atmospheric and full of charm and the whole place just feels like you’ve been transported into a fairy tale.''Highlights (Kotor)''– All it takes in Kotor is one look out the window at the mountains, one stroll along the water or one wander through the narrow lanes of the old walled town to feel good. There is pretty much nothing to do here apart from enjoying the dramatic setting but, hey, sometimes that’s all you need for a rewarding trip. If you venture into the old town, make sure you do so in the morning, afternoon and evening…it has a different feel each time. And just before sunset, head up the path to the''Castle Of San Giovanni''to really get an idea of your surroundings. It’s worth the hike. (For food, go to the inexpensive waterfront''Konoba Akustik''for an excellent meal and try to find the very local''Fortuna Food''for a quick, dirt-cheap and very delicious lunch.''CROATIA''Oh dear Croatia. This was my third time to Croatia and second visit to''Dubrovnik''. And once again, I struggled. It’s a pretty place, without a doubt. The old town is indeed interesting and pleasing to the eye. But just like my previous visits, I just don’t get what all the fuss is about that brings so many people to this town. I must be a weirdo, that’s the only conclusion I can reach.''Highlights (Dubrovnik)''– Watching the sunset every evening from the balcony of our Airbnb. And taking the ferry along the coast to the village of Cavtat was pleasant, too. Apart from that though, I’m not sure what else to list.''ITALY''On the other hand…I love Italy. How can you go wrong here, at least as a tourist? With that said, there were only 2 reasons that we came to Italy on this occasion. The first was to hang out with some friends and second was to go with those friends to the''Guns N Roses concert''in the town of Imola. The friends lived in''Pisa'', so that’s where we spent our first 4 days and then we went to the concert and spent two nights in''Bologna''after that.''Highlights''– The Guns N Roses concert!! Apart from getting there super early and standing in the sun for 8 hours before they came on stage, it was excellent and well worth traveling to Italy for. And of course, I also had a great time meeting my girlfriend’s friends, eating real Italian food (awesome pizza at''In Provincia di Pizza''just outside of Pisa) and just being in Pisa itself, away from the leaning tower and crowds, soaking up the atmosphere of the regular neighborhoods with someone who had actually lived there.''GERMANY''The trip to Germany was to visit another friend of mine in''Berlin''. The idea was to spend all of our time in that one city and that’s exactly what we ended up doing. The days were spent working, wandering around different areas, hanging out with my friend, eating good, cheap food and shopping for warm clothes as the autumn winds and low temperatures hit us quite unexpectedly.''Highlights (Berlin)''– The food market on Thursday nights in the Kreuzberg neighborhood, the Kreuzberg neighborhood itself with all its local eateries, cafes, parks and inspiring vibe and a vegan Vietnamese restaurant we found called''Soy''. Vegan or not, it’s mighty good. We went three times. One of the best restaurants I’ve found all year actually, and cheap.''Accommodation''–''Leonardo Royal Hotel Alexanderplatz''– We went for a little splurge here and it was a solid choice. Very comfortable rooms in the city center, close to public transportation and within walking distance to Alexanderplatz and all kinds of restaurants, cafes, nightlife and activities.''SWEDEN''The time had come for the''Midsummer Festival''! And to meet up with some more of my girlfriend’s family and friends. It was a great combination for a trip to this beautiful country, my first visit back here in many years. Our destination was not Stockholm though. We were in the far, far, far lesser known towns of…''Skovde and Lidkoping''. Much to do in these places? Nope. But any slice of Sweden seems to come with that uniquely enchanting, calming ambience that is quite appealing at all times and which only a handful of countries in Europe can offer.''Highlights''– Beautiful nature everywhere. We were in places that nobody has ever heard of but it doesn’t matter. All you need to do in Sweden is go for a walk. Find a trail near a lake, head off into the middle of some fields, find a forest path…even the 10 minute walk from where we were staying in Skovde to the supermarket was filled with enough beautiful nature to instantly turn a bad mood into a good one.''ROMANIA''At this point, it was time for me to lead my Wandering Earl''Wander Across Romania Tour''and so I flew to Bucharest. I arrived a couple of days before the tour began and then for two weeks I traveled around with my group. We visited Brasov, Sighisoara, Corund, Cluj-Napoca, Hunedoara, Sibiu and the''Transfagarasan''and no matter how many times I travel around this country, I simply can’t get enough of it. Trust me when I say that Romania is going to be on everyone’s travel radar very soon!''Highlights''– The region of''Corund''. This was the first time I took my group to this region and it won’t be the last. I’m talking about real, traditional life out here, nothing touristy whatsoever. We ate with locals in their homes, visited their local workshops (not operating for tourists), met so many local people, tasted their homemade drinks, roamed around beautiful, remote plateaus, visited a straw hat museum (sounds corny but it’s pretty damn cool) and more. My''2018 Romania tours''will also include this region as it’s perhaps the most local and authentic place I’ve ever visited in Europe.''Accommodation''–''Casa Lia''in Sighisoara – This one is my favorite. Run by a sweet couple, it’s a chance to have a real homestay in the heart of this medieval village. Comfy, low-cost rooms with hospitality like you won’t believe. It’s not just accommodation, it’s a complete and wonderful travel experience.''HUNGARY''Second time in''Budapest''. And sort of like with Dubrovnik, I’ve still yet to join the masses and become a huge fan. It certainly has nice buildings but I just didn’t connect with the place again. Maybe it was because I had arrived from Romania, one of my favorite countries in Europe. No idea.''Highlights (Budapest)''– Our nightly walks along the Danube River, past the famous Parliament building, across the Széchenyi Chain Bridge and around the area of the Buda Castle. The Central Market Hall was good to visit as well, but compared to the last time I was there, it seems to have become specifically a tourist destination.''ROMANIA (again)''Back to Romania…this time to visit my girlfriend’s aunt in the small village of''Pesac''. We went from city to city for much of our European travels and then suddenly, there we were, in the quiet countryside. Surrounded by dirt roads with well-maintained country homes, forests and fields, large family gardens, horse-drawn carts, cows and goats and dogs roaming around and a complete lack of noise, pollution, traffic or any worry whatsoever, it was the most serene experience I’ve had this year. Throw in some home-cooked food, much of which was made from locally grown products, some local home-made wine, evenings outside walking and chatting in the warm air and some wonderfully kind people…and I quickly realized how unnecessarily complicated we human beings have made our lives.''Highlights''– Every single meal (such good food!!), the evening walks through the village and letting go of that idea that I need to constantly be running around doing something ‘exciting’. Just being around good people and good food, while breathing in good air, brings far more joy and excitement than we tend to realize.''SERBIA''When you’re only 30 minutes from the border with Serbia, it’s worth going across for a weekend trip. And so off we went, spending a couple of nights in''Belgrade''. I enjoy visiting Belgrade. I can’t quite pinpoint what it is that I like but the big city has a welcoming, laid-back atmosphere along with nice markets, decent food, parks and quaint neighborhoods, great nightlife and a very livable feel. Again, it’s hard for me to give specifics but I’ve just had an overall positive experience during my two visits to this city.''Highlights (Belgrade)''– The long walk that leads from the Belgrade Fortress at the edge of the Danube and Sava Rivers, up the bustling Knez Mihailova pedestrian street, through the Skadarlija neighborhood with it’s old-style restaurants, cafes and bars and then twisting through the residential streets heading east until you reach the Pijaca Kalenić Farmer’s Market. There’s lots of historical sights along the way and the''Nikola Tesla Museum''as well.''Accommodation (Belgrade)''–''Centar Guesthouse''– We thought this was a joke when we found it online. It seemed way too cheap for the extremely central location and seemingly good rooms. Turned out to be real. Simple, clean rooms with everything you need, modern bathrooms and less than 20 seconds walk from the main Republic Square, all for 35 Euros.''CZECH REPUBLIC''Our original plan was to spend 6 weeks in''Prague''but after getting a late start on our apartment search, there wasn’t much left for a good price and location. So we decided to simply stop here for 5 days en route to the Canary Islands instead. Anyway, Prague is popular, it’s beautiful, it’s one of those cities that definitely needs to be seen. Of course, we spent some time checking out the major sights – the castle, the cathedrals, the old town, Wenceslas Square and so on – but it turned out to be the time we spent away from those places that really stuck in our minds.''Highlights (Prague)''– An evening out with friends in the vibrant Vinohrady neighborhood and our afternoon wander to''Vyšehrad'', an old fortress in the south part of the city along the Vltava River. While it might not be as well-known as other landmarks in the city, it makes for a great afternoon excursion. Walking all over the hilltop site allows you to escape from the massive crowds of tourists and the noise of the old town, while still soaking up some interesting history (check out The Basilica of St. Peter and St. Paul) and great views over the city.''SPAIN''That brings me to Spain. Technically, I’m in Spain, although, not on the mainland. I’m in''Las Palmas de Gran Canaria''in the''Canary Islands''. And since Prague didn’t work out as a long-term destination, Gran Canaria took that role instead. So far, I’d say this was definitely the right decision. Not only is Gran Canaria full of really awesome things to do and see – mountains, villages, beaches, sand dunes, hiking trails, remote national parks, surfing and more – but Las Palmas is one of the most livable cities I’ve ever been to. For a fraction of what it costs to live in most countries in Europe, you get perfect weather, a laid-back island lifestyle, excellent Spanish food, a large international community of travelers, digital nomads and expats and no shortage of activities and events to join. With two weeks left of our stay here, we already understand why so many people claim this island to be one of the most ideal places to hang out in Europe!''Highlights''– The ridiculously gorgeous drive we did the other day. We went from Las Palmas to the Point of Galdar, over to the picturesque towns of Agaete and Puerto de las Nieves, and then way up into the mountains. We drove along narrow, cliffside roads that took us on a several hour, remote adventure that, apart from being a death-defying experience, offered some of the most impressive scenery I’ve seen in a long, long time. I genuinely can’t wait to explore some more.''So, thank you Europe. It’s been a most rewarding year and I look forward to visiting more of you in 2018. Countries such as Poland, Denmark and Belarus are high up on the list!''Did you visit Europe this year? Are you planning a trip to any countries in Europe, maybe next year? Any questions?''On the wall is some graffiti that I can’t make much sense of. I think there are small round robots buzzing about, working on computers and talking on the phone. The table where I sit is long and white. There are four of us sitting here, laptops open, yet eight seats still remain empty. Inside this space it feels modern and industrial, yet welcoming enough, with wires hanging form the ceiling, a minimalist design and a front door that opens with the use of an app.''Outside plastered on the wall across the street is an advertisement for rum, next to a brown door that leads to a currently closed nightclub. In front of the wall and the door stands a tall green parking meter on the sidewalk.''How did I end up here in the Canary Islands? I hear a coffee machine rumble in the back of the room. There is a small yellow wooden duck on wheels only inches from my laptop, its black dot of an eye staring me down since I got here. It is the duck that won’t stop asking me how I ended up here. A middle-aged man with a worn out backpack, holding in his hand a salad in a plastic container, straight from the supermarket, just walked in to the room and sat down across from me.''I need to pee.''It reminds me of high school. Not the duck or the salad or the robots. The need to pee. Too often would I be at a high school party or a gathering at a friend’s house and despite the need to use the bathroom, I would just remain seated on a sofa or chair, for minutes, hours actually. My fear was that I would stand up, walk across the room and trip over my own two feet. And people would laugh. So I wouldn’t get up.''I’m more confident now of course. If I need to go, I go.''Sometimes the thought crosses my mind at the most random of moments, the thought that I’ve been''traveling for 18 years''. The funny thing is that no matter how long that thought stays in my head, a half a second or ten minutes, it always leaves my eyes ever so slightly covered in moisture. They are not tears though. It’s an impossibly thin layer of wetness that appears and then dries up almost immediately afterwards.''Is it a quick wash of these old dusty eyes? I like to believe it is the flash of a transparent curtain that marks yet another scene in this never-ending adventure.''Scene #4281: 5 Weeks in Las Palmas''Yes, this current scene takes place in the''Canary Islands''. I’m hunkered down in the town of''Las Palmas''on the island of''Gran Canaria''. We’ve rented a large apartment near the ocean, for five weeks, five whole weeks in Las Palmas, rented on Airbnb for 1000 Euros. A routine, a closet for my clothes, a renewed dedication to''my push-up regimen'', a sea breeze as soon as I walk out the door and two extremely chill pugs sitting on the street corner that I look forward to seeing every day.''Our apartment is far from being homey though. A couple of hallways and empty spaces too many, cold areas that seem to serve no purpose. But my stuff is scattered around nonetheless and this apartment is slowly becoming that place I return to and which I recognize. How odd indeed.''Only two small blocks from our pad on''Calle Fernando Guanarteme''is where you’ll find''Playa de las Canteras''. Sometimes I think I need the beach to be happy. It’s a golden black beach here, far from the white sands we dream of, yet it’s still an ideal location for an hour or two sprawled out on my cheap beach towel, Kindle in hand. Low constant waves, cool and lightly tinted turquoise water, topless sunbathers, flocks of surfers, views of the town and distant mountains whenever I sit up and look around.''Behind the beach sits the long boardwalk, the''Paseo Las Canteras'', that stretches perhaps two miles from the funky-looking''Auditorio Alfredo Kraus''in the south to''Calle Prudencio Morales''in the north. We walk much of this boardwalk every day. It’s alive with tourists, locals, cafes and bars, the occasional street performer, runners and groups of friends. I like the energy in the evening, the low lighting, the chatter, the boom of the waves.''The boardwalk is our real base. It’s the foundation of our stay here so far and unlikely to change over these five weeks in Las Palmas. There won’t be a day that we do not stroll upon it, at least once.''Fresh seafood, tapas of all sorts and home-cooked delights are found on every corner in Las Palmas, along the water, in the small, still lanes, on the main avenidas. A table on the boardwalk, a bottle of local wine, paella for two. 20 Euros. Potatoes arrugadas con mojo with grilled octopus, some grouper and a plate of fried cheese. 20 Euros. And satisfying.''La Taperia'', a cozy restaurant that we blindly entered on our first night, has proven to be a favorite.''La Tosca Lonja''around the corner served up Spanish seafood in divine form. That alluring Spanish flair helps of course, from the surrounding architecture to the bustling about of the dedicated waitstaff to the loud conversations that hum like meditative chants.''On Saturday we went for a long afternoon walk. One and a half hours each way. Through the commercial center of Las Palmas and along the other coast, the more residential and affluent section, with its streets loaded up on villas, private schools and language institutes. Twenty minutes later and things shifted. A bit darker, a bit more rundown, with people just sitting on the curb smoking their cigarettes and giving us a quick, grumpy ‘what’s your deal?’ kind of glance. And then another street crossed and we found ourselves in the most quaint and atmospheric neighborhood yet, and we cut straight through it along the overly pleasant pedestrian lane of''Calle Perez Galdos'', with its sense of art, active residents, attractive eateries and charming street lamps.''Las Palmas has it all.''After some time lost in conversation and smiles, we came upon an old, blue, mint condition palace. It’s now a music conservatory. We passed a small park with a colorful playground. And then a Burger King and the Catedral de Santa Ana before we landed on the steps of the''Casa de Colon'', right among the weathered, empty structures and narrow passageways of''Vegueta''.''We spent an hour wandering this museum, sprawled among four historic, connected Canarian homes, all while learning about Cristobal Colon, or Christopher Columbus. We also battled two giant parrots that fiercely guarded a courtyard leading towards the exit. Columbus visited the Canary Islands on several occasions. The first time in 1492 in order to stock up his fleet and fix a rudder on the Pinta before heading off towards the unknown. It appears he spent several weeks in Las Palmas too.''Columbus seemed unable to sit still. Each time he returned home from a voyage, he soon set off for yet another.''I also have trouble sitting still. Maybe that’s why''I worked on cruise ships''at one point. The constant journeys to New Worlds. New Worlds to me at least.''When I stay in one place, I do get anxious. It’s as if my body and mind still think we are constantly on the go. They get confused by the closet with my clothes inside, by the sight of the same bed for more than a few nights, by the lack of urgency to explore. As I attempt to sit quietly, they instead shout, “''Do this, do that. We must do and see everything there is to do and see here by this Friday.''”''Not this time. We will visit the neighboring island of''Tenerife''in due time. We will drive around''Gran Canaria'', climb mountains, visit villages and get lost, oh yes, in due time. We have plenty of that now. Time. And my body and mind will have to learn to live with it.''Last night on a stroll through the lively''Parque de Santa Catalina''I actually saw two cruise ships docked in port. As always, I was nostalgic for a few moments as I recalled my old teammates from around the world and those quiet times when I just stood on the open deck watching the flying fish and wondering what lay beyond the horizon.''But these two mighty vessels I saw yesterday, and all their passengers, would of course be gone by morning, without me. As would the flights and buses and trains of the world.''Now I shall stay put. An exchange of New Worlds for New Experiments.''And what better place to give this a shot than Las Palmas. Life is easy here. You can enjoy your surroundings within minutes of arrival and there really isn’t much to worry about. Food, people, atmosphere. Easy.''My eyes have watered again. 18 years. I feel hungry right now as I sit here at the''Coworking Canary Islands''location in Las Palmas. The one with the robots on the walls and the long white table. And the duck staring me down.''I start to think of volcanoes and ferries. But then I think of making a salad in my kitchen.''This is me trying to make sense of being a traveler in one place for some time.''I think I can handle five weeks in Las Palmas. I’m excited to find out.''Thoughts on slow travel? Have you been to the Canary Islands?''I shall introduce you to “''Caitlin''”. Now I don’t know the story behind the name but that was the mini-campervan my girlfriend and I were given for our California road trip when we went to pick up our rental from''Lost Campers USA''in Los Angeles.''Clean and ready when we arrived, we were given a ‘tour’ of the vehicle, signed some paperwork and within minutes the Lost Campers staff had us on our way.''Caitlin''would now be our home for the following 6 days.''With a comfy mattress, an interior table and sink and everything from an awning to outdoor chairs and tables, a cooler, a propane stove, cooking equipment and storage compartments, we had everything we could possibly need for our adventure.''We were excited to get started''and as we turned out of the parking lot near LAX and onto Aviation Boulevard, we knew that traveling in such a van was a wise decision for a budget California road trip.''And this is what happened once that California road trip began…''Day 1: Los Angeles to Morro Bay''It wasn’t long into our adventure, about eight minutes to be precise, when we agreed to have a coffee stop. And you know how it goes, with all the traffic in LA and difficulty finding a parking spot, this turned into a much longer break than expected.''Eventually though, with coffee in hand, we got back out on the road, meandered through the streets of''Santa Monica''and onto the''Pacific Coast Highway''.''We were feeling good. We were feeling clean (this would change quickly). And we were feeling energized. We rolled along, passing Malibu and Ventura, until we reached the town of''Santa Barbara''in time for lunch. We ate at the''Santa Barbara Public Market'', an indoor food hall on the corner of West Victoria and Chapala Streets that was a great spot for a fresh meal (we went with poke bowls, highly recommended), before stretching our legs on a long walk down State Street. And then, like true campervan novices, we spent an hour in the Ralph’s supermarket trying to figure out what kind of supplies we should buy.''Bananas, wine, granola bars, water, tea and mandarins seemed like all we needed in the end.''In the early evening we pulled into''Pismo Beach''and went for a walk through the historic, yet tiny, downtown and beachfront, not quite attracted by the shops and restaurants enough to stick around longer but satisfied with our first glimpse of the beach.''We continued north and upon arrival in''Morro Bay'', decided to pull into a campground for the night. The only problem was that all of the campgrounds were completely full, leaving us no choice but to try and find a quiet spot to park, and hide, our van for the night.''Twenty minutes later we found that spot.''I backed the van up into a corner at the very end of a quiet road along the beach, where we were hidden by a huge pickup truck parked in front of us. And from this location we enjoyed dinner and a bottle of wine in front of the ocean before falling asleep, and eventually waking up to, the sound of the waves, all from the comfort of our campervan’s bed.''Day 2: Seals, Hearst Castle and Big Sur''Awake and ready to go by 8:00am, we stopped for coffee and breakfast at the''Luna Coffee Bar''in the quiet village of''Cayucos''before continuing along the coast. After 30 minutes we reached a turnoff that lead to an ‘''elephant seal viewing point''’.''And then we almost missed seeing the elephant seals. I made the brilliant suggestion to walk along a quiet path to the left, from where we soon saw 3 small seals lying on the sand off in the distance. Luckily, when we returned to the van, my girlfriend suggested that we walk the other way for a moment and sure enough, that’s when we came upon the dozens of massive elephant seals that this area is known for.''It wasn’t even 9:30am when we reached our second stop of the day –''the Hearst Castle''.''For years I’ve wanted to visit this bizarre mansion built in the early 20th century by newspaper magnate Willian Hearst and now that I have visited, I would recommend it to anyone on a California road trip in this area. We took the one hour Upper Rooms tour with one of the best tour guides we’ve ever encountered and we then spent some time on our own wandering around the expansive gardens and surreal indoor pool.''The ‘castle’ is too crazy and everything from the hilltop location to the zebras (yes, zebras) to the architecture to the ancient artifacts to the interior design to the stories behind every room simply cannot be imagined without being there. Awesome place.''Next up was a subpar Sunday lunch in the nearby town of''Cambria''. And then…''First, let me state that despite not having a real plan for our road trip, there was actually one place that we really didn’t want to miss – the''Henry Miller Memorial Library''in Big Sur. My girlfriend is a huge fan of his writing and I’m slowly learning more and more about him and his works.''While located only 30 miles up the road from Cambria, due to the landslides earlier this year that knocked out a couple of bridges along the coast, a long 100+ mile detour was now required to get in and out of Big Sur. We still planned to make the trip though.''So, after our lunch, while sitting in the campervan browsing the internet for a few minutes, I suddenly discovered that the Henry Miller Memorial Library had revised their opening hours because of the drop in tourism after the landslides. They were now only open Thursday to Sunday, 11am – 6pm.''It was Sunday. It was 3:01pm. According to Google Maps, we were 2.5 hours away with the detour.''And off we went…Route 46 over to Route 101 and up to the''Nacimiento-Fergusson Road''which then took us on a 60 mile adventure through wine country, an eerily quiet stretch of US Army-owned land, the alluring depths of the''Los Padres National Forest''and the towering''Santa Lucia Mountain Range'', with its dozens of dangerous turns and lack of barriers protecting you from a long fall of a cliff.''It was a wild detour, gorgeous and energizing, yet slightly nauseating, especially given our time constraints.''We pulled into the Henry Miller Library at 5:35pm.''I’m not sure what was more exciting, being at the library or the journey to get there but we thoroughly enjoyed the 25 minutes we spent wandering around the building, speaking with staff, flipping through books and soaking up the atmosphere.''And then we left.''Our dinner that night consisted of sandwiches bought from the only open shop in the area, the''Big Sur Deli'', which we ate at the best view point we could possibly find.''After dinner, we pulled into the corner of a small parking lot back near the Big Sur Deli, where we promptly passed out on the bed in our van, quite satisfied with the happenings of this lengthy day.''Day 3: Big Sur and the Middle of Nowhere''The second landslide was just north of where we slept and so on this day, we had no choice but to head back south. We took our time, stopping at several view points along the way until we reached the tiny community of''Plaskett''. And wherever we stopped, we always had the spot to ourselves, something I never imagined possible along this famous route.''After a lunch overlooking the coast (doesn’t get old!) and a drive up to a mountaintop hermitage that turned out to be closed, we turned back onto that Nacimiento-Fergusson Road from the day before, also the only route out of Big Sur.''But this time, we would do things a little differently. Once at the top of the mountains, we decided to get off the paved road and head onto a dirt track called the''Coast Ridge Trail''. We were’t exactly sure but looking at Google maps, this route appeared to offer a nice loop that would end up right where we wanted to be later in the day.''Here’s how that went:''We entered extremely remote territory, with not a person, house or sign of civilization to be found.''The dirt road was stunning, cutting into the sides of mountains and along impossibly narrow ridges while offering far-reaching and spectacular views in all directions.''To complete the loop, we had to turn onto a second dirt road.''This second road was insane. Even narrower and with extremely steep inclines and declines, soft dirt patches that were tough to drive through and sheer drop-offs at all times.''It was also insanely beautiful (as you can see in this video!).''Just before arriving at the main road we were aiming for, we came upon a closed steel gate that blocked our track and forced us to turn around and completely retrace our route for 1.5 hours. (We were not happy about that.)''After thinking we would be stuck in the middle of nowhere while trying to get the van out of some soft sand for the sixth time, we eventually reached the Nacimiento-Fergusson Road once again and continued our journey away from the coast.''After this long day, we decided to spend the night at an RV camp in the small town of''Greenfield'', right on Route 101, partly because we couldn’t find anything else and weren’t in the mood to keep on searching. Among the huge RVs and massive trailers, we backed up our little minivan into its spot and had a quiet night, and our first shower that didn’t involve splashing water onto our bodies from a sink faucet in a rustic outhouse or bathing in a cold creek (which was actually quite nice).''Day 4: Monterey''After breakfast at the''Denny’s''in the town of''Soledad''(what would a US road trip be without one breakfast at Denny’s?), we decided to drive into''Salinas'', the hometown of John Steinbeck, for a wander through its quaint downtown area.''From here we continued to the coast until we reached''Monterey'', where we had decided to meet up with my friend Jerry.''I had actually only met Jerry once before (he’s a good friend of one of my good friends), and while I knew he was a stellar guy, I certainly wasn’t expecting the welcome we received from him and his wife. Jerry gave us…''the keys to his classic Saab convertible so that we could buzz around Monterey for the afternoon''a delicious home-cooked seafood dinner that we all ate while looking out over Monterey Bay from the window of his living room''a great room to sleep in (the waves outside lulled us to sleep!) and an invitation to make ourselves completely at home''And most importantly, awesome company. Over a couple of bottles of wine, we all spent a few hours that night talking and laughing about Monterey, about authors and books, politics, our jobs and our other interests. It was simply a great night.''Day 5: A Redwood Forest and Our Final Night''After brunch with Jerry at the excellent''Wild Plum Cafe''in town, it was time for us to hop back into our van. Our stay in Monterey, which also included time wandering''Cannery Row'', downtown and the beach, was short but perfect and as a result, we didn’t feel the need to visit any other towns. We drove right through Santa Cruz and onto Route 9 until we reached the''Henry Cowell Redwoods State Park''instead.''It was our first encounter with the redwoods and this little park was an ideal location to get out into nature and be among these massive, mesmerizing trees.''Then, before we knew it, the time had come to find a place where we could enjoy our final evening with the campervan. We continued into San Mateo county along small roads for about an hour and a half, randomly turning right and left several times, until we came upon a one lane, cracked pavement path that seemed worth checking out. We followed it for about 2 miles and it eventually led us into the''Pescadero Creek Park'', a park that seemed to be long forgotten given the condition of its gate and entry way and the complete lack of even a trace of visitors.''As a result, we were thrilled and we soon found a small clearing right up on a mountain ridge. This would prove to be the idyllic location we had hoped for.''We pulled out the chairs from the van just in time for sunset, poured some wine, put on some music and, despite having forgotten to buy dinner and with only granola bars to eat as a result, we dug in for one final night among the beautiful California nature.''Day 6: San Francisco''Waking up early in the midst of some heavy, wet fog, we did some work (despite the remote location we had great 4G coverage!), organized all of our stuff and then quietly began the last leg of our California road trip. Two hours later we pulled into the Lost Campers parking lot in''San Francisco'', climbed out one last time and just like that, dropped off our trusty campervan.''A California Road Trip in a Mini-Campervan?''Is a mini-campervan right for you? I’d be curious to hear your thoughts.''After our experience, we realized that the main downside of such travel is that it can be a little cramped as there isn’t a huge amount of space inside the minivan.''Apart from that though, it’s definitely an ideal option for travelers that simply need a place to sleep and the basic amenities for their road trip. For one or two people, it works out very well as the small van allows you to travel on any road and you always have a bed to lie on. If you use campgrounds, the real mattress inside the van is far more comfortable than sleeping in a tent and you’ll also have all the equipment you need to prepare your meals.''And when split among a couple of travelers, the price is more than reasonable since you get both transportation and accommodation in one.''As for''Lost Campers''themselves, the staff are extremely helpful and the company’s culture seems to truly revolve around making their travelers happy. I know a couple of readers wrote to me after my last post to say they had an awesome experience with this company too. The vans and equipment are in good condition, the rental process is hassle-free and they have three convenient locations as well (Los Angeles, San Francisco and Salt Lake City).''If this is your travel style,''Lost Campers USA''is well worth checking out for a California road trip, or any road trip in the western USA!''Would you travel in a mini-campervan? Any questions about the road trip or the campervan itself? Let me know!''Road trips. There’s something about the idea of a road trip that makes many people, including myself, go nuts from intense excitement.''Just the thought of a road trip triggers such giddiness and ecstasy that I immediately start dreaming of all kinds of magical road trip scenarios. And I can get lost in such thought for hours.''Usually, what makes me so enthusiastic about a road trip has nothing to do with the region where it might take place or the vehicle I’ll drive or the route I’ll take.''It’s the''absolute freedom''that gets me, and perhaps you, going. The freedom to go wherever we please, to stop whenever we want, to be in complete control of our travel experience. Our brains find this idea so unbelievably appealing it seems. Try saying ‘road trips’ without getting genuinely excited, even if you don’t have any plans to take one.''Over the years, I’ve been fortunate enough to embark on several road trips. Australia, Thailand, Romania,''Mexico''and the USA are just a few of the countries where I’ve been able to enjoy that freedom.''And today I write to you from Los Angeles, California, the city where''my next road trip shall begin in 2 days''.''My California Road Trip''My girlfriend and I flew out to LA last night from Florida. The main reason for this visit out west is for a family event taking place in beautiful Mendocino Country, way up in northern California, in about 10 days from now.''About a month ago, after confirming we would attend the family event, we came upon the idea of not only adding a road trip to our visit, but''renting a camper van''to do it with. This would be a first for both of us.''So I did a little research and quickly discovered''Lost Campers USA''. I sent them an email and received an immediate response. After communicating with them for a week or so, it was obvious that this was the camper van company to use out in the western part of the USA. If you look at the''Lost Campers website''or''Facebook page'', you’ll see why I quickly became hooked on their laid-back, family-owned style and their very clear dedication to making road trips affordable for travelers on any budget.''And with thousands of overwhelmingly positive reviews from other travelers, it was an easy decision and we went for it.''We won’t be traveling in a huge RV. Lost Campers rents small camper vans, like converted minivans, complete with everything you would need for a road trip – comfy bed (with so many positive reviews about their beds, I’m curious to try it out), sink, storage, a table, awning, cooling chest and more. Their rates start at around $37.99 USD per day, which is remarkably inexpensive for both transportation and a bed!''Starting on Saturday,''this will be our''Sierra Class camper van'':''Once we get set up with our van, we’ll just start driving.''We only have 6 days for this road trip and we need to head north to end up in San Francisco. However, we don’t have much of a plan. We have no idea where we’ll spend our nights and we only have a vague idea of the route we’ll take. Some possible stops include beaches, the Hearst Castle, a winery, the Henry Miller Library in Big Sur, a seldom traveled dirt road through the mountains (looks like an awesome recommendation from the team at Lost Campers!), Monterey and a National and/or State Park or two.''If we make it to all of that, great. If not, that’s perfectly fine too.''Wherever we end up, if we get lost, we don’t care at all. Our brains are already buzzing from the freedom that awaits us in a couple of days, the freedom that can only derive from that awesome, awesome form of travel…''…road trips!''(I’ll be posting updates on the blog and the''Wandering Earl Facebook''from the road starting Saturday.)''Let’s hear it…what’s your most epic road trip experience? If you’ve yet to take one, where would you love to do a road trip?''Ah, lists.''When it comes to online travel information, there’s no shortage. Top 5, Top 10, Top 20…lists, lists and more lists.''Lists telling us exactly which countries in the world we need to visit right now, what to do when we get there, where to stay, what we should see, where we should eat and so on. It’s only a matter of time before we start seeing Top 10 lists that list the best Top 10 travel lists. (Does it already exist?)''With such a plethora of lists about every destination, every traveler ends up doing the exact same things as every other traveler that visits the same place. Even a list of the Top 10 Authentic Travel Experiences ensures that everyone has the same ‘authentic’ travel experience. Nothing is spontaneous any more. And that doesn’t seem right to me.''Popular sights are nice and they make for good photos but often, that’s about it. The major benefits of travel tend to shine when we find ourselves in the little known areas where nobody cares if their corner of the world ever appears on any Top 10 list.''And the only way to have those un-listed authentic travel experiences is to arrive. Just arrive, go outside and wander around, without a clue.''All we need for this to be successful is an openness to the neighborhoods, markets, people, parks, local eateries and more that come our way, wherever we end up, regardless of their popularity online.''Have you been to Dubrovnik, Croatia? The walled old city over there is absolutely jam packed with people running around following their Top 10 lists. I just read that tourists outnumber locals 20 to 1 within those walls.''It’s an impressive old city and spending a day there checking off everything on a list or two will lead to some nice views and neat experiences. And there’s nothing wrong with that at all. You got to see it.''But is that all Dubrovnik or Prague or Bali or Costa Rica has to offer? Can the true value of a place be discovered through a list?''What if we toss our lists in the trash (actual or virtual), walk 20 minutes away from the tourist shops and restaurants and below average gelato stands and the big buses, and into the less photogenic neighborhoods instead?''We’ll no longer be in the famous Dubrovnik that everyone talks about.''But we’ll also quickly forget about our Top 10 lists as we encounter the local people (at a rate of 20 locals per 1 tourist!) and regular places that make this town real. It’s just normal life in Dubrovnik, right in front of us, there for us to connect with and most importantly, learn from. The learning is the main benefit of travel after all.''In my experience, those must-see’s and must-do’s can rarely compete with the memories built from the unexpected encounters and the unplanned adventures that inevitably arise away from the crowds, famous old cities and picture-perfect main squares.''Of course, I understand perfectly well that an attention-grabbing list has some appeal. And there’s nothing wrong at all with taking advice from those who have traveled to a destination we’re about to visit.''My only point is that our travels should not exclusively consist of those mass tourism activities or the things that get classified as ‘must-see’.''Let’s ensure that we also sprinkle in some time among the interesting people and places that tell the real story of a destination, the people and places that no list has ever known.''Of course, with that said…''The Top 197 Countries in the World You Should Visit''In my opinion, this is the only list travelers need.''Afghanistan''Albania''Algeria''Andorra''Angola''Antigua and Barbuda''Argentina''Armenia''Australia''Austria''Azerbaijan''Bahamas''Bahrain''Bangladesh''Barbados''Belarus''Belgium''Belize''Benin''Bhutan''Bolivia''Bosnia and Herzegovina''Botswana''Brazil''Brunei''Bulgaria''Burkina Faso''Burundi''Cabo Verde''Cambodia''Cameroon''Canada''Central African Republic (CAR)''Chad''Chile''China''Colombia''Comoros''Democratic Republic of the\xa0Congo''Republic of the\xa0Congo''Costa Rica''Cote d’Ivoire''Croatia''Cuba''Cyprus''Czech Republic''Denmark''Djibouti''Dominica''Dominican Republic''Ecuador''Egypt''El Salvador''Equatorial Guinea''Eritrea''Estonia''Ethiopia''Fiji''Finland''France''Gabon''Gambia''Georgia''Germany''Ghana''Greece''Grenada''Guatemala''Guinea''Guinea-Bissau''Guyana''Haiti''Honduras''Hungary''Iceland''India''Indonesia''Iran''Iraq''Ireland''Israel''Italy''Jamaica''Japan''Jordan''Kazakhstan''Kenya''Kiribati''Kosovo''Kuwait''Kyrgyzstan''Laos''Latvia''Lebanon''Lesotho''Liberia''Libya''Liechtenstein''Lithuania''Luxembourg''Macedonia (FYROM)''Madagascar''Malawi''Malaysia''Maldives''Mali''Malta''Marshall Islands''Mauritania''Mauritius''Mexico''Micronesia''Moldova''Monaco''Mongolia''Montenegro''Morocco''Mozambique''Myanmar''Namibia''Nauru''Nepal''Netherlands''New Zealand''Nicaragua''Niger''Nigeria''North Korea''Norway''Oman''Pakistan''Palau''Palestine''Panama''Papua New Guinea''Paraguay''Peru''Philippines''Poland''Portugal''Qatar''Romania''Russia''Rwanda''Saint Kitts and Nevis''Saint Lucia''Saint Vincent and the Grenadines''Samoa''San Marino''Sao Tome and Principe''Saudi Arabia''Senegal''Serbia''Seychelles''Sierra Leone''Singapore''Slovakia''Slovenia''Solomon Islands''Somalia''South Africa''South Korea''South Sudan''Spain''Sri Lanka''Sudan''Suriname''Swaziland''Sweden''Switzerland''Syria''Taiwan''Tajikistan''Tanzania''Thailand''Timor-Leste''Togo''Tonga''Trinidad and Tobago''Tunisia''Turkey''Turkmenistan''Tuvalu''Uganda''Ukraine''United Arab Emirates''United Kingdom''United States of America''Uruguay''Uzbekistan''Vanuatu''Vatican City (Holy See)''Venezuela''Vietnam''Yemen''Zambia''Zimbabwe''So that’s the list. All the countries in the world. Go everywhere. Go anywhere.''Okay, check if it’s safe first. But if it is, go there. (It’s alright to skip a few though.)''Wherever you choose to go, simply walk outside and start wandering. Don’t plan it. Just keep your eyes and mind open and enjoy.''And whatever you do, leave the other lists behind. At least for part of your stay.''How do you travel? Do you try to venture away from the main sights? Do you like your travels to be structured or spontaneous?''(For those who have joined my''Wandering Earl Tours'', you’ll know that I aim to offer a mix of the main sights and significant time exploring neighborhoods and regions that far fewer travelers know about. I truly believe in this style of travel!)''The 2018 Wandering Earl Tours are ready!''—A new year of exotic destinations, unique itineraries and new adventures await!—''I am extremely excited to announce the first group of 2018 trips…''India''(February)''New York City''(March and October)''Seychelles''(catamaran trip in May!)''Morocco''(May)''Jordan and Jerusalem''(April)''Vietnam''(August)''Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan''(June)''Romania''(July)''(More details:''WanderingEarlTours.com'')''The Wandering Earl Tour Experience''For those not familiar with my groovy tours, I’ve been offering small group trips to destinations around the world ever since 2012 when I organized my first one to fascinating India. And from the start, the focus has been on providing something very different than your typical group tour.''With these trips, think of it as a bunch of friends exploring the world together.''You won’t be herded around, you won’t travel in big buses and you won’t stay at large tourist hotels that just shuttle big groups in and out every day.''Instead, you’ll get into the heart of a destination, meet people, try the most local dishes, wander through random neighborhoods and explore off-the-beaten track locations beyond the main photo opportunities. Of course, you’ll also visit the major sights along the way too.''These trips are designed to be local, educational and super-fun travel experiences, not cookie-cutter tours that big tour companies run over and over again.''As a result, no two tours are ever the same. We always keep a flexible itinerary at all times because you never know where the journey will lead! This is the core concept of my Wandering Earl Tours.''Travelers of all ages and nationalities are of course welcome to join these trips''! No matter where you’re from or whether you’re 23, 43 or 73, the theory is, “''If you genuinely love travel, you’ll fit right in!''”''And there are only 10 people per tour. It’s an ideal size to hang out and share the adventure with your fellow travelers without being lost in a big crowd.''When it comes to cost, I work hard to ensure that every tour is an incredible value. They always include accommodation, transportation within the destination country, a long list of activities, all entrance and guide fees, excellent meals and plenty of surprises along the way.''You can check out all the details on the''brand new Wandering Earl Tours''website:''WanderingEarlTours.com''So, 2018 here we come! I’m looking forward to it with great excitement and I also look forward to traveling with many of you!''If you have any questions, don’t hesitate to get in touch!''(''A huge thank you to the very talented''Tony Kuehn''for building my brilliant new Wandering Earl Tours website. For web design work, I can’t recommend Tony enough!'')''It turns out that a full-time traveler doesn’t really need much stuff.''One pair of ripped socks. Boxer shorts with a tear in the back (oh my, these are old). A yellow t-shirt with all kinds of Vietnamese soup stains on the front. Two small tin boxes I bought for no reason at an antique shop in India earlier this year. And a blue belt that I hadn’t seen in about 14 months.''That’s a quick glimpse of some of the stuff I just found when I gutted my suitcase this morning in preparation for this post.''In fact, I think it’s the first time I’ve taken absolutely everything out in about two years.''Did I say suitcase? Yes I did.''After spending my first 16 years or so as a full-time traveler using my trusty''Kelty Redwing 44 liter backpack'', I’ve now spent a good portion of the past 2 years traveling around with my''Eagle Creek Load Warrior''42 liter rolling suitcase.''Have I gone mad? Perhaps.''All I know is that this little sturdy suitcase, which is indeed smaller than my Kelty backpack, helps me keep things more organized, it’s super easy to pull along wherever I go and it’s still compact enough to take as a carry-on. And as I get older, that all seems slightly more appealing than carrying my stuff on my back.''I still love my backpack but for the travel I do now, a 42-liter rolling suitcase suits my needs.''What I Pack as a Full-Time Traveler''After''18 years of travel'', one might think that my possessions have gone through a series of transformations based on my travel style or needs. Well, apart from some more advanced technology that I carry today, things really aren’t too different now than from 1999 or 2003 and so on.''I’m not sure if I should be happy, embarrassed or sad about that.''Anyway, here is the complete list…''The Main Bag''3 pairs of shorts''(one gray, one blue, one orange as I spend significant amounts of time in hot weather)''1 swimsuit''(if there’s a beach nearby, I’m going…I actually had 2 swimsuits but some coconut oil leaked through my daypack last month and caused the red material of the bag to stain the swimsuit, so that one had to go)''2 pairs of jeans''(1 blue, 1 black…I’ve tried wearing actual pants but always prefer my jeans in the end)''9 t-shirts''(might sound like more than I need, but this full-time traveler spills a lot of soup on his t-shirts so I always need backups)''1 button down short sleeve shirt''(I love this shirt but only really wear it when I need to look a tad more dressed up, which isn’t too often actually)''1 button down long sleeve shirt''(I’ve been carrying this one around for the past 1.5 years and haven’t worn it once)''1 sweater''(a recent purchase from when I was in Sweden last month and it was quite cold outside…haven’t used it since)''1 navy zipper hoodie''(I wear this ALL the time…in fact, I probably should wash it soon)''Travel towel''(I don’t know…about twice per year I find myself dripping with water and without a proper towel around…that’s when this thin travel towel comes to the rescue)''7 pairs of socks''(you can’t wear flip-flops in European cities during the summer, you’ve got to put on some socks and shoes!)''8 underwear''(yup, I do wear underwear and only one has a hole in it, I think)''1 pair of sandals''(after spending many years only wearing Crocs Modi Flips or Hurley Phantom Free flip-flops, I recently purchased a pair of Sole sandals…oops, big mistake and when I get back to the US in a couple of weeks, I’ll be going back to one of my favorites)''1 pair of New Balance shoes''(I’m a New Balance person – they’re comfortable, durable and they have an “N” for “nomad” on the side)''Sarong''(the one thing I know I’ve carried with me from day 1 as a full-time traveler…it plays so many roles – sheet, beach blanket, bag, sweat rag, clothing, etc)''Amazon basics laundry bag''(super sturdy, rolls up into nothing and well, pretty much does what you’d expect)''Shoe brush''(with only 1 pair of shoes, they can get dirty, so from time to time I give them a scrub down…unfortunately, it doesn’t help remove the car oil stains that I somehow got on my shoes)''Bar of soap''(some guesthouses/hotels/hostels/apartments don’t provide soap and I’ve realized this way too many times after getting under the water in the shower…so, I carry my own just in case)''Ohuhu toiletry bag''(the best one I’ve found by far…fits everything, remains compact and is super easy to clean…why I need to carry around 3 things of deodorant is a different story)''Philips electric toothbrush''(last year I made the switch to an electric toothbrush and naturally, it was a great decision… here’s a tip for travelers though…I went with Philips because it can be charged anywhere overseas…the ones from Braun require a voltage converter)''Contact lenses and contact lens solution''(kind of a necessity)''Bag of money''(not as exciting as that sounds…just a pile of currency from countries I think I might visit again soon…or just a pile of money that is getting dirtier and smellier as time goes on)''Small medicine pack''(ibuprofen, Claritin, paracetamol…actually, I can’t find this thing right now so I might have lost it)''2 tiny tin boxes''(no idea what I’m going to do with these things, probably just carry them around for a few years)''The Small Bag''In terms of a small bag, a couple of years ago I made the switch to a''Timbuk2 messenger bag''. For me, it’s more comfortable and holds everything I need in a more organized manner. And it’s red, which apparently nobody wants, because it was on sale for about 50% off the regular price.''Here’s what’s inside:''MacBook Pro laptop''(can’t travel/work without it, and after 5 years, it’s still going strong)''Kindle''(lately I haven’t been reading as much as I wish but do you have any book recommendations?)''Samsung Galaxy S7''(it’s my phone and my camera these days)''Credit card holders''(I don’t use a wallet…I stuff money and the cards I need each day into my pocket…what I don’t need, I keep in these two things…no idea why I don’t use a different system…any good travel wallet recommendations?)''Pouch for SIM cards''(when I saw this felt pouch in a tiny store in Karakol,''Kyrgyzstan''a few years ago, I thought to myself, “''That would be a perfect SIM card holder''”…well, not quite like that but I liked the pouch and that’s what it has become)''Symphonized NRG 3.0 earbuds''(My''Symphonized earbuds''are one of my best ever gear purchases…for $25, the sound quality is simply awesome and as a bonus, I actually just used them last night as ear plugs due to the barking dogs and naying horses outside the window – don’t ask)''Business cards''(Ah yes…I’ve been carrying around a couple of hundred business cards since 2012 and have probably handed out a grand total of 9)''ButterFox electronic gear case''(it all fits inside – chargers, wireless mouse, small HDMI cable, plug adapters, laptop screen cleaner and these colorful little rubber twisty tie things that I thought would be useful but which I’ve never used)''And finally, I also carry around…''Passport''(completely worn out, partly torn and with three extra sets of pages inside, two of which are sewn in and one which is taped in…talk about suspicious)''Yellow Fever certificate''(only needed to use this once but good to have)''Sunglasses''(for the first 35 years of my life, I never wore sunglasses but the last 5 years, I’ve worn them almost every day)''Pen''(high-quality little pen I bought at a random pen shop in Singapore about 4 years ago)''USB stick''(no idea what’s on this thing)''That’s everything!''Total weight:''Suitcase''– 11 kg / 24 lbs''Daypack''– 5 kg / 13 lbs''And while all of the above might sound like a significant amount of stuff, here’s what it all looks like when nicely packed up:''Final Notes on Packing''Carry on or checked luggage?''My current setup, whether with the backpack or suitcase, can always be taken as a carry-on. I usually take it as a carry-on if I am flying direct. If I have a layover somewhere, I check my backpack or suitcase simply because I don’t like to lug it around the airport. But I’ve never had any issues with size or weight when taking it as a carry-on, including on many budget airlines in Europe, Asia and Africa.''The good and the bad of packing light''Pros:''My life fits into one small bag. It’s pretty simple, everything I need as a full-time traveler is right there and I can pack up and go in minutes if I’m being chased by local authorities …um, or I just suddenly decide to head to a new destination. There is also a sense of freedom involved with having such few possessions and having that ability to move around the globe so easily without having to think of what to do with excess stuff.''Cons:''On the other hand, sometimes I wouldn’t mind some extra stuff. Another shirt or another pair of shoes, for example. I don’t need them but when you’re on the road for this long, some added variety wouldn’t hurt. Also, whenever I see something that I’d like to purchase, something that would look great in my home, I have to remind myself that I’m a full-time traveler that lives out of my suitcase and that there is no room in there for cool Moroccan lamps or a hand-woven Pakistani carpet.''Packing cubes''A friend and I have been going back and forth recently about the benefits of packing cubes. He sees a ton of benefits. I see zero benefits. I know they’re a popular thing but when a bag is all packed up with packing cubes, to me it just looks like my suitcase when it is all packed up, except that there are these cubes that now need to be opened in order for me to reach my stuff. Why have that extra step?''Is the above really all I own?''Pretty much, yes. I do have one box in a closet at my mom’s place that is filled with some extra clothes and a few gifts I’ve purchased for myself while traveling but I haven’t looked at it in a long time. It’s probably full of bugs. Apart from that, all of my possessions are literally in my suitcase and messenger bag.''So, the question is, could you live out of a suitcase? How do you pack, or think you’d pack, for your travels?''It might sound unbelievable but I’ve actually traveled the world for 18 years without doing anything special.''When I started my travels in 1999, I was about as much of an ultra-budget backpacker as one could possibly be. All of my simple belongings easily fit into my original 44 liter''durable Kelty Redwing backpack'', to begin with. Combine that with a travel style that involved nothing more than constant on the go planning, hostel dorm rooms and trying to do everything without spending any money at all, and that pretty much sums up my first couple of years on the road.''It was a glorious period of my travels.''With nothing to worry about and nothing to look up online before I moved on to the next destination, I was free to simply be present every minute of every day, wherever I happened to find myself and without being locked in to anything.''All I did during those initial years of travel was rely on conversations with other travelers and with locals. That was all it took to find accommodation, places to eat, the local bus station, things to do and so on. I also had very few, if any, responsibilities. So I was happily able to accept whatever happened to me each day and wherever I ended up without any worries at all.''Of course, I had very little money to spend too as I was earning almost nothing most of the time.''But that was a time before the internet boom, a time when we weren’t constantly bombarded with “''Top 10 Things to Do in Guatemala''” or “''Where You MUST Travel Next''” posts popping up everywhere. There were no checklists or bucket lists. It didn’t matter what you saw or what you ate as you traveled the world. Just ‘being’ there was enough. The rewards came on their own.''SUMMARY 1999 – 2002''Travel Style:''Ultra-budget backpacker''Income:''Teaching English, volunteering (no income but no expenses), short stint in the US as a substitute teacher''The Cruise Ship Years''About 2 years into my travels, life took an unexpected path.''I ended up working on board cruise ships as a Tour Manager. It all happened out of nowhere after a friend recommended I work on ships and I was put in touch with a contact at the head office of Carnival Cruise Lines.''Suddenly, I was earning and saving good money while working 4-6 month contracts, seeing dozens of new places, gaining some excellent managerial work experience, meeting tons of new people and then enjoying long vacations in between contracts where I was able to travel to lands far and wide. It seemed too good to be true – saving money while catching a glimpse of Caribbean islands, Hawaii, Norwegian fjords and Iceland, Italy, Spain and Greece, Central America, Canada and ports as far off as Auckland, New Zealand, American Samoa and Cochin, India.''It was an ideal set up. In fact, I ended up working on ships for about 4.5 years over an 8 year period. Eventually, I resigned from ‘ship life’ in 2008 simply because the set up was too good. If I didn’t get out then, I was going to be stuck on ships forever. And while I loved the lifestyle and the benefits, I also had other things I wanted to achieve in life that required me to be on land.''SUMMARY 2002 – 2008''Travel Style:''Cruise ship crew member / budget backpacker during vacations''Income:''Monthly salary during my contracts / able to save 90% of what I earned''The Online Years''After I finally decided to end my cruise ship career in 2008, it was right around the time when the initial whispers about ‘working online’ began to surface. So, I finished my last ship contract and took off for a 6-month visit to Melbourne, Australia, where I decided to rent a room in a shared house and give this working online thing a try.''I hunkered down and spent several months writing an eBook designed to help cruise ship passengers enhance their cruise vacations, using all of the knowledge I gained working in the industry.''A couple of hours after publishing the finished product online, I sold my first copy. I couldn’t believe it.''So, I sat down to write a second eBook with a friend. We completed it in two months but this one didn’t work. It never sold.''I then chose to experiment with the world of affiliate marketing after coming across''Affilorama’s''detailed course, and I soon found some success. There certainly wasn’t much competition back then so it was easier to make progress more quickly with this kind of work.''With these two (small) successes under my belt, I decided to travel around Thailand, India and Central America for a few months and then spend eight weeks living in Sayulita, Mexico to figure out the next step. This was in 2010.''And while in this small, quiet Mexican town, right in between surfing sessions that involved 94% painful crashes and 6% actual wave riding, that’s when I started''WanderingEarl.com''.''Over the next 1.5 years, I would then work nonstop on the blog, unsure of where it would lead but truly enjoying every minute I spent on the site and associated social media. My motivation grew to the point where, after receiving so many questions from readers of the blog interested in working on cruise ships as well, I sat down and wrote another eBook, naturally called,''How to Work on Cruise Ships''.''At the beginning of 2012, I completed my third eBook,''How to Live a Life of Travel'', which I released on the blog soon after.''And so my online work began to grow.''SUMMARY 2008 – 2012''Travel Style:''Medium-budget backpacker''Income:''Sales of three eBooks, affiliate marketing, blogging''The Recent Years''At the end of 2012, I offered my first''Wandering Earl Tour''. This tour to India sold out in less than 2 days. Then in 2013, I offered 3 trips, one to Mexico and two to India.''After seeing the interest in and success of these first few tours, I decided to put more energy into this aspect of my work. And now over the past couple of years I’ve been offering anywhere from 6-10 trips per year, to over a dozen destinations. I’ve also organized many private tours to various countries for families and groups of friends.''Given the continued positive feedback of all these trips, as well as the number of repeat customers I’ve had, I’ve decided to offer 15 small group trips in total for 2018. (More about these trips in a post next week!)''In addition to the tours, I still have some affiliate links on my blog as a way to earn some extra income. An example of this is my''Travel Gear''page. On occasion, I also work with various travel-related companies in a partnership format where I earn a certain amount of money in exchange for promoting their product or service. I don’t do this often though as I’m quite picky about what I promote. My goal is to promote something that is truly valuable and useful for those who follow the blog and social media, not to simply earn as much money as I can by promoting anything that comes my way. I actually turn down 95% of the offers that appear in my inbox.''The last way I earn some money right now is through consulting.''I’ve worked with over a dozen travel bloggers as well as a few dozen tourism-related businesses and organizations (guesthouses, tour operators, tourism boards, etc.) by providing them with a detailed strategy to help them achieve their goals based on my extensive knowledge of the industry. It’s a fun side gig as I really enjoy working with such diverse people and constantly learning what’s happening all over the world in terms of travel trends, blog ideas, business ideas and tourism campaigns.''SUMMARY 2012 – 2017''Travel Style:''Medium-budget local travel / Mix of semi-organized travels, spontaneous trips and the tours I lead''Income:''eBook sales, affiliate marketing, partnerships, Wandering Earl Tours, consulting''My Travels Today''These days, I no longer backpack around in the same way I used to when I first traveled the world 18 years ago. I could blame it on all the information online that makes me feel as if I need to be more informed or makes me feel that I need to book everything in advance and so on, but that would be silly since I play a role in that myself. Things just change, and I’m totally cool with that. I don’t mind doing some research now, looking for the best deals and booking various aspects of my travels ahead of time.''Actually, I think the change has more to do with the responsibilities I have at this point in life – work, bills, a wonderful relationship, etc. I need to be a little more organized and I need to make sure I am able to stay as focused as possible with my current life situation and work. So if I can have some things in order before I arrive somewhere, it certainly helps me adjust more quickly and to maintain the balance I need.''Don’t get me wrong. My girlfriend and I still do show up in certain destinations without much of a plan at all, such as with our recent visits to Albania, Montenegro, Croatia and Hungary. That won’t ever change as we do love that style of travel!''But overall, we do tend to have more of a plan, or at least some bookings made. We’re still medium-budget travelers, just in a different way.''Everything evolves, including one’s needs and goals and one’s travel style. If you stay true to yourself though, there’s no reason why this should be a negative thing.''And finally, here’s the real beauty of all the above…''Not a day goes by where I don’t feel fortunate to have somehow ended up in this crazy lifestyle that involves more travel than I know what to do with. At the same time,''not a day goes by where I don’t realize that my story, such as the summary above, is nothing special at all.''It’s a story that anyone could live.''Determination, a willingness to constantly learn and an inability to accept anything less than the achievement of my goals is really all that was required.''Are those not things that we can all summon from within? I hear more examples of it every single day so I know it’s fully possible!''How have you made travel possible? For those starting out, any questions or ideas to share?''A guide to Mauritius for those looking for a different kind of travel experience…''For 3 weeks we stayed on this island. We spent one week in the small beach town of Flic en Flac and then we rented an apartment for two weeks in the smaller beach town of Trou aux Biches, towards the north.''This marked the fourth Indian Ocean destination we’ve visited since the end of last year. And each one –''Maldives, Zanzibar, Seychelles and Mauritius''– certainly had its own unique flavor.''The''impressive Maldives''is the kind of place you go to be ‘wowed’,''exotic Zanzibar''is where you go for a more ‘raw’ tropical island experience, the''mind-blowing Seychelles''is where you find ‘indescribable paradise’ and Mauritius…''That’s where you go to chill for a bit in a completely beautiful natural setting. It’s a great destination for a laid-back, extended holiday where you can relax in a tropical, hassle-free location or as an ideal place to stop moving around for a while and catch up on your online work (which is why we came here).''Mauritius is definitely the most livable of the Indian Ocean destinations we’ve visited, with 1.3 million people on an island 2000 sq kilometers in size and with plenty of small towns, big towns and even a city (Port Louis) to enjoy.''It’s also the most affordable, which is why we chose it for our ‘catch up on work, three week stay’.''Let me break it down with this short guide to Mauritius…''Beaches''Okay, I’m sorry Mauritius, but your beaches are nowhere near as gorgeous as those in the Seychelles. With that said, most of your beaches are nice for sure and the beach at Trou aux Biches was definitely stunning, with it’s attractive water, long stretch of while sand flanked by palm trees and holiday villas and only a scattering of people most of the time. This was our favorite beach by far. It also offered one of the most surreal collections of daily sunsets I’ve ever seen.''There are beaches everywhere in Mauritius, so as you drive around the coast, you can stop in every town and check out their public beach if you wanted to. You’re bound to find your own favorite beach before long!''On Sundays, especially in Flac en Flac, the beaches become mini-parties as large and small groups of family and friends hang out wherever they can find space, with music, dancing and barbecues creating a most lively and festive scene.''Activities''We hired a car twice, covering two weekends. And in four days, we managed to drive to every corner of the island, easily. From the very north to the very south, you’re looking at a 1.5 hour trip so in one day, you can really see a great deal.''Le Morne''– a rocky mountain peninsula that’s a protected UNESCO site, and the location of an excellent hike that takes you to the top; stop halfway up (before you pass the green fence), head two minutes down the path away from the mountain and you will be treated with one of the most spectacular landscapes you’ll see anywhere in the world; the parking lot and start of the path is easy to find and there’s no entrance fee''Chamarel''– this town in the south of the country is home to a few highlights, including the unique and picturesque''7 Couloured Earths'', a natural area that has 7 different colors of sand that somehow don’t mix and also don’t erode''There’s also the impressive''Chamarel waterfall''and the''Rhumerie de Chamarel''(Rum Factory) where 370 MUR (about $11 USD) gets you a short tour and a taste of 9 different rums.''Black River Gorges National Park''– this area is full of hiking opportunities and is even worth a drive through if you don’t have time for a hike; on Sundays the road is very crowded but you can also pull over and join the locals picking wild berries all over the place; no entrance fee to enter the park''Bois de Cheri Tea Factory''– a most stunningly situated location where you can try about 10 different types of locally made tea while sitting on a balcony starting out over the tea plantations; the tea was okay but it was worth it just for the view''Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam Botanical Garden''– having found this place while searching the travel photo website''Trover''(which I used as my guide to Mauritius), we loved these gardens; you could easily spend a couple of hours in here wandering the paths and checking out the various sections, all loaded with trees, plants, lakes and more, creating a serene and enjoyable escape from the heat; entrance costs 200 MUR ($6 USD) per person''Port Louis''– the capital city and most bustling location on the island was worth a visit; from the harbor area to the Central Market full of all kinds of local foods to the busy streets offering a glimpse into the non-beachy side of the country, a day here will either be a welcome change or too much to handle if you’re get too used to the laid-back beach towns!''Getting Around''You can get around the island by local bus but if you really want to see the highlights and explore as many interior and coastal regions as you can, renting a car is the way to go. While the roads are very narrow and sometimes it seems like you’re spending your entire day entering and exiting roundabouts, it’s still an easy country to drive around, the signage is great and it’s pretty hard to get lost on such a small island.''Renting a car cost us 25 Euros per day, insurance included, from local car rental agencies in the towns we visited. It was hassle-free both times. For about 800 Mauritian rupees ($23 USD) at the petrol station, we had enough fuel to drive all over the island for 2-3 days.''Accommodation''In Flic en Flac, we stayed at''Villa Osumare'', a great guesthouse with large rooms in a tropical setting, only 5 minutes from the beach and center of town, for around 40 Euros per night. It was quiet, friendly and there’s an adorable group of puppies across the street that will add a smile to your face every time you come and go (trust me, we spent hours playing with and feeding these puppies!).''For our 2 week stay in Trou aux Biches, we rented an apartment at''Villa Alexis''. For around $50 per night, we had a modern 2 bedroom place with comfortable beds, a small living room, nice kitchen, washing machine, huge balcony and good internet. It was also a 1 minute walk from the beach and supermarket and 5 minutes from a handful of good restaurants.''Costs''When compared to the Seychelles, which can still be done on a budget, the country of Mauritius is indeed cheaper. Good accommodation near the beach, as you see above, can be found for 40 – 50 Euros per night, maybe even less for a simpler room or apartment. Meals at normal restaurants can be had for as little as $12 USD for 2 people and for $16 USD or so, you can throw in drinks and a starter.''Also, most of the activities either don’t cost any money at all or have only a very modest entrance fee. We pretty much only spent money on accommodation, food and the rental car.''We went to the supermarket and the local fruit and vegetable stand where a total of $7 or $8 USD would get us enough stuff for a few breakfasts and a couple of lunches at our apartment.''You could easily spend a month in Mauritius for $1000 per person, which is not bad for a tropical island nation in the middle of the Indian Ocean!''Getting There''Given that my itinerary probably isn’t the one you’re going to take to get to/from Mauritius, I can’t say too much about flight prices. We flew from Seychelles to Mauritius and then from Mauritius to Tunisia and all of that cost about $700 USD. What I did notice is that Eurowings Airlines (which is what we flew from Mauritius to Cologne, Germany and then to Tunisia), offered the cheapest airfares by far to/from Europe. We paid a mere $434 per person from Mauritius to Tunisia, which involved a total of 15 hours of flight time.''Other airlines that fly to Mauritius include Condor, Emirates, Turkish, Singapore, South African and Air India.''Chocolat!!''One morning, my girlfriend was on her way to the beach when she saw a man abandoning, and then kicking, a tiny puppy on the side of the road. She went over and saved the puppy and brought her back to our apartment, where we spent the morning taking care of her. If we had a home and weren’t traveling full time, without a doubt we would have adopted her. But since that wasn’t an option, we drove across the island to the''PAWS location in Union Vale''(Protection of Animal Welfare Society) and asked them to take her in. Despite being full, the kind staff eventually agreed.''On our final day in Mauritius, we went back to Union Vale to visit our sweet friend and we were very happy to see that''Chocolat''(that’s what the staff had named her – French version) was looking so happy herself, and perfectly healthy. We were able to play around with her for an hour before we had to say goodbye.''If you happen to know anyone in or out of Mauritius looking to adopt a little puppy, the calm, curious and beautiful Chocolat is waiting for a home at PAWS! And if you visit Mauritius and love animals, you can always stop by PAWS and spend some time with the animals they are taking care.''That’s my short guide to Mauritius. If you have any questions about the island, please let me know in the comments or by email and I’d be happy to answer!''Is Mauritius on your list of places to visit? Have you been to Mauritius?''With the second episode of my new travel video series, I find myself high up on a rock in Mauritius, staring out at one of the most impressive landscapes I’ve ever come across in all my travels. We were hiking up the peninsula known as Le Morne when we suddenly decided to walk down a random path that veered off to the right.''That’s the path that led us to the spectacular 360 degree view, with mountains, valleys and the Indian Ocean all around us.''Here is that view, as well as a few details about my stay in Mauritius…''Thank you for watching “Welcome to My Life of Travel”!''A couple of months ago, when I asked readers of Wandering Earl what you wanted to see more of from me, the top response was “more videos and podcasts”. It’s now time for me to start doing just that!''I am happy to introduce my new series – “''Welcome to My Life of Travel''“.''Here’s the intro video I just made today that explains exactly what this travel series is all about…''Thanks for watching and more videos coming soon!''Derek''In March, as many of you might have known from my recent blog and social media posts, I traveled to my dream destination for my 40th birthday.''That dream destination was the Seychelles, a tiny nation in the Indian Ocean consisting of 115 islands and home to only 89,000 people.''I’ll come right out and say it…if you don’t have a dream destination, make it the Seychelles. Really.''It’s like being in one giant, never-ending fantasy''from the moment your plane begins its final descent and little islands start appearing down below.''This place is tropical paradise in every sense. I’ve never seen a paradise quite like this, with perfect, and I mean PERFECT, white-sand beaches everywhere, and I mean EVERYWHERE, with gorgeous, lush jungle covering the semi-mountainous island interiors, and a truly laid-back, we’re in the middle-of-nowhere island vibe.''So, how do I talk about the Seychelles?''I could write a lengthy guide, but I don’t think it’s necessary.''I’m just going to give you the main details of how you can visit this destination for far less money than you probably imagine.''After that there are photos,''plenty of photos below'', that will take you on a journey through this paradise!''Here’s a teaser…''Seychelles Overview''The main island is''Mahe''. It’s the largest and most built up and this is where the main airport is located. We only spent 1 night here as we were more interested in the smaller islands that are home to some of the best beaches but it was still splendid. We spent the evening in Beau Vallon, watching the sunset from the beach, and realizing that, holy crap, we were actually in the Seychelles.''The second largest island is''Praslin'', and it’s small, at only 38 square kilometers and with only 7500 residents. Its interior is all jungle (some of the most spectacular I’ve ever seen) and its beaches range from beautiful to unbelievably mind-blowingly beautiful. There’s also a good amount of places to eat, lots of shops to buy supplies and it’s an easy island to rent a car to buzz around.''The third main island is''La Digue''and this island is a mere speck. There’s only 1800 people living on it and apart from a handful of cars, everyone gets around on bicycle. You can bike across the island in less than 20 minutes. It’s also gorgeous in every way imaginable. The beaches were some of the most dazzling and exquisite beaches I’ve ever stepped foot on during my years of travel. (More about that below.) The atmosphere was also supremely laid-back and everywhere you looked was another breathtaking view, whether it be of white sand, turquoise water, thick jungle or other islands in the distance.''There are plenty of other islands too. You can see them everywhere. For our 12 day trip though, we stuck to the above three.''How Much Does It Cost?''The Seychelles is the kind of destination that is, without a doubt, worth every single dollar or euro or pound or kroner you spend on your trip. Of course, you still want to make sure you don’t spend all of your money and if you can do it all on a budget, then even better!''When I started thinking about a trip to the Seychelles, I assumed this country would be cost-prohibitive for anyone but the wealthiest segment of society. Luckily, this turned out to be completely wrong and so I continued planning.''Is it a cheap destination? Not at all. But it doesn’t have to be insanely expensive either.''Flights:''From North America, airfare can range from $800 – $1500 USD. From Europe, on certain charter airlines, you can apparently fly here for as low as 600 Euros return at times. You could also get creative. Flights from Dubai, Qatar and even Nairobi to the Seychelles can be cheap so you could find an inexpensive flight to one of those locations and then another flight onward to the Seychelles. We flew from Nairobi to Seychelles for a mere $150 USD one way.''Accommodation:''You can book a room on Mahe, Praslin or La Digue for as little as $50 USD per night (simple rooms in simple guesthouses) and you can book rooms for $2000 per night, and everywhere in between. As an example, on Praslin Island,''we stayed at the excellent''Villa Anse La Blague''for 5 nights. For around $120 USD per night, the rooms were super comfortable, the large balcony had a sea view, the local family running the place were amazing people and the food that came out of their kitchen was some of the best we had in the Seychelles. A great breakfast was included too. The Villa was also located in a quiet, secluded corner of the island, only steps away from two awesome beaches, yet it was also only a short distance from everything else we wanted to see on Praslin. It’s not a hostel price but for what you get, and to be in the remote paradise that is the Seychelles, it’s a great value and very reasonable.''Food:''Normal sit-down restaurants (nothing fancy) cost about $20 – $30 USD per person. Yes, that’s a little on the pricey side for budget travel. But the three main islands also have plenty of “''Take-Aways''”, local eateries that cook up a collection of fresh dishes each day. You choose from the dishes in the buffet display and for about $4 or $5 you have a full local meal, usually two mains and some rice and salad. We probably ate at the Take-Aways for 60% of our meals and other restaurants for the remainder. Overall, dining can indeed be cheap here and some of the better food we had was actually from these cheaper options.''Activities:''Beach hopping costs nothing and could keep you busy for weeks in the Seychelles. That’s pretty much how we spent our time. We did rent bicycles on La Digue throughout our stay there ($7 per day) and a car one day on Praslin ($40 USD) but apart from that, it didn’t cost anything to bounce from one unbelievable beach to another unbelievable beach, and then to yet another unbelievable beach. If you want to take a catamaran trip, go fishing, visit some of the outer islands, etc., it will cost around 75 – 200 Euros per person for a half or full day trip. But again, in the 12 days we were there, between the pristine beaches, biking through the jungle and exploring by foot, our days were full and we didn’t have time for anything else. Seychelles is known for the world’s best beaches so if you stick with that, you won’t be spending much money on activities at all.''Ferries:''To get around the islands, you’ll need to take the ferry. The main ferry company,''Cat Cocos'', offers twice daily trips from Mahe to La Digue, via Praslin. The cost is about $60 USD per person and it takes 1.5 hours to reach Praslin and another 15 minutes to reach La Digue. Make sure you book your spot in advance though as the ferries do fill up. You can easily book online and print out your tickets. The smaller company,''Cat Rose'', runs several trips per day between La Digue and Praslin for around $20 USD per person.''So that’s the guide. That’s really all you need to know. It’s easy once you get there since the islands are tiny, the people friendly and paradise is literally everywhere you look. And if you haven’t realized it yet, I mean EVERYWHERE!''23 Photos of the Seychelles (aka Paradise)''Let me take you on a photographic journey…''As our flight from Nairobi descended towards the airport in''Mahe'', islands began appearing below…''We arrived at our guesthouse and spent the evening in''Beau Vallon''…''The following morning we boarded the ferry to the island of''La Digue''where we landed in the center of pretty much the only village on the island…''Renting bicycles for the next five days, we biked all over the island, criss-crossing the jungle almost every day…''We visited''Source d’Argent beach'', often ranked as the most beautiful beach in the world (get up early and bike there before 8am to be the only people on this beach!)…''And then on the other side of La Digue, there was''Grand Anse'', gorgeous and absolutely ideal for swimming…''Hike along the path behind Grand Anse, up the hill and back down again and you arrive at the even more stunning,''Petite Anse''…''On La Digue, if you head to the north, you’ll pass''Anse Severe''(certainly no slouch of a beach!)…''As well as views like this…''And every evening, this was the sunset from our balcony, looking straight out at the island of Praslin…''On Praslin Island, we spent 6 days at the wonderful''Villa Anse La Blague''…''The guesthouse was only minutes from Praslin’s''Petit Anse beach''…''Everywhere we looked was a crazy beautiful view…''And then there was''Anse Lazio'', the beach that is always considered one of the best in the Seychelles…''Cote d’Or''wasn’t such a bad beach either…''And then the almost too perfect''Anse Georgette'', which we visited on our final day and which required a decent hike to reach (one of several beaches that are only accessible by foot)…oh yeah I loved this beach!''After visiting Anse Georgette, we made it back to a barely noticeable, 5 meter wide stretch of beach near our guesthouse that offered the most perfect final sunset before we left the Seychelles the following morning…''We left Praslin by plane, flying to Mahe before continuing our onward journey. It was a very small plane and being in the front row afforded us this view…''That’s paradise. And it really can be affordable.''Any questions? If you need any information about traveling here, just get in touch!''A trip to Zanzibar…that exotic, mysterious land.''Never did I think I would make it to this island off the coast of mainland Tanzania but somehow, like most of my travels, it just happened.''After bouncing around Kenya and Tanzania for a while, it was time to take it easy and catch up on work, and Zanzibar seemed like a logical, and nearby, option. All we hoped for was a relatively quiet beach in a tropical setting, close to a local village, and where accommodation wasn’t too expensive.''And it didn’t take long to find our ideal setup. For two whole nights at least.''The place we chose to stay at is the''Promised Land Lodge'', located on the very southern tip of Zanzibar. Beautiful setting on the wild coast, large jungle bungalows on a cliff overlooking the shining water, great local food, hammocks, a beach bar, a nice swimming pool and the village of Kizimkazi only 20 minutes walk away.''For $50 per night, with breakfast included, we were truly giddy over this gem of a find.''So, after two nights there, we packed up and left.''This is the downside of working online. The location of this lodge proved to be one of the last spots on Zanzibar without 3G internet coverage, so our SIM cards and data packages were useless. The internet provided at the lodge, as expected, didn’t work too well either. As a result, it was quite difficult for us to get our work done and we had no choice but to leave.''Off we went, quite bummed, in search of another option.''You can then imagine our surprise when, amazingly, with very little research and a lot of luck, we found another accommodation setup that rivaled, or at least matched, what Promised Land had offered.''Suddenly, our trip to Zanzibar took us to the village of Jambiani, on the southeast coast, where we happily threw down our bags at the welcoming and idyllic''Mango Beach House''.''We stayed here for eleven nights. And it was absolutely perfect.''Here’s how our stay went down…''Jambiani''If you’re looking for a quiet white sand beach with a laid-back vibe, local village life, perfect sunrises, warm ocean water, a good scattering of places to eat and that feeling of being in paradise, Jambiani is the place to go. I’ll admit that we didn’t really explore too many other parts of Zanzibar but once we found this ideal corner, we were more than happy to stay put.''The Beach''What a crazy, beautiful beach! I have never, in all my travels, seen the ocean act as weirdly as it did in Zanzibar. In Jambiani at least, the tide would be one kilometer out when low and then, in what seemed like a remarkably fast period of time, the tide would suddenly be high, very high, covering almost all of the beach. And the colors changed all day long, with such an impressive array of blues and greens sparkling away. It was strange, mesmerizing and spectacular all at the same time.''When the tide was high, this beach was great for swimming. The only downside, at least in March, is that the water temperature was basically ‘hot’.''Go swimming in the morning though, before 9am, and in the evening, around 6pm, and it will be cooler at those times, offering a refreshing way to start and end your day!''Accommodation''There are probably 20 or so accommodation options to choose from along the three kilometers of Jambiani beachfront, ranging from inexpensive, basic rooms in a simple house (around $25 USD per night) to nicer guesthouses with tropical settings and more comfortable rooms (around $50 – $60 per night) and all the way up to fancier bungalows and hotels for $90 – $200 USD per night.''We must have checked out 15 of these places in our search for accommodation. In the end, though, as soon as we stepped through the gate of the''Mango Beach House'', we knew it was the place for us.''The local owner, Kiddo, was super kind, the rooms were spacious, colorful, airy, well-decorated and with a clear view of the ocean, the grounds were filled with palm trees and flowers, there were swinging beds, lounge chairs and raised platforms to hang out on and there was a cozy open-air cafe and restaurant.''Here’s a quick video tour I created:''The place was spotless, the entire team of four staff were extremely helpful and there were only four rooms, making it feel almost like a private retreat.''At around $50 USD per night (for 2 people), with breakfast included and a common kitchen to use, it was by far the best deal that we found in Jambiani. If I ever take another trip to Zanzibar, this is exactly where I would stay again.''Dining''At the Mango Beach House, like at most small accommodation on Zanzibar, if you let the staff know ahead of time that you want dinner, the in-house chef will cook you up some dishes. From fresh seafood to vegetable curries to grilled chicken, salads and more, for about $8 USD per person, we had an excellent evening feast several times.''On other nights, and for most lunches, we would venture out into the village or along the beach where we found:''Local restaurants''($5 – $7 USD per person)''–''Stone Culture''was our favorite, right next to Mango Beach Guesthouse…we came here 4 or 5 times for inexpensive, tasty local dishes cooked by the friendly owner/chef''–''Pishi Restaurant''in the center of the village was another decent, cheap option''Other hotel restaurants''($7 – $10 per person)''– The food at the''Mamamapambo Boutique Hotel''was wonderful, and great value, especially for lunch…try the masala iced tea and you’ll end up coming back every day (located next door to Mango Beach Guesthouse)''Western food''($5 – $10 per person)''–''Bahari Pizza''is an Italian owned place with a perfect spot on the beach, great pizzas, excellent service and plenty of other quality dishes''–''Mr. Kahawa''in Paje (the next village up the beach, about 5 kms from Jambiani) serves fresh and delicious sandwiches, salads, wraps, fruit juices, coffees and pastries in a funky, minimalist beach cafe setting''Those are all the places where we ate. Not a ton of options, but definitely enough for a two week stay!''The Village''Jambiani is small and quiet, with about 1500 people spread out along a three kilometer stretch of beach. It’s a collection of sandy ‘roads’ and narrow sandy paths that weave between very simple homes and huts, some small shops and fruit stands and several mosques. The people are generally friendly, especially the younger generation who seem to have had more contact with foreigners. The locals working in the guesthouses and restaurants are really friendly and you can easily have a conversation with any of them. They are more than happy to discuss local life and answer any questions.''The village, like most of Zanzibar, is conservative and all local females have their arms and legs covered while outside. Most females, including young girls, also have their hair covered. Nobody seemed to mind travelers wearing more western clothing but you’ll definitely stand out and receive plenty of stares if you don’t dress somewhat conservatively while walking around the village. You don’t need to put on pants and a long sleeve shirt but wrapping a sarong around yourself while in the village seemed to be the method of choice.''On the beach itself, things were more relaxed and swimsuits were much more acceptable. Nobody appeared to mind beach clothing being worn at the beach.''We would go for a walk through the village once or twice per day more or less, usually to pop into a small store to buy water, snacks or bananas and to grab a local dinner. There isn’t much to do in the village apart from that but interacting with the kids, shopkeepers and others in the streets was always good fun while out and about.''Nearby Activities''Paje''– The next village up the beach, here you’ll find a wider stretch of white sand, a smaller village, a lot of kitesurfing schools and a lot more foreigners. We preferred Jambiani but I did enjoy the 1 hour walk along the beach up to Paje every now and then for a change of scenery. You can also take a taxi for around 10000 TSH ($3 USD).''Jozani Forest''– About 15 minutes by car away from Jambiani, this forest/national park is one of the last places in the world where you can encounter the red colobus monkeys.''You can always rent a car for around $30 USD per day to drive to other parts of the island. There are plenty of more beaches and villages out there than Jambiani so a couple of day trips would be a great option for those looking to explore during their trip to Zanzibar. Other popular areas are Nungwi (way up on the northern tip of Zanzibar), Matemwe (northeast coast), Pongwe (east coast) and Bweeju (about 11 kilometers north of Jambiani).''Additional Details''Internet''– If you need internet like we do (to work every day!), the connections offered at most accommodation will be very poor at best. However, if you buy a SIM card in Zanzibar City (the capital and main entry point of Zanzibar), you can get solid 3G connection if you’re staying in an actual village on the island, such as Jambiani. We found''Airtel''offered the most reliable service on the island and was quite inexpensive (3 GB for around $8 USD).''Taxi costs''– Getting from Zanzibar City/Stone Town to Jambiani or Kizimkazi or pretty much any of the main beach areas on the north, east or southern coast should cost between $25 – $40 USD. A taxi from the airport to the center of Stone Town should cost around $8 – $12 USD. There are also local trucks/vans that have set routes around the island. Often very crowded and much slower than a taxi, they are indeed cheap, allowing you to travel a good distance for just a dollar or two. If you do plan to visit many parts of the island during your trip to Zanzibar, you might want to look at renting a car instead of using taxis as it will save you a good amount of money.''Tours and activities''– If you’re looking to be more active than just sitting on the beach, there’s a long list of possible activities on Zanzibar, including snorkeling, diving, surfing, kitesurfing, dolphin trips, fishing, visiting outer islands, spice tours and more. Plenty of people will approach you on the beaches offering such tours. Keep in mind that these people are just middlemen and usually not connected in any way to the company that actually offers the activity. It’s worth talking to the staff at your hotel or guesthouse as they should have direct contacts with reliable tour operators, boatmen, drivers, etc and it avoids huge markups. It’s also perfectly acceptable to negotiate the price for any tour/activity.''Money''– The main currency is the Tanzanian shilling but many prices are quoted in USD or Euros as well. Keep in mind that the only ATMs on the island are in Zanzibar City/Stone Town so it’s best to take out local currency there before you head off to your beach location. Otherwise, you’ll need to travel 45+ minutes back to Zanzibar City every time you need money and that can cost $60 USD roundtrip by taxi. Money exchange options are also limited on the beaches (Jambiani didn’t have any!) so if you don’t have enough local currency, you’ll have to pay in USD or Euros. Some restaurants and accommodation will accept visa credit cards but do add on a 3%-5% bank fee.''Stone Town''– We also stayed in Stone Town, which is the old section of Zanzibar City, the capital of Zanzibar. And it’s definitely worth visiting. We spent one night there when we first arrived on Zanzibar and two nights at the end. You can spend an entire day getting lost in the winding maze of lanes, eating lunch at the excellent''Lukmaan Restaurant'', visiting the educational former slave market, spending time inside the House of Wonders (aka''the best worst museum in the world''), wandering through the colorful main market and enjoying a refreshing drink on the beach at sunset. It’s a cool place to hang out for a couple of days.''In Stone Town we stayed at the incredibly friendly and comfortable''Zenji Hotel''and at the more centrally-located''Tausi Palace''. Both were excellent budget options and I’d simply choose whichever one has the best rate on any particular dates.''Overall Costs of a Trip to Zanzibar''On a tight budget, your trip to Zanzibar could cost you as little as $25 USD per day if you stay in a hostel or simple room/hut and eat at the most local of restaurants and food stalls.''For $50 USD per day, you can stay in a quality beachfront guesthouse or beach hut (such as Mango Beach House, when split between two people) and throw in an extra activity/excursion every few days.''At $70 USD per day, along with your beachfront room, you could also eat some more expensive meals/dishes and hire a car to really explore the island.''Zanzibar is one of those destinations that can fit into any budget!''Getting There''Getting to Zanzibar from mainland Tanzania is quite easy. There are several ferries per day to/from Dar es Salaam with the company''Azam Marine''. The journey takes around 2 hours and costs approximately $35 USD per person.''Before you book the ferry though, be sure to check out''Precision Air'', one of Tanzania’s local airlines. They offer Zanzibar – Dar es Salaam flights for as low as $40 USD per person. That’s what we paid for the 15 minute flight and it came with gorgeous views of the island and the Tanzanian capital en route!''Any questions about Zanzibar? Any additional advice from those who have already been to this island?''We pushed open a massive wooden door and found ourselves in a small, dark room. A middle-aged man was sound asleep in a plastic chair behind a dusty wooden desk. He woke up to the creak of the door as it closed and without hesitation grumpily blurted out, “''Tickets here''”.''He told us that two tickets cost 16000 TSH ($8 USD), which seemed to be an arbitrary number. The tickets themselves had no price on them and there wasn’t any sign or price list, but I handed over the money anyway.''After all, this was THE''House of Wonders''in Stone Town, Zanzibar.''With tickets in hand, and armed with the basic knowledge that this was the ceremonial palace of the second Sultan of Zanzibar, built around 1883, we pushed through the second wooden door and straight into the heart of the museum, ready to educate ourselves even more.''At the time, we had no idea whatsoever that we were entering the best worst museum in the world.''It all began as soon as we stepped into the main hall, as this is where we discovered… absolutely nothing. Okay, there were a few things in there but it would be hard to claim that it amounted to much of anything.''I can honestly say that after spending almost 30 minutes inside the''House of Wonders'', we still had no idea what this place was all about. Even by looking at some items on display related to Swahili culture, we didn’t really learn anything. We didn’t even see anything that could be classified as a ‘wonder’, at least not in the conventional sense.''But, This Worst Museum Was Awesome!''Here’s the beautiful part…''While it is so very true that with each new “display”, with each new “room”, with each new level, we continued to learn nothing, I did indeed become more and more fascinated with this museum as we wandered around. Of course, this had nothing to do with what knowledge I was gaining and everything to do with what I wasn’t gaining.''Instead of me trying to do the impossible – describe this museum – let me simply show you:''It all started with a very nice exterior…''And then it went downhill quickly…''Did you see the colorful umbrella?''That was a typical room full of…nothing.''About a week before coming to Stone Town, when we were on the beach in the village of Jambiani, we met a British couple that told us we needed to visit the House of Wonders during our stay in Stone Town. They also warned us that it was a special place because of how un-special it really was. We had no idea what on earth that meant at the time but now that we’ve been to this mighty fine specimen of a museum, we understand exactly what that couple was talking about.''The House of Wonders in Stone Town was by far the best worst museum that I have ever had the full pleasure of visiting in my 18 years of traveling this world.''In a way, while it lacked any ‘wonders’ in its display cases, the whole darn place was a wonder, when taken as a whole. A truly brilliant wonder if I must say so myself!''I was like a kid running around that museum, giggling and skipping and taking photos and letting my jaw drop in complete and joyous awe over and over again as I turned each new corner, and continued to find pretty much nothing.''That’s why, if you’re ever in Stone Town, please go to the House of Wonders. Hand over the $4 to the ticket man (or whatever he decides to charge you that day), push open that wooden door and fully enjoy the all encompassing feeling of not enjoying. It can’t be described any other way.''Naturally, I highly doubt that the organization or people who run this museum are aiming to achieve what I have described above (the best worst museum) but in a way, whatever inefficiencies, lack of organization or lack of funding they face, the result, ironically, is simply beautiful. And I’m not too sure if they should change a thing.''I leave you with a couple of last photos:''Any of your own nominees for the best worst museum in the world? Let’s hear them!''On March 31st, I shall turn 40 years old. And tomorrow I’m off to my dream destination.''When it comes to turning 40, I’m all good.''Of course, there’s always a chance that the clock will strike midnight on that day and I’ll have a breakdown, then head off to Ibiza, pluck the first few gray hairs from my head, rent a Harley and cruise up and down the main strip, trying to feel as carefree and invincible as I did when I was 18.''Is that how it works?''I highly doubt that will happen though.''In all honesty,''what a 40 years it’s been''. From growing up in a town outside of Boston, to three different universities scattered around two countries, to wanting a career as a sports agent and then to a post-school life that I could never have envisioned, and that certainly didn’t involve becoming a sports agent.''Visiting ten countries?''Maybe I would have believed that to be possible.''A year or two of traveling?''Absurd, but I guess it could happen somehow.''98 countries''(with #99 and #100 coming up next month),''18 years of travel, working as a blogger, organizing tours, living in various destinations overseas?''Absolutely unimaginable!''(''Take that as a lesson –''the most unimaginable goals in life really can be achieved.''It’s no joke and as a result, there is little time to waste. Please take a step today, even a tiny one, towards some goal or dream that you want to reach in life but have yet to move towards. Again, just a tiny step. It’s the only way to build momentum and actually make that change happen.'')''So, When’s the Birthday Party?''As I write this post, I can easily remember when my father turned 40 years old. We had a big party for him at our house. Dozens of friends and family attended, we had a BBQ, the adults drank a little and it was a grand occasion. I recall wondering at the time what my very own 40th birthday party would be like when the day arrives.''Well, the day has arrived.''But it turns out that my 40th birthday won’t quite be like that one. I don’t have a house to party in, my family and friends are quite scattered around the globe and oddly enough, I don’t travel with a BBQ grill.''Am I sad about that? Not at all.''Here’s why…''I Really Am Off to My Dream Destination!''Ever since I was about 13 years old, when I read a particular article in a travel magazine, there has been one country on this planet that I have labeled as my ‘''dream destination''’. It might seem odd that, despite my life of travel, I have yet to visit my one and only dream destination, but that’s how things turned out.''Maybe I was just waiting for the right time.''Recently it occurred to me. I’ll be damned. It’s now the right time!''Tomorrow, off to my dream destination I shall go. My girlfriend and I will spend almost two weeks in this location, which will include my 40th birthday celebration on March 31st.''For me, it is a dream come true, literally. And despite the places I’ve been in my life, I still can’t believe this is actually happening!''Where is this dream destination?''Well, I can’t tell you that, at least not right now. This is going to be a surprise trip that I’ll reveal once I’m there.''But to make things interesting…''Wandering Earl’s 40th Birthday Giveaway''If you want to guess my dream destination, please go for it!''Here’s how it will work:''1.''Leave a comment on this post or on''today’s FB post''with your guess.''2.''Only one guess per person.''3.''Guesses are accepted until 11am EST on March 24th.''4.''On March 25th I shall reveal my dream destination (I’ll already have arrived by then).''5.''The first three people who guess the correct destination (based on day and time) will win a gift package containing:''cool local products from my three upcoming destinations''50% discount voucher for a''Wandering Earl Tour''$50 VISA gift card''**''If I receive more than 500 comments on this post (on the blog and FB post combined), I’m then going to choose three more comments at random, regardless of whether it is the correct guess or not, and those people will receive the above prizes as well.''6.''If you are a winner, you will be notified directly on March 25th.''*Close friends and family of both my girlfriend and I, who already know the destination, are not eligible!! Sorry 🙂''So, what’s your guess? Where is my dream destination?''Our Masai Mara safari…''…it was a safari like no other, way off in the middle of nowhere Kenya, in the low season with few other travelers around, and with plenty of wildlife to spot out in the hills, in the open savannas, in the ponds and rivers and hidden among the low, thick trees.''For three days and two nights our Masai Mara safari lasted and by the end of it, I can state that it was a definite success in every way possible. (Although, as I mentioned in my last post –''How to Ruin an Epic Travel Experience''– I didn’t quite appreciate it right away.)''I must admit that, at first, I had expected to pay a ridiculous amount of money for such an experience. This is what I had heard from others and also what my very quick initial research showed as well.''The good news is that we didn’t have to shell out a massive pile of money after all and visiting the''Masai Mara National Reserve''can be quite affordable.''Here’s how to''keep your costs low''when organizing your Masai Mara safari:''First, don’t panic!''When I arrived in Nairobi, I had a conversation with another American traveler who had just returned from his trip to the Masai Mara. He mentioned that he did his safari ‘budget style’, staying at a ‘budget tent camp’. I looked up the camp he stayed at – the cost was $750+ USD per night. Holy crap, that was way more than I wanted to spend. I panicked.''Luckily, after an hour of research on websites such as Booking.com, I discovered that there were a good number of options for far less money than that. Eventually, we ended up with a highly-rated, $130 USD per night lodge (see below) that was more than sufficient for our travel style.''Masai Mara safari itinerary''Here’s a breakdown of our safari itinerary:''Day 1''6.5 hour drive from Nairobi to Masai Mara''check-in to the lodge; lunch and 3 hour rest; 2.5 hour game drive in the park; dinner; sleep''Day 2''breakfast; full day game drive in the park (7:00am – 4:30pm); an hour at a Maasai village; dinner; sleep''Day 3''breakfast; 6.5 hour drive back to Nairobi (arriving at 4pm)''This was a great itinerary for us, with more than enough safari time, plenty of down time to enjoy the surroundings at the lodge and to interact with local Maasai villagers and enough time to recover in between the long journeys to/from Nairobi.''You can do a longer trip as well and I definitely recommend a minimum of 3 days / 2 nights in order to make the most of the experience and give yourself a high enough probability of seeing the Big 5 (lion, leopard, black rhino, elephant and buffalo) on the game drives.''Understand the costs''Our transportation and driver/guide were organized by the excursion staff at my guesthouse in Nairobi – the excellent''Khweza Bed and Breakfast''. I arranged the accommodation myself.''Here’s a breakdown of the costs:''$360 USD: 3 full days of transportation in a 4WD safari van with detachable roof, including a knowledgeable and experienced driver/guide''$300 USD: 2 nights in a private, modern cabin at the''Jambo Mara Safari Lodge'', all meals included''$160 USD: Masai Mara National Reserve entrance fee – $80 per person per 24 hours''$20 USD – Water, snacks and supplies at the supermarket in Narok, the last big town before reaching the game reserve''Total:''$840 USD for 2 people ($420 per person)''As a side note, when booking your transportation, it’s best to go through a company that has their own vehicles and guides, not one that sells you a trip but then passes you on to a different operator. Always ask – whether it be an agency or the staff at your hotel or guesthouse – if they have their own vehicles. The chances of paying more money or having a less enjoyable experience are higher when you don’t actually travel with the company you are paying for your safari.''Masai Mara safari – how to save money''TRANSPORTATION''– Everyone needs this and I thought it was great to have the same vehicle and driver throughout the trip. Our driver, Bonny, picked us up in Nairobi and was our driver until he dropped us off back in Nairobi on the third day. And he really knew his stuff. When out in the Masai Mara, his well-honed animal tracking skills were on display and he clearly knew the reserve extremely well.''Tip:''Hard to avoid this cost. Expect to pay around $360 to $400 USD for 3 days. The price is per vehicle so the more people you have, the lower the cost per person, and most safari vans hold up to 6 people.''ACCOMMODATION''– The cheapest option I saw was a tent at a camp site for around $25 per person but it was hard to find a good review online about any of these really low budget options. Go one step up and you’ll find some simple lodges and camp sites just outside the entrance to the park that offer more permanent tents, rooms or basic cabins for around $60 – $80 USD per night. And then there were choices all the way up to $2000 per night if you want! Keep in mind that all the accommodation prices, except for the most budget of options, include all of your meals since you’ll pretty much be in the middle of nowhere. That’s all breakfasts, lunches and dinners during your stay, which obviously saves you a great deal of money.''Tip:''It’s best to stay outside the park if you’re on a budget. There’s a village with many options less than 1 kilometer from the main Ololaimutiek Gate. You’ll see why this is a good decision under the “Entrance Fee” section below!''ENTRANCE FEE''– The entrance ticket to get into the Masai Mara National Reserve costs $80 USD per person for 24 hours. If you stay at accommodation inside the park for 2 nights, you’ll have to pay this fee twice to cover your entire 24+ hour stay (afternoon of Day 1 until the morning of Day 3). BUT…if you stay outside the park,''you can get away with only paying once'', even though they will try to get you to still pay twice.''We accidentally showed up at the entrance gate on our first day with only $160 USD, enough money for two tickets. So we were told that we would need to pay again once our first 24 hour ticket period was up. But here’s the thing…our first game drive started at 4:30pm on Day 1 and our second game drive lasted from 7:00am until 4:30pm on Day 2. All of that falls within 24 hours so we actually didn’t need to buy a second ticket and we saved ourselves $80 USD each.''Tip:''The only reason you should pay the entrance fee twice is if you are staying at a lodge inside the park (in which case you’re in the park for more than 24 hours) or if you go on a game drive on your third day. Otherwise, only buy one 24 hour ticket when you arrive on that first day. Even if you plan to do a game drive on the third day, I would wait to buy that second ticket as you might see all the animals you want to see on Days 1 and 2 and you might not feel like going back out again on Day 3.''Private safari vs a fully organized trip''You can always take a fully organized tour through a reputable agency as well. You can check out the dozens of companies on''Safari Bookings'', most of which offer both fully organized group trips and private safaris.''Fully organized group trips put you together with other travelers and include the accommodation, transportation, meals and game drives. The cost seemed to be around $360 – $400 USD per person for a 3 day / 2 night Masai Mara safari, with relatively simple accommodation included.''But in my opinion, if you’re already two or more people, you might as well book a private safari like we did as this will give you a chance to spend as much time as you want everywhere you go. On the game drive it was incredible to stop whenever we wanted, watch the lions for as long as we wanted and to really dictate the day. You can also book your own accommodation and save money that way.''Masai Mara safari price ranges''When it comes to overall cost, using simpler accommodation than what we used, two people could have a mighty awesome private safari experience for around $300 USD per person, which is a real bargain.''If you want nicer accommodation, you’re looking at the $350 – $450 USD per person range.''For more than two people, the price will go down, since the set cost of transportation will be divided among each person.''Also, keep in mind that you definitely do not need to book your safari experience in advance. Waiting until you arrive in Nairobi, unless you have a very limited period of time, will allow you to speak to excursion staff at your hotel/guesthouse and other safari operators directly, to really understand what is and what isn’t included and more importantly, to negotiate.''Yes, you can negotiate.''You can negotiate for just about everything in Kenya and Masai Mara safari trips are no exception. Shop around, ask for discounts, have a reasonable price in mind that you want to pay and before long, you should have your ideal safari experience all lined up.''And then off you shall go into the gorgeous Masai Mara National Reserve, tracking down wildlife on a once-in-a-lifetime safari!''Any further tips to share from your own experiences? Any questions?''There I am. I’m sitting on the balcony of a beautiful wood cabin, staring out into the wilderness, listening to the sound of elephants roaring somewhere at the foot of the nearby hill. Flashes of lions and giraffes and cheetahs and black rhinos and warthogs appear in my head. Flashes of massive green mountains and never-ending savannas dotted with wildebeest, zebras and those unique and surreal acacia trees appear as well.''This is not a dream. It all really happened.''For 10 hours we were out there on safari in the Masai Mara National Reserve in Kenya, encountering a crazy variety of wildlife in every direction, bouncing across the beautiful landscape in our 4WD vehicle and walking along the banks of the Mara River. It was a most epic travel experience, even under the strictest of definitions, the kind of day that could easily be classified as once-in-a-lifetime.''And as I sat there on that cabin balcony, after the safari had ended and as the night rolled in, all I could do was…''complain''. Oh did I complain!''I was complaining that I was far behind with my work and had emails I needed to respond to. I was complaining that the internet wasn’t working properly at our remote safari lodge and that I had yet to start a new project that I had hoped to start by now. I was grumbling about my nostrils being clogged with dust and about not sleeping so well the night before…I don’t know…I was complaining so much that I think I even mumbled nonsense about my flip-flops being dirty and even about the staff at the lodge being too attentive. Yes,''TOO''attentive.''I was on a roll, locked in and shooting off complaints rapid fire.''What a fool.''A once-in-a-lifetime experience just ended, the kind of experience that, while growing up, I never would have imagined possible for an ordinary person like myself. Now here I was, in a most gorgeous corner of the planet, in Kenya for crying out loud, only minutes removed from a most perfect day in the wild, and all I could do was complain.''It happens, I know that. Nobody is perfect. But still, it was not one of my best moments.''Lucky for me, I had someone there to listen to my complaints and to then reply with a few choice words and a few very clear facial expressions that immediately snapped me out of my negative trance. Sometimes we have someone there to help us, sometimes we need to wait until we figure it out on our own.''Either way, it’s indeed helpful to be reminded every now and then that''sometimes we do need to forget ourselves and just ‘be’''. Just sit there, open our eyes, look around and appreciate everything we have, everything we have been fortunate enough to experience and every person that is important to us.''When we can return to being present and forget about life’s little frustrations, when we can remember that those little frustrations should not control us and that they have far less value than we tend to give them, we can then discover a pretty powerful and genuine happiness that really is impossible to match.''If we’re living in the past or the future instead, there’s a high chance of being engulfed by a general unhappiness built upon regrets or fear.''We know this already of course, but yet we still lose our way, probably more often than we’d care to admit.''And when it comes to appreciation, I’m not talking fluffy stuff here. You don’t need to appreciate for the sake of appreciation or force yourself to appreciate a leaf blowing in the wind or your daily cappuccino.''But seriously, isn’t there something real and meaningful that takes place almost every day, something we witness or participate in or some interaction we have or some set of moments we thoroughly enjoy that we can and should be really thankful for?''I’m thankful right now for the bottle of my favorite moisturizer I decided to lug around East Africa and which is keeping my badly burnt nose quite cool and slightly less red. (Wait, is that a hidden complaint? Damn.)''Anyway, let’s be present and appreciate.''We don’t need lions and zebras and hippos and an epic travel experience to do that. Goats and cows and everyday moments can do the trick too if we’re paying attention.''As for me, I actually had the lions and zebras and hippos right in front of me and I still messed it up and got off track.''Complaining about wifi and nostril dust was simply absurd.''Well, lesson re-learned. Back on track I am and hopefully for a long time to come.''Has this happened to you?''When I started looking at accommodation for my week long stay in Kenya’s capital, I was indeed somewhat surprised. Even hotels with poor reviews were way more expensive than I ever would have imagined here. Good hotels were even pricier of course. Finding a good budget hotel in Nairobi seemed impossible and the hostels either did not look appealing or were in inconvenient locations.''I looked at Airbnb too but even basic apartments were more expensive than I was expecting.''What to do?''About two weeks prior to my arrival in Kenya, and still without anything booked, I kept looking at the website for one particular place that looked pretty good –''Khweza Bed and Breakfast''. And finally, after exhausting my search, I realized that this was the only budget hotel in Nairobi with good reviews and a price of around $50 per night, including breakfast, which seemed very reasonable compared to the other options I had found.''It turned out to be an excellent choice in the end.''In expensive Nairobi, the Khweza Bed and Breakfast offered everything I needed for a comfortable, wallet-friendly and safe stay in this city.''Rooms''Simple but comfortable. They are clean (staff clean your room each day), colorful, decent size, with good mattresses, some basic furniture and a quality mosquito net, something that’s important in this area once the sun sets. You can also expect reliable hot water every time you shower, another big bonus for a budget hotel in Nairobi and especially useful after a long and active day trip to one of the country’s many highlights!''Rooftop''Perhaps the biggest draw of this budget hotel is the rooftop area. It’s large, with big tables, umbrellas to block the sun and great views of Nairobi in every direction. It also acts as a restaurant and bar, with an extensive food and drink menu and even better, some of the best food that I had during my stay in the city. It’s also inexpensive – 2 big, tasty main dishes (try the fish in coconut sauce!), 2 salads and 2 beers will cost around $15 USD, which is cheap in these parts.''In the evening, the rooftop can be lively, with music playing, drinks being poured, groups of travelers talking about their safari experiences and groups of locals hanging out and enjoying the atmosphere.''I was up on that rooftop for breakfast every morning and for dinner almost every evening. It was indeed a perfect place for me to start and end each day.''Staff''If you haven’t read''my post about Nairobi''in general, you might want to take a look. As you’ll see, this city is all about the people and the staff at Khweza Bed and Breakfast were a big part of that. Everyone from Peris and her massive, seemingly constant smile, Junior and his laid-back but friendly demeanor, the super sweet Gracie who takes care of all the customers at the rooftop restaurant and the extremely kind Sally, who co-owns Khweza with her brother, made sure that I was well taken care of no matter what I needed.''Every time I walked through the door of this place, I felt the upbeat, positive atmosphere created by the staff, something that proved to be a much needed contrast to the crazy traffic and loud noises of the city outside.''Excursions''Chances are that if you’re coming to Nairobi, you’re here for a safari or to visit other parts of Kenya. And with dozens of options – Masai Mara, Tsavo, Lake Naivashu and so on – it can be a tad challenging to figure out what you really want to do.''Enter Peris. She’s the woman in charge of the excursions that Khweza Bed and Breakfast offers and as soon as you take a seat in her office, you can breathe easily because she’s going to take care of you. She explained every option to me, she offered ways to do each trip on a budget or with more luxury and she told me all about the drivers they use, what I can find in every corner of the country and what would be the best option based on my interests and needs.''She’ll sit there with you for 3 hours if you need and her energizing smile will never leave her face as she goes through every detail.''As for our experiences, we ended up on a day trip to the Hell’s Gate National Park where we rented bicycles and had an awesome time riding through the game reserve among the zebras, giraffes, warthogs and wildebeest. We also took an incredible 3 day/2 night private safari to the''Masai Mara National Reserve''for some more game viewing way out in the wilderness. And in Nairobi we hired one of their drivers for simple day trips around the city.''While our city driver was maybe not the most reliable, our trips out to Hell’s Gate and Masai Mara were beyond outstanding and I wouldn’t hesitate to do either again, with the exact same set up. I’ll be writing more about these trips soon!''I also did plenty of research on prices for all kinds of excursions around the country and for what they offer, Khweza’s prices were again more than reasonable. Nobody is trying to rip you off here in any way and you can be sure that you’re getting a fair price for all trips. Just let them know your budget and they’ll work out the rest.''Overall Value''In my opinion, if you’re looking to keep costs low while in this city, or you simply don’t want to spend $100+ per night for a subpar hotel room, you can’t go wrong with Khweza Bed and Breakfast. The fact that I was just there in low season and it was pretty much full all the time is another good sign. Sure, it’s not perfect but the combination of comfortable rooms, friendly atmosphere, awesome rooftop and affordable excursions definitely make it the best value budget hotel in Nairobi from what I saw.''Best Budget Hotel in Nairobi: Khweza Bed and Breakfast''Khweza Bed and Breakfast''Email:''[email\xa0protected]''Tel: (+254) 20 2672116''Address: Ngara Road, Nairobi, Kenya''If you do stay here, let me know how it goes!''I’m in Nairobi, Kenya.''It’s a strange place, at least for a traveler, or more specifically, at least for me.''From what I’ve gathered, most travelers visit Nairobi, Kenya’s capital city, for one or two days, maybe three at most, either before or after their safari experience in other parts of the country (which I’ll be doing this weekend). I chose to spend the past week here, mainly because I like to travel slowly so that I can combine working and traveling – work a few hours in the morning, head out in the afternoon to explore – but I can see why some would prefer a shorter stint here.''First, I’m staying at the''Khweza Bed and Breakfast'', perhaps the best budget hotel in this expensive city and a place that I’ll write more about soon. It has a great location, very affordable rooms and a rooftop restaurant with excellent food at reasonable prices (and a great view over the city). I’m definitely happy I found this place.''When it comes to the city itself though, let’s see…''The Central Business District is only 1 kilometer away from the guesthouse and I’ve been down there a couple of times now. The more upscale Westlands neighborhood is also just a short ride away and I’ve spent an entire day there too. But after several days out in the city now, I must admit that I’m still lost as to what this city is all about.''To begin with, many people, starting with the driver who picked us up from the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, are fond of talking about the endless activities going on in this city but when pressed further, nobody has been able to give me something specific to do. The conversation usually ends with, “''right now is not a good time, not much happening today''”. And that is perfectly fine, but it is slightly odd after hearing how this city is 24 hours of nonstop activity time and time again.''The restaurants we’ve eaten at have been okay (''K’Osewe''in the city center was quite good, as is the restaurant at Khweza Bed and Breakfast!). The markets we visited were an experience that I don’t need to repeat any time soon. Walking into a market here involves what might be the most intense version of market ‘brokers’ following you around and trying to pressure you (quite aggressively I might add) into buying things at inflated prices. A simple “''No, thank you''” doesn’t work and despite my experience in intense markets – from Delhi to Kabul to Cairo to Mexico City to San Salvador to Manila – I honestly have never seen anything like what I witnessed here in Nairobi.''Go to the Maasai Market in the CBD and I doubt you’ll be able to take it for more than 10 minutes. That’s about how long we lasted before we got out of there.''As for safety, a topic on every visitor’s mind here, almost every local I meet tells me the city is very safe but then they follow it up with “''but don’t go here, don’t go out at night, carry your backpack on your front, make sure everywhere you go has good security''” and so on. I’ve walked around a decent amount now and I haven’t felt unsafe at any time, not even for a minute. But constantly hearing how important it is to watch yourself and your stuff definitely makes you think twice.''The traffic is endless too. It can take 30 minutes to travel 1 kilometer. And the roads are in poor condition at best.''Okay, don’t worry. I haven’t turned into a grumpy traveler. I’m just having a hard time finding my groove as I visit Nairobi for the first time. Sometimes you find it, sometimes you don’t. Maybe I’m just tired after spending the past few weeks in India, I don’t know.''Oh, but wait!''Here’s The One Reason You Should Visit Nairobi''This is the one thing that instantly makes me forget everything above and allows me to go to bed at night with a big smile on my face, feeling good and happy about being here in Nairobi…''the people''.''Visit Nairobi and you’ll find a city full of outgoing people who are ready to greet you with the warmest of smiles, the grandest of welcomes, the most open of conversations and the most energetic of high fives and handshakes. It’s not everyone but it does happen often, on the streets, in the restaurants and cafes, in the guesthouse, in the shops, while stuck in traffic and so on.''These sincere smiles are really out of control.''They provide an instant boost of happiness and an instant cure to any frustrations. You forget about the traffic, you forget about any safety issues and about the thick exhaust pouring out of the matatus as you walk behind one. You forget about the dizziness and headaches from the malarone and the high prices for everything you need to purchase as well.''All you want is to be in the presence of more smiles, more people whose kindness and positive approach to life is contagious.''Whether it’s the waiter at K’Osewe who, with a little extra bounce in his step, goes out of his way to make our experience positive or the man on the side of the road that gives our taxi driver directions and welcomes us to the Karen neighborhood with a beaming “Karibou!” or the female soldier who can’t stop smiling at us as she checks our bags before we climb to the 28th floor of the convention center for a view out over the city, you can’t help but smile back or give another high five or simply feel damn good every single time it happens.''Even watching people interact with each other, it’s something else. There’s this calm, fluid method of communication where you can call out to anyone (street vendor to driver, driver to driver, bus passenger to passerby, etc.) and start chatting and laughing and debating as if you’ve know the other person for decades. And it almost always ends with two big smiles as well.''To me, when you visit Nairobi, it’s all about the people.''Forget about the sights – whatever they may be – and just come here to soak up the vibe from your interactions with the matatu drivers on Moi Avenue, the mango vendors downtown, the security guards at the Westgate mall, the general store owner in the CBD, the cashier at the Java House Express cafe, the man selling jeans at the intersection of Ngara and Murang’a Roads and beyond.''Who cares if you’re stuck in traffic at a roundabout for an hour or aimlessly wandering around the city center with a backpack on your chest or sitting on a rooftop all day not knowing what else to do when you are engulfed by such positive energy almost every time you interact with someone who calls this city home?''I’ll take it, that’s for sure. How about you?''The Past''It’s now been 18 years of nonstop travel since I took off for what was supposed to be a 3 month trip to Southeast Asia back in 1999. I really can’t believe it myself as I clearly remember that first day in Bangkok so long ago, and I definitely didn’t see this coming at all.''It’s wacky, I tell you.''In 2009, I started WanderingEarl.com after my good friend Ben told me I should start a travel blog one day while we were hanging out in Sayulita, Mexico. I actually just caught up with Ben in Miami last week and we had a good laugh about how this was all his idea.''Of course, like most travel bloggers that started back then, I never did expect my blog to be anything other than a platform for me to write some quick updates about my travels and for my family and friends to leave some comments until they eventually got bored.''Eight years later and I’ve now written over 400 blog posts, received over 40,000 comments and even more emails, made''videos'', been active on social media, been a guest on over 100''podcasts''and interviews and even started organizing tours to various countries.''That’s all even wackier to me.''The Present''Of course, that’s all great stuff. However, I never have viewed this blog and everything it encompasses as a one-way street. It’s far more than me just writing posts about my experiences.''The blog and social media have become''a real, and constantly growing, community''.''Of course, without the blog, there would be no community.''But without the community – and this part is far more important in my eyes – there’s a good chance I would not still be traveling and as a result, there wouldn’t be any blog.''I certainly don’t underestimate the role that every visitor to the site, every reader, everyone who has liked a Facebook post or left a comment, everyone who has sent me an email and so on, has played in creating all of this as well as in keeping me motivated to continue traveling the world. I ain’t joking.''And as another not-to-be-underestimated bonus of this community, how can I not love the unfathomably huge amount of travel assistance and knowledge that I’ve gained from others. It happens all the time.''For example, if you haven’t seen already, when I announced on Facebook the other day that I’m going to Africa in February (oh yes I finally am!), the comments started pouring in and I now have a massive collection of useful information and great contacts to help me plan my trip. Even better, so does anyone else looking to visit Africa, just by reading that''post and the comments''!''A big thank you to those who left comments! Your assistance does not go unnoticed.''The Future''Okay. I know that Wandering Earl isn’t your standard travel blog and at times I can be all over the place, but my goal has always been to present an honest and real account of my life and travels. The idea is to give you the best possible understanding of what it’s like to travel, what opportunities exist out there and how you can achieve your own travel goals as well.''And now, as 2017 continues to roll along, I want to make sure I’m on the right track. I want to make sure I’m giving you exactly what you’re looking for and I’d like to ask for your assistance in doing it.''One simple question:''The year 2016 really was a fascinating and unexpected journey for me. It was an extremely happy journey, to say the least.''Okay, maybe I had a similarly brilliant year when I was 9 (after all, that’s when Krissy accepted the bracelet I gave her in the elementary school playground) but my memory is somewhat foggy at this point to know for sure. As far as my adult life goes though, let’s say after age 18, last year was extraordinary.''Now I could tell you that the happiness that persisted throughout most of 2016 stemmed from my travels. After all, it was certainly a year to remember as destinations such as India, Brunei, Philippines, Taiwan, Mexico, Lithuania, Romania, Cuba, Nepal,''Maldives'', Oman, Jordan and Israel filled my itinerary. It was one intriguing land after another.''But, alas, my happiness was actually not from the travel.''If travel was indeed the root, then I should have reached this level of crazy happiness every year since 1999, when I started wandering the planet. Those travels over the past 16+ years were without a doubt rewarding and beyond awesome but they all took place without the benefit of the extremely important lesson that I learned in 2016.''One Frightening Moment''Earlier this year, my unexpected journey began when I managed to finally start the process of breaking through most of the defenses I had built up over time, defenses that admittedly kept me from dealing with and overcoming my fears and personal issues, and as a result, kept me from enjoying myself as much as I wanted to. One day in Mexico, a particular person appeared out of nowhere and managed to somehow show me what was really missing in my life, what was standing in the way of real happiness and why it was vital for me to do something about it. Whatever part of me I was holding back, whatever I was keeping inside, needed to be released.''I remember very clearly the exact moment everything changed, when all that I had been holding back for so long started to burst out. It took place in front of a wall of graffiti. It was powerful, it was unexpected, it was mighty beautiful and yes, it was frightening.''Now this might seem obvious to many of you, but for whatever reason, it wasn’t to me. What I realized at that moment – I mean, really realized in a life-changing way – was that''the happiness we all seek does not come from the destinations we visit, the activities we participate in, the work we do or, I don’t know, the food we eat''(except for''this place in Tel Aviv'', it will actually make you happy quite quickly).''Instead, it comes from a belief that''we actually deserve to be happy''. That’s step one, nothing else. Without that step, we can’t progress, we can’t advance along the happiness chart. I know. I was stuck for a long time, thinking that I was entitled to only a certain amount of happiness in life and that I would need to accept that amount as sufficient.''However, wouldn’t you know it…once we realize that we do deserve to be as happy as humanly possible, well, it turns out that we can really be as happy as humanly possible. Okay, I don’t really know the official limits of happiness but I do know that I have now felt happiness in a way that I hadn’t felt before.''(I know, the dog looks a little freaked out.)''My Description of Happiness''The kind of happiness I’m referring to is when it doesn’t matter if I’m in the USA, Maldives or''middle of nowhere Mexico''or anywhere else, it doesn’t matter if I’m traveling or not, it doesn’t matter how much money I’m earning…it’s the kind of happiness that can take a simple night time walk along an empty street or being stuck at Jordanian immigration for 3 hours or any situation or moment for that matter and turn it into something special.''It really comes down to finding that spark, finding that positive state of mind and not letting go. Yes, for me, it was a special person that showed me the benefits of accepting and spreading such positivity all the time. And before I knew it, it filled me up and I was happy to be anywhere and doing anything, confident that I could handle whatever the world threw at me.''With this mindset, you can’t help but naturally spread that same positivity to others. The bigger taste you get yourself, the more you want to share it. When you show up completely soaked and shivering at a small restaurant in Jerusalem, after wandering the streets lost in a torrential evening downpour, the smile is still there. It’s not forced, it’s just there. And that smile passes on to the waitress and to all those you come in contact with. You don’t even think about it. The positivity just spreads on its own…and it’s a spectacular experience.''An Unexpected Journey, But Not Perfect''Don’t get me wrong…I’m not wandering around with a blindingly glowing aura of pure joy emanating from my body every second or anything like that (assuming that’s how auras work). Oh my, no. I had plenty of down moments this year too, just as we all do every year. I made mistakes, messed up, hurt others, had rough patches, lost a loved one recently (RIP Leo) and felt really crappy about myself at times.''Nothing goes perfectly.''This isn’t enlightenment I’m talking about. Far from it. In fact, I killed a mosquito the other day without hesitation.''All I’m talking about is''pure, genuine happiness''. It’s real, it’s there for us to experience whenever we can, and for me, it’s been a trip beyond my wildest imagination.''What’s the Point?''I hope this doesn’t come across the wrong way.''My point with all this unexpected journey and happiness talk has no roots in superiority or anything close to that. After all, I’m 39 years old and I’ll be the first to admit that I’m still learning lessons about life that I probably should have learned a long time ago.''My main goal with this post is to give one example of something that I didn’t think was possible in order to show that, wait a minute, it is possible.''It’s no different than why I write about my travels in the first place. I still think it’s ridiculous that I’m doing all this travel, having started with only $1500 to my name back in 1999. In fact, because it’s so ridiculous and because I’m no different than anyone else, if I can do it, there’s no reason why you can’t travel like this, or in any way you want, too. That’s why I blog, to stress that point.''This post is along the very same lines. It’s just not about the travel.''Instead, it’s about finding''a deeper, life-changing level of happiness''in 2016. And again, if I can achieve something like this, I want to try my very best to help anyone else that might need a boost, just like I clearly needed, achieve it as well.''Here’s to your happiness!''Thank you so much for following along over the past year. I certainly look forward to hearing from you in 2017 and learning all about the goals you’re achieving, the lands you’re visiting and of course, the happiness you’re hopefully enjoying!''With love,''Derek''How was your 2016? What’s your thoughts on happiness? Any big goals for 2017?''You walk off the plane, proceed through immigration, grab your bag from the luggage carousel (or not, if you travel really light) and walk through the customs inspection. And there you stand, in the open-air arrivals terminal of the Male International Airport.''Welcome to the Maldives on a budget!''While you might not exactly find a crowd of budget travelers hanging around the airport, or independent travelers either, you’d be mistaken if you think that these islands are only for the wealthy or those who are ready to splurge big time.''The truth is that you really can visit the Maldives on a budget.''Here’s how, step by step:''Flights''Fares from the Middle East (ie. Doha and Dubai), India (Cochin) and SE Asia (ie. Kuala Lumpur and Singapore) are as low as $200 USD roundtrip to Male, the main city and location of the main airport in the Maldives. The cheapest I found was with SpiceJet, via India, for $183 USD roundtrip from Dubai. But check out airlines such as Qatar, Emirates, Etihad, Maldivian, Sri Lankan, Spice Jet, Silk Air, British Airways, Malaysian, Air India and more, all of which fly to Male.''My flight ticket''– I ended up buying a random ticket…''Kathmandu to Male (via Doha) to Muscat (via Colombo) to Amman (via Bahrain)''…on a combination Qatar Airways and Gulf Air ticket, for a total of $580 USD. Not bad for almost 24 hours of total flying.''Conclusion:''While more expensive than flying to a more popular and convenient destination, flying to the Maldives is not exorbitant at all. It’s extremely reasonable to get here.''Tourist Visa''Straight from the''Maldives government website'': “''To enter Maldives, no pre-arrival visa is required. A thirty day free visa is issued on arrival for all Nationalities.''”''Well, that takes care of the visa.''Conclusion:''Just show up!''Accommodation''This section is the core of how you can visit the Maldives on a budget…''Mathiveri Island''This is where it’s at!''Sure, you can spend $300 – $1000+ USD per night to stay in a luxury bungalow sitting on stilts above the water on an uninhabited Maldivian island, and that would surely be incredible. But, that will cost you $300 – $1000+ USD per night (plus a crazy amount of additional expenses as you’ll see in a moment).''But if you still want gorgeous, palm tree-lined white sand beaches, an uninhabited island to hang out on (covered in more beautiful white sand and with extremely stunning clear water), a long list of awesome excursion options (see below) and that overall sensation of being in a true remote paradise, it’s all very possible on Mathiveri Island.''Home to 800 welcoming people, this tiny local island is situated 80 kilometers from Male, it’s about 1/2 square kilometer in size, there are no vehicles on the island and the ‘roads’ are all sand. There are three white sand beaches, plenty of lush greenery and a handful of houses, simple shops and cafes.''And most importantly, there are the''Mathiveri Inn''and''Mathiveri Island Guesthouses''.''For $60 or so per night (per room), you can stay in a laid-back guesthouse, in a simple, comfortable, private room, with a comfy bed, plenty of space, air-conditioning, a private bathroom and of course, free wifi.''Is it pure luxury? Nope. But is it $300+ USD per night? Nope.''It’s $60 USD per night (yes, $60 bucks per night) and it allows you to experience the Maldives on a budget!''The guesthouses are jointly run and the team of Sameer and Lisa are genuinely passionate about giving travelers a chance to visit this country, and still have the ultimate paradise experience, without having to shell out big money. They work tirelessly to achieve this goal.''Mathiveri Inn''(''Mathiveri Inn Guesthouse'') – It has a handful of colorful, good-sized rooms, a large lounge area where you can hang out with the friendly staff and other travelers and an attached restaurant where the meals are served no matter which guesthouse you sleep at. It’s a 2 minute walk to the most stunning beach on the island and a 1 minute walk to the main ‘intersection’ in the village.''Mathiveri Island Guesthouse''(''Mathiveri Island Guesthouse'') – It’s located only steps from the public beach, which is still beautiful and rarely has anyone on it (but you do need to be covered up on this particular beach). There are four good rooms in a new building with a common room and a laid-back outdoor area with lounge chairs. It’s in a super quiet area, about a six or seven minute walk to the main ‘intersection’ and to the best beach.''Whichever you choose, you can’t go wrong. Both are excellent, comfortable budget options that allow you to be in paradise for a ridiculously low price while also enjoying the benefits of experiencing local life in the Maldives.''Paradise like this…''And an island lifestyle like this (this is me exploring the island from one end to the other!)…''Conclusion:''If you want to visit the Maldives on a budget, look no further than Mathiveri Island and its two guesthouses.''*Be sure to book directly through the guesthouse websites to get the best rates!''Food''Being a tiny island, there really are only a couple of options for food but they are great options. You can book a meal package with the guesthouse or you can order from the restaurant attached to the Mathiveri Inn and pay for meals separately. Meals are reasonably priced, about $10 USD for a full lunch or dinner. There are also daily lunch menus and a selection of local dishes (excellent fish curry!) and western food as well (excellent seafood pizza!).''There is one other place on the island where you can eat…it’s called,''Happy Land''. Not sure about the name but we ate at this local hangout for lunch several times. For just a few dollars, you can grab a plate and fill it up with a selection of freshly made snacks – mini-samosas, spring rolls, rice balls, shredded fish cakes and even some sweet pancakes. So good! And they also have great coffee.''And that’s the dining scene on Mathiveri Island…very simple and inexpensive, and while you might not enjoy a fancy ten course meal, you can still eat plenty of fresh fish and other great dishes. (The staff at Mathiveri Inn are more than happy to buy a whole, fresh fish for you and cook it up for dinner if you let them know in advance!)''Conclusion:''Good, fresh food for cheap prices.''Activities''Snorkeling at one of the most mesmerizing coral reefs I’ve ever seen, swimming with huge manta rays in the open water, free-diving around a shipwreck, sunset fishing, island hopping, hanging out on a remote sandbank…it’s all possible from Mathiveri Island.''The snorkeling is really some of the most impressive I’ve seen anywhere in the world…''The manta rays were an awesome sight to behold as well, as was the shipwreck…''Also, visiting the nearby, picture-perfect uninhabited island, which you can swim to in about 5 minutes from the public beach (or borrow a kayak for a two minute paddle over) is something you’ll want to do every single day, especially at sunset. And this doesn’t cost anything at all.''The guesthouses offer great value excursion packages (room, board and excursions combined) or you can book the excursions individually. Either way, you’re looking at a very inexpensive range of $50 – $70 USD per person per trip. I checked at some of the luxury resorts on nearby islands and the exact same type of excursions are priced at around $150+ USD per person.''Same amazing experiences, much different price…another bonus of Mathiveri Island!''Conclusion:''Get ready to explore because Mathiveri offers everything you could possibly want to do in paradise for a fraction of what it would cost elsewhere in the Maldives.''Transportation''You have two options for getting to and from Mathiveri Island.''Option 1:''Ferry''Taking a leisurely 6 hours to cover the 80 kilometers you need to travel from Male, this option only costs about $5 USD per person each way. It doesn’t get cheaper than that!''Option 2:''Speedboat''This boat often leaves from right outside the airport (yes, the boat picks you up at the arrivals terminal!), it only takes 2 hours to complete the journey and it costs around $50 USD per person each way.''Both the ferry and speedboat have 2 or 3 departures per day for this route but if you let the guesthouse know your flight details, they can book the most appropriate one for you based on your arrival time.''And regardless of which option you choose, the ride to Mathiveri is beautiful and exciting, passing or stopping at dozens of islands, plying across turquoise waters and sometimes spotting dolphins en route. Not a bad way to start and finish your Maldives adventure!''Conclusion:''$5 or $50…compare that to the $100 – $300 per person (each way) that luxury resorts charge to reach their islands by boat or seaplane!''Internet on Mathiveri''The free wifi at both guesthouses on Mathiveri Island was decent. At times it was working relatively fast and at other times, it was definitely much slower, but overall, you can use it to send emails, check FB and do any basic online work you might need to do.''If you need to be connected more reliably though, you can easily buy a SIM card upon arrival at the airport…''SIM card''– Just pop into one of the two mobile network companies that each have an office in the Arrivals Hall (Dhiraagu and Ooredoo). They both offer the same package, a SIM card for $16 USD that lasts 7 days and comes with 2 GB of 3G data. The data was very reliable even way out on Mathiveri Island and allowed me to get all of my online work done. And if you run out of data, you can buy a refresh card from one of the shops on the island.''Conclusion:''If you need to be connected while on a remote island, you will be connected while on Mathiveri.''Maldives on a Budget – The Final Word''Absolute awesomeness! That easily sums up my trip to the Maldives.''And a major part of that, if not the biggest, was the fact that I was able to spend a week here for such a small amount of money compared to what I imagined such a trip would cost.''So, if you want to take a trip to a true tropical paradise (maybe you already happen to be in Southeast Asia or India or Sri Lanka or anywhere near the Middle East), just hop on a cheap flight to Male, catch the ferry to Mathiveri Island and start experiencing the Maldives on a budget!''You don’t need to spend several thousands of dollars to make this a reality!''Anyone interested in going to the Maldives? Does this sound like your kind of destination? Any questions about making this happen?''What a month and a half.''After leading my latest India tour in October, a friend and I went to Nepal in order to relax and catch up on work among the beautiful Himalayas. What we didn’t realize is that Kathmandu is the''third most polluted city''on the planet (who knew?) so our stay there knocked us down a bit, inhaling all that dusty, dirty air.''Luckily, we soon ventured up to Nagarkot, a hilltop village 30 kilometers from Kathmandu, with stunning mountain views (8 of the 13 Himalayan ranges are visible from this village), a quiet, extremely laid-back atmosphere and thankfully, fresh, clean air to breathe.''Five days here and we were back to feeling 100%.''This was the view from the balcony at the perfectly situated Hotel Himalayan Villa…''On to…the Maldives!!!!''From Nagarkot, we then moved on to a destination that I had always wanted to visit for many, many years.''Finally, I made it to the Maldives!''And it was out of this world. In fact, it was so out of this world that I’m going to dedicate 3 posts over the next couple of weeks to this one destination. The best part is that my visit was not some ultra-luxurious, ultra-expensive experience. It turns out that''visiting the Maldives can absolutely be done on a budget''.''Yes, surreal tropical islands, gorgeous white sand beaches, some of the best snorkeling I’ve ever seen anywhere, excursions to swim with manta rays and dolphins in the wild (where you’ll be the only people around), flavorful Maldivian food and so much more can be had for an absolute fraction of what you think it would cost. I really had no idea this was possible, but it is.''Check this out…a short Youtube video I made from the stunning white sand\xa0beach on Mathiveri Island''(I’ve never seen clearer water!):''Pretty sweet I must say. Again, more posts coming real soon about visiting this paradise on a budget!''Right now I’m in…Oman''Oman was one of the last Middle Eastern countries I’d yet to visit and with cheap flights from the Maldives to most destinations in this region, I couldn’t pass up the opportunity. I just arrived yesterday and while it’s a short four day stay, I’m curious to discover some of what this country is about.''So far, Muscat, the capital, is unlike any other city I’ve ever seen. A sprawling collection of neighborhoods spread out over the desert and leading right up to the sea. In a few minutes I’ll be heading out for dinner, tea and shisha at a local cafe along the water, near the old city. Let’s see how it goes!''And I will say this…every single person I’ve encountered since my arrival in Oman (airport staff, taxi drivers, waitstaff, people in the street and more) has been extremely kind and helpful. So much so that it really sticks out in my mind as a defining aspect of this visit so far.''Wandering Earl on Instagram''On a separate note, yes, I’m finally on Instagram (''@WanderingEarl'')! I’ve been posting random daily photos from wherever I happen to be in the world if you want to follow along. (Of course you do!) I’m actually about to post a photo of the impressive Sultan Qaboos Grand Mosque here in Muscat.''Have a wonderful rest of your week!''Last month, I spent 18 days in a secluded, remote part of Mexico.''A friend and I were covering another friend’s housesitting assignment while he and his wife were away.''The house we took care of was quite isolated. On one side was an endless, empty white sand beach and gorgeous water for as far as you could see. On the other side was an immense span of jungle stretching all the way to Alaska, or so it seemed. Nothing else at all for the most part. A potholed dirt road was the only way in and out. The closest town was 25 kms away.''When we arrived in the area, my first thought was, ‘''okay, this should be nice''’.''Of course, at that moment, I had no idea just how spectacular the experience of being surrounded by nature for the first time in a while would actually be. Mighty, mighty spectacular.''The Routine''Quickly, I fell into a routine each day that involved…''– Watching the sunrise from my bed''– Walking the dogs on the beach twice per day''– Working from a table that looked straight out at the water''– Going for a swim in the sea''– Hanging out on the beach''– Playing with the dogs outside''– Watching the sunset from the roof top terrace''I was always barefoot, barely wore a shirt, was always surrounded by natural light and I ate a great deal of fresh fruits and vegetables every single day. So much dragonfruit!''Again, for 18 days straight.''It was a beautiful thing I tell you. Just feeling the nature every minute of every day, in front of me, on me, all around.''Regardless of my normal lifestyle, when I suddenly find myself living simply, surrounded by the fresh air, the swaying trees and the lapping waves, with my hair full of sand…my body and mind get comfortable, extremely comfortable, remarkably quickly. Strong and healthy, clearer and calmer, all systems working efficiently. Despite the long days of getting up at sunrise and going to sleep at midnight, I don’t feel tired at all.''No amount of meditation could match the near instant zen I receive from such surroundings.''The Reality''We spend so much time in cities and towns, where we might get a chance to stroll through a park every now and then, walk along a beach for a few minutes every other Saturday or look up at the sky for a short peek whenever we remember to do so. Few of us live near a remote part of Mexico or anywhere else with such an abundance of nature.''For most of our waking hours, we are surrounded by buildings and vehicles and roads and signs and noise and lights and people doing all sorts of things, so much so that the nature around us, and the positive effects that nature can provide us, is so easily drowned out, turned into something we hardly notice.''Why do we allow this to happen when we know the benefits of nature? When we know it can so easily give us a boost of healthiness and happiness?''Sure, I spent 18 days in nature. Sure, I’m back in the city now and about to head off to more cities and more destinations where nature is once again pushed to the background…it’s a part of life. It’s difficult to survive by just wandering around the jungle or hanging out on a secluded island. We all''need to work'', we all need friends and family, we all need or want other things too, things to make life easier and more enjoyable.''I accept that. And I see nothing wrong with the cities and towns and the conveniences and aspects of modern life. They certainly add tremendous value to our short time that we have on this planet and without them, I certainly wouldn’t have had the life I’ve had so far.''(Besides, I wasn’t sleeping outside on the sand while in the middle of nowhere. I was staying in a nice house in this remote location, but everything I did involved me interacting with the nature around me.)''The Solution''But in all seriousness,''I don’t want to ignore the strong pull, the intense craving for nature that is clearly within.''That feeling I get when I kick off my shoes – in a remote part of Mexico or any similar location – stare out at the horizon beyond the turquoise sea, collect the salt and sand and dirt on my skin, relax in a warm breeze, admire the soaring hawks and fill my lungs with the freshest, most invigorating of air…''It’s too beautiful, too naturally therapeutic to ignore.''No, no, no…I’m not saying we should all run off to a deserted atoll, start a commune and live out the rest of our days. Nor should we bolt into the jungle with just a toothbrush and a machete.''But when we’re traveling, for example, we can seek out places that allow us to fully immerse ourselves in the forest or mountain or lake or ocean experience without being surrounded by noise and lights and structures and busy-ness. A couple of examples for me are''my friend Codrin’s cottage in remote Romania''and some of the less visited''islands of the Philippines''.''When we are at home, we can put in an extra effort to not only find nature near us, but to be present while amidst it, to fully embrace what it has to offer us instead of just passing through without paying much attention. It pays tremendously to do so, we all know that.''Time to walk down to the beach here in Playa del Carmen. Not quite the same as the above but I’ll find a quiet spot nonetheless to once again feel the breeze, the sand, the sun and the sea as if there’s nothing else around.''Have you been immersed in nature lately? Any experiences to share? Is it something you crave every now and then?''After arriving at Havana Airport, which might involve a bit of a wait until there’s an empty gate for your plane, you’ll take a quick stroll over to the dimly lit immigration area.''I waited in line at immigration for a few minutes, handed over my passport and about 45 seconds later I was done. No questions were asked, they took a quick photo of me and then they stamped my passport.''The next step was a security check (yes, even when arriving) – the standard conveyor belt x-ray for your bags that you find at every airport. This only took a few minutes and then we went to collect our luggage from the luggage carousel, which also didn’t take long at all. From here, we walked through the customs inspection in about five seconds and ended up in the Arrivals Hall right after.''So far, a very easy process.''Entering the Arrivals Hall, however, is when you receive the reality check of traveling to a country that has little to no tourism infrastructure.''Here’s what happened when I arrived and how you can have a very smooth experience:''Arriving at Havana Airport –''Take a Moment to Breathe''The first thing I did was to visit the lone “''Information Desk''” but all the woman tried to do was set me up with a sketchy taxi driver.''I gave up on that option and decided to go outside. Well, there I stood outside, with my friends, with no clue at all what to do in order to get to where we needed to go – the Vedado neighborhood of Havana.''We gathered together. We politely brushed off those who approached us with offers that we couldn’t yet quite understand or figure out if they were real.''As I write about often, the first thing a traveler should do when they arrive in a new, unfamiliar land – whether by plane, train, bus, foot or any other method – is to''stop for 20 minutes''. Find a quiet corner, take a seat and relax. Stay calm, be patient and observe everything around you, until you calmly figure out what’s going on and what you need to do in order to get to your destination. This helps you avoid rushing into a decision that could become a bad one.''And that’s what we did, and before long, we started to make sense of this airport arrival scene and began putting together a plan on how to get to the guesthouse that we had booked.''Here’s what we learned about transportation at the airport:''Arriving at Havana Airport''– Taking a Taxi from Havana Airport''STEP 1: Head to the second floor of the Arrivals Hall''Before going outside, take the stairs to the second floor of the Arrivals Hall. This will instantly make arriving at Havana Airport much easier. Up here it’s super quiet, there are bathrooms and there is actually a helpful information desk, a money exchange office without any line (the exchange offices outside have long lines) and even an ATM.''Take a breather up here for a few moments and change some money. I changed $40 USD and received 36 CUC (the Cuban Convertible Pesos that foreigners must use – the exchange rate is about .89 CUC = $1 USD).''STEP 2: Find a real taxi''All kinds of people will approach you inside and outside of the airport asking if you want a taxi but it’s confusing because you have no idea what they’re really up to. The best option is to go back downstairs, walk out of the main exit and turn left.''Keep walking for about 1 minute until you see a collection of yellow taxis. Here you will find a taxi dispatcher (I use this term informally because it’s just a man or woman yelling out ‘taxis!, taxis!’ in front of these yellow cabs). Approach this person and he or she will ask where you’re headed and then they’ll get one of the taxis to pull up to the curb.''STEP 3: Agree on the fare''Before getting into the taxi, you’ll tell the dispatcher and/or driver where you’re headed and they will give you a price. The woman at the helpful information desk on the 2nd floor of the Arrivals Hall told us it should cost 30 CUC (about $33 USD) to get to our guesthouse and our driver’s first offer was 30 CUC. So we took it.''If you’re headed to Vedado or Old Havana, the cost should be about 25 – 30 CUC. Make sure you agree on the price before starting the journey. There are meters in the yellow taxis but they are never used.''At this point, once our journey into the city began, we simply assumed that it was going to be an interesting one, a ride full of surprises, maybe a sudden change in fare or bringing us somewhere we didn’t want to go.''But that never happened.''After piling into the somewhat beat-up minivan, the driver cranked up the reggaeton and off we zoomed at 140 kms/hour along near empty highways for 30 minutes or so.''And just like that, we were right in front of the address we had given the driver. We paid the fare, he wished us a good afternoon and in the center of Havana we had arrived.''That was it. Too easy. Once you navigate the chaos of the airport and actually make it into a taxi, it should be all good from there. Arriving at Havana Airport is the challenging part and now you can just enjoy your first glimpse of Cuba and prepare yourself for a''fascinating experience ahead''.''*''Side note'': At the end of our trip, we simply had our guesthouse owner order us a taxi on the phone to take us to the airport. The price was 25 CUC and it was a super smooth experience. Wherever you stay in Havana, they should be able to call one of these yellow taxis for you.''Any questions? Please let me know in the comments and I’ll be happy to reply.''We turned right out of the apartment building and walked a couple of blocks over to the main thoroughfare that runs through Vedado. A few birds flew overhead, one car drove by. It was almost noon but everything was eerily still on this second day of exploring Havana.''So eerily still, until we turned onto famous Avenida 23. Within one block, it suddenly seemed as if we had been transported into a completely different city than what we had''witnessed the day before''.''Here were restaurants, a couple of bars, a scattering of shops, a cinema, a small group of prostitutes, a huge art-deco hotel, food stalls, a market and hundreds of people moving around everywhere. There was a higher level of that Caribbean''oomph''in the way people walked and talked and went about their…whatever it was they were going about.''It could have been almost anywhere, it could have even been Miami Beach, maybe a couple of decades ago.''We walked along, feeling good, chatting, laughing, enjoying this influx of sights and sounds and activity that we had assumed didn’t exist.''Exploring Old Havana''At the far end of Avenida 23, where the road gently slopes down before reaching the water, we hailed an old-school Lada taxi and drove off to Plaza Viejo in Old Havana.''We then wandered up''Calle Obispo''and along Calle O’Reilly.''We ate lunch at''Variedades Obispo''– a local fried chicken and rice joint where you sit at a long, old, dirty, yellow bar and eat your food, with either a local beer or an orange soda. The stool I sat upon was ready to snap off it’s hinge, the silverware I used had only been given a quick tap water rinse, one of the employees tried to charge us 3 times the normal amount for our food.''My friend and I went to the''Santa Rosa Cafeteria & Bakery''where we ordered some poor-tasting, bland pastries and watery coffee.''We stumbled into art galleries so full of fascinating pieces that could only come from those who are forced to express themselves in unique ways.''We ate pork sandwiches from a guy serving them up from behind a small table on the edge of the street.''We stared at the colorful Chevrolets all lined up ready to take tourists for a spin.''We people-watched and ignored the ‘''today is a cigar festival''’ scam attempts.''The blazing hot day rolled along – a fortress visit here, a coconut shell full of ice cream there, looking through old coins and passports and trinkets at the market, walking down side streets and into random plazas – until it was time to rest.''A Very Cool Ride Home''At 5:00pm we took another surreal Lada taxi ride back to our guesthouse with an elderly and extremely kind driver that pointed out every possible ‘sight’ along the way. The Cardiac Hospital, the Maternity Hospital, cultural centers, parks, walls, night markets, famous hotels and more.''I was only half paying attention though as the breeze bounced off my growing afro, the sun warmed my outstretched arm, the car hummed along, the dreamy Malecon flitted by and I kept thinking to myself, recalling the words of Kurt Vonnegut, “''If this isn’t nice, I don’t know what is.''”''Do You Believe in Luck?''After a quick nap and shower back at the guesthouse, we went for another stroll along that same Avenida 23, this time exploring Havana at night.''At one point, as my friends and I were waiting to cross an intersection, a woman yelled out “''Hello''” from behind me. I turned around, only to be greeted by the raised hand and smiling face of a provocatively-positioned prostitute dressed in a tight blue miniskirt.''I nodded politely, said “''Hola''” and then crossed the street.''We passed a hot dog stand with a long line of customers and eventually we found a small, dimly lit pizza shop that sold bottled water.''So I lined up and pretty much ordered all the bottled water that the pizza shop had in their refrigerator. When I asked the man for a bag to put it all in, the woman in line behind me laughed out loud and shook her head, as if to say, “''Good luck with that my friend.''”''It caught me off guard for some reason.''‘''Luck?''‘, I suddenly thought to myself, taking a quick glance around at my surroundings here in the center of Havana. ‘''I stopped believing in luck a long time ago.''‘''A minute later, with those words stuck in my head, and with 10 bottles of water in a plastic bag, I started walking back to the guesthouse with a little extra energy in my step.''This was my trip to Cuba.''I was running the show with confidence.''I was present, observing and learning.''I was opening myself up to people and places like I hadn’t done in a very long time.''Finally, with control – not luck – I was getting my life in order again.''Is Cuba a destination you want to visit? Is Havana your kind of city? Do you believe in luck?''Less than five minutes after we walked onto the streets of Havana for the very first time, my friends and I were strolling along the sidewalk when a man clad in a bright yellow t-shirt, carrying two large canvas bags, called out to us. Before I knew it, I was helping this jolly fellow carry one of those heavy bags while engaging in some conversation with him. Suddenly, he stopped walking, we put the bags down and he pulled out a bottle of rum. He poured some into a plastic cup and handed it to me, and then he poured one for himself. We both said “Salud!”, he followed up with a “Bienvenidos a Cuba!” and we each threw back our shots. Then we simply shook hands, smiled and nodded to each other and went our own ways. My trip to Cuba had begun.''Even though our flight landed in Havana at 3:45pm, and my friends and I didn’t get to the guesthouse until 5:30pm, my first day in Cuba was indeed eventful, fascinating and bizarre nonetheless.''We ended up walking 14 kilometers during that first evening and night, all over the''Vedado neighborhood'', all along the coast, all through Old Havana and who knows where else.''Sunset''The sunset that we watched from the Malecon was superb in every way. As we sat on the seawall, the sun melted into the horizon, providing a brilliant welcome show. It was one of those sunsets that also melts your heart, transports you to a different place, a so very peaceful place, so very far from your troubles and struggles. You can only stare straight ahead and feel the quiet inside, lean on something or someone, and remain in that far off land for as long as you possibly can.''People''During our 14 kilometer wander, I interacted with vendors, taxi drivers, rickshaw drivers, waiters, shopkeepers, people in the streets. At one point, I accidentally pulled out a large wad of cash from my pocket, in front of a small shop, on a very dark street, at 10pm, with a group of observant young men behind me. They pointed, they laughed, they inched closer, they whispered among themselves and I tensed up…and then…they told us to watch the bottle of rum we were buying because it was about to fall off the counter. And they chatted with my friend. All was fine, we said goodbye and walked away.''A huge muscular man ran by us on the sidewalk, wearing a tight black leotard-like running outfit, with his small dog in tow. A moment later, a prostitute high on something, stumbled by. Drunk men sang out loud in front of the sea, taxi drivers honked their horns at us, teenagers walked by hand in hand.''There weren’t large crowds of people anywhere, yet there were small groups here and there and a scattering of people popping up in the most random places, moving with seemingly no order, yet with a steady rhythm nonetheless. One lady appeared in front of me after she had climbed over a fence, a man crossed the street in a slow jog, a few people danced to some loud music under a tree, a guy sitting on the stoop of a dilapidated building asked if we wanted to learn salsa, a woman stood in her doorway wiping the sweat from her forehead with a white towel.''Old Cars''Old cars zoomed around the corners, 50 and 60 year-old Chevys and Fords and Ladas, the kind I knew existed here in Cuba but that my brain was not able to fully believe until I saw them with my own eyes, right there on the streets before me. On this first day I saw more of these classic cars than I have seen in my entire life, some of which looked like they just came out of the factory yesterday, many looking like they’ve been patched up thousands of times. Was it cool? Indeed. Was it odd to realize that they are stuck with these ancient, beat-up vehicles because people have no other options? Absolutely.''Internet and Water''Shockingly, in this land where internet is supposedly so scarce, we passed three''public wifi areas'', where dozens of people were checking the internet on their phones, during the one and a half hours it took us to find a shop selling bottled water. We could barely find any shops at all. And while we didn’t check the internet on this night, we quickly realized that getting online wouldn’t be as difficult as we had imagined on this trip. Finding water would be more difficult than we imagined and we quickly understood that if we passed a shop selling it, that was the time to stock up with as much as we could carry.''Glimpses and Confusion''The colors, the architecture, the bad-assery, the odd glances, the consistent attempts at scams, the long search for a place to eat, the peaking into the homes through the open doors and windows, the shops selling eggs, the shops selling nothing but beer and rum…the feeling that everything around me was truly stuck in time in a way that I never thought I would actually witness, despite everything I had heard about Cuba.''To be honest, I really had no idea what was going on during that first wander, during that first day.''Around every corner, in every direction I sent my eyes, I really was stuck at times. I could not interpret, I could not make much sense of my surroundings. It made me question, it made me think. It made me dream, it made me smile, it made me sad. It made me thankful. And I fully loved and appreciated every minute of the experience at the same time, in more ways than I could ever describe.''Actually, this is what travel does if you let it. And in my opinion, you really should let it. It takes your head and knocks it around a good amount, it determinedly makes sure everything you thought about how the world works suddenly doesn’t seem so certain. Travel breaks you, it overjoys you, it makes you dizzy and drunk and tearful and fascinated and it offers, without warning, endless new ideas and perspectives that you must ponder and deal with, in the raw.''And if you can’t handle that, long-term travel probably isn’t for you. I love it personally, I’m addicted in fact. A trip to Cuba, a trip anywhere…it’s why I’m still bouncing around.''So, that first night in Havana…eventually, we found a restaurant and we had a decent meal. Eventually, a shop was found too, one that sold bottled water and rum, both of which we purchased. And eventually, tired from the long, long day of flying and wandering, a taxi was hailed and back to our guesthouse we went.''Just as the day had started, with that shot of rum, we naturally soon found ourselves ending the day by sipping some more of the same. And then, once our glasses were empty, off to sleep we went, day one in Cuba complete.''Have you been to a destination that left you confused? Where? Does travel often force you to reevaluate your ideas and beliefs?''Since 2012, I’ve been running my''Wandering Earl Tours''as a side project through this blog, offering unique, small group tours to countries around the world. I’ve now welcomed 190 people on a variety of trips to all corners of the globe.''This is not some big tour company of course. I don’t make contracts with tourist hotels, I don’t pre-plan every single aspect and I don’t create rushed itineraries that only allow you to take a couple of photos before being forced to move on.''It’s just a small operation, with a focus on laid-back travel, learning through first-hand experiences and diving into a country beyond the main sights. It’s also about having a blast together, meeting people, eating great food and having free time to experience each destination in your own way…and of course, keeping it at a reasonable price.''That’s the concept of''Wandering Earl Tours''.''And now that I’ve had many people join 2, 3, 4 and even 5 trips so far (along with the fact that I already have bookings for 2017 before I even announced the trips), I believe more and more in this concept each year.''So, for those who are looking for this kind of a travel experience, I am extremely excited to announce…''Wandering Earl Tours for 2017''India:''Feb 1st – 9th''India:''Feb 12th – 27th''Myanmar:''March 18th – 30th''Thailand & Cambodia:''April 16th – 30th''Morocco:''May 1st – 13th''Mexico:''May 24th – 31st''Kyrgyzstan:''June 1st – 15th''Romania:''July 1st – 14th''Vietnam:''July 17th – 31st''India:''November 1st – 16th''More details can be found – and bookings can be made – over on my tours website:''WanderingEarlTours.com''As always, I will be absolutely honored to welcome you on one of these trips…in the meantime, I wish you a beautiful day wherever you may be!''Oh, the torture.''The writing, the emails, the tweeting…that stuff is all good.''The real challenge, the real thorn with this blogging stuff, comes from the photos.''Taking a perfect travel photo to post online – on Facebook, the blog or Instagram – is just plain difficult.''And to do it over and over and over again? It’s madness I tell you.''The pressure is immense and getting that perfect shot, especially when we want to be in the photo ourselves, takes extreme effort, and usually some pain. Sweat and tears are all a part of it.''I wish it were as easy as just facing the camera and snapping away, but it’s not.''In fact, always wondering if I’ll get that desperately needed winner of a travel photo has ruined many a days, it’s led to many sleepless nights and has cost me hundreds of dollars in therapy sessions. Luckily, my therapist thinks I’m making progress though.''But for now, I have no choice but to show up in more places and do my damnedest to get that ideal shot somehow.''That’s exactly what I had to do a short time ago while visiting the''Mayan ruins of Edzna'', in the Mexican state of Campeche.''Let me show you exactly what the struggle to get that perfect travel photo involves so that you’ll understand a little better…''The Struggle''Step 1:''Bending down is hard. I’m supposed to get down there? Should I bend my knees first or should I put my hands on the ground and lower myself slowly? Should I just remain in this position? Will this be a better shot? So much to consider.''Step 2:''Okay, maybe I’ll cross my knees. Wait, is this turning into a yoga pose? I don’t want that.''Step 3:''Oh, no. Nobody told me this rocky surface was so sharp. My ass is in real pain. These rocks are dangerous. I don’t think I can do this. It’s almost unbearable.''Step 4:''Earl, you can do it. Come on man, you can do it. Just sit back and take the pain. Take it. Remember, you need this photo! Your life depends on it.''Step 5:''Let me try to figure this pose thing out. This seems about right, I think. Actually, I can’t sit here much longer. I think I need to get up.''Step 6:''Really hurts, really, really hurts. Did you get a good shot already?? Come on!!''Step 7:''Okay, how about this? This smile isn’t real at all. Take the photo! Please just take the photo and let’s get this over with!''Step 8:''Nailed it! Woohoo! Hell yeah, what a shot! Now get me out of here.''That’s what happens, all too often. As you can see, it’s extremely difficult, both physically and mentally.''Of course, as you can also see with that last photo above, sometimes I truly do nail it. Oh yeah, I can nail it, sometimes like no other. It’s such a rush when I suddenly push through the hopelessness and somehow get that perfect shot, right when my day seemed destined for disappointment once again, right when I was about to take my camera and smash it against the ancient steps of the Edificio de los Cinco Pisos behind me.''But alas, camera smashing was not needed in the end this time around. I persevered through the stress and frustration, turning those streaming tears of pain into flowing tears of pure joy.''And when that happens, life doesn’t get much better I guess.''Besides, sharing perfect photos of ourselves is what it’s all about, right? Of course it is. Why else would I be doing this?''*In case you didn’t pick it up, this was a sarcastic post. Oh, and I don’t use Instagram either. But I do use''Facebook''and even Snapchat (wanderingearl) if you want to follow along! Hope you’re having a beautiful day!''Any interesting photo experiences you want to share?''There’s no doubt that''Dubai is a great holiday destination in its own right'', with plenty of dazzling malls and fun attractions in the form of theme parks and water parks to keep you busy for a week or longer. But if yours is an inquisitive mind with a thirst for change and new encounters, then Dubai is also the ideal base to propel you further in the world.''In this post I’ll shed some light into why''Dubai is an ideal twin-centre or stopover destination''to connect you with more of the world – the perfect catapult to get you further in your quest of discovery. Read more to find out how you can link up a Dubai break with some of the globe’s most exotic corners.''A Middle Eastern jewel, perfectly connected''On its own Dubai is impressive enough, no doubt about that, with its grand malls, its interesting old town, its scenic Deira creek (which you can traverse onboard a traditional abra for only 1 dirham – less than 20 pence or a little more than a quarter in US dollars), bustling souks and long lines of dazzling resorts flanking the glistening emerald waters of Jumeirah Beach. With reliably sunny weather all-year-around''Dubai is a fantastic destination for a pampering and relaxing break''or for active fun if you pay a visit to the theme parks and water parks. It’s also a city that never stops building so more and more attractions open up each day. With the great selection of bars and restaurants to be wined and dined at you won’t be short of nightlife options either.''The best part is that if you want a change of scenery,''Dubai is exceptionally well connected''not just to fascinating Asian and South-East Asian destinations like Thailand, India or Malaysia, but to the whole world. With Emirates flying to''over 150 destinations''in six continents from Dubai, you’ll certainly won’t be limited for options.''Dubai can propel you in all directions, the struggle might be deciding where to land among so many possible options. I´ll now proceed to make that job a little bit easier for you and list some of the most popular and enriching twinning possibilities.''Beach hop to Asian delights''From mall to beach, back to mall and then to beach again? If you´re a die-hard beach bum who wants to experience as many sun-kissed, powdery soft sands as possible in the dreamiest of settings, then you could easily combine a short break in Dubai (be it by the beach or in the popular downtown area) with the postcard-perfect beaches of Mauritius, Seychelles or Sri Lanka. This trio of dreamy destinations in the Indian Ocean each has a wealth of secluded beach coves set against lush, dramatic backdrops and with flight times between Dubai and this raw, natural beauties ranging between four and six hours, you won´t waste too much of your precious holiday time flying. Not bad for experiencing a completely different landscape, in a completely different continent, right?''Twin-centre holidays combining Dubai and Mauritius are extremely popular, not only because they´re two completely different countries with entirely different scenery, but because both offer the highest level of luxury pampering. Equally,''combining Dubai with Seychelles is yet another indulging option'', even more escapist than the former given the size an intimacy of the Seychelles islands.''Lastly, making the hop from Dubai to Sri Lanka offers you the chance of not only basking in glorious beaches but also discovering Sri Lanka’s rich culture, history and natural reserves. If you want your downtime on the beach to be followed by a little sightseeing admiring ancient temples, beautiful ruins or stunning national parks with thriving wildlife (there’s more than six to choose from), Sri Lanka won’t disappoint.''Colouring it up – exoticism up a notch''If you want your Dubai holiday combination to be a touch more colourful and exotic, the idea of combining Dubai with Thailand or India is another possibility, easy to arrange and yielding wonderful travel memories to forever cherish.''With India’s capital of New Delhi being only a little over three hours’ distance from Dubai, you will hardly feel the journey from one destination to the next, yet you’ll instantly be bombarded with different sounds, colours and smells – a treat for the senses!''Multi-centre trips linking Dubai with India can be enriching in more ways than one, you could opt to stay in the Indian capital and do some sightseeing on your own or you could book a full Indian tour to compliment your Dubai break and get a fuller taste of this fascinating land of contrasts and colours.''Thailand, on the other hand is a breath of fresh air with some of the world’s most dramatically stunning and perfectly isolated beaches (let’s not forget The Beach movie was filmed here for a reason) and with a vibrant, energetic and colourful urban landscapes that’s also stands in stark contrast against Dubai’s immaculate sky-scraping wonders and ultra-modern layout.''Venturing into the wild''For more serious and adventurous action that appeals to the wild at heart or those who simply adore wildlife and raw animal encounters, Dubai can also be easily combined with South Africa and a visit to any of its natural reserves.''Making it to the''Kruger National Park''has to be one of the high points of any traveller’s bucket list, bringing to life the once-in-a-lifetime possibility of getting close to some of the world’s most fascinating creatures, otherwise known as Africa’s Big Five (rhinos, buffaloes, lions, elephants and leopards). But these wild beauties can also be observed at a number of other private reserves that include full accommodation with exclusive perks.''Just think that after enjoying some leisure time amidst the glitz and glamour of Dubai you could rough it up with a South African safari. And by roughing it up I mean indulging in the most amazing views every morning from your luxurious tent, pitched up right in the midst of it all, or base yourself in a stately villa inside a reserve. There’s just so many possibilities and ways in which Dubai and South Africa can be''perfectly paired up for the most unforgettable adventures''.''A world of options''Whether making the hop to Bangkok for some street market bartering, heading to Seychelles for the ultimate escapism indulgence or exchanging glamorous hotels for the African wilderness, Dubai opens up a world of multi-centre holiday possibilities. A short or long layover in Dubai may be all the wind you need in your wings before setting off to other far-flung destinations. Make the most of it and explore your twin-centre Dubai options to see and experience more of the world.''Right now I’m sitting on the balcony of an apartment that I’ve rented in Playa del Carmen, Mexico. In front of me, across the street, is a football field with some basketball courts nearby. The night time breeze is coming in from the beach, straight across that field, and it keeps me cool despite the hot and humid weather.''When I look out at this football field, it instantly reminds me of a similar field in the town of Fatehpur Sikri, India where I once played a pick up game of cricket at sunrise with some extremely welcoming locals that I ended up hanging out with for several days.''And with these basketball courts I’m looking at, I quickly remember an old friend I met in Melbourne, quite randomly, and with whom I played b-ball in the gym at the University of Melbourne a few times per week, followed by a beer at a local pub.''When I think of the beach a few blocks away, I am immediately taken back to the random group of five travelers I spent three adventurous days with in the beach town of Sihanoukville, Cambodia before going our own ways and actually never talking to each other again.''When I feel this breeze, I recall a time in Ljubljana when I sat at an outdoor cafe with several new friends – both travelers and locals – escaping the heat, drinking cold drinks and talking for hours on end as if we’d known each other for years even though we barely knew each other at all.''And then there was tonight. I spent a few hours with two good friends, both of whom I met while traveling, in different places and different times over the years. Somehow we all ended up in Playa del Carmen this week and we just got back from a most enjoyable night out on the town (it’s only 11pm but that’s a night out on the town for me these days!).''As you can tell, right now I’m on this balcony thinking about people.''All I Can Do Is Smile''I’m thinking about the magic of making friends while traveling and about all the people I’ve met over the years, or at least as many as I can remember.''And with each memory, whether sharp or fuzzy, I’m smiling. I’m smiling because I never had to do anything special to meet these people. All it took was getting on a bus or train or plane and heading off to a new destination. Just showing up, that’s it.''It takes so little effort yet the reward is so great.''Everyone who has traveled long-term knows how this works. You meet new and interesting people every single day. It’s almost unavoidable. One minute you arrive in a destination on your own and the next minute you’re surrounded by new friends, whether it be other travelers or locals that you’ve come across.''You share intense and fun and memorable experiences together, you bond over a meal or a wander or a swim, you learn a lot about each other in a very short period of time…and then, of course, you ultimately say goodbye. Maybe you spent a week together, maybe a few days, maybe just a couple of hours.''Either way, it’s all good.''In many cases, you’ll probably stay in touch with a few of these new pals, maybe for a few months or weeks or days, but inevitably, that friendship will fade. You’ll already be on to a completely different set of new friends in a completely different destination and so will the other travelers you’ve met before.''An Enjoyable Yet Difficult Game''Travel does involve a game of hellos and goodbyes, thoroughly enjoying the time you spend with people from around the world but also having to deal with the constant farewells to those you wish you could spend more time with.''For sixteen years, I’ve played this game. I’ve met''fascinating people''everywhere, at the most random moments, in the most random of places, and also right where I’d hoped to stumble upon some new folk to interact with. Usually, all it took was''a simple hello''to get those connections started.''As I sit here on this balcony, I can’t remember most of these people I’ve met of course (that’s what happens when you’re meeting new people every day for a long time) but at the same time, several of those I’ve met along the way have indeed become real, life-long friends.''When I think about those who have become friends, when I think back to the bonds created and when I think of all the people I’d love to be friends with but it didn’t happen for one reason or another and we lost touch, again, all I can do is smile. The amount of people a traveler can meet in such a short period of time is simply mind-blowing so it’s only natural that we can’t remain friends with everyone. That’s just how life goes but it doesn’t take away from the experiences we’ve shared.''And hey, I always say that even these short connections we make when traveling, the ones that eventually fade, are still worth it, without a doubt. Whenever we have to say goodbye, that just means we are moving on to a new place, where we’ll meet even more new people and make even more rewarding connections.''Without that mentality, all the friendships that go from intense to nonexistent in a short period of time can be difficult to handle.''If you’ve traveled already, you know exactly what I’m talking about. If you haven’t traveled yet, get ready for the crazy, wild ride of hellos and goodbyes, of endless connections and of sharing some of the most memorable moments of your life with people that come and go as quickly as tacos al pastor go through your system. It’s all a part of making friends while traveling.''It will mess with your head. But at the same time, it will change your life in unimaginably positive ways, too. Connecting with people is such a beautiful thing, no matter how long that connection lasts.''In fact, it’s addictive.''The good news is that travel provides us with an endless supply of people to meet, in every city, town and village, at every hotel, guesthouse and hostel, in every restaurant, cafe and food market, on every street corner, bus, beach and ferris wheel…most of whom are also interested in meeting us.''Again, all it really takes is showing up.''What’s your experience with meeting people while traveling? Are the constant hellos and goodbyes difficult?''It’s me, Earl. Back again.''As you might have noticed, I took a short break from the blog. It started when I led my latest India tour back in February and continued as I took a ‘vacation’ once that tour came to an end.''It wasn’t a planned break. I would sit down and try to write in the beginning but it just wasn’t happening. Then one day in the middle of March, while on Siquijor Island in the Philippines, I made the decision to stop trying until I felt ready to write.''This morning I woke up and decided I was ready. And so I write.''Not quite sure where this post will lead so I guess we’ll both find out in a few moments.''The reason I took a break from the blog was that I simply needed some time for myself, time to concentrate on a few important aspects of my life. And in order to do that I needed to be fully present everywhere and at all times, without spending much of each day wondering how to write about what I was seeing and what I was doing.''During this period, I spent a few weeks in the Philippines and then four days in Taipei before returning to the US.''Cool stuff over there in the Philippines and Taipei by the way. Beautiful islands and beaches in one and some of the best food I’ve ever eaten in the other.''I highly recommend checking both out at some point if you can.''The Problem''While traveling to these places, I really wanted to take a closer look at myself, to recognize my issues, to figure out what I need to improve on as a human being.''Sixteen years of travel can leave a person a tad confused and I realized that if I didn’t start taking care of myself in as many ways as possible, real long-term happiness was going to be difficult to obtain or sustain.''It’s the same regardless of whether we work in an office, perform surgery or bounce around the world working on our laptop. Life can get frustrating and lose it’s excitement if we ignore our own well-being.''So that’s what I was trying to during my short break in the Philippines and Taiwan, and still now. Take care of myself.''It’s not easy. There have been good realizations. There have been tough realizations. There are breakthrough moments and plenty of setbacks too. I’ve made mistakes, upset a few people during this process and been forced to make some really hard decisions.''The good news is that with some dedicated effort, we can always improve ourselves.''The Process''What are some of the things I’ve been doing to feel healthier and to be a better, happier person?''Here’s my random list.''Low-carb, low-sugar diet'', and I feel better than I’ve ever felt as a result.''Breathing techniques''. A friend of mine sent me a video of this Dutch guy,''Wim Hof'', and how he uses breathing to do things such as hike mountains wearing only a pair of shorts and spend time in freezing water without any problem. (Odd stuff, not sure if there are actually any benefits, but it’s kind of fun to try and does feel good.)''Reading all types of books''(here’s''my book list'') about how to be more confident, how to keep life simple, how to deal with some of my issues and more. (If you have any book recommendations, let me know in the comments!)''Spending much less time online''.''Being fully open and saying what’s really on my mind''more often.''Saying ‘no’''more often. Feels pretty good once you realize that it’s okay to say it.''Figuring out what interests I have beyond travel''and how I can integrate those into my life.''Spending more time with good friends''than usual.''Facing my fears'', in every aspect of life.''Enjoying the simple everyday moments''instead of always looking for the next grand adventure.''Simple stuff. But a completely different, and more intense, experience now that I’m fully present and focused on myself. I’m not saying that everyone should do the above though. It’s just what I’ve been doing given my circumstances.''The Important Realization''Before – and I used to say this often – I believed that it was important to ‘check in’ with ourself from time to time in order to make sure we’re taking care of ourself properly and that we’re on the path we really want to be on. But now I realize the error in that line of thinking.''Focusing on and taking care of ourselves needs to be an ever-present part of our every day life.''It needs to be the main ingredient of the foundation that everything else – relationships, work, goals and beyond – can be built upon, not just something we pay attention to every now and then.''Otherwise, life can get messy. Now I see this. Now I can do something about it.''At the moment I’m on a five-day road trip to West Virginia, then going back to New York City. We’ll see how long I’ll stay there. I do have a couple of short trips planned for May, but the goal is to keep working on myself too.''Right now though, time for some more breathing exercises. I might even try to take a freezing cold shower this morning.''More to come soon…''And seriously, the Philippines and Taiwan – a remarkably beautiful and yummy pair of destinations if you’re ever in the region.''How have you been recently? Any travel plans? Any thoughts on the above? I’d love to hear what you’re up to.''During the three days I spent in Istanbul earlier this month, something didn’t feel right.''Sure, I followed the general routine that I usually follow, and have enjoyed greatly, during my earlier travels to this city. I booked a private room at the friendly''Cheers Hostel'', I returned to my favorite eateries scattered around the back streets and lanes of a variety of neighborhoods, I smoked shisha at my favorite nargile cafe located in a beautiful 300-year old ex-school-turned-market situated behind a small cemetery, and I spent time each day admiring some of my favorite sights.''But on this occasion, as I did all of the above, I didn’t feel as comfortable as I have felt on those previous twelve or so visits. I couldn’t get in my travel groove for some reason and as a result, I wasn’t enjoying everything I was doing as much as usual.''It’s difficult to pinpoint what exactly was different about it all, but I can say for certain that I noticed something, and it bothered me, and to an extent, worried me too.''As I took my evening walks through very familiar areas, I found myself looking over my shoulder more often and choosing my path a lot more carefully than I normally do in that city, than I normally do anywhere in fact.''At one point, I even commented to another traveler I had met, as we walked through the park situated between the Blue Mosque and the Hagia Sofia, that the lack of a police presence in this most touristy section of this well-traveled city was bizarre considering how much of a target this area must be. This observation only added to the heavier-than-usual atmosphere I was feeling.''Everywhere I went, this city which I love very much and have so many incredible memories from, felt more and more unfamiliar with each passing hour.''And as a result, after a short three days, my gut starting telling me, quite clearly, to get out of town.''Deciding to trust what I consider to be my well-honed traveler instinct, on my third night in Istanbul, I booked a flight to Bucharest for the very next morning. I woke up early, took the tram and metro to the airport and off I went to Romania, a short one hour flight away.''The next day, the attack happened in Sultanahmet. Ten tourists were killed, a mere 400 feet from where I was staying, at the exact spot that I had walked across far too many times to count during this three day visit alone.''Is The Traveler Instinct Real?''The idea of a traveler instinct is an interesting concept.''As someone on''my FB page''recently commented, this ‘instinct’ can sometimes be attributed to confirmation bias, where we have our preconceived notions about a particular destination and the people who live there, and as a result, we interpret all that we observe in a way that fits those already-held ideas.''While I agree with that to an extent, and I’m sure it’s sometimes the case, I don’t think it’s the full explanation.''I certainly had completely opposite ideas of what my time in Istanbul would be like on this occasion, based on all the overwhelmingly positive experiences I had in that city over the past ten years. From the moment I booked my flight to Turkey, I assumed that I was going to return to a place that always emitted a positive vibe (at least to me as a traveler) and that always gave me a positive travel experience.''One could also say that since I was looking for such a positive experience, anything that didn’t fit that mold could be seen as stranger and more negative than normal. Perhaps, but in my opinion, it’s unlikely considering that I’ve certainly learned by now that things don’t always go according to plan and I generally accept whatever comes my way without much disappointment.''Besides, this isn’t the first time I’ve noticed my traveler instinct.''Catching a Pickpocket''I’ve now caught three people over the past five years who were trying to pickpocket me. The first time it happened, I was walking down a busy street in Mumbai and suddenly, I had a feeling that I should turn around. Sure enough, I caught a man with outstretched arm reaching for my back pocket where I happened to have left some money.''And it’s not as if I had been turning around every two minutes thinking that everyone around me might be trying to steal my stuff.''There was no indication that anything was happening except for a gut feeling at that very moment. Maybe I subconsciously saw his shadow, maybe I heard footsteps more closely than normal behind me, maybe I noticed a sudden crowd around me and realized the increase in risk that a pickpocket would operate in this area. I have no idea, but the point is, I felt something that made me turn around, and that feeling turned out to be right.''So there has to be more to it.''How We Develop A Traveler Instinct''The more we travel, the more experiences we have (obviously!), the more situations we find ourselves in, the more people we meet, the more we learn, the more we observe, the more we interpret. All of this then helps us make sense of the future experiences we have, the future situations we find ourselves in, the people we meet in our next destinations. We quickly scan our past experiences to see how these ‘new’ experiences compare and we make an assessment based on that information.''Of course, we are not usually aware of this process. We are only aware of the end result (the instinct) which tells us that a certain situation is normal, safe, unsafe, strange, or anything else, so that we can act accordingly. Suddenly we just know what to do, we make decisions on the fly based on our fine-tuned instincts.''This is especially true when we travel to the same destination more than once. The collection of data we have in our brains about how things are supposed to be in that particular location is obviously greater the more times we visit and the longer we stay, and that helps us interpret everything around us more quickly and, probably, more correctly.''This is what I felt in Istanbul, a city I know very well. I had so much previous experience to compare everything I was now seeing and feeling to that I was even more confident in what my gut was telling me. That’s why I left when I did.''Who Needs Real Proof? Not Me.''Of course, maybe this is all nonsense in the end. Maybe there’s nothing to this traveler instinct idea at all.''Is it just luck?''It’s not as if I have much in terms of real proof.''It’s not as if I have a long list of tragedies or robberies or attacks that my own instinct has helped me narrowly avoid over the years. That’s not the case at all.''The reality is that it’s quite difficult to know exactly what this traveler instinct has done for me since I generally rely on it to make sure I don’t end up in trouble, not necessarily to help me get out of serious trouble. What it has helped me avoid is something that there is no way for me to be aware of.''But after all of this travel, I really do feel a traveler instinct within, one that seems to improve over time, and one that seems to be working quite well. By paying attention to this instinct as I’ve navigated the world over the past sixteen years, both myself and my possessions have remained remarkably safe in such a wide variety of destinations and situations.''And after this recent Istanbul experience, it would be difficult to convince me that it’s the result of something other than this traveler instinct.''Has your traveler instinct helped you at all? Do you believe this concept is real?''When I traveled to Las Vegas ten days ago, I forgot to do one important thing when I booked my flight.''And the result of this momentarily lapse was a long, forty minute wait to pass through security at Orlando International Airport.''Normally, when I’m at a US airport I pass through the TSA Pre✓® lane – the speedy security lane for pre-screened passengers. But this time, I could only watch the speedy lane from the chaos of seven long regular security lanes merging into one, creeping slowly along as the frustration of those around me grew with each minute.''Why was I in the regular security lane this time around?''When booking my flight, I had forgotten to enter my''Known Traveler Number''into the reservation. Simple as that. And with my''Known Traveler Number'', the words “TSA Pre✓®” are printed across my boarding passes, allowing me to zip through the dedicated TSA Pre✓® lanes at all airport security inspections in the US.''With the TSA Pre✓® lanes, the lines, if any, move quickly. The wait, if any, is never more than a couple of minutes in my experience. Shoes don’t need to be removed, laptop and liquids stay in my carry-on bag, jacket and belt stay on as well. It’s quick and hassle-free.''My airport experience is easier and I have more time to roam the terminal before my flight (which I like to do in order to stretch before boarding the plane). Just not having to wait in the long lines, take off shoes and take out my laptop makes it well worth it to me.''But alas, this time, en route to Vegas, I was back in the normal security lines, only able to watch the TSA Pre✓® passengers pass straight by me. I think it was only the second time I forgot to enter my number in the past two years.''For US citizens, nationals and permanent residents who travel a decent amount (even a couple of times per year would make sense) you can apply for TSA Pre✓® directly.''The process is quite straightforward, involving online pre-enrollment by filling out the''TSA Pre✓® application'', visiting an enrollment center near you (there are over 370 centers to choose from) with the required paperwork and paying the $85 fee. Once the process is complete, you should receive your''Known Traveler Number''by mail within 2-3 weeks and it will be valid for 5 years.''And with that number, you’re good to go. Enter it every time you make a flight booking (there is a box for''Known Traveler Number''when making flight bookings on any website these days) and your boarding pass will automatically say “TSA Pre✓®” on it, allowing you to head straight for the dedicated, and speedy, security lines every time you fly.''Do you already have TSA Pre✓®? Are there similar programs in other countries?''If you dare me to do something, I’ll do it, whatever it involves. I might not like it but I’ll show zero emotion whatsoever, pretend that nothing could possibly bother me at all and I’ll face the challenge at hand.''If you told me I won a two month trip to the South Pacific, to bounce around from island to island, all expenses paid, I’d probably nod once and say, “''Alright''.”''If you told me that my leg is broken and as a result I can’t travel for a year or more, my reaction would also most likely be, “''Alright''.”''Many people tell me that I’m a mystery, that they have no idea what I’m thinking at any time, what I’m feeling or what’s going on in my head. They tell me that I don’t display my emotions and that I react the same – or don’t react at all – to any kind of information or situation.''They also tell me that while this behavior is all somewhat intriguing, it’s also somewhat annoying.''Thank You, Travel''I think travel has done this to me. I’m quite sure of it actually.''But it’s not exactly what you might think.''Some might immediately conclude that after so many years of travel and life experiences, of memorable sights and activities, of meeting people and learning about the world, travel would just get boring to the point where I no longer react because I literally don’t have any reaction.''Perhaps I’ve ‘seen it all before’ and suffer from''travel monotony'', so nothing excites me any more.''However, I don’t think that’s the case.''I’m more inclined to think that this constant equanimity is a''survival instinct''of sorts.''It is something travel has taught me to do – without me really knowing it – in order for me to wander the world in a way that I think is best in terms of having the kind of travel experiences I want to have and also in terms of safety.''When I travel, I generally prefer to ‘fit in’ than ‘stand out’ as I really enjoy observing and interacting with the local culture in a subtle, non-fabricated manner. For example, walking around a random neighborhood, talking with a few local people, going into a small cafe, just being present in some ordinary part of town in order to get a glimpse of how life might really be, is something I try to do often.''Being somewhere without standing out too much, in my opinion, yields some of the most interesting, rewarding and educational travel experiences possible.''And so, as I’ve traveled over the years, I figured out the best way for me to try to fit in when in a destination where I clearly don’t fit in was to go around as unnoticed as possible.''How does a foreigner in a foreign land go unnoticed?''I keep my reactions even, always appear as if I know what I’m doing, always give the impression that I’m confident and that I’m supposed to be exactly where I happen to be at all times. I show no confusion. I show no fear. I pay attention to what’s happening around me, always.''This way, I’m not immediately labeled as an outsider that simply wants to have general tourist experiences, something that can create a barrier between travelers and locals, limiting the types of interactions that can be had as a result. Instead, always maintaining an outwardly confident, unemotional appearance in any setting breaks down some of those barriers, allowing a traveler and local to interact as mere human beings, not as a tourist looking for photo opportunities or a ‘cool’ experience and a local who simply needs/wants something from the tourist.''As a bonus, when it comes to safety while traveling, keeping my reactions equanimous and giving the impression that I know what I’m doing at all times, makes me less of a target, less likely to be taken advantage of. You don’t attempt a scam on or try to rip off someone who looks like they know what’s going on around them.''In fact, in 15 years of travel, I’ve only had my wallet pick-pocketed once (my fault though) and have rarely fallen victim to any major scam or been ripped off beyond the usual ‘foreigner paying a little more than locals’ type of rip off. I could probably list the number of times I’ve been truly taken advantage of as a tourist on one foot, even if I count my two webbed toes as just one toe.''Life Without Reactions''All of this ‘training’ has impacted my life in general as well.''By not outwardly reacting to situations that occur, I don’t give anything away. I can blend into any setting and I can fade out of any setting quite easily too. Nobody can figure me out, nobody can gain an upper hand (so I think, of course) if they don’t know what I’m thinking or feeling.''The additional benefits, in travel and life as a whole, are interesting. I’m able to remain calm at all times, to see things clearly even in the middle of a chaotic and difficult situation and to overcome obstacles simply because I won’t allow myself to appear as if I can’t do something.''I also tend to believe that everything is possible and I venture out into the world with an outward confidence that helps me navigate even the trickiest and most uncomfortable of situations. Again, by not letting myself appear unconfident and incapable, I have no choice but to be confident and capable.''Downsides also exist of course. I won’t pretend they don’t. This ‘wall’ I put up ensures that few people can get too close to me. That’s something I’m well aware of. Also, my excitement, sadness, disappointment, happiness and on and on are often all internalized, only for me to know about, giving the appearance that I don’t actually experience excitement, sadness, disappointment, happiness or anything else, at least to those who don’t know me well.''Hence the reason why so many people tell me I’m a mystery, which is usually accompanied by a semi-frustrated shaking of the head and a sigh, as if to say, “''Well, I have no time for this.''”''The reality though, is that I most definitely do react to everything. I do find myself in awe as I wander the planet, staring out at the Himalayan Mountains or finding myself in the middle of a fascinating cultural experience. I do find myself dealing with frustration and thrill and fear and attachment and all of that…it’s just happening in a place that nobody else can see most of the time.''Don’t get me wrong. I’m not saying all of this is healthy. Maybe it is, maybe it isn’t. I just find it to be an interesting result of my life of travel and how my brain has handled and adjusted to the situations I’ve faced over the years. It has undoubtedly brought me benefits and helped me tremendously to experience and learn from this world in a way that I want to experience and learn from it. But it’s also a bit odd, I understand that.''And in the end, I’m neither happy nor unhappy about it, or so I outwardly say.''How do you handle your emotions when traveling and in life? Do you try to display an outward confidence in certain situations to help you through? I’d really be interested in hearing your thoughts.''Have you ever created a list of the first 50 or so most memorable life experiences that pop into your head when you think back over your years?''I woke up this morning and felt the urge to do just that. This is what I came up with…''Taking a shower in a small wooden closet down a tiny alley in Kabul every morning during my stay. It was a local hamam where most of the residents in the area bathed each day.''Finding everyone I met in Tirana to be so welcoming – from waitstaff to the hostel staff to strangers in the street to shop owners. Especially the shop owner who not only let me charge my phone in his shop but insisted that I go eat at his favorite restaurant nearby while my phone was charging. He even called the restaurant to let them know I was coming and to make sure they took care of me. I loved Tirana.''Being convinced by some other travelers to enter a local salsa club in Bariloche, Argentina and, despite the fact that I rarely dance, I didn’t want to leave the dance floor all night and ended up staying there until 5am.''Trying to sleep under the stars in the middle of the desert near Alice Springs, Australia, telling myself I would close my eyes after seeing just one more shooting star…and repeating this over and over again until I spent almost the entire night staring at the star-filled sky.''Eating the''largest schnitzel''I’ve ever seen with two good friends.''Spending a day on a private island in the Bahamas where I was really loving my job as a Tour Manager on a cruise ship.''Being''kidnapped in Dhaka'', Bangladesh by the most inexperienced and useless kidnappers on the planet (thankfully).''Meeting and becoming friends with some incredible local people in Barbados, spending days driving around the island, visiting the beaches, eating good food and enjoying the great company.''Walking around Mostar for a day with several other travelers, randomly ending up in a well-known crepe shop where we ate a lot of yummy crepes while having a superb time interacting with the locals around us for a couple of hours.''New Year’s at a house party in Sofia.''Drinking local draft beer with endless Burmese at the many local, open-air bars scattered around Mandalay, Burma. It was hard to walk by one of these bars without being invited inside for a beer by those already in there drinking.''Angkor Wat! Where it all began…spending the Millennium at this unforgettable site and realizing for the first time that a life of travel was what I really wanted to achieve in life.''Attending the wedding of one of my best friends in Vancouver, getting a chance to spend time with him, his family, his other friends as well as another good friend of mine in this beautiful city. Eating sushi everyday, walking along the water, working in some unique cafes…''A friend and I being the only people in a tiny, back lane cinema in Osorno, Chile where the woman at the counter found it hilarious that two foreigners wanted to watch the latest Harry Potter movie at this most random of theaters.''Stumbling upon the fantastic''Museum of Broken Relationships''in Zagreb.''Walking around in complete awe during my first day in''Cesky Krumlov'', a fairy-tale town that quickly became one of my favorite destinations on the planet.''The''Egyptian Antiquities Museum''in Cairo. I could have spent several days in there.''Ending up in a dive karaoke bar for about 5 hours right in the center of San Salvador where a friend and I were welcomed with open arms by the local crowd that proceeded to ensure we had plenty to drink all evening. We then did what you’re not supposed to do there…walk back across the entire city late at night to our guesthouse.''My routine in Southampton every time the Queen Mary 2 cruise ship that I worked on would finish a voyage. The routine involved an hour walk to the center of town, a coffee in the park and an Indian buffet lunch at Namaste Kerala Indian restaurant, just me enjoying some alone time…I must have done this 20 times at least.''Ending up in a local, unnamed bar located behind a black door that led into a basement in Tallinn’s old city where I spent an evening with several extremely hospitable Estonians who wanted to show me a bit of their underground nightlife.''Stopping in Fiji en route to my study abroad experience in Australia, my first real night of traveling on my own. I went for a quick walk through the town of Suva that first day, hired a taxi to drive me around the main island, ordered a chicken sandwich and french fries to my room and sat on a small balcony shyly watching life go by. I had no idea what I was doing.''Staying at the Bengkstar Lighthouse'', located in the Archipelago Sea some 25 kms from the coast of Finland, for a night where I enjoyed the complete isolation (I was the only guest), spent time in the sauna, ate delicious home-cooked meals and hung out with the two staff working there. This is one night I will never forget.''Going sledding in Annecy, France over New Year’s and actually having an absolute blast as I tumbled and crashed for several hours despite my extreme dislike for cold, snow and any activity that involves either cold weather or snow.''Quetzaltenango. Arrived in this''northern Guatemalan city''and didn’t want to leave. For some reason I really connected with this town and I could have sat in the main plaza for hours and hours each day watching the life around me.''Going on a road trip from Budapest to Lake Balataon to Split to Dubrovnik to Cavtat with a local Hungarian friend in a tiny 1970s Fiat.''Standing in the town of Isafjordur in the northwest corner of Iceland, wondering how on earth I got there, talking with some local teenagers and finding the completely quiet and calm atmosphere to be quite eerie, yet quite appealing at the same time.''Somehow ending up''visiting India so many times''that I know it better than any other country in the world. This is not something I would have ever expected when I first started traveling.''Waking up every day for a week in a village along the Amed coast on the island of Bali, feeling as if there was nowhere else I would rather be.''Finding myself completely surprised by Venice. I thought I wouldn’t like it at all but I loved every minute I was there, especially wandering through the lanes late at night, without a plan, getting lost for hours at a time.''Smoking shisha with my good friend Anil from''Foxnomad.com''in a''local shisha cafe''in the town of Sulemainiyah, in Northern Iraq, as if this was a completely normal thing for us to do.''Walking around the Old City in Jerusalem for the first time.''Getting off the cruise ship in Ocho Rios, Jamaica where I was always greeted by the most outgoing, hilarious, crazy group of tour operators in the world who would put a smile on my face from the first second I saw them until the ship left at night.''That first glimpse of Petra.''Having a chance to visit''Fanning Island''in Kiribati at least 20 times where I would spend the entire day on a remote, white-sand beach that was, in my opinion, as close to true paradise as there can be on this planet.''Creating an''unlikely friendship with Tamara'', the lovely and most generous guesthouse owner in the small, unassuming town of Tamga, Kyrgyzstan.''Smoking some local stuff with a fellow traveler, peeing my pants and then walking across an island in the middle of the Mekong River in southern Laos in order to catch a glimpse of the Irrawaddy Dolphins.''Being followed by an extremely mysterious and sketchy guy''one day in Beirut'', Lebanon. I’ll also never forget the knafeh that I ate at a roadside knafeh shop in southern Lebanon, where the shockingly exquisite sweet cheese pastry put me in such a trance that tears nearly fell from my eyes. No joke.''Meeting up with a family in Skopje, Macedonia that was friends with a friend of mine and having them take me into their home for several days, invite me to a huge family gathering/party and so graciously show me all over their city.''Eating some of the best Indian food I’ve ever eaten at the food stalls in Georgetown, Penang in Malaysia.''Waiting in a long line at a tiny, yet extremely popular, local sandwich shop in Valletta, Malta in order to buy their most popular sandwich – two pieces of thick bread filled with cheesy pasta in between – before sitting on a wall with some other locals, eating our sandwiches and staring out at the fortress walls across the water.''Walking through the streets of Valladolid or Izamal or Oaxaca or San Critobal de las Casas…never finding a destination in Mexico that I didn’t become quite fond of.''Sitting in a cafe in Chisinau, Moldova only to have several people ask me why I was in Moldova and then invite me to hang out during the day and at night, giving me a better insight into the country than I could have ever imagined.''Renting a perfect little apartment with my girlfriend in Ulcinj, Montenegro and getting into one the happiest and healthiest routines I’ve ever been in, one that was very hard to leave.''Traveling by bus from Pokhara to Kathmandu only to find a landslide had blocked the road halfway through the journey. Everyone on the bus got creative, turning the bus into a makeshift guesthouse so that we would all survive the cold night, passing the time eating and drinking together and catching a few hours of sleep.''Renting a car with a friend in New Zealand and driving around the North Island for a week, sleeping in the car, using the public bathrooms and showers around the country and becoming completely fascinated by the spitting mud we witnessed all over the place, shooting straight out of the ground in the most unexpected of places.''Running through the streets of Managua, Nicaragua after finding a ‘famous’ bayonet located in a very mysterious small park (in an area that every guide book said to absolutely avoid due to extreme danger from gangs) and then, naturally, noticing a gang on BMX bicycles on a cliff above me following my every move…I took off so fast and just kept running until I eventually found a taxi, jumped in and told him to drive off as quickly as possible.''Witnessing the Norwegian fjords by boat, hiking and bicycle while also traveling all the way up to the islands of Svalbard.''Standing in the back of a jeep with a bunch of other people as we traveled for two days along a dirt road from the Pakistani town of Gilgit to the remote mountain town of Chitral, located near the Afghanistan border. Never in my life have, or probably will I, see such breathtaking natural landscapes.''Taking a most memorable''road trip all over Romania''with my girlfriend, complete with a friend’s wedding, visits to castles, old wooden churches, painted monasteries, a merry cemetery, a park located in an old salt mine, a stay in a remote mountain village and a journey across the Transfagarasan Highway.''Walking for hours around Singapore, slurping up a bowl of noodle soup every time I needed a break.''Going to the''Piestany Spa''in Slovakia where I ended up completely naked en route to my mud bath while a group of teenagers on a school field trip walked by. The mud bath was quite nice though.''Meeting so many wonderful people in Ljubljana that I quickly reached the conclusion that this was one city I could live in for a long time.''Attending a most memorable football championship in Durban, South Africa where the focus of the tens of thousands in attendance was much less on the game itself than on having the''largest party possible''. Every single person in that stadium was dancing to the blaring music all evening long, with a huge smile on their face, regardless of what was happening on the field.''Visiting a friend in Vasteras, Sweden for their''Midsummer holiday''and the huge festival that accompanies it.''Repeatedly extending''my stay in Syria''upon discovering that it was one of the most interesting countries I had ever visited,  and after having made so many local friends in such a short period of time everywhere I went, from Aleppo to Homs to Hama to Damascus to Palmyra to Qamishli. (Of course, this was before all the current craziness.)''Living in Chiang Mai during the days when it was just a simple, local town with almost zero foreign influence.''Every visit to Istanbul involves such a long list of memorable experiences – baklava from''Gulluoglu Karakoy'', concerts and nightlife, long wanders through random neighborhoods, ferries across the Bosphorus, meeting up with friends, mehane dinners and endless structures and views that impress no matter how many times I see them.''Staying with a local family in the mountains of southern Ukraine.''Taking the ferry to Colonia del Sacramento, Uruguay and without knowing it, arriving during a major festival that turned out to be one of the best times I had during my South America travels, staying out all night in a neighborhood where people danced in the streets among vintage cars that had somehow been transformed into mini-gardens.''Traveling around the''mainland of Yemen'', a true highlight from all my years of traveling this world. And then flying to the''‘needs-to-be-seen-to-be-believed’ Socotra Island'', whose remote and stunning existence managed to blow me away even more. This is the country that I am most thankful for having seen.''Finally, having an opportunity to organize and lead tours to various countries around the world. Never thought this is something I would ever be doing but I’m loving the experience tremendously.''My journey to Morocco begins in about 12 hours, with a 4:30am flight from Delhi to Doha, followed by two more flights that will eventually take me to Marrakech.''Never been to Morocco. Naturally, I’m quite excited.''And while my stay probably won’t be too long, I’ll make the most of it as I have some unique activities planned, a little bit different than the standard trip to Morocco I think. One of the reasons for this is that I’ve been receiving a lot of requests to put together a Morocco trip as part of my''Wandering Earl Tours''project, so I want to go there and see what kind of interesting itinerary I can create.''On a different note, I can’t believe it’s already been 3 years since I offered my first tour…it’s craziness. In fact, yesterday, I actually finished leading my latest India trip which consisted of another excellent group of people and another excellent list of experiences that we all shared together. Such a truly rewarding trip once again!''And every time a tour ends and I start getting the feedback, I really need some time to simply sit down and take it all in, ever so happy that these trips continue to be so positive for so many people. That was certainly my hope when I started them.''Of course, none of this would even be happening if it weren’t for the continued, and growing, interest from so many of you. I’m absolutely honored by how fast the word has spread about these tours. It is something I never could have imagined at all. I can only thank you wholeheartedly for coming on these trips, telling family and friends about them and simply emailing me with your ideas and suggestions for future adventures!''It is this growing interest that keeps me even more motivated (incredibly motivated!) to continue offering the kind of unique, small-group experiences that these tours have come to represent, to create new trips based on your suggestions and to ensure that your expectations are always met and hopefully exceeded as well.''And now, I’m happy to announce the''Wandering Earl Tours for 2016'':''India''Thailand/Cambodia''South Africa''Romania''Vietnam''Kyrgyzstan''Mexico''Iran''Thailand/Malaysia/Singapore''In order to keep things more organized, I’ve now moved all of my tour stuff over to its own website:''WanderingEarlTours.com''The new site has all of the details for each trip offered, complete with itineraries, maps, photos, feedback from previous participants and more.''If you happen to be interested in possibly joining one of these trips, I invite you to have a look at the new site, explore the tours on offer and as always, let me know if you have any questions at all!''And that’s it for now. It’s not my intention to spend too much time talking about these tours here on the blog but of course, I did want to mention next year’s offerings in case some of you would like to join.''Time for me to get ready to leave India….Morocco posts coming soon!''Enjoy the rest of your week!''Before getting on an airplane, I always re-tie my shoelaces.''During a layover, I must sit at an airport cafe for at least ten minutes, but only in a chair that faces away from the counter where I placed my order.''And I always look at the details page of my passport a dozen times or more right before I begin to travel.''I’d like to say there’s a good reason for me doing all of the above. But, in reality, those first two are just examples of my inexplicable travel habits. The last one? Well, I do that simply to make sure nobody has stolen my passport and replaced it with an exact replica, in terms of outside appearance and the stamps inside, but that now has somebody else’s name and photo on the main page.''So far so good…if you can believe that.''The point is that travel involves so much more than just waking up and heading to your next destination. It’s a process, one that involves routines, bizarre beliefs and on occasion, those odd travel habits, of which I’m sure we all have our own. Or so I hope.''The more I travel myself, the more I notice my own process and perhaps by sharing what I go through whenever I travel from one country to another, it will be useful in some way…or else it will just make me sound a little wacky.''Deciding to Go Somewhere''Depending on where I am, and where I decide to go next, the process of moving on might be as easy as booking a train ticket, heading to a bus station or simply walking across a border. However, in many cases, of course, it involves booking a flight. And in those situations, this is what I do:''Visas''– Research the visa rules for the destination I’m about to visit, using the''US State Department’s travel page''or sometimes the''Visa requirements for United States citizens''wikipedia page''Flight Search''– One after the other I pull up my favorite flight search engines and, when possible, I enter a variety of origin and destination airports and various sets of flexible dates until I find a suitable fare (the flight search engines I use are''google.com/flights'',''jetradar.com'',''kayak.com'',''skyscanner.com''and''cheapoair.com'').''Book a Flight''– I’m usually a little hesitant to book my flight right away, so I generally continue checking the above websites for a few days to see if there are any changes. Who am I kidding? I book flights almost always a few days before I actually fly out. Somehow, despite this, I usually find a pretty good fare, in terms of price, duration, route and preferred airlines. Based on experience, if you search long and hard enough, you’ll almost always find a suitable fare. Eventually, I book it.''Frequent Flyer Details''– Since I can be quite forgetful at times, I always make sure that I enter my frequent flyer details when booking my ticket or immediately after. If I don’t do it right away, it’s almost a guarantee I won’t remember to do it at all.''Aisle Seat''– Sitting in a window or middle seat is about the same as sitting on the airplane toilet or just right on top of the wing to me – uncomfortable. Being able to stretch my legs in the aisle and to get up whenever I need to without anything in my way, is something I cherish immensely, especially on long-haul flights. And I’ll always try to get a seat as close to the front of the plane as I can, simply because upon arrival this allows me to get to immigration before most of the other passengers.''Dancing and High-fiving''– Upon booking a flight, I dance a sweet dance of celebration and I’ll high-five anyone around me. Of course, some might call my dance more of a wiggle and often times I end up just high-fiving myself. So it goes.''Pre-trip Preparation''This one is easy. There’s really only three quick steps involved.''Passport''– Make sure I have my passport.''Pack''– Pack my stuff about 2 hours before I need to go the airport.''Passport''– Make sure I still have my passport and that the details on the details page are still my own. Sometimes this requires between 15 – 20 checks to be certain it’s still me. (Why my university psychologist told me, way back when, that my OCD had been solved is beyond me.)''Departure Time''When the time comes to actually head to the airport, I quickly fall into what has become my very standard routine…''WiFi. Check.''– Given the importance of internet for my work, I double-check to make sure I have my Telecomsquare''mobile wifi device''and charger in my carry-on bag. I might even triple and quadruple check this one.''Give Me Water''– I down a glass of water before heading out the door of wherever I’m staying.''Precise Timing''– Generally, I aim to get to the airport 2 hours before my flight departure time.''Good Karma''– If I take a taxi or shuttle bus to the airport, I will always give the driver a larger-than-normal tip (assuming nothing sketchy took place). My thinking is that by doing so, my last action in that particular country is a positive one, so surely that will send some good karma my way, perhaps for my upcoming flight, my adventures in the next destination or if I ever return to the same place again. It’s still a working theory though.''Flight Check-In''– Normally, I just check in. However, my goal here is always to make the airport check-in staff smile. They rarely do. If I try to say something funny, the chance of them smiling is even lower.''Airport Security''– Now I’m no George Clooney in the film''Up in the Air''where he buzzes through security as if he was a robot built specifically for going through airport security lines at an incredibly fast speed, but I’m no first time flyer either. I can pull off my belt while taking out my laptop at the same time, empty my pockets in less than 2.3 seconds and I never forget anything that causes the metal detecting machine to beep. Sure, I might hit the guy in front of me in the back with my belt as I try to whip it out (doesn’t sound good, I know) and I never put my liquids in a plastic bag but so far, nobody’s punched me in the face or ever cared that my liquid items were all over the place.''Immigration''– Try making the immigration officers smile. I try, every time, but they obviously went to the same school as the airline check-in staff. When I’m called up, I’ll usually smile, then I’ll remove my smile when they look at me with such a serious face. Then, as the officer struggles to have my passport read by the scanner, I explain that, well, my heavily-used passport has a difficult time being read by the scanner at every airport, so it’s nothing personal.''Usually, I’ll also memorize the page where my entry stamp was placed when I first arrived because, now that my passport has had 60 pages in it for a while, this saves everyone a lot of time. Finally, on a more serious note, if the officer asks me any questions, I’ve learned to keep my answers short and to only answer exactly what they asked. Going into long explanations or providing details they never asked for often leads to more questions, suspicion and even less smiling if you can believe it.''Departure Lounge Routine''– Upon entering the departure area, I first find a seat near a window that offers a view of the runway. That’s where I spend about 20 minutes just staring off into space, watching planes take off and letting the thoughts flow, thoughts about my time in the country I’m leaving, thoughts about my next destination, thoughts about the effectiveness of voodoo and whatever else pops into my head. After that meditative session comes to an end, I head to the bathroom to wash my hands and then over to my actual gate, trying to show up just a few minutes before boarding time.''Once boarding begins, I like to remain seated at the gate as I’m one of those people that waits until most of the passengers get on the plane before boarding myself. I see no point in standing in line when we already have assigned seats and the plane isn’t going to leave until we’ve all boarded, unless I fall asleep in the gate area like that one time in Oslo. (Thank you to the gate agent who woke me up at the very last minute!) I’ve never really understood why airplanes make people so nutty…that mad rush to get on the plane, as if only the first 10 ticket holders will actually be allowed to fly, would make for a good study in human behavior.''Re-tie My Shoelaces''– I just do it.''The Flight''On my trip a few days ago, my flights were from Bucharest to Dubai and then Dubai to Delhi. I flew with''Fly Dubai''airlines. And for me, it was a pretty standard flight in terms of what I did while on board…except for the bathroom incident.''Sleep''– On most flights, I sleep plenty. I have a ‘no work’ policy while in the air so it’s either sleep, read or watching movies. Normally, I do a combination of them all, but sleep seems to take up the most time.''Movies''– Comedies. Even bad comedies. I have trouble watching any other kind of movie while on a flight. I’d watch''Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2''over''The Shawshank Redemption''every single time.''Bathroom Time''– I drink a lot of water while flying and so, I must use the toilet on board. I’m also quite particular about not having food in my teeth, so I like to check after every time I eat as well. Usually, the bathroom experience is quite uneventful, apart from when I find a huge piece of spinach covering my front tooth. On occasion, though, such as during my last flight from Dubai to Delhi, I enter the airplane bathroom only to find an absolute disgusting mess – the toilet, toilet seat and some of the floor is completely covered in piss. I naturally wonder if it was the woman who just left the bathroom, but I’ll never know. And now the person after me (there’s always someone waiting right outside the door when this happens) will probably assume it was me who peed as if I had a sprinkler system attached to my crotch. Again, so it goes.''Seatbelt Ritual''– My seatbelt stays on during the flight but for some reason, as soon as the plane touches the ground, I take it off. Yes, while still on the runway zooming along at several hundred miles per hour. It’s a ritual I started about 10 years ago as I have this strong belief that doing this brings me good luck. I know it doesn’t make any sense, and if I do end up on a plane that has a real nasty landing, good luck is probably the farthest thing from what I’ll experience. I am aware of this. But it’s a difficult travel habit to break.''Layover Between Flights''I don’t mind layovers, as long as they’re not longer than about 5 hours. On my trip last week, my layover in Dubai was a perfect 2 hours, giving me the right amount of time to complete my layover routine.''Wander the Airport''– After sitting for so long, I need to walk and I’ll walk for around 20 minutes, all over the departure area. But if there’s any duty-free shops, I avoid them at all cost as I believe that entering one, unlike taking off my seatbelt while in the middle of landing, will bring me bad luck. (Until I started writing all this stuff down and reading it over a few times, I really thought my habits and beliefs were just the wisdom of an experienced traveler. Silly me.)''Cafe Break''– I find a cafe. Usually, I’ll order a cappuccino or some juice if they have it. Then I’ll find a seat facing away from the counter where I placed my order and I’ll drink my drink, sitting there for at least 10 minutes. If I’m running late to catch a flight, I still make sure I sit there for 10 minutes unless they’re calling out my name over the speaker system, telling me that if I don’t show up immediately, I’m not going to Bali after all.''People Watching and a Game''– After my coffee or juice, if it’s not time to board the flight, I’ll brush my teeth and then have a seat at the gate, where I just observe the people all around me, enjoying some good old fashioned people watching. I love trying to guess where everyone is flying to and I must say, I once considered myself quite skilled at doing so. That was until I realized that people are usually going to the destination listed on the screen at the gate where they are sitting. Go figure.''Arrival at My Destination''Finally, I’ve landed at my destination. My seatbelt is off right away of course and then I try to figure out if we’re heading to an actual gate or if our plane will park in the middle of no man’s land and we’ll have to take buses to the terminal. If we take buses, then my entire plan of sitting near the front of the plane backfires because, for some reason, I always end up being one of the last people off the bus.''Here’s what happens next…''Arrival Airport Routine''– As I head through the airport towards the immigration inspection, I always avoid using the people movers or escalators. I just walk and use the stairs, although, since my goal is to arrive at immigration before the majority of people, I have to walk a lot faster than I would like. But, the reason why I avoid the people movers and escalators is, as you might have guessed, a very sound one. If I use the movers and escalators, I’ll become lazy for the rest of my life and I don’t want to become lazy. Yes, these two things are the key to avoiding laziness, no matter what else you do.''Immigration (Round 2)''– Back at immigration and this time, it doesn’t matter to me if the officer smiles. Normally, I walk as far down as I can, to the last line of immigration, based on the idea that the other passengers are lazy (yup, they took the people movers!) and they will just enter the first line or two and avoid having to walk more than that. Not every immigration has several lines of course, but if they do, you can find me all the way at the end. Usually, this is faster. And when it’s not, well, at least I wasn’t lazy.''Then, I just hand over my passport and wait there until it’s given back to me. I do check the stamp in my passport and the date on that stamp right away though, because on one occasion in India, the immigration officer stamped me into the country on September 24th, 2010, which would have been fine. The problem was that I had actually entered the country on May 5th, 2011.''Luggage and Customs Inspection''– I’ve had good luck with this. In all my travels, never has my luggage been lost. My backpack did arrive on the carousel in Rome once all cut up, the work of Austrian airport police who had sliced it open in several places with a knife looking for drugs apparently. But apart from that, I normally just wait a few minutes and out comes my luggage. With the customs inspection, I just look straight ahead, put on my most confident face as if I know exactly what I’m doing and have been to this destination dozens of times before and, apart from one time in Sofia, Bulgaria, I’ve never been stopped at customs in any destination outside of the US.''The First Twenty Minutes''– Once I enter the arrivals hall, here’s''how I spend my first twenty minutes in this new country''. It basically involves taking it very slowly by first sitting at a cafe in order to get my bearings and avoid making any major travel mistakes such as getting ripped off. It works every single time.''Into the City I Go''– Rested, with sound mind and a better understanding of where I’m going and how to get there, I gather my belongings, go to an ATM to take out some local currency and head to the taxi stand, shuttle counter, airport train or metro station or whatever it is that will take me into the city, just like any normal, sane traveler.''And so my adventures in a new destination begin…and with it, an entirely different set of routines, beliefs and inexplicable travel habits.''I won’t even try to explain why I feel the need to stand, while shifting my whole body weight from one leg to the other every few minutes, for the entire journey to my hostel, hotel or guesthouse, even if there are plenty of empty seats on the bus, train or metro. All I’ll say is that it has to do with a tai chi class I once took 18 years ago.''The rest can most certainly wait until another post.''Any interesting routines or habits – strange or not – when you travel? Any odd beliefs or superstitions you care to share?''Her name is Tamara.''And because of her I shed a tear.''Back in 2014, I wrote about this woman who lives in the small, simple town of Tamga, near the banks of Issyk-Kul Lake, in Eastern Kyrgyzstan. I met her completely by accident and I randomly ended up staying at her guesthouse, the''Askar & Tamara Guesthouse'', for a couple of nights.''You can read the complete story here:''My Experience in Tamga, Kyrgyzstan is Exactly Why I Love Travel''To make a long story short though, Tamara was an exceptional person. She was so willing to share the tales of her life and teach me about her culture. She was also passionate about learning how people live in other parts of the world and she loved communicating with foreigners, even though very few passed through her town.''Without a doubt, Tamara was one of the most welcoming, kind and generous human beings I’ve met during my travels and we quickly became friends. In fact, I knew right away that this would be one of those travel friendships that would not end once I left the country, even though it was almost impossible for us to communicate.''And that’s why, when she told me about her desire to have a popular guesthouse so that she could help more travelers discover her hometown and the area where she had spent most of her life, I wanted to do something.''After leaving Tamga, I decided that I would tell anyone and everyone that I could about Tamara and her guesthouse. I wanted travelers to visit the town, stay there and have the incredible experience that I knew they would have, with Tamara as their host. So, that’s what I’ve done…I’ve told travelers who were planning on going to Kyrgyzstan and even travelers who had no plans to visit this country, that they must pass through Tamga at some point.''I even had my Wandering Earl “''Wander Across Kyrgyzstan tour''” spend a night at her guesthouse this past June and according to the feedback from the group, it was one of the highlights of the trip (I was not on that trip myself unfortunately).''But of course, apart from my group, I really had no idea who was actually going to Tamga, or if anyone was going at all. Tamara doesn’t have email and, as I mentioned, there was no real way for us to stay in touch.''A Major, Major Surprise''I’m a travel blogger. Wait. No I’m not.''As I like to say, I’m just a blogger. I happen to be traveling most of the time so I write about travel most of the time too. Maybe that makes me a travel blogger, I don’t know.''I also write about other stuff as well, including the tough times I face, and the occasional, yet very real,''mental breakdowns I’ve gone through''.''If I don’t have anything to say at all, I’ll even''write about that''.''What I won’t write is stuff that makes you, the reader, get a false idea of travel.''I’m not going to tell you that travel is just flower gardens and ice cream sundaes. I won’t tell you that, without any effort at all, you can be bouncing around the world as you like, living out all of your travel fantasies. I’ll never tell you that the travel life I’m living is so unbelievably amazing that any other lifestyle you choose is just a waste of time, a waste of life.''I’m not going to tell you that everyone with a blog is living it up on the beach either, working 2 hours per day, filling our time with non-stop activities and experiences that the rest of the world can only dream of. And I won’t tell you that you can have that lifestyle too if you just snap your fingers. You can try, and you’ll probably get pretty darn good at snapping, but it just ain’t true.''As many of you know, I’m going to tell it like it is, as best I can. Travel and blogging, while it’s often incredibly enjoyable for me, is not always good times and I have no problem stating that.''Long-term travel is really just another lifestyle. Blogging is really just another job.''For me it has some great benefits but it certainly isn’t the only way to live, or the most rewarding for everyone.''Here’s where I’m going with this…''-When Blogging Becomes Fake-''Stepping up to the tee, I was mighty nervous. I was shaking, I couldn’t think straight at all.''It was the first time that the coach of my high school golf team put me in the starting lineup. I was finally playing in a tournament between our school and the high school team of a neighboring town. No longer was I just a member of the worthless practice squad.''I positioned my feet and held the golf club firmly, but not too tight. I stared out at the stretch of green in front of me and took a few deep breaths. I bent my knees and then I looked down at the ball. It was my time to shine.''Well, I swung that club, I most certainly did.''And then I had to duck quickly, along with everyone else in the area. The ball had bounced right off a nearby tree and came flying straight back at us. It zoomed just over our heads and eventually landed about 40 feet behind me.''Terrible, terrible, terrible shot. Most likely the worst golf shot that anyone watching had ever seen.''With nerves rattling even more, and trying to brush off the embarrassment, I quickly settled in for my second shot. But, despite my powerful swing, I only hit the ball ever so slightly and all it did was plop two feet off to the right as a result.''My third shot actually went into the air, but it went right into the branches of another tree and dropped straight down.''I didn’t even finish 9 holes of golf that day. While the best golfers on our team finished 18 holes, I got through 8 before it was too dark to continue and I had to call it quits.''Disappointed was an understatement. During our practices each week, I usually hit the ball well. Nice and straight. I’d been practicing for two years.''But the one time I had a chance to shine, I blew it, in the worst of ways.''How it Relates to Travel''I tried too hard that day on the golf course.''And when it comes to setting off into the world for some travel, we often try too hard as well, with similar results.''We try too hard to plan everything. We try too hard to know every crime statistic, weather pattern, transportation option, hostel dorm room price, street food location, activity entrance fee, potential travel partner, toiletry that we might not be able to find overseas and we try to think about every possible situation that might arise and what kind of gear we might need for those situations…and much, much more.''We want to ‘get it right’.''And that’s perfectly understandable.''But sometimes, getting it right actually involves letting go. It involves stepping back from the thoughts that can actually hold us hostage at times. The thoughts that can put so much pressure on us, that turn our brains into such a mess, leaving us unable to concentrate on just doing what we stepped up to the tee to do.''I can’t tell you what was in my head when I made the world’s worst golf shot. The reason is that there were hundreds of thoughts flooding through my head at the time.''Do this, don’t do this, don’t forget about bending your knees, look straight down, move your right foot back, don’t hold the club too tight, don’t whack the ball, just swing evenly, nobody’s watching, a lot of people are watching, what if I hit the tree…''In the end, I didn’t swing that club. All of those thoughts jumping around my head tried to take control of my swing and, amid their battle, they forced the club down towards the ball. The result was terrible of course.''It’s the same with travel. All of those thoughts that we think are helping us will actually hurt us if we try to pay attention to them all. We can’t figure out everything there is to figure out about travel, we can’t plan everything (''nor do we want to plan everything''), we can’t remember every statistic, we can’t prepare for every situation. And you know what, they do sell Old Spice deodorant and Colgate whitening toothpaste in Thailand!''We just need to relax and swing.''We just need to get on a plane or a bus or a train. That’s all we need to focus on…the main task at hand.''The rest will happen naturally. Your body and your mind will remember what it needs to remember. It will do what it needs to do. It might not be perfect from the start, but it won’t be a disaster.''Thinking too much is what can make it a disaster. It can drive a person crazy, to the point where the fun of travel is gone, where the doubts have crept in so much that we no longer think we can get out there and see the world. We just don’t think we have a good enough grasp on''EVERYTHING''that we need to know before we get started.''Again, relax.''If we don’t relax and let our minds be free, we’ll often hit a tree, then we’ll barely hit anything, then we’ll fall out of a tree and then we won’t even finish our travels because our coach will tell us it’s time to go home.''And then our coach will never let us travel again. He might even kick us off the traveling team.''Anyway, stop thinking too much and just go travel.''Is over-thinking preventing you from traveling? Did you ever overcome this and finally get out there into the world?''Many know him, some might not. Perhaps some of you follow his blog or have at least seen it.''I remember when I heard about this''Nomadic Matt''guy back when I was starting out and I kept hearing about him for years without really ever interacting with him. Last summer I finally met him in person and since then, we’ve hung out a couple of times, most recently at the end of May while at the TBEX (Travel Bloggers Exchange) conference in Spain.''Here’s the deal. Matt has been blogging and has been involved with travel for a long time. He’s worked on numerous projects, written books and is even working on creating a charity organization called''FLYTE''that will help underprivileged youth experience the benefits of travel. Travel is his life.''His book “''How to Travel the World on $50 a Day''” had its second edition released this year, and for $8 bucks on Amazon, it’s a solid investment for anyone looking to really cut costs while traveling.''So, back in May at that conference, while eating some sandwiches at a food truck in Lloret de Mar, Spain (yes, they were so good that we each had to eat more than one), Matt and I got to talking and because we both focus on budget travel for the most part, we agreed to put up a little interview with him on my site.''It’s just a quick, light and hopefully useful chat…''Interview with Nomadic Matt''Who are you, sir?''My name is Matt Kepnes and I’m known as Nomadic Matt. I’ve been traveling the world since 2006. I grew up in Boston and worked in health care after college. Fun fact: I’m also a certified high school history teacher! After a trip to Costa Rica in 2004, I fell in love with travel. I never traveled a lot growing up so I didn’t know how great it was until this trip. I loved the freedom travel enabled me to have. Every day was Saturday. The following year I took a trip to Thailand and after meeting five backpackers one day during that trip, I became very jealous of their lifestyle. But meeting them showed me that I didn’t have to be tied down to my job and that I didn’t need to be rich to travel.''After that trip, I went home again, finished my MBA, quit my cubicle job, and, in July 2006, set out on an adventure around the world.''My round-the-world trip was supposed to last a year but I didn’t come home until eighteen months later. Realizing I absolutely loved travel, I decided to head overseas again and that’s when I started my website, Nomadic Matt. I’ve been traveling and writing ever since.''So budget travel expert…what regions of the world offer the best value?''The year that is 2015 has brought me into contact with what seems like a higher-than-normal number of travel products, travel-related websites and travel services that I never knew about before. From all sorts of travel communities to compact hammocks to online postcards to oddly-shaped travel pillows that actually seem to make sleeping on airplanes even more uncomfortable, new things are popping up in my inbox every day.''If I were to remember them all, the list would be quite extensive.''But just like I forgot to pack my suit pants last week while traveling to a family event on the other side of the country, by this point, I have forgotten many of the websites and apps and products that I’ve come across this year.''That leaves just a handful of things that I do remember, travel-related things that have stayed in my memory probably because of their usefulness and/or the fact that they offer something unique that really caught my attention. As a result, and as you’ll see below, this is some stuff that I would recommend checking out because you never know what might help enhance your travels.''Here’s the short list:''Clothing Arts''I know nothing.''That’s the greatest lesson I’ve learned during all these years of travel.''Sure, I can tell you where to snorkel in Bali or give you a great route for a''road trip around Romania''or explain where to find a unique''spa experience in Kyrgyzstan'', but when I really think about all of the issues and situations that the world faces these days, I really know nothing at all.''I read. I meet people, all the time, all over the world. I talk and discuss at length with others about politics, about religion and conflicts and economies and why it’s so difficult to find a good pair of sunglasses that actually fit my head shape.''But the more I read, the more I converse with others and the more I travel this fine world of ours, the more I realize that not only do I know nothing, it’s almost impossible for me to know anything.''Travel has shown me that the very global topics that I am interested and eager to learn about, the very topics that we all read about, are even more complex and complicated than I ever imagined. It has also shown me that no matter how many countries I visit, I will always continue to discover that every aspect of life in every single nation is defined by an infinite amount of different thoughts, actions, deals, motivations, interests and beyond.''Every single person involved in anything has their own stake and as a result, has their own views, desired outcomes, reasons for taking sides and so on.''How can I know what every person involved is doing or thinking, both in the open and behind the scenes (where it gets even trickier)? How can I know the reasons why they are doing or thinking something?''I can’t.''And if I can’t know any of that, I’m just left with media reports and the conversations I have with the people I meet, which does provide some information and access to a handful of perspectives, but certainly not enough for me to claim that I actually know what’s really going on, that I actually know the complete story.''I can say I know what’s going on from one or two angles perhaps, but that’s about it.''Does it even matter? Maybe it doesn’t.''All I know is that over the years, I’ve learned time and time again that what’s bad for some people is good, or even wonderful, for others, that what at first seems to be one thing, so often seems like something else, something so completely different, soon after.''And that’s why it becomes so extraordinarily difficult to give sweeping statements about a government, about a conflict, about any situation whatsoever without taking into account every single person that is affected or that plays a role. But it’s impossible to take into account everyone’s position, which is why it’s impossible to possess complete knowledge about anything.''The more time I spend online, and the more time I spend talking about various issues, the more I realize that the internet has tricked us into thinking that we are ’experts’ simply because we have such access to so much information. We feel more comfortable making broad statements about the Middle East, yelling out our conclusions about poverty or claiming that we absolutely know what is going on with Greece right now because we’ve read 100 articles on the matter. But in reality, we still don’t know much at all because the internet can’t provide us with a completely unbiased view of what every person or every group involved is thinking and doing and why.''I’m Just Naive''During my trip to Israel last month, as is always the case when I travel, I came across some places, some activities and of course, some people, that I feel would help enhance anyone’s trip to this region. I’ve already stated, in my post “''My First Trip to Israel''”, that my time in this country was short and my experiences limited, however, that doesn’t change the fact that, every day, I found myself doing something that I thoroughly enjoyed and/or found truly interesting.''This post is to provide a small handful of Israel travel recommendations based on my own experiences:''Accommodation''How quickly everything changes in this land. From city to desert, from one religion to another, from intense culture to untouched nature…this is a land of extremes all packed into a very small space.''And in order to experience this country, you need to be prepared to process every one of those extremes, and to then rest and recover before you move on to the next. I learned this quickly during my recent trip to Israel, a trip that was far too short to get a full understanding of what a traveler can experience here, but that offered an eye-opening glimpse nonetheless.''Just imagine…''You enter''Jerusalem''and head over to the walled''Old City''. In just one small area, .35 square miles / .9 square kilometers to be exact, you will wander around four very different quarters – Muslim, Jewish, Christian and Armenian.''The main focal point is the''Temple Mount'', or''Noble Sanctuary''as it is known to Muslims, and it is home to some of the holiest sites in Judaism, Islam and Christianity. The''Dome of the Rock'', a shrine built upon the Foundation Stone, is the location where Muslims believe Muhammed ascended to heaven. The''al-Aqsa Mosque''is where Muhammed was transported to, from Mecca, during what is referred to as the''Night Journey''.''The''Foundation Stone'', which is the stone from which Jews believe the world was created, is also the location of the''First Temple''where the''Ark of the Covenant''was placed. As a result, this spot has extreme significance as the crossroads between Heaven and Earth.''The Temple Mount also played an important role in the life of Jesus as the place where he challenged the Temple authorities and prophesized the destruction of''Herod’s Temple''.''As is quite clear, this one area is where important events from all three religions have taken place, and it’s all right up here, where, despite a few restrictions, an Israeli armed security presence and the occasional rioting, visitors can wander around in an attempt to grab a peek at the core of religious history.''Surrounding the Temple Mount is a wall, much of which was built as a retaining wall when the Second Temple was constructed some 2000 years ago. In the Jewish tradition, a section of this wall, known as the''Western Wall'', is now considered the holiest site for prayer given its proximity to the ‘gates of heaven’ and the original temple. Men and women pray in separate sections, visitors are welcome to approach the wall, pray or just walk around and it’s open 24 hours per day, every day.''Over in the Christian quarter sits the''Church of the Holy Sepulchre'', where you can join the throngs of people from all over the world who have made a pilgrimage to witness the location where Jesus was crucified and thought to be buried. It’s also where Jesus is believed to have been resurrected. Inside you’ll find sections for various branches of Christianity – Eastern Orthodox, Roman Catholic, Greek Orthodox, Ethiopian Orthodox, Coptic Orthodox and more – each of which has certain responsibilities pertaining to the function of the church. Step inside, follow the flow of traffic to each important point and spend as much time as you’d like taking it all in.''It goes without saying that apart from those main sites above, there are plenty of other places to visit in the Old City, such as the markets in each quarter, the rooftop of the''Austrian Hospice'', with its great views, and my personal favorite,''Elia Photo Service'', an interesting 3rd generation family-run photography shop in the Christian quarter with some amazing photos that depict life in Israel over the last 90 years.''Again, that’s all in one tiny, tiny area. It’s intense and mind-blowing and fascinating all wrapped together. When you consider the long history of this city (Jerusalem is one of the oldest cities on the planet after all), the importance of this location for Muslims, Jews and Christians, and the fact that this city has been the scene of such conflict over the centuries, you’ll want to stop every few minutes in order to take a moment to breathe, to contemplate, to comprehend it all, or at least attempt to.''Beyond Jerusalem''Of course, as incredible of a destination as this city is, there’s more to Israel than Jerusalem.''Once you venture out into the rest of the country, for example, you may find yourself standing at ancient, fortified''Masada'', built by Herod the Great high above the Judean desert, situated on a rock mountain. This is where 1000 Jewish rebels committed suicide, along with their families, instead of facing defeat at the hands of the Romans at the end of the First Jewish-Roman War in 73 AD.''An hour later, you could be as low as you can possibly go on this planet, floating in the''Dead Sea'', just bobbing around without any effort, giddy as can be, covering your entire body with its salty, therapeutic mud, and enjoying the view of the mountains in the distance, on the Jordanian side of the sea.''You could then be in the stunning''Upper Galilee''in the north of the country, riding ATVs through the countryside, completely surrounded by the inspiring nature and colors of the''Hula Valley''.''But a short time later, after a drive south, you could also be laying down among the crowds of sunbathers on the beaches of''Tel-Aviv''or participating in an intriguing''alternative walking tour''that focuses on the local graffiti and street art scene.''One meal you’ll eat such mouth-watering falafel, hummus, ful and labneh at a hole-in-the-wall eatery in the heart of the Muslim quarter in Jerusalem, the kind of local place I could eat at every single day, and for your next meal you may be dining on Middle Eastern fusion cuisine at a trendy cafe in front of a synagogue on the other side of the country, washing it all down with a dark Israeli beer.''There is much to see here. Much to do. Much to take in.''For such a small country, there is a never-ending list of experiences to be had, and again, my trip was unfortunately a short one. Just imagine what you can do with a longer stay.''A Complex Travel Destination''Yes, without a doubt, Israel is a complex place. It’s so complex actually that many people I met, and who call this country home, are just as unsure and conflicted about the situation here as any outsider might be.''A good way to sum it up is a message that an Israeli reader of mine wrote to me shortly after I arrived:''“''Enjoy this beautiful, conflicted, encouraging, bleeding, amazing country. Peace and love.''”''Israel is indeed all of that.''And I think that’s part of the reason why, when it came time for my trip to Israel to end, I found myself wanting to stay longer, much longer. I simply was not finished with my experience.''Perhaps, and I believe this also to be true, it’s the kind of country where one’s experience can never be complete. There are simply too many of those beautiful, conflicted, encouraging, bleeding and amazing layers of this land to learn about and to try to process as best you can.''And as every traveler I met in this country seemed to agree, regardless of religious or political views, it is this presence of such extremes in every single aspect of life here that makes Israel a truly fascinating destination to visit.''(''There will be more posts to come about the people I met, the food I ate and some of the more specific and interesting activities I participated in while here.'')''Have you been to Israel? How was your experience? If not, have you ever thought about visiting?''[Photo of Tel-Aviv beach by''Or Kaplan'']''*''I was invited to visit Israel by the a-political, nonprofit organization,''Vibe Israel'', an organization that brings international online opinion leaders to the country for weeklong personalized experiences. Nothing at all was required of me in terms of promotion or content and everything I’ve written is, as always, 100% my own thoughts, interpretations and experiences.''[''This post is written in partnership with Trover after using the app and continuing to find it truly useful and worth spreading the word about. I don’t do these kind of posts often – only when I really believe in something and always with opinions and thoughts that are 100% my own.'']''You walk by a cafe in your hometown, or perhaps a local bookshop, or maybe there’s a small, but beautiful, beach that offers a perfect sunset view. You smile widely when you think of these places, knowing that they are exactly what makes your town as attractive, as fun, as unique as it is.''They’re the kind of places you tell your friends to visit whenever they are in town. They’re also the kind of places that few people would ever find if you didn’t tell others about them yourself.''Now picture this…''You walk outside your hostel or hotel in a foreign city, let’s say Istanbul. You wish that somebody would give you some guidance, would help you find those out of the way experiences that most travelers wouldn’t know about. You want somebody to point out those same kind of unique and special places that you would point out to them back in your hometown.''Where are the hidden art galleries? How about a simple restaurant where unbelievably mouth-watering fare can be enjoyed at real local prices? What about a neighborhood where few foreigners ever go or a sight that has yet to make it into all of the guidebooks?''Spend five minutes on''Trover''and you’ll have your answers.''Trover is an app that I’ve written about before. And what I said the first time, which still holds true, is that I don’t use many travel apps at all, but Trover did manage to catch my attention. This is because it allows me, in a matter of seconds, to discover something new to see or do or eat, something that I otherwise would never have known about, anywhere I happen to be in the world.''It goes a little something like this…''I need travel ideas. I check out Trover. I’m off to something new.''It’s like an on-the-go, random travel experience generator. And as a result, I think it’s an excellent tool.''As an example, by using Trover, I recently ended up discovering…''Agrasen ki Baoli''in Delhi, India''Apoxee Trail''in Florida''Cremeria Sette Chiese Gelateria''in Bologna, Italy''And I’ll use it when I’m in Spain next week as well. Looks like I need to pay a visit to''this little cove''…''Try Out Trover''One day we’ll meet up at a cafe somewhere in the world and you’ll tell me your story, your story of how you went from the mere idea of wanting to travel to actually making it a reality. And I look forward to hearing all about it.''It will happen, whenever the time is right. That’s the key. When the time is right.''This traveling stuff is tricky. It messes with your head. You want to travel badly and every single day you dream of all the places you’ll visit when you do get started, but that’s the problem…you don’t know when is the ideal time to take the plunge and begin.''Should you start traveling now?''After all, travel is the only thing you think about.''Or does it make more sense to wait and travel later?''You could use some extra savings and perhaps you should also get some more work experience first.''(If you’re deciding whether or not to attend or finish university before you travel, here’s a post you might want to read, with plenty of useful comments too: “''Do You Need a University Degree to Travel Long-Term?''“)''The point is…you want to make the right decision but it’s just not easy to figure out.''I know it’s difficult because I went through it myself and I also receive no shortage of emails from readers who are dealing with this very dilemma as well. We all go through it, everyone who wants to travel, especially those who want to travel long-term.''Back in 2000, after just ten days or so into my very first independent backpacking trip, I decided that I wanted to travel for as long as possible. However, I had very, very little money at the time, only enough to last a couple of months in Southeast Asia. As a result, I debated long and hard about what to do next. As far as I saw it, I had two options. I could return to the US, work for at least a year and save up as much money as I could before getting back out there on the road and attempting to achieve my goal. Or I could just continue my current trip and figure it all out as I went along.''In the end, I decided to not go home and to simply trust, as my guide, my increasing determination and excitement about the possibilities of travel, despite my rapidly dwindling funds. Turns out it worked.''But that’s just me.''I wouldn’t dare tell anyone else to just drop everything right this instant and pack your bag. There are too many unique aspects involved for each of us, which is why the debate of when to start our travels is one that we each need to have with ourselves. It’s the only way to reach the most suitable conclusion or to at least make some progress, or at the very least waste some time thinking about travel.''What I would dare tell you is that you should consider several specific factors that might help give you a better idea of your situation and ultimately, help you answer that question of when you should finally start your adventure.''Confidence''– Are you confident in your ability to make anything happen? Will you be able to do whatever it takes to find a way to earn money if you need to? Are you the kind of person that won’t let anything stand in the way of your goals?''Ideal Savings''– Would you be significantly more comfortable with the idea of travel if you had an extra $1000, $2000 or maybe $5000 in your bank account? What is your financial goal? Are you almost there? Is there a chance that you’ll always want more to the point where it stops you from ever leaving?''Work Opportunities''– What kind of work, if necessary, would you be interested in while traveling? Is that work easy to obtain based on your skills, background, connections, etc. or will it take significant effort and creativity to make it happen? Are there opportunities to earn money in the places you’ll be at about the time your money might start to run out?''Travel Style''– Do you plan to be a budget traveler? How much comfort will you want? What kind of travel style will suit you best and how much will it cost to maintain that style? Just because ultra-budget travel costs much less doesn’t mean that you’ll enjoy staying in the cheapest hostel dorm rooms, eating very simply and taking the least expensive modes of transportation everywhere. And it’s perfectly ok if that’s not for you. It’s not for everyone. Figure out what is for you and you’ll have a better understanding of how much money you’ll need to make it happen.''Sociability''– How social are you? Do you need more practice connecting with random people you come across? Or do you already have the ability to start yakking away to those you meet in cafes, in elevators, at the roulette table, on the bus? You don’t have to be a socialite but the more comfortable you are around new people, the easier it will be to interact with other travelers and locals that you encounter during your travels, to make new friends, to discover new opportunities.''An Endless Wait''– Maybe there will never be a perfect time to break away and start traveling. Will something always come up to keep you at home? What if you wait another 2 years and you end up even more entrenched in your current job and lifestyle that it will be almost impossible to leave, even if you have saved more money? Is that a possibility and if so, how do you feel about that?''Torture''– Can you wait 2 or 3 or 5 more years or are you so insanely ready to get out into the world that the thought of spending more time at home is starting to affect your life in a real negative way? If you can’t wait to leave, you need to figure things out more quickly before the frustration takes more of a toll. It just may be time to book a flight and jump into the unknown as soon as you can.''Again, it’s not easy. It’s downright hard to figure this out, I know. But you need to start somewhere because nobody else can tell you what to do. Whether you start traveling now, later or even never, it really is all up to you.''Just gather your thoughts, think about the above and make a plan, a plan that really feels good, or as good as possible, given your particular circumstances and goals. Then do everything in your power to stick to that plan no matter what.''I’ll be waiting to hear your story whenever the time is right. See you when you get here!''Have you faced this dilemma? How did you handle it? Are you still trying to figure out when to start traveling?''It’s a beautiful morning. I woke up early, went for a walk, ate some fruit and then I even treated my hair to both shampoo and conditioner while in the shower. My hair feels so silky and I’m full of energy, although I did spend five minutes poking my eyeball around, trying to find the contact lens I had just lost inside there, only to discover that I had actually dropped the lens on the floor.''That’s not the first time that’s happened, this month.''Moving on…''Wandering Earl Tours – 2015''This is a post I wasn’t expecting to write. But I’m writing it because my last post – the one about having my''Romanian residency visa refused''– certainly went in an unexpected direction.''Let me recap what that post on Tuesday was all about:''I applied for a 1-year temporary residency visa in Romania, the visa was refused and so I left the country.''That was it.''Yet somehow,''a controversy was created''. The fascinating part is that the controversy was created, not by myself, but by a few angry commenters who seemed to interpret my post in their own interesting way.''I received nasty comments and emails from people who were bringing up points that, not only were incorrect or just absurd, but had absolutely nothing at all to do with what I wrote in the post.''Let’s take a closer look…''Um, I’m Not Upset''At no time whatsoever in that last post did I state that I was upset right now about my Romanian visa situation. Yes, I did mention my initial anger at being told my visa was rejected after I had already been told it was accepted by immigration. But that anger lasted about 5 minutes. After that, I left the immigration office, packed up my stuff and left the country the next day.''In my post, I didn’t complain, I didn’t say it was a crime that I wasn’t given the visa. I don’t expect anyone to be compassionate about this situation. I don’t blame anyone in Romania or the Romanian government. I never talk negatively about Romania as a country or about the immigration authorities or about anyone at all.''I just told the story of what took place.''Things happen, so it goes, no big deal. I’ll survive just fine. I’m really not too upset about it all.''But it’s incredible to see how fired up people get about things I didn’t even say. It’s as if some were waiting for the first opportunity to express their own anger at something, at life, and I apparently, and inadvertently, provided it. And so I think a few things need discussing at this point…and here’s a good place to start.''Break My Legs? Nice.''For some reason, a few of you got the idea (without knowing me or doing any research on my site at all of course), that I just showed up at the Romanian immigration office and said, “''I’m a cool blogger, give me residency.''”''Well, sorry to disappoint you but that’s far from the case. I followed the rules just like anyone. I actually followed exactly what the Romanian immigration authorities told me to do in order to be granted the residency visa. I stood in line for 3 days to apply for my visa, dealing with complete chaos at the immigration office each day. I purchased health insurance, got my notarized documents, had my proof of accommodation, did everything I was told. Oh well.''So, based on all of this, I really can’t understand why one of you would write this comment:''“''Ohh, a story so sad, I’m very sorry, when back in Bucharest, let me know, we drink a beer together and after I will break your legs, go back where you came from! 😉 That is for your hypocritical story.''”''As much as that comment made me laugh, it’s a bit, well, absurd? Immature, maybe? I can certainly understand why you didn’t use your real name when submitting that comment. Good call my friend.''Let’s move on to a couple of the other ‘points’ that some upset commenters brought up, often ever-so-colorfully, in response to my last post.''US Immigration''A few people seemed stuck on the US immigration issue, with such comments as:''“''Honestly, I am really happy that it happened! It is first time in my life I heard an American was refused a visa to stay in Bucharest. It is a good opportunity to remind you that hundreds of thousands of Romanians have been refused a visa by the US Embassy regardless of their status, business, education etc. Do you know the pile of papers one needs to apply for a visa to the US Embassy? Do you know that US Embassy does not speak to you with regard to the refusal reasons as the Romanian immigration officer did with you? Do you know how humiliated Romanians feel because of that?''”''“''Sorry to hear about this but don’t forget the fact that for me, a Romanian, getting a US visa means going to an interview, feeling humiliated, gather a ton of dollars to prove I’m not some homeless and more. Which is why US is out of my travel list for good. So I can’t even get to step on American soil for 1 second. Is a great thing, right?''”''“''But, why am I so proud, well first of all because as a Romanian I cannot enter USA without a visa and to get that visa I have to humiliate myself: I have to go to Bucharest (6-8h by train) wait in line for another 5-6 hours, pass an interview (which I am not sure I will be able to pass) and so on…This is just to enter the country, eat a big mac and get out of the country, moreover just to pay for my plane ticket I have to work 3 months on minimum wage here in Romania. In other words, the way US gov. treats Romanians, the same way should Romanian government treat you – to humiliate you.''”''Okay, wait a minute.''First, this comparison is completely irrelevant to my post and to my situation so those things you said above aren’t really things you wanted to say to me. I have nothing to do with US immigration policy (about as much as you have to do with the Romanian immigration policy) so there’s really no sense in blaming me or bringing that into the discussion. But with that said, I think we’re talking about somewhat different scales here as I have a feeling there are slightly more people that US immigration must deal with than the Romanian immigration. There are reasons the US needs to be stricter. Again, I’m not qualified to discuss immigration policy but I think it’s a bit more complex than countries just trying to humiliate other people.''I’m not saying that it’s fair for those who genuinely want to visit and I’m not saying that Romanians want to go and stay there illegally either. But some commenters made it seem as if the US is picking on Romanians specifically. Sorry, but that’s not the case. Most countries in the world have to go through a visa process to get into the US, that’s just how it goes given the circumstances, which are, again, circumstances that Romania doesn’t face in terms of immigration, hence the difference in procedure.''But, and this is purely for discussion sake since it also doesn’t have to do with my last post at all, let’s talk about the “''getting a US visa means going to an interview, feeling humiliated, gather a ton of dollars to prove I’m not some homeless and more''” and “''In other words, the way US gov. treats Romanians, the same way should Romanian government treat you – to humiliate you''” part.''I’m sorry, but that’s not true from the information I’ve received. Perhaps some of you have been rejected for a US tourist visa but out of all the Romanians I’ve met who have applied for a US tourist visa (at least 15 people I’ve talked to now that I think about it), they all:''1. Received the 10 year tourist visa''2. Never had to show much paperwork or bank statements or proof of employment even though they brought that paperwork with them (in fact, some of these people were unemployed when they applied)''3. Had an ‘interview’ that consisted of 2 or 3 quick questions at the counter''4. Were not humiliated in any way at all''In fact, while some might complain about waiting for 5-6 hours in line to get your US visa, let me remind you that I waited for three days to apply for my Romanian visa, three crazy days. So that 1 day isn’t so bad considering the amount of applications they process and from what I hear, it’s quite organized inside the US Embassy, something that the Romanian immigration office is not unfortunately.''This whole ‘humiliation’ thing doesn’t seem to be the case anymore. I really can’t find, and believe me I tried to tonight, someone who had a humiliating or extremely difficult experience when trying to get a  US tourist visa. I’m sure some of you will say you did, and that is unfortunate for sure, but it doesn’t seem like all Romanians are having a really tough time with this.''Just Because I Have a Blog?''“''I mean really, you really expected a residency visa just because you promote Romania on a blog?…I really cannot think of a country willing to issue you a residence visa for your motives and purposes.''”''Actually, I can think of one. It’s called Romania. As a couple of commenters pointed out on the last post, I was already given a Romanian temporary residency visa in 2012 for these very motives and purposes. In fact, I had a meeting back then with the Romanian immigration officials (they have weekly audiences where you can talk to them and ask questions) and they actually told me exactly what I needed to do to get the visa based on being a blogger. I followed their instructions, which involved a contract with a Romanian organization, and I was given the residency visa. So there you go.''No Intention of Paying Taxes''“''I don’t know why you are surprised that they did not give a visa to someone who has no intention of paying taxes in the country.''”''Romania has a category of temporary residency visa called “Other” and this is the category that the immigration officers, during my meeting with them, told me to apply for. This category is used for applicants who want to stay in the country but who will not be working or studying there. It’s for, and I quote from the Romanian immigration website, “''Other activities which are not contrary to the Romanian laws''“.''So, I followed the rules for that category as instructed by Romanian immigration officials, and applied, again, receiving the visa back in 2012 without any issue. Also, during my meeting with officials, it was brought up that I was a good candidate for the temporary residency visa because I didn’t use any government resources and yet I spend a lot of money in the country.''Another Unemployed Man''“''Also, by writing a blog, you do not provide sufficient evidence that you can sustain yourself in Romania and another unemployed man to sustain is not what we as Romanians desire.''”''Fair enough, if I was unemployed. However, I am employed (I run two companies) and I earn a good salary and I was actually told, by the immigration officer, when applying for my visa, that American applicants do not need to show proof of income or any bank statements. I had the statements printed out and ready to hand in but the officer handed them back to me when I applied and said they didn’t need them. If they did look at them, I’m quite certain they would have found the numbers to be more than sufficient evidence that I can sustain myself.''Three Final Notes''1. I didn’t approve every comment that I received on my last post. Those with profanity, those that included threats to either myself or others and those that were just extremely rude were deleted.''2. It’s a bit disappointing how people tend to judge so quickly, to form an opinion based on very little information. And sometimes, this comes from the very same people who like to be judged as individuals themselves and not based on stereotypes. Quite a few people were ready to blurt out their conclusion and to be so nasty about it, without ever asking any questions or taking time to learn more about the situation. It’s unfortunate and a good reminder that there are always''more angles to every story''than what we initially might think.''3. Without a doubt, I still love Romania, I still think it’s a wonderful destination to visit with so much to offer and I still love the people that I’ve met all over the country. Thank you to every one of you who made my time in your country so rewarding and an absolute highlight of my 15 years of travel…I’m sure I shall see you again!''There you have it. That’s my response to the accidental ‘controversy’ created by my last post. And that’s also the last I’ll talk about it since, once again, it was just a story.''It was just a story about what happened to me this month, nothing more.''“''Peace, I’m out.''“''That’s exactly what I yelled…okay, maybe I just mumbled it to myself…fine, I only said it in my head…but regardless, it was said as I left Bucharest last week, right after I discovered that my residency visa had suddenly been refused.''The story actually begins back on March 3rd, just after midnight, when I climbed into a van in the Paharganj neighborhood of Delhi, India and went to the airport. My latest''Wander Across India Tour''had come to an end and so, it was time for me to head to my next destination.''From India I flew to Dubai, changed planes, and continued on to Bucharest, Romania.''Just as the sun was setting the plane touched down at Bucharest’s Otopeni airport and, once inside, I approached the immigration counter as usual. The officer at the counter swiped my passport, looked at his computer screen for a few moments and then said, “''You have residency here, where is your residency card?''”. To which I replied, “''I was told to pick it up in early March so I’m going to pick up the card tomorrow.''”''All was good. Through immigration I went. It felt great to be back in this city.''Off to Pick Up My Residency Card…''The following afternoon, I was first in line at the main immigration office in the center of Bucharest when the ‘pick up your visa’ counter opened at 1:30pm. I approached the woman behind the counter, handed over my passport and waited while she typed something into her computer. She soon stopped typing, handed back my passport and, to put it simply,''told me that my residency visa had been refused.''I explained that it couldn’t be possible since this very same immigration office had told me to pick up my residency card during the first week of March. It also couldn’t be possible because I followed the exact instructions that the immigration office gave me to apply for and obtain this visa.''But, she just repeated that it had been refused and after digging through a box, she handed me a letter. The letter also stated that my visa had been refused and the reason given was “''insufficient reason for me to be granted a residency visa''”. A bit vague.''Confused was I, especially since they had just let me into the country the day before by noting that, according to the immigration system at the airport, I had a valid residency visa.''So, there I stood. No residency visa.''Not only that, but without the residency visa, that meant''I was now in the country illegally''since I was well over the “''90 days in any 180 day period''” that US citizens are allowed to stay. If I didn’t have residency, I had to leave immediately and not come back.''An Explanation Please…''Before leaving the immigration office, however, I needed to have more information and so, with the assistance of a friend who came down to translate, the immigration officer eventually explained the following:''1.''The decision to refuse my visa was made by a team of high ranking immigration officers that only review certain types of visa applications.''2.''Their reasoning was that, since I was trying to get the residency visa based on my blog and the fact that, by writing about my experiences in the country I would help promote Romania, why couldn’t I just promote Romania from outside the country? Why did I have to actually be in the country to write about it?''3.''If Romania needed a blogger to promote their country, they could just go to the unemployment office in Bucharest and find a blogger there who would be willing to write about it.''That’s why they refused my visa apparently. Needless to say, I left the immigration office with my head down.''Off to Italy…''Luckily, I already had a 6-day trip to Italy planned starting the next day and so, after an evening of unexpectedly having to pack up all of my stuff and mentally preparing myself to leave Romania for much longer than anticipated, I flew to Bologna the next morning at 6:50am. Of course, that was after spending a few minutes at airport immigration explaining my whole story so that they wouldn’t fine me for overstaying my tourist visa. In the end, they let me go since they were the ones that let me into the country in the first place, but they did inform me that I would not be allowed back in for at least 3 months.''I then spent 6 days in Italy – Bologna, Florence and Venice – and despite running on fumes at this point, I managed to have a most excellent time.''As that Italy experience came to an end, though, I realized that I needed a plan, but I wasn’t able to think too clearly. So, out of frustration and sheer exhaustion from the previous week’s events, I booked a flight back to the US to visit some family.''Now I’m in Florida.''It’s all a bit of a blur at this point.''India, Dubai, Bucharest, losing my residency, packing up all my stuff, Bologna, Florence, Venice, a short flight to Frankfurt and then a long flight to Miami.''10 Thoughts From the Past 10 Days''What I do know is that ever since I left Delhi just 10 days ago, a lot has been going through my mind. Here’s some of those thoughts:''1.''It’s all about human beings.''I’ll repeat it a million times. The main reason I keep on traveling is not because of the sights I see, but because of the people I meet and the interactions we share. When I left for the airport just after midnight back in Delhi, I was expecting there to be two people in that van, myself and one other person from the group whose flight left at a similar time to mine. However, in a never-before-seen act of tour group solidarity, that van was full! The three remaining people from my group, whose flights home weren’t for another day or two, as well as my good Indian friend, Ajay, who helps me organize these tours, all piled into the van as well. Why? They all wanted to spend as much time together as a group as possible, so why say goodbye at the hotel when we could gain another 45 minutes of hanging out during the ride to the airport? I absolutely loved it. How sweet is that? We had a blast on the ride to the airport and waited until we were right there in front of the airport entrance to say farewell. This is what travel is all about.''2.''India baffles me.''Every time I’m about to depart India, I feel so ready to leave that land, but about 48 hours later, I already start to miss it dearly again and start looking forward to my next visit. No other country has this effect on me.''3.''Dubai airport is the most incredible location for people watching.''While I’m not a huge fan of Dubai itself, its airport is the most diverse place on earth, in my experience, by a long shot. In the two and a half hours I spent there a week and a half ago, there was not a single region of the world that was not represented in the terminal and I was only in the relatively small Terminal 2, which is solely for the budget airline FlyDubai. I sat at a cafe and just watched and watched and watched the people all around me. Loved it.''4.''Anger never helps.''Getting frustrated and angry at things you can’t control doesn’t do any good. I’ll admit, I got quite angry when I was told that my residency visa was refused and even though the immigration officer spoke no English, I started arguing anyway (my basic Romanian isn’t good enough to argue in). It was useless of course at that point. It only made me more upset, it made the immigration officer angry and it didn’t help the situation in any way whatsoever.''5.''Wizz Air is not my favorite airline.''I’ve now flown this budget airline twice and while their fares can be absurdly low, I really don’t understand why they, like other budget airlines in Europe, refuse to give seat assignments. There is always chaos at the gate as everyone crowds around and fights to get on the plane as quickly as possible and then everyone continues battling each other once on board as they try to get a decent seat. Then, the plane takes off with a group of angry, frustrated people when a simple organizational system at the gate or seat assignments would solve this immediately.''6.''Bologna has the''oldest continuously operating university''in the world.''Never knew that. It was founded in 1088 AD. And walking around this university, with its endless number of majestically historic buildings, as well as an air of education and youth seeping out of the ancient walls, was something special.''7.''Venice, wow!''I loved Venice, Italy and I wasn’t expecting that. I really hope I have a chance to spend some significant time there at some point as my short visit wasn’t enough at all. Wandering the tiny lanes in all of the different neighborhoods is something I could do for weeks on end. One of the most surprising destinations of all my travels.''8.''Life can really, really, really surprise you.''Just when I thought nothing could surprise me, being told I didn’t have the residency visa and then suddenly having to change my plans in less than 24 hours, completely caught me off guard. Definitely wasn’t expecting that at all. Never imagined this would happen.''9.''There’s nothing wrong with surprises.''Sometimes our lives need to be shaken up a bit and this experience certainly did that for me. I’m now in a different part of the world with a different mind frame than I was expecting a week ago. Time for some thinking, perhaps some new plans, and maybe even a new direction in life. Who knows where this one surprise will take me? That’s kind of exciting!''10.''I guess I need a new home base.''How’s your week going? Any visa issues you’ve experienced during your travels or do you have any visa questions?''It was simply stunning.''The sun was rising over the holy Ganges River, with the gentle foothills of the Himalayas off in the distance, the town slowly awakening into a soft pink glow. The atmosphere so peaceful, so serene.''I stood there enjoying this sunrise for quite some time, watching the monkeys hop around the rooftops in front of me, smiling at the first sounds of chanting and music flowing out of the ashrams nearby.''I could not have been happier.''About fifteen minutes prior to this, I had been sound asleep in my room four floors below. I was sharing that room with a female traveler I had met the day before, having decided to split the cost of accommodation to save money. The budget guesthouse was nothing special but the bed was actually more comfortable than most, allowing me to sleep quite well.''Until I suddenly awoke at 5:45am. When I opened my eyes at that time, I knew that something was wrong. My stomach was in such pain, with intense cramps, and I was starting to sweat.''I realized that I needed to get to the toilet quickly.''It happens, especially when you’re willing to eat anything while traveling and from anywhere.''Naturally, I could have used the squat toilet in the bathroom attached to my room, but after looking at my travel companion still sound asleep on the bed, and understanding very well what was about to happen, the thought of waking her up with my stomach issues was not something I wanted to turn into reality.''I decided to look for a public bathroom in the guesthouse instead.''With little time to spare, I grabbed my roll of toilet paper, left the room and went to the reception area, clutching my stomach, but there was no toilet to be found. I checked the small restaurant off to the side of the ‘lobby’, but no toilet to be found there either. And since none of the guesthouse staff were awake yet, I had no choice but to continue searching each floor of the building for a toilet, holding on as best I could, quite sure that I wasn’t going to make it much longer.''Again, it happens.''A few minutes later, after having checked all four floors, and unable to hold on any more, I reached the semi-open rooftop. I quickly checked two doors up there but they were locked.''I was drenched in sweat by this point, with my stomach in great pain and so, thinking I had no other option, I started to unbutton and unzip my shorts right then and there.''And that’s exactly when I spotted a large potted plant in one corner of the rooftop.''Perfect. I ran over, down went my shorts and I sat right on the ledge of that deep pot, with my rear end hovering over the plant itself.''What relief, a few minutes of such relief.''After the issue eventually ran its course and it all came to an end, my mind started racing.''What if I got caught? What if my travel companion figured out what I did? Did I really just do this?''That’s when it suddenly hit me that I was on a rooftop and people on other rooftops next door, if there was anyone awake, could probably see me.''I really hadn’t been paying attention to anything other than my stomach and the pot.''So, while still balanced over that plant,''I looked up''. I lifted my eyes to the world around me, hoping nobody was staring back in disgust.''Again, I just looked up.''And that’s when I was treated to one of the most beautiful and memorable sunrise experiences I’ve ever had. I remember saying to myself, “''Wow''”, over and over again, completely fascinated by the sudden transformation of this town from a clump of semi-darkness to a fairy tale setting covered in such magical light. With my shorts still down by my knees, I could not believe how this early morning had just taken such a turn for the better.''Of course, I then saw a woman sweeping on a nearby rooftop and it reminded me that I should probably put my shorts back on and get off of this plant. So I cleaned myself up as best I could, pulled up those shorts and then I walked over to the railing that surrounded the rooftop.''Then I just leaned there for a while, a long while, staying focused on the brilliant experience, waving to the woman on the rooftop and receiving a big smile in return, just soaking it all in.''And I can remember every moment of that sunrise so well, even today, some 10 years later.''The most important travel rule?''LOOK UP.''We should always look up at the world around us. We’ll miss too much if we don’t. And by ‘look up’, I mean really try to notice as many things and as many people as we can, no matter where we are or what we’re doing.''When we’re walking down the street, sitting in a restaurant, waiting at the bus station…look up. When we’re feeling frustrated or lonely, when we’re lost and unsure what to do or where to go…look up.''If we always remember to just look up, to look all around, to notice what is in front of us, what is off to the side, what is off in the distance, everything that makes travel so great will multiply right before our eyes.''When we look up, we see the store fronts, the architecture, the bicyclists, the fruit stalls, the political posters, the flower shops, the long lines at the pharmacies, the graffiti, the snacks people eat, the local fashion, the pace of life.''We see the smiling faces, the curious people, the potential for connection with those around us. We can’t meet many people by looking down.''By noticing everything around us, we gain a deeper understanding of every destination we visit. And at times, often when we least expect it of course, we might even see something so interesting or breathtaking or perhaps life-changing, that the experience will stay with us forever.''Kind of like my surreal sunrise in Rishikesh.''So let’s look up, always look up.''Yes, even when we’re on the toilet, or a potted plant if that’s all we can find.''Have you had a memorable experience as a result of suddenly paying attention to everything around you? Could be while traveling, could be while at home?''Four months ago, I received an email from a customer who had purchased one of the eBooks that I have written. The email said…''“''I can’t download your eBook. Every time I go to the download page, I get a message stating that you haven’t been notified of my payment yet and to check back later. But my payment already went through.''”''That’s weird, I thought. I checked the system and the payment had indeed gone through. This had never happened before. I concluded that it must be a fluke. So I just emailed the customer directly with the eBook as an attachment. Done.''Or so I assumed.''Later that day, I received another email from a new customer who couldn’t access the eBook. The next day, yet another one. And before I knew it, every single customer who was purchasing this particular eBook, was suddenly not able to download it for some reason.''I had a problem that needed fixing.''For one week straight, I tried to use all of my relevant knowledge to figure things out but I made no progress. I emailed every online service that was connected to my product and I asked for assistance, but nobody had any idea what was wrong. I tried again for another week, spending 4-5 hours every single day on the issue.''Then I enlisted the help of two friends who are experts in solving a variety of digital product problems…but even they, after two weeks of trying, could not come up with any solution either.''So, I just left it. A customer would purchase my eBook, they wouldn’t be able to download it, they’d email me and I’d email them back with the product as an attachment. This went on for three months. Every ten days or so, I would spend a full 7 or 8 hours trying to see if I could come up with a fix but, of course, I never could figure out what was happening.''Flying to Goa''Last week, I suddenly decided to fly from Bucharest to Goa, India, partly because of the harsh Romanian winter and partly because of the''very cheap airfare''that I found. I boarded my first flight, from Bucharest to Dubai, and I was happy to see that the plane was empty. I had a nice sleep the entire way as a result, all stretched out over three seats.''Upon arrival at the Dubai airport, I entered the terminal building, went to the food court to eat a sandwich for dinner and then sat down at a cafe for a coffee.''When I received my coffee, I had fifteen minutes before my next flight – Dubai to Goa via Mumbai – would start boarding. So I pulled out my laptop to quickly check my emails.''Boom.''The first email I noticed was from the company that acts as the payment processor and marketplace for the eBook I was having trouble with. It was a short email but by the time I finished reading it, my face was burning slightly and it felt as if someone had punched me in the stomach.''The email read, “''It has come to our attention that customers are unable to download your eBook once they purchase it. Please fix this issue within the next 12 hours or we will remove your product from our site and it can not be sold through us again.''”''Oh my.''By the time I would reach Goa, take the 1.5 hour taxi ride to Palolem Beach, check in to a beach hut and try to find strong enough internet…and then somehow fix this problem that neither I, nor anyone else, could fix over the previous four months…more than 12 hours would most certainly pass.''That meant that''I had 14 minutes to fix this issue''or else I would lose this eBook. Without this particular company, I would lose a great deal of the marketing that has made this eBook popular. And if that were to happen, sales would be reduced drastically and as a result, any income earned from it as well. Just like that.''Now Boarding Flight AI894''I’ll be damned.''It took me exactly four minutes to fix the problem.''I then made two test sales and everything worked perfectly.''I closed my laptop, enjoyed the final half of my coffee, shook my head in disbelief for a few minutes and walked to my gate, just in time to board the flight to India.''The Most Reliable Way to Succeed''That’s pretty much how life works. We can always get things done.''But when our backs are not up against the wall, when we don’t have a dire need to make something happen, when it’s not a now or never situation, it’s difficult to summon up the determination and effort we really need to advance towards a particular goal.''We might think we’re putting in the effort needed, but we’re not.''I thought I was doing everything I could to try and fix the problem above over the course of four months, but clearly I wasn’t.''When I really needed to fix it, when I had no other choice but to fix it, when I could not afford to fail, I figured out the issue and fixed it…in four minutes.''This is how it goes for travel too. If we want to travel, in whatever form, and we struggle to get there, it might be because we’re too comfortable, we’re not really in a situation that leaves us no choice but to make it happen.''When I decided that I wanted to travel indefinitely back in 1999, I had less than $1500 USD to my name. I just made the decision while traveling in Southeast Asia but I didn’t have a plan at all. And as the days passed, I quickly realized that it was all up to me.''My money would run out soon and if I wanted to achieve this goal of long-term travel, I had to start achieving it, not in three months, not in one month…right now.''I had no other choice. Again, I could not afford to fail.''I talked to everyone I met, brainstormed like crazy and soon found a way to make a little money to keep me going until the next step, a''way to make money''that I never even knew existed until I had no choice but to find a way…and that’s pretty much how these 15 years of travel have happened. It’s gotten much easier over the years of course, but''it’s all possible because I was left with no other option in the beginning.''And without that kind of pressure, I don’t know about you, but I tend to get lazy, I procrastinate, I convince myself that things aren’t possible. Time drags on, I don’t make progress, I get frustrated, and often times, I just give up.''It’s the determination that makes the difference and for most human beings,''the most certain way to summon up the amount of determination required to achieve something, is to have no other choice but to succeed''. I think it’s also why humans can suddenly lift cars to free someone trapped underneath or perform other amazing feats in intense situations that we ordinarily wouldn’t expect someone to be able to perform.''They have no other choice.''Were you ever in a similar situation? Did you achieve something when you had no other option?''Is there something you’re struggling to achieve these days?''Solution:''For those interested, the problem was quite simple. I use a website called ejunkie.com that provides customers with the download link for the eBook. And in my ejunkie control panel, I had entered the link to my download page in the wrong section, something that I guess can be easy to do given how confusing the ejunkie control panel can be. The wording in the two sections is so similar that I can see how nobody would figure it out. But it had been working perfectly before so I’m not sure how the link suddenly ended up in the wrong spot but at least it’s fixed now!''It all started last Wednesday when, during an afternoon break from doing some work, I decided to go online and look up random airfares from Bucharest. Always a sucker for the beach, the first destination I looked up was Goa, India.''And the first airfare I found was $340 USD (one-way) with FlyDubai and Air India. I suddenly got excited.''I then decided to continue searching other destinations. Within an hour, I had found airfares to places such as Tbilisi, Georgia ($178 USD) and Male, Maldives ($400 USD) and Warsaw, Poland ($101 USD) and Hong Kong ($505 USD) and Fethiye, Turkey ($115 USD) and Tel Aviv, Israel ($145 USD) and Brunei ($575 USD) and plenty of others, that were, in my opinion and experience, remarkable deals.''Naturally, it got me even more excited.''It wasn’t my plan at all to travel anywhere in January but once the idea creeped into my head during this airfare searching session, I knew it would be difficult to just forget about it.''Then, that evening, I went outside to grab some dinner and despite wearing my warm gloves, I couldn’t feel my fingers after a few minutes because of the -16C (3F) temperature here in Bucharest. By the time I reached the store, whatever had been dribbling out of my nose had turned to solid ice, my face was partially numb and my toes were nearly frozen (the toes problem is admittedly my fault since I’m quite bad at''staying warm in winter'').''Beach, anyone?''Upon returning to my apartment, I felt as if I had no choice but to continue the airfare search and because I was so intrigued by what I was finding, I also started looking at flights from other locations, simply out of curiosity.''The airfares I soon found would make anyone with even the slightest interest in travel want to purchase a ticket, pack their bags, hand their cat off to their neighbor and get on that plane immediately.''January sure seems like the cheapest month to travel. I never knew.''– NYC to Oslo for $250 USD''– Chicago to Istanbul for $460''– London to Bangkok for $560''– Los Angeles to Medellin for $375''– Paris to Athens for $205''Yes, those are for roundtrip tickets (all found on''JetRadar.com''and Skyscanner.com). It really can’t get much cheaper.''Of course, I know that last minute travel is not feasible for everyone and to take advantage of some of these fares, you really need to be flexible and ready to leave, well, very soon. But I know that some of you are looking for such a random getaway, some of you have been waiting for the perfect deal to get started, some just want to have a unique international adventure for as little money as possible.''Just think, by next week''you could be sitting in a completely different destination'', perhaps in Asia or Latin America or Europe. Crazy, right?''I’m not saying you should quit school or quit your job or make some radical decision to leave your current life behind. Nothing like that at all.''All I’m saying is that there are opportunities out there. Perhaps January doesn’t work out for you. Maybe February or May or September will. Keep your eyes open, sit down at your computer from time to time and start typing in random destinations. You never know what airfares you’ll find and one day you just might find the fare that makes sense, the one fare that turns your desire to travel, whether for the first time or for the hundredth time, into reality.''Modern Travel is Simply Amazing''This concept of modern travel still messes with my head. I’ve been traveling for 15 years but when I think about the fact that today I am writing this post from a train in Romania and in two days I could be, well, somewhere else on the planet, maybe India, maybe Italy, maybe Hong Kong, I am just blown away.''Is it not incredible that we can get to the other side of the world for $500 and in less than 24 hours?''And who says you need to go to the other side of the world. Here in Europe, you can bounce over to another country for the cost of a movie ticket.''In my random airfare searches the past few days, I’ve found a flight from Craiova, Romania to Bologna, Italy for $12 USD each way, including all fees. Not bad for a 2 hour flight to a different country. There are flights from Frankfurt, Germany to Barcelona, Spain for $100 roundtrip and flights from Sofia, Bulgaria to Rome, Italy for $110 roundtrip.''Within one country, airfares also border on the absurd at the moment. Flights within Turkey are as low as $20 USD with Pegasus Airlines, within''India'', you can fly from one corner of the country to another for less than $50 bucks on several airlines. Bangkok to Chiang Mai, Thailand on Bangkok Airways will cost you $51 USD. Nuts.''I need to stop looking up flights.''On another note, today was a bit of a tease. The temperatures here in Romania shot up a good amount and I would almost venture to say that it was a ‘warm’ day. The snow and ice are melting, I could walk around without my winter hat on my noggin and my toes were wiggling around with joy all day.''But man, I keep coming back to one thing –''$340 for a ticket to Goa, and I could be there tomorrow, in a''nice little hut''right on the beach.''What would you do?''Have you found any unbeatable deals lately?''Anyone want to meet in Goa?''Yes, I’m confused about life just like everyone else. I get depressed, I struggle and I feel lost too, more often than you probably would imagine.''In fact, back in August of this year,''I had a bit of a breakdown''. That might be an understatement. It was actually quite a significant breakdown.''Despite having been traveling for 15 years, despite doing things like spending time in''France'',''Romania'', Singapore, India,''Kyrgyzstan'', Mexico, Turkey and more during the first half of this year…when August came around, nothing made sense to me.''I was placing intense personal pressure on myself, I had no answers to anything and every day I woke up with a ‘holy-crap-I-have-no-idea-what-I’m-doing’ kind of confusion.''And then, while in Bali, I got''dengue fever''as an added bonus. After Bali, things didn’t get much better and following a couple of more unfortunate incidents that occurred, I was officially more confused, frustrated and distraught than I had been in a long, long time.''When this happened, I just stopped what I was doing. I stopped everything. I flew back to Florida in August, where my family lives, and I stayed there. I could barely sleep at the time so I would just get out of bed at around 5:00am each day and go for a walk. Then I would sit around for hours on end doing nothing at all. Sometimes, when motivation struck for a few moments, I would try to think about every aspect of my life hoping to find some kind of clarity but that clarity never came.''The days passed and I felt as if I was going absolutely nowhere, making no progress at all, still feeling as completely confused about life as ever.''The Burrito''You’re ready to travel. You even bought a backpack. You told your friends that you’re taking off within the next few months. You have a general itinerary and you can’t wait to get on that airplane.''But you also know that your travels probably won’t happen in the end.''You’re fully aware that despite the excitement of travel, despite your desire to get out there and see the world, you just don’t have the necessary confidence to actually do it.''I remember it well. I remember telling everyone I knew that I was leaving to go traveling for 3 months back in 1999. I also remember, right after telling someone about my plans, thinking to myself, “''Oh crap, how am I going to explain it when I don’t actually go?''”''I thought this because I also lacked the necessary confidence to travel, to turn all of the plans in my head into a reality. Just the thought of''traveling on my own'', the thought of showing up in a foreign land without my friends, my family, a familiar language or familiar food and so many unknown obstacles that I might have to face, and not know how to deal with, was enough to convince me that there was no way possible I was really going to do this travel thing.''And then I flew to Bangkok on Christmas Day of that year.''How did that happen?''Where did that boost of confidence come from that enabled me to get on that plane and fly off into the unknown?''I have no idea. All I do know is that I found that confidence somehow, and I’m mighty glad I did. And I also know that''there’s no reason at all why you can’t overcome that lack of confidence too''.''Now that I’ve traveled for a while, and communicated with so many people who have experienced that very same lack of confidence in their own ability to travel, I’ve realized that there actually are ways to get that extra boost, ways to ensure that your excitement about travel is not left to waste.''After all, what a shame it would be to really want to see this world first-hand, and to then tell others about your goal, but to end up not following through.''We can’t let that happen. No way.''So don’t give up.''Try a few of these ideas instead'':''1.''Someone loves your idea. Find them.''– Surely there must be a friend or family member, or maybe several, that supports your decision to travel. Get them on the phone, write them an email and communicate with them often. Discuss your ideas with them and observe the confidence they have in you, while understanding that they know you best…and if they think you can take on such an adventure, you should think so too!''2.''Heck, we support you.''– If you can’t find friends or family who support your travel ideas, or even if you do, you can always turn to the community of travelers online to gain that extra confidence. Considering that everyone finds their own way to achieve their travel goals, surely you can connect with people who were in a similar situation as yourself, whatever that may be. Write to travelers, ask for advice and listen to what they have to say, all the time remembering that if so many of these other people have managed to make travel happen, there’s no reason why you can’t make it happen as well.''3.''Why do you want to travel? Figure it out.''– Think about exactly why you want to go off and travel and then narrow it down to one or more specific goals. This will allow you to take real steps so that you can see your travels develop right before you, instead of having no clue how to proceed. And taking real steps leads to increased confidence. Just saying “''I want to travel''” doesn’t really lead you in a particular direction so how can you gain confidence when you don’t know where you’re headed? On the other hand, if you know you want to learn about religion in Asia, for example, figure out which religion, then figure out which country and region you should visit to find that religion and once you’ve done that, you can communicate with others who’ve been to that destination and ask them questions, find out where they stayed, whether they have any contacts, etc.…now you’re rolling, taking actual steps, creating a comfortable structure to your trip and gathering information to help guide you.''4.''Just buy that ticket.''– You could just get online right this very instant and book a flight ticket to somewhere you want to go. And if you’re looking for the cheapest fare possible, that ticket will also be non-refundable, which in this case is simply…excellent! Buy that ticket and you have no choice but to find that extra confidence to travel because in a certain amount of days, you either get on that plane and start traveling or lose a lot of money.''5.''Be a traveler, right now, at home.''– Find the closest town or city to where you live that has''hostels''and book a couple of nights at the most popular one. Go there on your own, maybe for a weekend. This easy experience will put you right into a travel environment and it will also show you exactly why you’ll never be alone, unless you choose to, when you travel overseas. Talk to as many of the other travelers there as you can, hang out with them and listen to their own travel tales. I’m certain that after one weekend of this, you’ll be completely ready and more than confident to proceed with your international travel plans.''6.''Start with a group.''– Maybe you just don’t want to travel independently, and that’s perfectly fine. Your answer might be joining a small group tour so that you can still experience a destination without needing all the confidence you would need to travel by yourself. That’s exactly why I started offering my own''unique small group tours'', so that everyone has a chance to visit certain destinations that they otherwise might not visit on their own. And I can’t tell you how many people have joined one of these tours and then gone on to travel to other destinations by themselves, with more confidence than they ever imagined possible.''Really, try a few of those ideas above. Then let’s see if you still have that ‘''No way am I really going to do this''’ thought in your head.''Also, just remember…I’m out here. I’m writing this post from Bucharest, Romania, and it looks like I’ll be in a few more countries over the next couple of months as well.''And of course, I’m not the only one! Just have a look at''these travelers''. They are all out here in the world right now or have been out here or get out here into the world as often as they can. They all faced the same obstacle as us at one point as well – that lack of confidence – and they all overcame it…and I’m positive that they are all so utterly and absurdly thrilled that they did.''Don’t you want to be that thrilled?''What’s your experience with gaining the confidence needed to travel? Was it easy? Did you struggle?''Yes, you can read about the world. You can even see the world, too. But what about feeling the world?''That’s my reason to travel. To feel.''I want to feel and as a result, to learn from every experience I have in a way that would not be possible if I simply read about a place or about its people.''Did You Feel This?''[jbox]''If you’re interested in a''free trip to Colombia'', LAN Airlines just let me know about a cool promotion they’re doing. It only takes a few seconds to enter and the prize is a 14-day trip for two to Colombia – flights, accommodation, all meals and a camera included. You can enter here if you wish:''Captivating Colombia''– Good luck!''[/jbox]''Three weeks ago, I attended my close friend’s wedding on a Sunday night in Vancouver. It was a great time, with great people, great food and just a great atmosphere. Once the wedding ended shortly after 1:00am, I then bummed a ride back to the apartment where I was staying and I went to sleep.''My plan was to spend the next four days exploring Vancouver before flying to the town of Santa Rosa, California for a mini-family reunion with some relatives I hadn’t seen in many years. After some time in California, I was set to return to Bucharest.''And then my grandmother passed away.''The night of the wedding, I ended up going to sleep around 2:00am and for some reason, I uncharacteristically awoke around 7:00am. And as soon as I did, I knew that something was wrong.''The light on my phone was flashing, I had seven new text messages and several urgently titled emails and FB messages from family members. I could only think of one thing, and I was right.''Jumping out of bed, I proceeded to spend the next four hours on the phone and laptop coordinating travel plans, re-arranging flights, renting a car, booking a hotel and of course, communicating with my family. I don’t remember much from those hours. All I know is the day passed by in a haze and just like that, the very next morning at 6:00am, I was on a flight to Seattle before changing planes and flying to New York City. Then, I waited for my sister’s flight to arrive, I picked up the rental car and we drove out to a hotel an hour away (thirty minutes had I not gotten lost of course).''The next morning, we drove to the cemetery for the funeral.''It All Happened So Fast''It began as a simple idea back in 2012. I decided to offer a tour to India.''Without much planning, actually, no planning at all, I randomly announced that first tour right here on the blog. It sold out in less than 48 hours.''I said, “''Oh my''”.''Then I spent the next couple of months running around, organizing and planning every aspect of that tour right up until the last minute. November arrived, the tour began in Delhi and just like that,''Wandering Earl Tours''was in action.''Things seem to have gone well since then as requests for more tours starting coming in. Now I’ve run three trips to India already. Not to mention trips to Romania, Istanbul, Mexico and Southeast Asia as well.''And now the plan is to offer even more tours next year, some to the same destinations, and some to a few new ones too.''Keep in mind…''these are not normal group tours''. They are laid-back, small group excursions that give you an in-depth experience you simply can’t have on any other organized trip. I also focus on offering the absolute best value I possibly can at all times.''The feedback so far has been extremely positive and I’ve even already had several repeat travelers who have joined more than one tour!''It’s time for 2015…''[jbox title_css=”font-size:0px;color:red;” jbox_css=”border:2px solid #7c7c7c;padding-top:1.5em;padding-left:1.5em; padding-right:1.5em; color:black;background-color:#FFFFFF;” title=”” radius=”0″ radius=”0″ shadow=”0″]''WANDERING EARL TOURS – 2015 SCHEDULE''February:''–''Wander Across''INDIA''(my 4th tour to this country, it shall be another incredibly rewarding adventure)''March:''–''Wander Across''SE ASIA''(Thailand/Cambodia)''(my first SE Asia tour was such a success, I immediately organized a second one)''April:''–''Wander Around''ISTANBUL''(one full week in one of the most fascinating cities on the planet)''June:''–''Wander Across''KYRGYZSTAN''(few people visit but those that do fall in love with this stunning, friendly country)''–''Wander Across''VIETNAM''(with so many requests for a Vietnam tour, it was time I put one together)''–''Wander Across''ROMANIA''(medieval towns, castles, mountains, traditional culture & more – it has it all)''[/jbox]''Some of these trips I will lead myself. Others, I actually won’t. I still create all of the itineraries and work out all of the details for every tour, all based on my own travels. But for some, I happen to know people that would do a much better job leading a particular trip than me.''An example is my recent''SE Asia Tour''two months ago. I got dengue fever while in Bali and couldn’t lead the trip so I handed it over to my friend Sakai. Sakai is an expert on Thailand and Cambodia, he speaks the languages and has lived there for many years.''And while I was hoping the feedback from that tour would be good, it actually ended up being''better than good''. Way, way better.''“I use the word amazing a lot to describe this trip. It is the best trip I have ever taken. I believe the itinerary you put together is most of the reason for this. It was a great balance of organization and optional activities. For me, an awesome first trip to Asia!”''– Jen. W''“Awe. Some. Enough said. Sakai knows his stuff (local languages; best places away from the super frequented ones). He entertains. He’s helpful. And just overall a good guy. I consider myself lucky to have met him. Does not happen often.”''– Paul H.''“Sakai is awesome! Speaks the languages and has a lot of connections, knows big time about history and culture of the area. Also super fun and flexible, but makes sure everything is done, I didn’t worry at all during the whole trip.”''– Vanessa R.''You get the idea. Sakai knows Thailand and Cambodia. The tour was awesome. Now, I want him to lead my Southeast Asia trips.''So, here we go. The above tours are what I’ve put together for the first half of 2015. And it goes without saying that I look forward to having you join one of these tours if you happen to be interested.''Have a read of the tour documents (by clicking on the links above) and just follow the instructions inside if you do want to join!''Also, if you have any questions at all, just''send me an email''. I’ll always reply as quickly as I can.''Enjoy your week wherever you may be and here’s to all of your future travels!''**More feedback from previous Wandering Earl tours…''“What a trip of a lifetime for all…truly outstanding…everything just flowed. I am definitely going on another journey if you’ll have me!”''– Albert R.''“I took Earl’s trip to India. It was awesome! If you’re on the fence, go for it.”''– Matt D.''“My trip with Wandering Earl was fantastic! We hit the sights I had wanted to see…along with a ton of places and experiences I never would’ve come up with on my own. I am hoping to get on another Wandering Earl tour in the near future!”''– Leah F.''“Traveling with Earl was everything I thought it would be and more! His genuine enthusiasm was contagious, and he went above and beyond to submerse the whole group in as much culture as he could. He quickly became not only my tour guide but my friend, and I’m already planning on traveling again with him in the near future!”''– Michelle M.''Ah, meditation. Legs crossed, hands placed ever so gently on the knees, back straight, baggy cotton clothes flowing perfectly and alas, the look of pure zen on the face.''Well, what if I told you that I meditate sitting down in a chair or lying on my bed, wearing jeans and a t-shirt at times, hands on my stomach or by my side or perhaps behind my head, legs laid out however they end up being laid out.''The look on my face? I can’t exactly see it myself, but I doubt it’s a look of pure zen. I’m sure it’s more like a peaceful, yet disorganized, protest against a never-ending onslaught of absurd thoughts such as''‘when is the last time I’ve had some hot apple cider?’''and''‘what if a q-tip got stuck in my ear while I was eating Oreo cookies?’''and''‘I like the word reciprocate, but not as much as the word yogurt’''that take a long time for me to remove from my mind.''Sure, I’ve attended two 10-day, silent''Vipassana meditation retreats''over the years, and I took them both very seriously, and they both brought tremendous benefit to my life, but I don’t practice that kind of dedicated meditation too often.''All I know is that I do feel the need to drift away from the noise of life from time to time, to close my eyes for just a few minutes, to try and force all thoughts out of my head and to concentrate only on the light breaths that pass through my nose. You could argue that this is or isn’t meditation but that’s not an argument for me. I could care less what it is. I enjoy doing it and it helps me move through life.''An Impossibly Long 48 Hours''Three days ago, in Bucharest, Romania, I woke up at 7:00am. I showered, ate some fruit, got organized, went for a haircut and then I…''drove three and a half hours from Bucharest to the town of Focsani to drop off the car I used for my recent''Romania road trip''hung out in Focsani for a few hours''took a three hour train from Focsani back to Bucharest, arriving at 7:30pm''walked straight from the train station to a radio station where I was interviewed for Romanian radio''went back to the apartment where I stay, arriving at 10:30pm''worked for four hours''packed up some of my clothes''slept from 4:00am – 5:00am''woke up, showered and took a taxi to the airport in Bucharest''flew 17 hours to Vancouver, via Amsterdam and Seattle, landing at 2:30pm''arrived in Vancouver and went straight to a cafe to wait for my friend''met my friend and went to his place at 5:00pm''went for a 2-hour wander around Vancouver and ate some dinner''And by 10:30pm, I was finally tired, just like normal, and I went to sleep. I felt great when I did go to bed and I felt great when I woke up the next morning at 7:00am, despite those crazy long couple of days. No jet lag, no exhaustion, no bodily systems out of whack, no nothing.''I was full of positive energy and I was ready to experience Vancouver.''And while I have no actual proof – only previous experience – I tend to believe that it was the''ten minutes on the train''in Romania, the''five minutes in the apartment''in Bucharest and the''fifteen minutes on two different flights''that I spent with my eyes closed, focusing on my breathing and trying to keep my thoughts to a minimum, that made all the difference.''Any time I recognize a need to just slow down or quiet myself down for a moment, this is what I do. When things get hectic or overwhelming, this one simple exercise, even a mere five minutes of it, will eliminate any growing feeling of losing control and not being able to keep up with life in general.''It’s like the travel tip I once wrote about on the blog where I mention the''benefits of going to a cafe and having a cup of coffee''immediately upon arrival in a new destination. Taking a few minutes to just sit and relax before heading outside the airport and into the unknown allows your body and mind to calm down and ultimately, to make clearer and better decisions, thus reducing the risk of making bad, rushed decisions that you might regret later or that might lead to a variety of issues.''So why not take some time to relax and clear the mind more often, wherever we may be, whenever we are struggling to tackle our busy, up and down, often confusing lives? This applies when we are traveling and when we are not.''A few minutes of concentrated breathing in a quiet place and the decisions you need to make will become easier, your frustrations will become less intense and the obstacles you face less daunting. If you want to take it further and extend the activity for thirty or sixty minutes at a time, go for it. I’m sure it will be even more beneficial. If you don’t want to though, don’t worry at all.''Meditation, or whatever you want to call it, is personal. It’s like travel in the sense that there is no ‘right’ way to do it. Find out what works for you and that’s your ‘right’ way, even if it is just five minutes of eyes-closed breathing here and there, perhaps with a teddy bear on your lap and a party hat on your head.''What matters is that you take some time to focus on yourself and to stay on top of the challenges that life throws at you. It’s more important than you might think, especially if you want to venture out into the far corners of the world and put yourself way out of your comfort zone.''Traveling can be a scary and bumpy ride at times and meditation could very well prove to be your best friend.''Do you meditate in any form? Does it help you deal with challenges in life or while traveling?''For those in''New York City'', here’s an interesting event you might want to attend: “''The''Ringstrasse 150th Anniversary Celebration''– Join us on a journey through time as we celebrate the 150th anniversary of Vienna’s famous Ringstrasse, the gorgeous boulevard at the heart of this beautiful city that is home to its grandest buildings and magnificent palaces. Stop by for a live chat with your new friends at the legendary Café Central in Vienna. Learn about this fabulous city from the locals – we’ll have a live video connection at the Café so you can experience this popular Viennese tradition.''I’m a major road trip fan. The open road, the ability to go wherever I want, to stop in any city, town or village along the way, to slow down or speed up, to visit destinations that would be difficult to reach without your own transportation.''When I pass by a vendor on the side of the road selling freshly made goat cheese or homemade jams, I want to stop and have a taste. I want to stop for that sudden photo opportunity or, better yet, just to take a few minutes to observe my surroundings or walk into that valley that I would otherwise pass right by.''Other forms of transportation have their value too. But if I have a chance to take a road trip, I’ll sign up faster than I would''shave my armpits''upon arrival in an intensely warm tropical location.''Over the past two weeks, I was fortunate enough to embark on a''Romania road trip''with a couple of other people, a trip that took me all over this mighty fine land.''And this was by far one of my favorite road trips of all time and it went a little something like this…''Focsani''It all began with the wedding of some friends, more like acquaintances actually, and probably people who will never talk to me again after my horrendous dancing display when it came time to dance to traditional Romanian music at their wedding. As I was dancing as part of a circle of fifty people, moving this way and that, kicking my feet a little and trying to avoid looking as clumsy as I am, I think I almost caused serious injury to several other wedding attendees. My apologies to any aunt, uncle or cousin that I may have semi-trampled on!''But overall, this wedding was a major success. Just one of those genuinely brilliant nights full of good people and good fun, a long night (over 9 hours, finishing at 5:30am), but wonderful nonetheless. Great start to the road trip!''From Focsani, the town where the wedding took place, we headed to…''Bucovina''On my Wandering Earl Tour to Romania that I led last year, we visited the region of Bucovina, mostly for its well-known''painted monasteries'', but since this road trip took us in that general direction, I did not hesitate to head that way again. And I even decided to show up without warning at the beautiful guesthouse in Vatra Moldovitei where we stayed last year on the tour, something that proved to be a highlight of this adventure. The owners recognized me instantly and wouldn’t let us continue without spending a night at their place, enjoying a home-cooked dinner and drinking some of their own afinat, an often-delicious liquor made from blueberries. It was the kind of unexpected, yet perfect, experience that constantly reminds me why I’m traveling in the first place.''Yes, we also visited some of the painted monasteries –''Voronet, Sucevita, Humor and Moldovita''– and those were cool to see again as well. They’re interesting and remarkably peaceful with such few tourists up in the region at this time and the windy roads between some of them are the kind of roads that make you want to stop the car every ten meters for the view.''(''Vila Crizantema''–''if you’re ever in Bucovina, I can highly, highly recommend this guesthouse!'')''Maramures''This was the heart of the road trip. Ever since I first stepped foot in Romania back in 2010, the region of Maramures, in the north of the country, was on my radar. However, given its location, well, way up in the far north of the country, I never seemed to find the time to travel there.''So when I actually saw the sign, along the remote mountain road leading from Campulung Moldovenesc to Borsa, welcoming me to Maramures county, I nearly drove right into that sign because I started clapping and cheering and doing some kind of weird (according to my passenger) thrusting motion in the driver’s seat. Luckily, I was yelled at in time to avoid hitting the sign in the end, or driving over the edge of the road and straight into the valley below.''Soon after, with the cool air of autumn descending upon the region on the day we entered Maramures, our first stop was the small town of Borsa. Here is where we prepared for the exciting days ahead, with a hot coffee at a cafe, a few minutes look at our map and a change into warmer clothes.''Then, with winter hat on the head and jacket all zippered up, we continued…''Maramures did not disappoint. The relaxed atmosphere and the traditional way of life, as well as the super-friendly people everywhere, matched exactly what I had heard, as did the wooden churches, merry cemetery and all the rest. And any area that offers endless, and usually empty, country roads to explore is ideal for a road trip. We drove all over the place, without much of a plan apart from choosing where to go based on the signs we passed or choosing random roads from our map.''Here’s where we ended up while in Maramures…''WOODEN CHURCHES''From Ieud to Botiza to Rozavlea, from Budesti to Barsana to Calinesti and Surdesti, you would think that after visiting a couple of these''wooden churches'', one might be a little tired of the activity and prefer to do something else, maybe even hang out with the cows, for a change of pace. But surprisingly, it wasn’t so. I don’t think there was anyone else at any of the churches we visited and even though the signs in front of most of them said they were open from 9am – 4pm, there were so few visitors that we had to call the phone number on the sign and the villager with the key had to come up to the church to let us in. And when you have these unique, 200-400 year-old churches all to yourself, often surrounded by forest or located on a hill overlooking the countryside, religious or not, it’s hard not to enjoy the experience.''Carrying on to the…''MERRY CEMETERY''Oh yeah, the Merry Cemetery. This was perhaps at the top of my list of places to visit on this Romania road trip and the two and a half hours I spent roaming around these graves certainly lived up to my expectations. In short, it’s a cemetery in the town of Sapanta where a local wood carver creates brightly colored wooden tombstones for the deceased. However, it’s not just the colors that make this cemetery stand out – it’s the carved images of the deceased and the short, often humorous, poetic and ironic, tale of the person’s life that is carved into the wood as well. It sometimes even goes into the details of how they passed away.''Here’s a few examples with the words translated (very loosely, as it’s almost impossible to maintain the meaning with they style in which they are written)…''While I was alive / I was liked by everybody / Just like a baby swallow / I lived 80 years / Here is where I rest/  Pirsoie is how I was addressed / While I lived in the world / I liked many things / To drink and to live well / With a handsome man by my side / May you live dear Darvai / You’ll keep crying after me / For as long as you will live / Because you won’t find anyone like me''———-''Ever since I was a child / I liked horses very much / With horses I worked hard / And I earned a lot of money / I helped my nephews / They didn’t show any gratitude / They didn’t sing nor cry after I died / Didn’t even come to my grave / But my niece Teodosae / May Holy God look after her / Because she put a cross above my head / Buried me next to my mother / And I left life at 82''———-''Here is where I rest / Braicu Toader is how I was addressed / While I lived in the world / I liked way too many things / To drink and to live well / And with women by my side / Oh how dear was life to me / While I could still kiss / And as I grew older / Those things turned against me / Cause I left life at 73''———-''With over eight-hundred of these tombstones packed into this relatively small area, there are stories everywhere and by the end of your visit, it’s hard not to look at death, and even life, a little differently, a little less seriously.''Who would think that spending such an amount of time walking around a cemetery would actually put you in an overly good mood? I wasn’t sure who to thank…the deceased, the wood carver or the villagers for keeping this tradition going even today. Heck, I’ll thank them all.''Onward we drove…''THE MEMORIAL OF THE VICTIMS OF COMMUNISM''This was the biggest surprise of this portion of the Romania road trip. Having planned to arrive at this museum in the town of Sighetu Marmatiei two hours before closing, we were stunned to discover how large and how well-laid out this place turned out to be. We were equally stunned to discover that the exhibits, full of such detail that made you want to read every single word (or in my case hear each word translated into English), would take far more than two or three or even four hours to cover without rushing through it all.''The''Memorial of the Victims of Communism''is located in an old communist prison  and is dedicated to all those who were victims of communism, not just in Romania, but in other countries around Europe as well. It’s a moving experience to spend time here and one that is absolutely worthwhile if you’re in Maramures. Give yourself a few hours, take it slow and try to soak it all in.''CHESTNUT FESTIVAL – BAIA MARE''After visiting a couple of more wooden churches and driving the beautiful route from Bistra to Cavnic and then on to Baia Mare, we reached the final stop on this Maramures section of the road trip. Baia Mare is the capital of the region and I’ll be damned, there was a chestnut festival taking place when we arrived!''Right in the main square we found a stage and dozens of stalls and quite a celebratory atmosphere. But I’m not so sure what they were celebrating because it sure wasn’t chestnuts.''There were old-school Romanian singers performing, food vendors selling mici (grilled meat in sausage form made from beef, lamb and pork as well as spices) and chicken and shaorma, local artists offering their goods…there were apples for sale, freshly made jams, homemade wine and other delightful foodstuffs as well.''Chestnuts? Not so much. Despite being billed as the chestnut festival, there were only two chestnut vendors who were both very much overshadowed by the other stalls. But as I mentioned on''my Facebook page''at the time, who needs chestnuts anyway when there is hot wine available?''So, a couple of servings of hot wine, a few hours hanging out at the festival, listening to music and sampling the local products, a superb dinner experience at the''Butoiasu cu Bere''restaurant a few blocks from the main square and a nice, long night-time wander around town – not a bad day at all before it was time to hit the bed for my final night’s sleep in Maramures.''The following morning, after one more quick walk and purchasing a large bag of apples, and with my jolly mood showing no signs of disappearing at all, I bid farewell to this town and turned my attention to the second half of this Romania road trip…''Romaina Road Trip – Part 1 Route''[Bucharest, Focsani, Vatra Moldovitei, Vadu Izei, Sighetu Marmatiei, Baia Mare]''Romania Road Trip – Part 2 Route''[Cluj-Napoca, Turda, Hunedoara, Bulzesti, Sibiu and Transfagarasan]:''Post coming soon!''Now let’s hear it…tell me about your greatest road trip…where did you go, what did it involve?''On a side note, for those who are looking to get into travel blogging, my friends over at''Travel Blog Success''are running a big''Fall Sale''for one more day. You can have access to all of their useful material and know-how for 25% less than the normal price. Just enter discount code''TBS25''and you’re good to go!''Thank you, travel. For it is you who has turned me into a man who is fluent, not in two languages, nor three languages, and not even four languages. Alas, as a result of constantly bouncing around the world, far and wide, for over a decade, I can proudly declare that I am now fully fluent in…''zero languages''. That’s right, I’m not fluent in any language on the planet.''Yes, at one time I was indeed fluent in English, my mother tongue, but as the years passed by and I spent more and more time in lands where English was not the language of choice, my ability to speak it began to diminish.''There have been oh so many forgotten words and forgotten rules, so many stumbles and butchered grammar and an absurd amount of confused, nonsensical dribble to go along with it all. Just the other day I was talking with three Romanian friends about a wedding I had attended and suddenly, I could not think of a word in English. After struggling for a few seconds and thinking to myself, ‘''Oh not again''‘, it was my Romanian friend who chimed in with the word I was looking for – bridesmaid.''“''Yup, that’s it''”, I said with my head hanging low. “''Thanks Alex.''”''Rarely do I forget words such as “voluptuous”, “vociferous” or “insatiable”. It’s always easy words that slip my mind, like “sink”, “kitten” and “lightning”, and that’s extra frightening to me.''Don’t get me wrong though. As a result of my travels, I can now get by quite well in Spanish, I can buy bread in Romanian and I can tell an Indian chai vendor, in Hindi, to prepare my tea without sugar. And I can also tell my Thai taxi driver whether to take a left or a right, I can point out a butterfly in Indonesian, order garlic soup in Czech and tell you I’m going swimming in German.''On one hand, it really is superb. All this traveling has given me a little knowledge of many languages, something that has opened me up to an infinite number of interactions and experiences that perhaps would have never occurred otherwise. Even a little knowledge of a local language can really make a major difference in terms of how rewarding your travels can be.''But on the other hand, knowing a little of a lot of languages has its downsides. All this traveling from place to place hasn’t allowed me to actually become fluent in or to gain a better understanding of any of these languages beyond being able to handle the basics or, in some cases, slightly more than that.''Also, when in non-English speaking countries, I tend to speak to those who know some English in a much simpler form of the English language than I would normally speak (back when I could actually speak English). It’s a form that removes many words and grammatical rules that might confuse a non-native English speaker, or at least that’s the idea.''We go cafe now, yes? Me like. You honey? No, no, you no honey. Need honey spoon put tea.''And for some bizarre reason, much to the amusement of those who have seen this in action, when speaking this simpler English, I tend to talk with a heavy Indian accent. It just comes out that way, go figure.''When I’m back in the US for my visits to family and friends, they too notice that my English skills are failing rapidly. I’ll say “''Thank you much gracias sir''” when the guy working in the store shows me which aisle is home to the face moisturizer, um, I mean toothpaste, I’m looking for. I’ll naturally yell out “''Skal!''” instead of “''Cheers''” when having a beer with friends and I’ll say things such as “''Water more please''” that cause people like my mom to frequently remind me, “''That’s not how we speak English here''.”''I know it isn’t, I really do, but I can’t help it right now. I spoken Travglish – traveler’s English – for so long that I’ve lost my fluency in my own language, which makes me not fluent in any language at all.''That’s probably why it takes me so long to write my posts on this blog too. I go over every draft at least a dozen times, editing all along the way, always finding errors that need to be corrected.''But hey, I’m smiling as I write this of course. Without a doubt I wouldn’t give up my travels at all for the ability to speak a language or two fluently. And over the years, I’ve realized that the number of languages a traveler speaks or how quickly you learn those languages really isn’t important at all. Go learn ten languages in a month if you want. That’s cool. But if you don’t, that’s cool too.''It’s all about effort, about doing your very best to learn what you can to communicate with those around you as much as possible. If it leads to little bits of various languages floating around your head instead of fluency, so be it. Besides, sometimes the''INABILITY''to fully and clearly communicate with someone standing before you leads to the most interesting and memorable travel experiences imaginable, or at least plenty of laughter.''Ciao. Sayonara. Flughafen.''Do you learn languages either while or before you travel? Or do you just pick up little bits of local languages here and there? Any others out there not fluent in any language at all? (I hope so!)''Wouldn’t it be brilliant if there was one definitive, perfect travel guide full of specific instructions that, when followed step-by-step by anyone on the planet, magically guarantees that we will be out there traveling the world long-term in no time at all?''Oh, it would, it really would.''But, the reality is that no matter how much we want such a guide, it simply does not exist.''When we first discover that travel might be significantly more accessible than we once thought, it is natural for us to suddenly crave some set of concrete instructions from others and a pamphlet full of clearly laid-out rules from those who have already achieved such a goal. We want the do’s and the dont’s, we want someone to tell us exactly where to go, exactly what to pack, exactly what to expect, exactly how to earn money and so on. We want to find a holy tablet of travel (the stone or electronic kind) to guide us from our mere desire to experience the world directly to the real thing, actually experiencing it first-hand.''When I decided that I wanted to try and travel for as long as possible, believe me, I wanted a set of rules and instructions too. I wanted someone to tell me, “''Hey Derek, all you need to do is this, this and that and you’ll be able to travel for as long as you want my friend.''”''Oh how much I wanted someone to tell me that! Well, nobody told me that. Nobody gave me any detailed plan to follow, nobody handed me that perfect travel guide and nobody provided me with a manual that guaranteed to lead me to all of my travel dreams.''Interestingly, I was actually floating in the South China Sea when I first started to realize that I might have to figure out my traveling life on my own. You see, the crew of the party boat/snorkeling trip that I had joined in Vietnam that day back in February of 2000 had been serving endless drinks to all of us passengers as we made our way from the pier towards the snorkeling location. After an hour of hanging out with other travelers and throwing back several of these ‘free’ drinks, it was time to snorkel and so I joined everyone else by jumping right into the water, thinking that was a perfectly sound idea. And then, after a couple of minutes of trying to snorkel, I quickly began to drift, farther and farther and farther away from the boat, with my semi-inebriated self unable to find the strength to stop it.''All of a sudden, with the vessel now very far off in the distance, I realized that I was all alone in the water and that none of those other tourists swimming around this sea were going to help me get back. If I wanted to get back, I would have to find the strength from within to do it on my own.''And I did. It was painfully difficult though and I wanted to stop swimming several times and give up as my body strength was nearly depleted. But I wanted to get back to that damn boat so badly that I somehow pushed onward, fighting the current, fighting the rough waters, fighting my exhaustion, until I got there.''Then, sitting by myself on the top deck of that boat for the ride back to the town of Nha Trang, I realized a couple of important lessons…''First, I had to take responsibility for my own actions and I had no choice but to deal with the consequences, especially when I make bad decisions.''Second, while there might be others around me that can help from time to time, when it comes down to it, it’s truly up to me to create the life I want to live. There is no lifeline to hold onto that will tug you straight to where you want to go. You can’t just yell out for help, close your eyes and wake up exactly where you want to be. It takes tremendous effort, fierce dedication and an unwavering focus to reach your destination, but if you want it badly enough, you’ll absolutely find a way to get there on your own.''What I’m trying to say is that I know you’re excited to travel, I know that you’re spending hours online searching for destinations far and wide, trying to figure out where you want to go in this world and how and, well, searching for that magical step-by-step plan to follow, the plan that will make your travel dreams so easy to achieve, in the snap of a finger.''And now you hear that no such plan, no such guide, exists.''However, this should not be viewed as disappointing news, far from it. If you really want travel to play a major role in your life, one day in the future you will indeed be''hiking around the Romanian countryside''or watching the sunset from a Fijian beach or attending a''football match in South Africa''or meeting''new friends in Kyrgyzstan''. You will be somewhere in this world when all of a sudden you will stop what you’re doing and look all around you, amazed at where you are and how you got there. And at that point, you’ll think to yourself, “''I’ll be damned. I made it happen.''”''I’m not saying all of this just for the fun of it. I’m saying all of this because I have continuously met people out there in the world who have achieved their travel goals in incredible ways, people who have had to figure out how to make it happen for themselves, just like all of us, and, who did just that.''Yes, you can make it happen too. I have absolutely no doubt about that. Many experienced travelers are here to assist and to help you move forward as much as we can (that’s the whole reason I’ve created''two travel resources''myself after all) but ultimately, you have to make the real decisions.''Take a deep breath, think about the advice and suggestions that you’ve picked up from others, make sure you fully believe in yourself and then put your left foot forward. That’s how you start creating your own path, the kind of path that you’ll need to create if you want travel to become a reality.''Enjoy the adventure. I know you will.''Have you been hoping to find a perfect, step-by-step guide? Are you ready to make it happen yourself?''Hunched over, with my hands on my knees, I tried to breathe but found it difficult. My head was pounding, I was covered in sweat despite the air-conditioner blasting cold air throughout the room and the dizziness made it difficult for me to even remain standing. I remember mumbling some nonsense. I remember a tear or two or three dropping from my eye and down my cheek. I remember thinking, “''I’m so damn tired''” as I felt worse and worse with every passing second.''It had been my plan for the month of July to take a break from the blog. I had decided to take two weeks off from writing  so that I could rest a little and spend some much needed time away from the laptop. Those two weeks passed and I actually managed to enjoy some rest, but as soon as I was ready to return to blogging, I found myself unable to do so.''As luck would have it, during my two week ‘holiday’, which I took with some friends in Bali, I contracted dengue fever. Yup, dengue fever. And I kid you not when I state that I have never been through anything in my fourteen years of travel that has knocked me down, destroyed me and completely obliterated my sanity, as much as this experience with dengue fever.''For three days straight I had an extremely high, uncontrollable fever, which all led to that very night early last week when I found myself hunched over in my hotel room at 3am, barely able to breath, dizzy and nauseous, feeling as if I wouldn’t even make it to see the morning.''On the fourth day, the fever began to subside, and I forced myself to leave my hotel and visit a hospital. Some blood tests confirmed the dengue and I then experienced a week of on again, off again fevers, a bad lung infection, painful coughing, constant congestion, frequent headaches, body aches and a level of exhaustion that had me in great need of a major rest after less than three hours of being awake.''The range of feelings that I went through during those initial stages of the dengue fever included a strong desire to get rid of the illness as quickly as possible and return to my normal routine all the way to a strong desire to throw my laptop into the ocean and hole up in a small beach bungalow for the rest of my life. I have never felt so up and down, with moods and levels of discomfort changing so rapidly and so often, and I have never spent so much time in bed either.''The fevers are now gone, but there are still occasional headaches and I am absolutely exhausted most of the time. My white blood cell count hasn’t returned to normal yet and I certainly don’t feel even close to being my 100% normal self. Just the amount of effort it took for me to write this post up until this point has led to a guarantee that there will be a long nap in my near future.''The good news is that I can breathe and that I’m no longer awake in the middle of the night, dizzy and feeling hopeless. And if I’m able to complete this post, that will be a good indication that I can slowly – very, very slowly – start returning to my work.''So, my apologies for not being able to write for almost one whole month. It was weird not to, but it just wasn’t possible. I’ve also been quite slow at replying to emails naturally, but I will get to them all in the end, that I promise. For now, I just plan to continue resting and to continue drinking plenty of fluids, scattering some work in between, and making sure that I rid myself completely of this dengue fever sooner rather than later.''With that, I shall now leave you so that I can go and take my nap. Before I do though, I do want to sincerely thank you all for sticking around even though I haven’t been able to write. It certainly does mean a great deal to me, assuming that there are some of you who have stuck around!''Hope you’ve had a more positive July than me so far and for those of you who are out there traveling, I definitely wish you dengue-free adventures ahead…''If you wish to share any of your own tales of being sick on the road, please feel free to do so below!''While walking around New York City yesterday, I stopped for a break in Washington Square Park and tried to figure out where I should eat lunch. I had no idea what I wanted to eat or where I wanted to go and so I just sat down on a bench right near a talented street performer who was playing his guitar.''And with this pleasant music in the background, I then pulled out my phone and opened''Trover''.''Trover''is a travel app, and a website, that has quickly become my new travel companion, which I admit is weird since I normally travel alone.''Make New Discoveries Everywhere You Go''When I open the app on my phone, it automatically detects my location and immediately displays a long list of ‘discoveries’ for me to see. These discoveries have been uploaded, as photos, by other travelers who want to share great locations of all kinds that they’ve come across during their own adventures. And these discoveries are arranged in order of proximity to wherever I happen to be at any given moment.''So there I was in Washington Square Park looking at this long list of interesting monuments, art exhibitions, cool streets to wander down, shops, neighborhoods, buildings, and of course, restaurants, cafes, food stalls and more, right near by, that others have shared on the app exactly for travelers like us to discover.''Being hungry, I then chose to click on the “Food” category so that all I would see were nearby discoveries of restaurants and other eateries. And that was all it took.''Upon noticing a ‘discovery’ that was a ramen shop, which a Trover user had uploaded and labeled as “''Authentic, delicious ramen. Small, unpretentious shop in the Village.''”, complete with a photo of a tempting bowl of soup, I was on my way.''Soon enough, I was slurping up that very same soup and enjoying quite a spectacularly tasty ramen lunch at a great little restaurant that I otherwise would never have known about. And that’s very cool to me.''Not only that, but after my lunch I went to see a beautiful room of the New York Public Library near Bryant Park as well as Belvedere Castle in Central Park, two discoveries that I also found on Trover. And I’ll be using the app to find a place for my friend and I to eat in Brooklyn tonight and I’ll use it during my final day of wandering around NYC tomorrow.''I’ll also most definitely be using the app over the next couple of weeks while I’m in Southeast Asia. (See below for how I’ve already started planning my Southeast Asia trip with Trover.)''Trover Doesn’t Waste Your Time''I don’t use many travel apps, very few in fact, usually because they are not too user-friendly or they don’t provide me with much real benefit. If I’m going to use a travel app, I want it to be something that I can open up on my phone and instantly benefit from so that I can put that phone back in my pocket and focus on the destination itself. And that’s what you get with Trover…it’s like an instant travel enhancer that doesn’t require much effort or waste any of your time.''Share Your Own Discoveries''Of course, as you travel around, you just might want to share some of your own discoveries so that others can find them too. I’d absolutely love to know about your favorite places that you’ve come across throughout your own travels, especially those places that are not written about in regular guidebooks or that don’t generally receive much attention. And as you might have guessed, it’s quite easy to share your discoveries on Trover.''– Take a photo with your''iPhone''or''Android''through the Trover app''– The photo will automatically be geo-tagged and its location will show up on a map''– Add a short blurb about your discovery (such as a useful tip or link to more information)''That’s it, you’re done!''You can also add photos at any time through the website which is ideal. I’ve been uploading some of my own favorite locations from my earlier travels…if you’re interested you can check them out over at''my Trover profile''page.''Southeast Asia, I’m On My Way!''I mentioned above that I’ve also been using Trover to plan my upcoming trip to Southeast Asia and the way I’m doing that is by creating what is called a ‘List’. Lists allow me to take the most appealing discoveries I find from a certain destination and organize them in one place. It’s basically a way for me to create my own personal guide.''For example, I created a “''Southeast Asia, I’m On My Way!''” list. I then jumped on the Trover website and started typing in the countries I plan to visit on my trip, such as Thailand, Indonesia and Singapore. Every time I searched for a new destination, a long list of discoveries appeared for me to look at and whenever I found a discovery that caught my attention and that I would love to experience myself, I just clicked one button and added it to my list. This way, once I’m on the ground in Asia, I can just open the app and actually start visiting the discoveries I’ve collected. Not bad at all.''And if you want some extra travel inspiration and perhaps some ideas for your future travels, you can follow other people’s lists as well so that you’ll see every new discovery that they add to their collection. Here’s two of my favorite lists and I challenge you to check them out and not find yourself fully inspired!''“''Oh, The Places You’ll Go''“''“''Favorite Places On Earth''“''So that’s my new travel companion,''Trover''. It’s simple and useful and that’s exactly how I like a travel app to be.''To try it all out for yourself, just''sign up at Trover.com''and download the free app on either your''iPhone''or''Android''. I’m definitely curious to see what you think so please let us know how it goes!''What do you think? Have you heard of Trover? Are you ready to try it out?''This post was written in partnership with Trover after trying out the app and finding it truly useful and worth spreading the word about. Of course, my opinions and thoughts above are, as always, 100% my own.''The day I started enjoying my travels the most was the day I stopped worrying about my hair. You see, an old girlfriend of mine used to tell me that I was much worse than her mother and grandmother combined, referring to the amount of time it would take me to get ready every time I was about to go outside. I could shower quickly and I could throw my clothes on in a flash, but for some reason, I would always get stuck in front of the mirror, carefully manipulating every single curl on my head, making sure each of those curls was in its proper place before I would dare head out into the public world.''Ridiculous, I know. Of course, I didn’t know that at the time, or maybe I did, but I still couldn’t help myself.''The bottom line is that I truly believed that people cared, that people would stare, that people would judge, that they would point and laugh at me if one of my curls was sticking out in an imperfect position. And that led to even more problems as I would walk around wondering if I was going to trip on a rock or if I had some schmutz on my face or if I would say something so dumb that everyone within a 1 km radius would laugh uncontrollably at my stupidity.''To say I was self-conscious is an understatement. I remember my brain spending much more time wondering what everyone around me was thinking when they walked past me than focusing on what I was experiencing during my travels. I knew what was happening but, again, I couldn’t change.''Breaking News – Nobody Cares!''Shocking, I know, but it actually turns out that nobody gives a damn. Nobody cares what I look like, nobody is paying me any attention, nobody is pointing or staring or laughing, and if they are pointing or staring or laughing, who cares? I probably do have some shaving cream or pancake batter (I love my pancakes!) on my face on occasion and I most certainly walk into walls from time to time as well. But hey, everyone has stuff on their face at some point, everyone trips in the middle of the street, everyone gets lost and does something silly, everyone has those moments that provide others with an opportunity to point and stare.''And if you’re afraid to have all of that happen to you, which is, basically, to be human, it’s going to be very difficult to travel among all of those strangers out there, navigating places you are not familiar with, putting yourself in so many situations where you might feel as if you will do something wrong or look absurd.''On the other hand, if you can shrug it all off and realize that what others think about you really isn’t important and that, in the end, nobody is even observing you as much as you might think (apart from that''one guy I came across in Beirut''), suddenly you’ll be able to enjoy your travels on a level that you simply can’t imagine otherwise.''What If There’s No Mirror?''I remember the day clearly. I was in Chiang Mai, Thailand and I had just checked into my budget guesthouse room after an overnight bus ride. Before long I had taken a shower and put on some clean clothes and because I was hungry, I wanted to go out and get some food at the local food market. Before I could go outside though, I naturally needed to spend some time in front of the mirror.''But wait, where was the mirror? There was no mirror in the bathroom, no mirror on the back of the room door or on the wall or in the closet. No mirror anywhere at all.''And just like that, due to something so simple as a lack of a mirror, my life changed. For some reason, on this very day, without any way to check on the status of all the curls on my head, no way to make sure that my face was free of schmutz, I just shrugged my shoulders and said, “''Screw it, I’m going out anyway''”.''Will you believe it when I tell you that nothing terrible happened that day? Nobody came up to me and said, “''Your hair is a mess, you look ridiculous, how could you possibly walk around in public looking like that?''” Nobody even noticed me or seemed to pay attention to me for more than half a second and even then, only when we practically bumped into each other in the crowded streets.''After walking for about thirty minutes, I eventually sat down at a food stall and ordered some khao pad sai kai jaew, fried rice with a fried egg on top. And soon enough, as I ate that meal, I felt the sensation of having been liberated.''I just didn’t care what I looked like. I didn’t care what others thought of me. I no longer cared if people did stare and laugh or if I did make silly mistakes and look foolish. That nagging feeling that I was constantly under inspection from all those I encountered was gone and I felt superb. My confidence grew immediately, and I found myself interacting with more people, observing so much more around me and just feeling so much better overall, yes, starting that very day.''It hasn’t let up since.''Do I still stop in front of the mirror every now and then? I most certainly do. There are a few curls that can be so unruly that I just like to pop them back into place on occasion but that’s about it. I’m ready to venture outside no matter what, excited to see where my travels will take me, excited that my ex-girlfriend’s mother and grandmother are back on top of the list, taking far longer than I to get their hair ready before heading out the door.''Actually, I can only assume that last statement to be true. Maybe they’ve changed as well. I haven’t talked to that girlfriend in years.''Do you worry what others think about you or become self-conscious when you travel around? If you haven’t started traveling yet, do you think this would be a concern?''About 8 months ago, a friend and I had an idea for a new website. We worked hard on the project for a couple of months, we experimented, we tested and then, one day while in a cafe in Istanbul, we made the decision to trash the idea altogether.''However, the reason we trashed the idea is that, during the course of our discussion that day, we came up with what we believed to be an even better, more useful project. The goal remained the same –''to help all kinds of people receive reliable travel advice directly from experienced travelers''. It was just the platform and the method that changed.''Well, we got back to work, brainstorming, experimenting and testing once again, spending long hours for months on end figuring out every detail and turning our ideas into reality. And suddenly, just last week, my friend and I realized that our new project –''PLANSIFY''– was actually ready to be launched, in its beta form.''So, what’s this project all about exactly?''PLANSIFY – Reliable Travel Advice''Purpose:''To connect anyone who needs travel advice with experienced travelers who can provide the most reliable and direct advice possible. And the idea is to make it all happen through an easy-to-use, affordable platform.''How it Works:''If you have a travel-related question, or questions, you can search our database of Travel Advisors in order to find an experienced traveler to help you out. Using the search tool, you can sort through our database by country, region and/or certain travel-related keywords such as long-term travel, adventure, work and travel, volunteering, couples travel, expat life, language learning and many more so that you see only the Travel Advisors who are experts in exactly what you want to know about. Simply read each Travel Advisor’s profile and then choose the Travel Advisor you wish to contact.''Every Travel Advisor sets their own rates for either a Skype call (up to 1 hour) or to answer up to 3 questions through our user-friendly online form. It takes just a minute or two to either send off your questions or schedule that call. And just like that, you’re on your way to receiving direct, personal and expert travel assistance!''For more information on how''Plansify''works, you can check out our''How it Works''&''Help FAQ''pages.''Who Can Benefit From Plansify?''Well, anyone with any kind of travel question and anyone who has the travel knowledge to become a travel advisor!''Travelers:''If you’re thinking about traveling and you need some answers or you simply have a few questions about anything at all related to travel, this site will ensure you find the right people who can help you out. Who better to answer your questions than those who have already experienced exactly what you want to experience yourself?''You’ll find our current list of available Travel Advisors here:''Travel Advisors''Advisors:''Anyone can be a Travel Advisor as well, as long as you have some extensive knowledge about a particular country, region and/or aspect of travel. You don’t need a blog or any social media presence to be an Advisor. You just need that knowledge and a willingness to help others achieve their own travel goals.''You can check out the advisor sign up page here:''Sign-Up''Try It Out!''Okay, here’s the part where I invite you to check out the site and give it a try. Of course, I only encourage you to check it out if you think that Plansify might be something useful for you or anyone you may know.''Keep in mind that''Plansify is still in its beta form'', meaning that it has yet to be tested with the general public and is therefore still a bit unpolished. With your feedback, which we hope you’ll provide, we can continue improving the project in order to turn''Plansify''into one of the most trusted, useful travel tools on the internet!''And if you do find the concept to be useful,''we would be most appreciative and honored if you would help spread the word to your own audience'', to your family and friends, those you work with, strangers in the street, your neighbors and the people in the car next to you at the red light. We are always looking for more''Travel Advisors''to sign up as well as more''Travelers''who need their questions answered!''There you go. That’s''Plansify''.''Thank you so much for reading and again, all feedback is welcome 🙂''Earl''About a year and a half ago, I was sitting at an outdoor table in front of a tiny food stall in the small town of''Izamal, Mexico''. There was a large group of us and we had all ordered some lunch. After fifteen minutes of waiting, the woman working at the food stall began brining out our food, one plate at a time. The only thing is that what she was bringing us, wasn’t exactly what we had ordered.''And before we knew it, our table was full of more chicken salbutes than we could have possibly wanted to eat, yet there wasn’t a taco or panucho or beef salbute in sight, all of which had been asked for. Some drinks were missing and some drinks were incorrect as well.''Of course, as this was all playing out, it was only natural that there started to be some grumbling as we wondered how this woman had managed to screw up our simple order so much. There was even some talk that maybe she had brought out extra food just to try and get more money from us and the conversation then turned to cheating and ripping foreigners off and how we needed to be careful. The mood around the table had clearly shifted, from happy and jovial to a bit annoyed and upset.''But, why?''After we finished eating whatever was brought to us, all of which was quite tasty I might add, I went over to the counter and paid the bill. Looking at the piece of paper where she had written our order, I noticed that she had brought us exactly what she had written on that paper. Was it what we had actually ordered? I don’t think so. But given our lack of Spanish fluency and the fact that Spanish was this woman’s second language (''Mayan''was her first), she did the best she could to decipher what we had said.''Also, in this tiny town of Izamal, large groups is not a common sight at a local food stall, not to mention a group consisting of several foreigners who, once again, for the most part, speak no Spanish and if they do, speak a hacked up version of it. Second, in Mexico, it’s not common to ask a ton of questions when ordering food. You just read the menu, choose something and that’s about it. For many of us, we are used to customizing our orders back home, asking for clarification, asking for more specific descriptions of each dish and so forth, so I can only imagine the confusion we caused by bombarding this woman with our questions, again, in our hacked up Spanish which wasn’t even her first language!''If you look at the situation this way, from an entirely different perspective, you can understand how we might have overwhelmed this food stall in this tiny, laid-back town where life is quite basic and moves at an extremely slow pace.''So, why did we immediately start thinking that we were being cheated and ripped off? Why were we getting upset that our order was not 100% correct?''The thing is that we tend to interpret everything we do/see/experience based on our specific knowledge of how we think the world works, or how it has worked for us throughout our lives. And this knowledge comes from our education, culture, upbringing, social circles and other experiences that we go through. It is not easy for us to first recognize, and then accept, that every situation has an endless number of perspectives depending on the people involved. Everyone brings their own background and culture to the table, something that makes it nearly impossible for two people to interpret the exact same situation in the exact same way.''With the example above at the food stall in Izamal, we wondered why our order was incorrect, something that seems like a perfectly normal reaction in our culture. But as for the woman running the food stall, she tried her very best to do something that she almost never has to do – cater to a large group of foreigners who are asking lots of questions, making adjustments to their orders, speaking terrible Spanish and probably confusing her beyond belief! She didn’t ‘screw up’ our order on purpose. She wasn’t after our money and didn’t try to cheat us at all.''In fact, she always had a smile on her face as she ran around trying to provide good food and good service to us random visitors to her home town. Suddenly the extra salbutes and the lack of tacos and the absence of the agua de tamarindo on the table doesn’t really matter. Whatever this sweet woman brought would be fine with me and I truly appreciated the effort she put into serving us!''Avoiding Unnecessary Negativity''When we travel, we are going to face endless situations, where we interpret things one way and we then react accordingly. And sometimes, this is going to''lead us to anger'', frustration and a strong feeling of annoyance based on how we think things should work. But if we can somehow force ourselves to take a moment before we react, before we reach a conclusion as to why something has happened, why someone has behaved a certain way, why we are in the situation we are in, and remind ourselves that every situation can be viewed from many different perspectives, we might be able to avoid unnecessary reactions that could impact our travels negatively.''When something happens and you start to get upset or annoyed, look around you. Look at everyone involved and try to think of the reasons they might have for their actions. Think of their culture, their background and influences, their possible life experiences and what may or may not be normal for that person. And remember that we are only seeing the world through our own experiences and that our world view is not the same world view as everyone we come across.''I try to remind myself of this constantly.''And this is how I’ve avoided what I believe to be unnecessary negativity for a long time now. Rarely do I get upset or annoyed or frustrated these days.''Those Rude Locals!''If you’re walking around Bishkek,''Kyrgyzstan''and you get lost, and you walk up to a random taxi driver, asking for directions in English and a few mispronounced Russian words, don’t get upset if you are met with a serious look and a raised hand from the man in the driver seat, as if he was brushing you away. There is a good chance that this man was just shy and not at all used to interacting with foreigners, and he didn’t understand your attempt at Russian, and he didn’t speak a word of English, and maybe that raised hand gesture was his way of saying “''I’m sorry, but I just don’t know how to help you''”.''It’s the very same situation but, as I’ve pointed out above, it’s a completely different perspective. And while we’ll always tend to believe that our way of interpreting the world is right, believe me when I say that it’s worth the effort to push through that stubbornness and accept the fact that others may see the world and every single experience differently than we do.''What a shame it would be to walk around Bishkek all day unable to enjoy the city because you are annoyed that the Kyrgyz people are unfriendly and not very welcoming based on one misinterpreted interaction!''It happens more often than you may think. Every day we react to hundreds of different experiences, ranging from tiny to major, yet we seldom take into account anyone’s perspective on those situations except for our own. It’s unavoidable to an extent, but we can try to remember, as often as possible, that there is no absolute perspective for any situation we face.''Taking this approach quickly leads to a realization that getting upset or annoyed isn’t really something that makes sense most of the time. It’s usually just a waste of energy that can drain all involved of any happiness they might have been experiencing at the time. And besides, with less anger and frustration in our lives, especially the unnecessary kind, comes a calmer, healthier lifestyle, something that will ensure we enjoy an infinitely more rewarding set of travel adventures as well!''Are you able to view situations from different perspectives and avoid getting upset? Or do you find it challenging to do so? Any other thoughts?''Wait. Is this really possible?''No. Well, yes. Well, maybe.''If you look at travel as most of us do, an activity that involves the standard transportation, accommodation, sampling of the local cuisine and visiting sights and attractions, then it’ll be somewhat of a challenge to even imagine how your daily spending budget could be as low as $1.94 per day.''However, if you’re able to approach travel from an entirely different perspective, you may suddenly find it difficult to understand how you could possibly spend MORE than $1.94 per day during your adventure.''As for me, I have months where I spend well over $1000 USD and I have months where I spend well under that amount. While I don’t maintain a strict travel budget and I don’t watch every dollar I spend, I would estimate that during some months, I may only spend $300 USD or so.''How is this possible? How can I spend so little while paying for accommodation, food, activities and more?''I can’t.''The months where I spend so little are months where I’m not paying for a room or activities or transportation. They are months when I have managed to eliminate some of those expenses.''Again, how is this possible?''Here’s a few ways:''Make New Friends''Some people think that staying with friends while you travel the world, or staying with friends of friends or friends of friends of friends, is cheating and that it’s not honest to say that traveling can be so inexpensive if I stay with friends for free, some of the time. My response to that is that there is nothing stopping anyone from making friends all over the world. Get online, join forums, go on''couchsurfing.org''and communicate with locals, find blogs in the countries you are about to visit and email the writers. Connect with people, start building bonds and before you know it, you’ll have friends all over the world before you ever start traveling. You could also ask your current friends if they have any contacts in any of the countries you will visit, even the most distant of contacts, as that tiny little connection can lead to great benefits.''Of course, don’t interpret this the wrong way. I’m not saying that you should make friends all over the world so that you can crash on their couch and not have to pay for accommodation. Make friends in order to connect with new people. Make friends in order to learn from their way of life. Make friends so that you can dive a little deeper into the destination.''And then, yes, you may also benefit from being able to stay at your friends’ places while traveling, of course with the understanding that they can crash with you as well when they happen to end up in a place you’re living or hanging out at for a while.''Do What You Love''The other day I heard about an Argentinian couple currently staying in Mexico that has been traveling the world for one and half years, drastically reducing their expenses by offering to paint the interiors of hostels, cafes, restaurants, etc, in exchange for a place to stay or meals. They love painting and so this kind of exchange works out quite well for them, saving them a great deal of money each month in the process.''Can you cook? Maybe you are staying at a hostel, so why not organize a group dinner where everyone contributes some money, you buy the ingredients and cook a great meal. You eliminate your food costs by being the chef and everyone gains from the experience.''Can you teach yoga or dance? Can you teach web design or an instrument? Offer classes for a few bucks so that you earn back your accommodation expenses. Teach a hostel owner how to improve his or her website in exchange for a place to stay. Offer what you can, offer what you love, offer anything at all and create a mutually beneficial situation.''Carry a Tent & Stick Out Your Thumb''Camp and hitchhike. Sleep in hammocks in the backyard of hostels or on the rooftop for less money than a dorm bed. Try to catch a ride with a passerby instead of using the bus or train. Sleep on the beach for a night or two each week. Find the most local transportation possible instead of the nicer, more direct, and more expensive, option. Hard core travelers can really cut down on expenses and I’ve met many people over the years who do just that. And they certainly have no shortage of interesting stories to share as a result of their ultra-budget style of travel! It’s not for everyone of course, but for those who truly want to experience the world on a tight budget, it’s another option to consider.''Research & Ask Around''There are promotions, deals, coupons and discounts everywhere. You just need to find them. During South Korea’s “Visit Korea Year” campaign in 2012, many of the country’s sights and transportation options were offered at heavy discounts for foreign tourists. In Playa del Carmen, Mexico, simply stating that you are a local (as in living there instead of just visiting for a few days), will get you discounts on meals at restaurants, at car rental agencies, on entrance fees and more. If you take the airport shuttle bus from Cancun, you’ll find a coupon on the bottom of your ticket for 14 pesos off your next airport shuttle ride. And while 14 pesos ($1.16 USD) might not seem like too much, that will get you a huge, tasty taco at Playa del Carmen’s most famous taco stand.''Many businesses offer discounts if you like their Facebook page or interact with them in other ways on social media and there are always 2×1 specials, or something similar, to be found on meals, activities, drinks and plenty more, all over the world. It’s all about being aware, not being afraid to ask for a discount everywhere you go and talking to both locals and other foreigners to see what kind of ways they might have found to save some money in a particular destination.''Like anything, this all takes some effort and it’s not for everyone as we’re not all comfortable with the same things. That’s why the purpose of this post is just to, once again, show that you can travel the world for much less money than you might imagine if you simply change the way you approach your trip.''You really could spend one month in the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico, for example, visiting destinations such as Playa del Carmen, Tulum, Valladolid, Merida and''Izamal'', for around $250 USD, or $8.33 per day. This would involve hitchhiking around, using Couchsurfing for accommodation and eating at local food stalls. Yes, you also have to pay for your flight to/from Mexico (which can be as low as $250 USD from certain cities in the USA), but if you stayed for two months, including that flight, you could still manage to spend a mere $750 USD in total, or $375 per month. Not bad for two months of exploring a foreign country.''Again, that may sound extreme to many of us and you probably won’t go and incorporate every money-saving tip that you hear about on your next trip and you probably won’t travel for $1.94 per day either. But you can take the ideas that suit you, the ideas you are comfortable with, and create your own travel style that allows you to save as much money as you possibly can.''And when it comes to travel, any amount you do save can make a major difference.''Also, before I end, I will state that, yes, $1.94 USD per day is an exaggeration. I’m sure it’s possible somehow and I’m sure there are people traveling for that amount or even less, but for the majority, that’s definitely on the extreme low side, a level that won’t be possible to achieve.''So take some time to create your own budget and to determine how much you can spend each month while wandering the world. Then, examine each individual potential expense and try to figure out how you can reduce or even eliminate it, knowing full well that, when it comes to travel, there are always ways out there to save some money.''Do you have any other simple tips to share that can help us save money while traveling? If you’re planning a trip, any questions on how to lower your expenses?''Here I am, back in Mexico, having decided to visit Playa del Carmen again, a town I’ve been to many times before. And I’m thoroughly enjoying my stay right now, even more than previous visits. Now one might think this would be the result of spending time at all of my favorite places in town, eating at my favorite eateries, hanging out on my favorite stretch of white sand beach, going for a swim each evening at the very same spot I used to go for a sunset swim and taking day trips to the very same locations I’ve been to, and loved, before.''But actually, the reason why this current stay in Playa del Carmen is going so well is because I haven’t done much of the above at all.''Returning to a destination that you have visited previously and absolutely connected with can be a bit, well, interesting. There are expectations galore when you do this as you automatically assume that you are going to have the same rewarding experiences you once had, simply by showing up and repeating everything you did during that original visit. Unfortunately, it often doesn’t work that way because it’s almost impossible to repeat those ideal experiences and those ideal interactions that had made a particular destination so special in the first place.''When you revisit a destination and you sit down at your favorite restaurant or you go for a beer at your favorite beach hangout or you walk through that friendly neighborhood you used to wander around so often, it just doesn’t feel the same. You’ve changed, the circumstances of your visit have changed, the destination has probably changed a little as well. And all of those factors – the people you hung out with, the goals you had at that point in life, the activities that excited you, perhaps even the weather – might no longer be the same.''Sounds a bit gloomy, I know. But alas, that’s not the point of this post!''The point is that the above does not mean that you should never return to those ‘favorite’ destinations of yours, those destinations that you visited once and can’t wait to visit again. In fact, if you’re drawn to a particular place, there’s no reason at all why you shouldn’t go back for a second or third or fourth visit if that’s what you feel like doing. As I like to state often, there’s no right way to travel. Whatever suits you the best and wherever you decide to go, regardless of what kind of adventure you are seeking or whether or not you’ve been to that destination before, is your own right way of traveling.''Back to Playa del Carmen.''Yes, I’ve eaten at''Dona Mary’s local tostada cafe''on Avenida 30, my absolute favorite eatery here, and I’ve already gone to the same nearby street stall for some agua de guanabana, which I used to do almost every day when I lived here, and I’d be lying if I said I didn’t hang out at my favorite cafe in the center of town or swim at my favorite part of the beach, just as I did before. But what I’ve realized this time around is, in between those meals and those hang out sessions and those swims, I’ve ventured off into new neighborhoods, eaten at new eateries, explored new stretches of beach and searched for completely new experiences.''When I came to Mexico to visit Playa del Carmen''last year'', I wrote a post about how different it felt and how I didn’t exactly connect with the town as much as I had on previous trips. But now, I’ve learned some things since then (travel is about constant learning after all!) and I’ve realized that I was going about it all in the wrong way. Last year, I thought I could just repeat everything I did when I used to live here and I would have an absolutely perfect stay as a result. However, on this visit, I realized that I need to take the foundation of why I used to love this town – the overall atmosphere and the people – and experience it all in different ways.''That’s why I’m seeking out unfamiliar places to eat, unfamiliar places to hang out, unfamiliar groups of people to meet, unfamiliar neighborhoods to wander around, unfamiliar, well, everything. And the result is an experience that far exceeds what I could have ever imagined, in the most positive of ways, giving me not only a fresh look at Playa del Carmen but a set of fresh rewards that will enhance my life from this point forward.''You know, the more I think about it, the more this could apply to visiting a country for the first time as well. It’s quite difficult, after doing research online before we leave for a particular trip, to land in a country without having formulated some idea of what we think we should expect. And if we stick to that list we make about what we want to see and where we want to go, those real experiences will have to match up with our real, and often quite high, expectations. And if they don’t match, if those expectations prove to be grander and more rewarding than the real thing, it’s easy to be a bit disappointed with our travels and in turn, gain less from our adventures than we could have gained.''Should you skip the Eiffel Tower in Paris or Angkor Wat in Cambodia as a result? Of course not. Do what you want, go where you want to go, check off the items on your list. But the idea is to make sure that you go beyond that as well. Try to seek out experiences that you never thought of having, try to find towns or neighborhoods that you never came across in your pre-trip research, try to find restaurants that are recommended to you by locals, not only those that you heard about online or in guidebooks, and try to spend some of your time doing activities that you never even knew existed wherever you happen to be visiting.''These are the ways to enhance every day of your travels and to ensure that your trip is filled with so many new and memorable experiences that, regardless of what your expectations were at the start, your trip turns out to be far better than you ever thought possible.''From Playa del Carmen, Mexico, a town that I’ve visited many times before, yet which I almost seem to be experiencing for the first time right now – something I’m extremely happy about – I wish you safe and exciting journeys ahead!''How do you feel about re-visiting certain destinations? Do you ever run into an issue where your real experiences don’t match your expectations? If you haven’t traveled yet, are you creating expectations for your upcoming travels?''Welcome to the second episode of''Wandering Earl: Live From Here'', my new video series. Here’s a little background for this next episode…''Two weeks ago, I was in the town of Jalal-abad, Kyrgyzstan when I learned about an old Soviet spa/sanatorium located on top of a nearby hill. With not much else to do, I decided to jump into a taxi and head over there, completely unaware at the time that the next few hours of my life would prove to be some of the most memorable of my entire 14 years of travel.''When I entered the first building I came across, I simply asked the woman at the reception desk, ‘''Is this the spa?''’. She smiled and picked up the phone, calling over the only English-speaking staff member on the premises.''Before I knew it, Elgar arrived and he absolutely could not believe that a random foreigner had shown up at this spa. He was smiling and laughing and so eager to show me around, which he, along with his equally surprised assistant, did, pointing out, in very limited English, everything that the spa offered.''(The photo above is of me, Elgar and his assistant.)''And when I asked if I could book a mud treatment, he truly lit up and the fun really began. Suddenly, I was being taken care of by a team of excited, beaming, amazingly friendly spa attendants who showed me into a room and began preparing my treatment. Then, there I was, lying naked on a table, covered in mud, being wrapped in blankets, and loving every minute of it.''It was quite a day. And once it was all over, after having spent almost three hours at the spa, I went to pay my bill. But Elgar simply looked at me with another huge smile on his face and said, “''No money. This is a present for you.''”''I was blown away. I felt refreshed and rejuvenated, not only from the mud and the minerals but also from being fortunate enough to have met such beautifully kind people. As a result, I will never forget that day, or the people I met, at this old Soviet spa in Jalal-abad, Kyrgyzstan.''Now I bring to you this second episode of my video series, an episode that takes place not just at that very spa, but during the middle of my mud treatment!''(If you’re reading this post via email, just''click here to view the video''on my blog.)''Have you ever had a day that involved a completely unexpected activity/experience that ended up being a highlight of your travels and/or life in general?''Really, it’s no big deal. Even if travel is the only thing you can think about, the only goal that you truly want to achieve in life, if you don’t travel, if you don’t actually succeed, again, it’s no big deal. The truth is, some will travel, and some won’t. Life gets in the way for many and despite a strong desire to hit the road and venture off to those dreamed-about lands, it sometimes just doesn’t happen.''I am often asked what is the single greatest lesson I have learned from my travels and I always give the same answer: “''The overwhelming majority of people on this planet are good people who just want to live a simple, happy life without enemies, without hatred, without war, with enough money to provide for their loved ones and to spend time with their friends, regardless of where in the world they live, what religion they practice, how much money they have or anything else.''”''However, despite the fact that I am always so quick to choose that lesson as the most important, there is also another lesson I’ve learned that definitely comes in a close second place. And the lesson is this: “''It doesn’t matter what you do in life. If you have the right attitude, you can find the fulfillment and happiness you desire, we all desire, in almost anything''.''”''And yes, this is true even if travel is your major goal and for one reason or another, it doesn’t happen. I really do believe that it’s all about our''attitude''.''It’s all about our attitude towards the experiences we do have and the people we do meet and the places we do end up. It’s all about our attitude when we wake up in the morning and before we go to sleep, while we eat, hang out with friends, walk down the street and go to the market.''We can all inject positivity into our lives, no matter what we are doing. Perhaps some meditation or exercise or reading or going to a nearby town every few days to try and discover new things. We can find activities that make us happy. We can find people that make us happy to be around as well. In fact, this can happen quite easily these days with websites that facilitate''meet-ups''all over the world based on every interest imaginable. The right people, the right activities, the right experiences are right there in front of us at all times, no matter where we may be or what we may be doing, and with the proper attitude, we can take advantage of them all.''I sometimes wonder what would happen if I just stopped traveling right now, moved to a random town and changed my life completely to that of a more normal routine. At first, that thought gives me a feeling of unease, of dread perhaps, that I would be unhappily plodding my way through such an existence. But the more time passes, and the more I dwell on this idea and endless others, I realize that this wouldn’t be the case at all.''My travels have taught me to face the world with a positive attitude, not only the world in general, but every single minute, every single interaction, possibility, experience and moment. They don’t all turn out positively in the end of course, but by facing the world with a positive attitude, I feel that I can not only handle whatever comes my way, but I can squeeze enough joy and happiness out of each day, and in turn, out of any kind of lifestyle, to make sure that my life is something I love living.''To break it down even further, I’ve also realized that I can’t say such things as, “''it doesn’t matter where I travel at all because I can always find experiences and people in every corner of the world that can turn any destination into a rewarding one''” and not apply that very same theory to every other potential lifestyle. If that’s how I feel about travel, then that’s how I should feel about living in one place, having a set routine and basically, living a lifestyle that does not include much, or any, travel at all.''It’s the positive attitude, not the destinations themselves, that leads to memorable, positive travel experiences. Therefore, it must follow that it’s the positive attitude, not the lifestyle, that leads to a memorable, positive life.''Try it out. Walk down the street with a smile, saying hello to strangers. Go to work ready to turn any mundane task into a challenge, ready to work efficiently so that you have free time to spend on activities you enjoy more. Expect to learn each day and the chances are high that you will. Expect to laugh, to be inspired and to feel alive, and laugh, be inspired and feel alive you shall.''The point is, if you expect to have a brilliant day no matter what you do or where you are, you’ll quickly understand how powerful that expectation can be. And this holds true even if you haven’t been able to achieve your goal of travel, or any other goal you’ve set for yourself, quite yet.''Are you able to approach life with a positive attitude each day? Do you find any benefit from it? Or is it difficult to do if you are not achieving your true goals?''You know what happens. You’re wandering around some region of the world, happily backpacking along, visiting endless destinations, meeting endless people, enjoying endless activities.''And then one day, in the midst of all your adventures, you suddenly wake up in a new land. You vaguely remember getting on a bus or a plane but the details are a little fuzzy, perhaps due to the exhaustion of traveling around nonstop for a while. You sort of recall checking into a hostel or guesthouse the night before but you’re completely unsure of what city it was located in or with what currency you paid for your room. You hear different languages outside but you’re not familiar with any of them. You really have no idea where you are.''Unsure if this is a dream or not, you stand up, put on some clothes and walk outside, determined to figure out where on this planet you have landed.''I know. I’ve been there too. Travel can get confusing at times.''And in case this does happen to you at some point, you might want to browse through the following checklist so that you’ll at least know if this unfamiliar country where you suddenly found yourself happens to be a small, mountainous Central Asian nation.''Are You Traveling In Kyrgyzstan?''This is exactly how you can tell…''Once you walk outside, what language do you hear? Perhaps some Russian, maybe some Turkish-sounding words? What do you see? A mix of ethnicities everywhere you look?''Are people playing ping-pong all over the place? Seriously, are there ping-pong tables set up in parks and on sidewalks, with people playing all the time, morning, afternoon and evening?''Speaking of sidewalks, are there punching machines set up every now and then where you can pay a small amount of money to see how hard you can punch the machine?''Are you smiling all the time in amazement that the entire country seems to be filled with such genuinely warm and friendly people?''And are an incredible number of people eating ice cream while walking down the street, regardless of the time of day?''Are you quickly learning Russian and how to read Cyrillic simply because you have no other choice?''Do you run into the exact same foreigner a dozen times while you wander the streets as you realize that there just aren’t too many foreigners here at all?''Are people living in yurts over in the mountains and valleys? Is there an odd three-level yurt/museum in the center of town for you to visit?''When you take a short rest on a park bench, do university students approach you all the time, asking ever so politely if they can sit next to you and practice their English for a few minutes?''Do some of them invite you to their home for a meal and to meet their family? Do some offer to help you find whatever you may need to find in town and to actually walk you there?''As you continue, does it seem that there are far more females out and about than males? But are the men wearing what appears to be some kind of traditional, and quite tall, felt hats?''Are hundreds of over-crowded mashrutkas (mini-buses) plowing through the streets every which way, bringing people wherever they may need to go?''Do you come across sprawling outdoor markets selling all kinds of goods, markets in which you can get lost for hours while having a great time browsing what’s on offer and communicating with the vendors?''Does it seem that there are more restaurants than people?''And once lunch time arrives, does any of the following occur:''the waitress brings the menu and then immediately waits at your table ready to take your order despite the fact that you are sweating profusely as you attempt to pronounce each Cyrillic letter like a 2-year old in order to form words that you probably won’t understand anyway but that you hope will give you some kind of clue as to what dish is being described?''you ask for vegetarian food and you receive a blank stare, followed by a most absolute “Nyet!”?''you ask for chicken, pointing to the photo of the chicken dish on the wall, and you receive a blank stare, followed by a most absolute, “Nyet!”?''the waitress laughs at you, then smiles, then asks if you speak Russian and when you say “Nyet!”, she continues to explain the menu to you in Russian?''you ask, in broken Russian, if this salad has meat and the waitress says, “Nyet!”?''you somehow order a salad and a soup, with some bread and tea and the waitress smiles, then walks away as you feel quite proud of yourself at having ordered successfully?''a few minutes later, does a big bowl of noodles mixed with a lot of greasy meat and a salad with a few tomatoes, cucumbers and plenty of more meat arrive at your table?''do you finally recognize the Russian words for carrot salad on the menu and order one of those too?''when it arrives, do you say ‘Spasibo!’ (thank you) as the waitress smiles and then you shake your head as you eat carrots and tea, again?''This is a post about how the world is never as it seems, about how our travels can so often surprise us, about how we never know what we’ll find or who we’ll meet at any given time. And it is also a post about why that ‘unknown’ is, in my opinion, the best travel companion any of us could ever ask for.''—''There I stood. On a street. A quiet street. No vehicles, no people, not even any animals wandering around.''It had been almost thirty minutes since the mashrukta, the local style of mini-bus, had dropped me off in the center of Tamga, Kyrgyzstan, a small village located some 1700 meters (5600 feet) above sea level between the towering''Tian-Shan Mountain Range''and the beautiful alpine lake of''Issky-Kul''. And I wasn’t making any progress at all in terms of finding accommodation for the night. I had arrived without a plan and had only come to Tamga after meeting a local man in Karakol, a town situated 90 kilometers away, who recommended I pay this village a visit.''And now, here was I, just me and my stuff, looking all around and finding absolutely nothing, for quite some time. Eventually, I reached the conclusion that, “''There’s nothing to do in this village. I’m ready to leave and find someplace ‘better’.''” So I grabbed my bag and started walking towards the dusty patch of ground near the only intersection in the village, hoping to find some vehicle that would give me a lift out to the main road so that I could catch a bus to a bigger town further along the lake.''As I walked along, however, I soon noticed a tiny concrete building, more like a room, on my left with a sign that read “Beauty Salon” in both Russian and English. And out of nowhere I decided to go inside, ever-so-curious about the local price for a pedicure and for a trim of my afro. Actually, I figured that going inside the beauty salon would be my one last effort to find a place a stay and upon greeting the woman sitting at the table, I simply shrugged my shoulders and said, in English, “''Guesthouse?''”. Expecting her not to understand, quite surprised was I when she immediately walked over to a shelf, grabbed a business card and handed it to me.''It was a business card for the''Askar & Tamara Guesthouse''right there in Tamga. I called the number on the card, an English-speaking woman answered the phone and before I even had time to realize what was happening, a 10-year old Russian girl on a bicycle was leading me through the village straight to the guesthouse.''We reached the front door and out walked Tamara, the owner, a 60-ish year old Kyrgyz woman with a huge smile on her face. She extended her hand, introduced herself and I kid you not when I say that in an instant, Tamga went from being a town I could definitely live without spending more than five minutes in, to the town that will probably be the highlight of my visit to Kyrgyzstan.''That’s how travel works, and I love it. I love the ups and, yes, I even love the downs. I love the disappointments and the sudden, brilliant surprises that often soon follow. And I love the fascinating people that I meet when I least expect it as well.''A Glimpse Of Tamga, Kyrgyzstan''Let me show you what Tamga looks like.''Here’s the main street…''Here’s the only restaurant…''And finally, the only intersection…''Perhaps you can understand why, after only thirty minutes in this eerily quiet village, I was ready to leave. I have a feeling that many travelers would gladly give Tamga a miss based upon first impressions. But had I left town so quickly, never would I have discovered what lies behind Tamga’s empty streets, behind its mix of wooden village homes and handful of Communist apartment blocks, behind the few shops, the empty bazaar, the donkeys hiding behind trees and the occasional Kyrgyz man on horseback riding through town. Just like with any city, town or village in the world, behind whatever leads us to form our initial impression of a place, lies the opportunity to have an unforgettable travel experience. And here in Tamga, this village in the middle of nowhere, in a country that is already quite in the middle of nowhere as a whole, an unforgettable travel experience certainly did unfold.''And again, it all began with Tamara and her guesthouse.''Tamara, along with her husband Askar, owns the kind of guesthouse that you don’t ever want to leave. It’s simple, the rooms are basic and comfortable, but the conversations with Tamara that take place all the time is what makes this place so unique. She speaks excellent English, she loves to talk about all aspects of Kyrgyzstan, the world and life in general, she is very outspoken, her laughter and smile are incredibly infectious, she takes extreme pleasure in cooking delicious local dishes for her guests to enjoy and she goes out of her way to ensure that one’s time in Tamga is as rewarding as possible.''I think I spent half of the three days I stayed in Tamga speaking with her, learning about her country, hearing about the trip to America that she went on a couple of years ago after winning a competition, exchanging ideas about politics, religion and travel, and on and on. I spoke more with her than with any other Kyrgyz person on this trip and I could have talked with her for a lot longer if I had the time.''A Beautiful Lake, Colorful Canyon, A Quiet Walk & Some Great Food''On my first day in the village, after expressing an interest in heading down to the shore of the''Issyk-Kul Lake'', Tamara walked me over to the beginning of a path near her guesthouse and, with that standard smile on her face, began excitedly giving me directions on how to get there. I had to hold in my laughter as her directions kept going and going and going while her genuine love for her village and for the lake became more and more apparent. She was excited for me to see this lake and after hearing how to get there, and remembering almost none of the directions, I was excited as well.''So, off I went, trying to play over in my mind the directions she had given, which went something like this:''“''Walk straight down this path between the trees until you pass two new houses, then find two more houses and walk slightly to the right around them before heading straight for some time until you reach the 120 steps. Go down the 120 steps and you will soon enter the large forest. Continue through the forest between the hills and eventually you will find a gate. Enter the gate and turn left, walk down, cross the stream and climb up the steps to the hanging bridge. Walk across the bridge until you reach the main road and turn left again. After walking for some time, you will look for the building with the blue roof, maybe it’s a green roof, and then look for a path that heads to the right. You will come to another gate. Enter that gate, turn left and soon you will reach the entrance to the beach on the right, down some steps.''”''Somehow, about forty-five minutes later, I found the beach and the lake, and was able to witness a remarkable scene of clear blue water with the massive snow-covered mountains in the background.''After an evening that involved more conversation with Tamara, some of her homemade pilaf, pickles and compote, I slept well in silent Tamga, waking up the next morning eager to see where the day would lead. And over the course of that following day, I ended up having a local man by the name of Bik take me over to the spectacular''Skazka Canyon'', located down a dirt road, with not a single other person around for miles. We hiked around for about an hour, soaking up brilliant view after brilliant view.''Upon returning to the village, I went for a long walk through the fields, along the paths and into the tiny villages around Tamga itself, finding plenty of empty space, the kind of surroundings that made clearing my head so very easy, helping me to contemplate everything that I’ve been experiencing and what I can learn from it all.''There was also a fifteen-minute ‘conversation’ with a drunk Kyrgyz man who must have hugged me more times than I’ve been hugged overall in my life. And I then spent considerable time waving and smiling to all of the people I passed, almost always receiving a wave and smile in return, whether from the men on horseback, the women chatting in front of their homes, the elderly man walking down the street with his cane or the children playing around.''Dinner was had at the only restaurant in town, with the two beautifully friendly women staff providing a most ideal meal of chicken soup and salad. And as I ate my meal in that empty, one-room, Soviet-style eatery, slurping up my soup and occasionally talking to the staff in a mix of my horrendous Russian and their limited English, I could not believe how much Tamga had grown on me so quickly. Had I not been pressed for time, I knew that I would have stuck around this village for many, many additional days.''But the next morning, after a leisurely breakfast of fresh mountain eggs, homemade pancakes and some hot tea, the time unfortunately arrived for me to leave. I went to my room, packed my bag, paid my bill, had one last conversation with Tamara, one last conversation so full of stories, of laughter, of insights into the Kyrgyz people and their culture, and then just like that, I said goodbye.''And moments later, there was I, right where the minibus had dropped me off a few days before, right where I had been looking around wondering how on earth I was going to find a way out of this dreadful place and reach somewhere ‘better’. But now I could only smile, feeling as happy as one could possibly be at having not skipped town that day, at having allowed the unknown to take over yet again.''And all I needed for this to happen was to simply remember that we never know what lies around the next corner when we travel, or in this case, we never know where a visit to a tiny concrete beauty salon in a remote mountain town in the middle of nowhere, might lead.''—''ASKAR & TAMARA GUESTHOUSE''(Tamga, Kyrgyzstan)''Address: In Tamga village, directly next to the Bazaar''Website:''www.askartamara.com''Email/Phone:''[email\xa0protected]''/ +996 394625361''Price: $16 per person (home-cooked meals for around $3-$4)''(''Tamara has no idea how the internet works but if you’re in Tamga, be sure to tell her Derek sent you. It will blow her away as she loves how people all over the world can be connected through this internet thing that she doesn’t understand!'')''Is Tamga your kind of destination? Have you ever had a similar experience, while traveling or at home, where everything changed for the better in one quick, random moment?''This post involves something I’ve never done before – it is written by a guest writer. And the reason I decided to publish this article here is because the author, Darin Rogers, is a super nice guy who has taught me a great deal about photography over the past year or so. What I like best about his approach is that everything he teaches is simple, can be learned quickly and can immediately improve the photographs we take. That’s why I’m confident you’ll find his advice to be useful as well!''If you’re planning a travel adventure this year – be it a long-term, multi-country, round-the-world tour or a just a one week vacation – the experience may be a once-in-a-lifetime adventure, culminating what may be years of planning and preparation that you’ll want to remember with some great images.  Unfortunately, many people come home from their travels disappointed with their photos.''Although it may be tempting to invest in a new or better camera before you go, thinking that will improve your odds, taking good photographs has little to do with what camera you use. All too often, too much emphasis is placed on megapixels and the latest wiz-bang technological wonder designed to take any thought and effort out of the photographic process. So here’s some steps you can take that will begin to help you get the most out of whatever camera you may be using.''1. SLOW DOWN''If your travels consist of rushing from one tourist attraction to the next extreme sport activity and then hurrying to meet your friends for beers, you’re probably not going to be getting a lot of compelling photos. Photography is about seeing, and seeing requires time and intention. Good images don’t just happen. Slow down and make a conscious effort at becoming aware of your surroundings. Find a place to sit and just watch for a while and see what happens.''Slowing down in Oaxaca, Mexico''If you’re traveling with others who may not share your photographic interest, slowing down may be difficult. You may need to be willing to head off on your own occasionally, even if just for an hour or two.''This of course isn’t to say that you shouldn’t do that bungee jump (and that might be a great photo-op for some action shots). Everyone has different travel priorities and most people aren’t traveling just to take photos. But if one of your priorities is to take better photos, make an effort to slow down occasionally and focus on seeing.''2. GET CLOSER''One of the things I like to encourage is, after getting your standard tourist postcard shots, look closer for the details. You’ll often find that these details and vignettes can evoke a greater sense of place than will another snapshot of the Sydney Opera House. Take that snapshot; these are important reminders of significant events for us, but then look deeper.''Postcard shot of Liberty Plaza, Taipei, Taiwan''Getting closer at Liberty Plaza, Taipei, Taiwan''The things to look for are infinite, anything that may tell a story or help describe a place and the people who live there. One of my favorite subjects is doors, but the range of subjects could vary from fruit stacked at a market to street art and graffiti to, well, anything that catches your eye.''Opera House detail, Sydney, Australia''Getting closer doesn’t necessarily have to mean physically close. It can also be about finding a different or unusual way to present the same subject. This could mean finding an unusual or unique angle or perspective, or including some interesting element in the foreground, such as with the Taiwanese military officer in the above photo.''3. ENGAGE''This is not an easy one for many people, including me. However, getting over our fear of interaction, whatever that fear may be based on – rejection, embarrassment, language barrier – can lead to some rewarding experiences as well as some great images. Personally for me, my own fear is not so much about asking to take someone’s photo and being turned down, but rather being told yes and then wanting to make sure I do that person justice artistically.''Interaction doesn’t necessarily need to be a full-blown conversation. It can be as simple as a smile with a non-verbal acknowledgement that a photo is acceptable. But it can also be worthwhile to forget about the camera now and then and spend some time getting to know someone. Sit and watch that temple ceremony. Get to know your tour guide. You never know what photographic opportunities may arise from stepping out of your comfort zone.''Children are often quite willing and eager to pose for photographs. Despite that, be mindful of cultural practices and if someone, regardless of age, declines to be photographed, respect their wishes.''Children posing in a rural Philippines village''4. TAKE A DIFFERENT PATH''Off the beaten path in Mitla, Oaxaca, Mexico''Following the backpacker highway doesn’t mean you have to come home with the same photographs as everyone else. When out exploring, venture off on a side road. Wander random neighborhoods. Get lost. Take a risk. Life, for most people in the places we visit, doesn’t happen around the tourist attractions, museums, and monuments so get out of the tourist zones and explore the areas where people spend most of their daily lives. Some of my best travel experiences have occurred through random wanderings, like hopping on the back of the motorbike of a young man in Bali who offered to take me to see a cock fight, or being invited into the nipa hut home of a family of dirt-poor Filipino fishermen to share rot-gut liquor and dried fish. To be honest, the photos I took of the Filipino family turned out less than stellar but the memories will last a lifetime. And really, isn’t that why we travel?''At a cock fight in Lovina, Bali, Indonesia''Obviously this needs to be done with awareness and caution as it could be easy to stray into a sketchy or unsafe area. Go with a friend. Be aware of your surroundings. Take the usual precautions, but don’t be afraid to take a bit of risk.''5. PUT THE CAMERA AWAY''What? Put the camera away? How will this help you take better pictures?''This may seem counter-intuitive but there are times when I find myself struggling, trying too hard to see and create something new and interesting. For whatever reason, sometimes the inspiration just isn’t there. It happens to the best of photographers. If this happens, don’t force it, you’ll only create more frustration. You are much better off just putting the camera back in the bag and enjoying whatever experience you may be having.''Seeing again in Tlaxcala, Mexico''Often, by putting the camera away and letting go of the self-imposed pressure to create, to capture that elusive perfect image, your mind relaxes and you’ll start seeing again. Or maybe not. Either way is fine. Just accept it, remember why you are traveling in the first place, and enjoy the experience of being in the place.''Finally…''Following these steps won’t instantly make you a great photographer. As with any craft, proficiency, if there is such a thing in art, takes years of hard work and practice. And with photography, while it may be possible to become technically proficient, it can be argued that the art of seeing is like reaching for that proverbial pot of gold at the end of a rainbow: something every photographer is continually striving to master but never quite achieving. However, consciously following these steps as you go about your travels should at least put you on the path to increasing the number of memorable images you bring home.''Darin Rogers is a semi-nomadic writer, photographer, and part-time civil engineer.  He is currently based in the Philippines. You can see more of his work at''www.darinrogers.net''or follow him on''Facebook''and''Google+''.''Any thoughts? How are your photography skills? Any other simple tips you’ve learned along the way?''On the outskirts of Udaipur, a city of 500,000 people set ever-so-picturesquely along the shores of three lakes in the middle of India’s Rajasthan state, sits a gate, a simple iron gate, midway down a bumpy dirt road. This gate is kept locked at all times but if you wait in front of it for a moment or two, someone will soon approach from the other side, someone who will unlock the gate with a smiling face and kindly ask you to enter.''You take a few steps forward and just like that, you’ve entered a world that you probably wouldn’t expect to find in these parts.''Welcome to''Animal Aid Unlimited'', an animal rescue center, sanctuary, and treatment operation for mistreated and injured animals of Udaipur. Set up in 2002 by Jim Myers and Erika Abrams, along with their daughter Claire, this operation has treated over 40,000 animals to date, including dogs, donkeys, cows, monkeys, pigs and birds, rescuing approximately 10-15 animals per day from the streets. Some of those animals are treated and released and others live out the rest of their days at the center if they are not able to fend for themselves. At any given time there are around 400 animals being taken care of on the premises.''One of the women on my current India tour had heard about this place in a book she had read and so, a handful of us decided to head out there one afternoon. And we ended up staying for almost two hours, simply intrigued by the entire operation. From the spotless, well-organized grounds to the efficient and well thought out systems in place for grouping and taking care of the animals to the dozens of staff on duty, ranging from veterinarians to vet nurses to massage therapists to foreign volunteers…it was a remarkable oasis in the midst of the desert where animals of all kinds live so incredibly well.''Upon arrival, Raj gave us a tour of the entire grounds, a tour that took us up close and personal with newly arrived dogs and donkeys with broken legs and open wounds, dogs infected with mange, cows that had been hit by cars, paralyzed animals, monkeys that had been electrocuted, pigs that had been mistreated and on and on. And while you might think that this would all be extremely difficult to witness up close, we all found the opposite to be true. It was simply wonderful to witness so many animals that would have been left to die on the streets, now walking around, laying down, hobbling along, looking and behaving as if they are so happy to have ended up here instead. This sanctuary offers them a worry-free life where they can interact with and receive attention from caring people every day, including any travelers that decide to visit. Animals were constantly approaching us, eager to be played with and truly excited by our presence despite any ailment or injury they might have been suffering from.''Of course, we could not help but ask about every animal we passed and about how they came to end up at the sanctuary. And as you might imagine, there were some brutal stories of abuse to be heard. But as I mentioned, to see these animals living here and being treated so well, created a sense of relief that far outweighed any sense of shock or horror that I might have felt at first.''As you might be able to tell, I was blown away during our visit, especially after witnessing the passion, over and over again, that was so visible in the eyes of every staff member, all of whom dedicate their lives to helping as many animals as they possibly can. Just watching Sooraj, the massage therapist/healer, interact so carefully and lovingly with some of the paralyzed dogs, some of which started to walk as a result of his treatments, was enough to convince me that this is one impressive animal rescue center that deserves some attention.''Yes, I know that there will be some critics who will state that the money used for this program could be used to help people who are also suffering in this country. And that is true. But so could the money we spend anywhere and in my opinion, if the founders, the 40+ staff and all the volunteers at''Animal Aid Unlimited''are indeed so passionate about improving the lives of helpless animals, then I think that’s exactly what they should continue doing.''I’m certain that one visit here, after spending a few minutes interacting with playful''Tony'', a dog whose leg was chopped off and whose face was hacked with a machete, or with laid-back''Lance'', the donkey whose legs had been tied together before being rescued, or with a cow that had been hit by a car but is now walking again, will convince you of the same. On''Animal Aid’s''website, you can also get an idea of what kind of care this center provides, with plenty of before/after photos of all types of animals who were injured or abused.''Here’s a couple of examples (''BE WARNED!''The photos are quite graphic, but wait until you see how well each dog looks now!)…''It’s simply amazing to see the recovery of these animals in the photos above. Imagine what it must be like to see it first-hand at the center!''India. So much to experience in this country. And if you’re the kind of traveler that enjoys doing things that are a little different to what most travelers get up to, this is an opportunity to do just that when you’re in Udaipur. Whether you spend a few hours, a full day or even a longer period of time as an actual volunteer at''Animal Aid Unlimited'', you’ll have a chance to be a part of something special, an organization that involves great people doing great things, in this case, for the thousands of helpless animals in this city.''I want to give a huge thank you to Raj, Sooraj and Claire, all of whom were wonderful hosts during our visit…keep up the amazing work!''ANIMAL AID UNLIMITED''Location:''Near TB Hospital in Badi village (8km from Udaipur)''Visitor info:''Visitors are welcome until 5pm any day of the week and it’s just a short ride by auto-rickshaw or taxi to the location. And of course, volunteers of all ages and backgrounds are welcome as well. The organization doesn’t provide accommodation for volunteers but they do offer a great deal of assistance for those who sign up, helping you find a place to stay and assisting with everything else you could possibly need.''Website:''www.AnimalAidUnlimited.com''Facebook:''https://www.facebook.com/AnimalAidUnlimited''Anyone looking for a great volunteer opportunity in India? Any thoughts about the work this organization is doing?''Do you enjoy being challenged? Would you maintain your sanity if you had to constantly face unexpected situations, surprises, plans that always changed for one reason or another? Could you handle a lack of routine and perhaps not knowing where you’ll be in a week or two from any given moment?''Are you okay with sleeping in different beds all the time, some comfortable, others barely more than a thin piece of foam set upon a hard piece of wood? What if you had to eat different foods, some familiar, others quite different to anything you’ve ever eaten before…does that sound appealing?''Would you welcome a situation where everyone around you thought differently than you do, had different beliefs and customs, practiced different traditions, thought and behaved in ways you’d never seen or even knew existed? Are you okay with being out of your comfort zone, far, far, far out of your comfort zone?''Are you excited about an opportunity to constantly meet new people from all around the world, people from all sorts of backgrounds, people with whom you will share amazing adventures and with whom you will create wonderful friendships? But can you accept the fact that you will often have to say goodbye to all of those new people shortly after you meet them, maybe because you have plans to travel somewhere else or they have plans to go their own way? Perhaps you’ll keep in touch and meet again someday, perhaps you won’t, is that okay?''Do you want to receive an education like no other, an education that only the world itself, experienced first-hand, can teach? Are you open to an education that just may alter the way you view the world?''Can you maintain an open mind at all times while always welcoming, and striving to grow from, the experiences and interactions that come your way, no matter what they may be?''Do you think you will be able to use your travels to benefit others?''Do you have a goal for your travels? Is there something specific you want to gain from seeing the world and meeting its people?''Can you find rewards in the tiniest of things? Can a handshake or an exchange of smiles bring you great happiness? Can you use such small actions to create a cross-cultural bond between yourself and other people? Do you feel that interaction between two people of different cultures, any interaction at all, can be powerful and extremely beneficial?''Are you able to cope with never being truly satisfied as your list of places you badly want to visit grows and grows and grows the more you travel? Can you come to terms with the fact that it’s impossible to see it all?''Are you fine living without a closet or a set of drawers? Does living out of a backpack or a suitcase sound good to you?''Do you understand that travel does not involve a never-ending stream of fun times, that there will be obstacles, tough situations and moments when you might feel confused, frustrated or even a bit lost? But at the same time, do you understand that despite all of those, there must be a reason why it’s so hard to find a traveler who regrets having traveled? Are you ready to find out that reason?''Do you think you have the determination necessary to achieve your goals? Are you willing to put in the effort required?''Can you picture yourself right now at some of the destinations around the world that you have always dreamed of visiting? Can you see yourself actually living the experiences you so often think about?''If you answered yes to most of the questions above, I only have one last thing to ask…''Are you ready to take the first step and start traveling?''Any travelers want to add any questions to the list? Is anyone else trying to figure out if long-term travel is right for you?''We were eating soup at a local restaurant in Bucharest when my new friend seated opposite me, upon learning that I had been traveling and living overseas since I was 22 years old, stated with great excitement, “''So that means you’ve spent your entire adult life traveling!''”''After a short pause, I quietly responded, “''I guess it does.''”''I had actually never thought about that fact before and as I sat there repeating it over and over again in my mind – “''I’ve spent my entire adult life traveling''” – I surprisingly started to feel a slight sense of sadness as opposed to the joy one might have expected.''Most people spend their entire adult life working and living in one place, unable or unwilling to make the necessary changes that would allow them to achieve their wildest dreams, their truest goals, whatever you want to call them. And by the end, life has passed by and the dreams still remain dreams, and all that such a person can say at that point is, “''Oh well. I didn’t do what I really wanted to do during my time on this planet.''”''On the other hand, some people, and I suppose I fall into this category, somehow manage to flip that equation around. We manage to achieve many of our goals (travel goals in my case), to turn our dreams into reality, to find a way to actually do the things in life that we truly want to do during our adult years. As a result, it has always been my belief that, when the end comes, I will be able to sit there and smile widely one last time, perfectly content, and declare, “''That’s right, I did it!''”''But here’s the shocker…as time goes on, I’m not too sure this will actually be the case. Despite the fact that I am able to travel and travel and travel, I must admit that I still experience some of those very same feelings of hopelessness that those who are not out there achieving their goals often deal with. What I’m saying is that I still don’t feel as if I’m living my life to the fullest at all.''Maybe it’s because the chances are quite low that one individual can actually achieve EVERYTHING they could possibly want to achieve in life, a fact that would lead to a never-ending feeling that we’re not living to our full potential. Maybe it’s because the more we do anything, the more we live one particular type of lifestyle, no matter what that lifestyle may be, the more we start to wonder what life would have been like had we done something different. It seems only natural that our brains would become curious about the decisions we didn’t make, and where those decisions might have led, again, regardless of our actual situation.''In reality, I’m quite happy, I’m more than ecstatic that I did choose this crazy traveling lifestyle and I certainly wouldn’t want to trade my experiences for any other path. I hesitate for not even one second in reaching those conclusions.''All I want to examine with this post is whether or not it is possible to actually live life to the fullest, the absolute fullest, after all? I tend to think that such an ideal is not possible and that we will always wonder ‘what if’ and always think about how our life could’ve been.''And perhaps this is a good thing to be aware of before setting out to achieve our travel goals, or any goals for that matter. I really believe that such a realization would help anyone make better choices in life, to remain flexible at all times, and to understand the need, and the importance, of making changes according to our ever-changing situations, interests, goals, etc.''For example, if we understand that ‘a life of travel’ cannot be the ‘be-all and end-all’, that there is no ‘be-all and end-all’, that none of our goals in life will lead to guaranteed, endless fulfillment, we will feel more comfortable making adjustments, whether simple or major. We won’t feel like we’re quitting on our goals or that we have''failed in our attempt to live life to the fullest''when we decide to move in a new direction. We should understand that our life is about making any and all decisions that seem best at any given time, about trying as many new things as we possibly can, about focusing on creating a unique and interesting overall story, not on the idea that there is only one perfect goal, or one lifestyle, to achieve. Otherwise, we just may be disappointed.''The night before I flew to India, just a couple of days ago, I was having a quick chat about life with a very close friend I’ve known for 18 years now. We talked about our own lifestyles and discussed the things that we’d achieved and the things that we each still want to accomplish over the coming years.''At the end of the talk, my friend started to shake his head, as if in disbelief. Then he said,''“''It’s crazy. I’m getting ready, like most people, to go to work tomorrow, to sit in my office for the next week, just like every other week. And you’re about to fly to India to lead a trip for twenty days, while trying to choose between Kyrgyzstan, Georgia and Tanzania for your next destination after that, simply because that’s what you want to be doing.''”''I love that I have this freedom. I love that I can travel like this. I really do.''But as my friend dreams of this traveling lifestyle, I must admit that I sometimes dream of his. I’m not saying I want to work in an office and have a daily routine, I’m just saying that my brain won’t allow me to live without wondering what life would be like had I chosen to do something else. And since I don’t know the answer, and never will, that one thought prevents me from feeling 100% fully satisfied with the life that I did happen to choose so far.''Is it just me? Do you agree? Do you think most, or all, people wonder about what they could’ve done in life, no matter how they are actually living?''I have two brains.''There is my''work brain''and my''travel brain''. And the truth is that these two brains are not the best of friends. As much as I have tried over the years, I can’t seem to force these two brains to get along too well.''The way it works is that, at any given time, I can either be 100% focused on enjoying my travels or I can be 100% focused on my work. As a result, I can’t travel and work at the same time.''Of course, I can travel and work in a general sense but what I’m trying to say is that if I were to go outside today, wander around Bucharest or Delhi or Mexico City or Tashkent or wherever I happen to be, my brain would be in its travel mode. So, if I were to sit down at a cafe later in the afternoon and take a one hour break from my wandering, it’s not as if I could just pull out my laptop and get some productive work done.''My brain would still be in travel mode. It takes time to switch to work mode, a great deal of time in fact, because when the excitement of travel occupies my brain, I can’t just ignore that excitement in an instant and concentrate on work instead. When I’m focused on travel, my brain wants more travel! It doesn’t want to give way to my work brain at all.''And when I spend a good chunk of my day, or even an entire day, working hard on my projects, it is also difficult to suddenly stop thinking about the emails, about the blog, about the websites, about everything and anything related to work and just allow my travel brain to take over. I need time, maybe a few hours, maybe a day, to wind down so that I can make that switch.''This is why, when I travel, I travel hard and when I work, I work hard. I’ve been in Romania for the past two months working very hard on a new project that I’ll be launching in a couple of weeks all so that I can travel to India in March and to some other destinations in April with my travel brain in complete control, not having to worry too much about work.''The point? Yes, it is possible to ‘work and travel’ but if you really want to enjoy your travels to the fullest and you really want to be productive with your work, you need to learn how to separate the two.''I personally feel that it all comes down to organization, or, better yet, finding your own organizational comfort zone so that you can get the most out of each brain. And to give you an idea of how I stay organized with both travel and work (and why I often act like a fool) here’s a breakdown of my two brains…''Travel Brain''My travel brain is quite organized. I generally don’t need many tools or apps or websites to help me stay organized while traveling or when it comes to keeping track of flights, accommodation, destination research, etc. For me, simplicity is best and I often find that concentrating too much on systems designed to help us stay organized, only complicates things in the end.  For my travel brain, all I need is a system of email folders and folders on my laptop. Everything has it’s place (flight bookings go into the “Upcoming Flights” folder, completed flights go into the “Past flights” folder and so on), it’s all very clear and simple and I have no trouble staying fully organized with this simple system.''It also probably helps that when I travel, I don’t necessarily have any travel-related deadlines or anything that requires immediate attention, something that my work brain must constantly deal with. My travels are almost always''flexible and open to change''and I am free to travel how I wish, when I wish and to wherever I wish. As a result, there’s not too much I really need to keep organized while traveling, which is why my travel brain is always relaxed and in a healthy state.''But then, there’s my…''Work Brain''I need to work. Most people do. And one of the major challenges of working while traveling is trying to avoid being stuck in front of the computer all the time. There is always more work to be done it seems!''Once again, for me, it all comes down to organization. My work brain is a bit more of a mess than my travel brain and definitely not as relaxed. My work brain runs at speeds I never thought possible at times and it must constantly adapt to a hundred different tasks, all while trying to complete these tasks from ever-changing surroundings. Let’s just say, it ain’t easy.''When it comes to staying organized with work, I still feel that most organizational systems lead to more hassle than benefit, which is why I prefer my own system for the most part. I know what needs to be done, I do it and that’s it. I don’t like to spend too much time prioritizing tasks, filing things away for later or trying to maximize every minute of my working day. I just prefer to sit down and get my stuff done.''To better illustrate how I take care of my work, the following is what a typical work day involves for me, the kind of day when my travel brain is ignored in order to fully concentrate on the blog and my other projects…''A Typical Day Online''Emails:''3-4 hours to answer an average of 100 – 150 blog-related emails per day''The 10 email addresses I have for my various projects all lead to one Gmail account, making it very easy to access and reply to all emails from one location.''Facebook:''1 hour answering messages, replying to comments and putting up a new post''Between the normal Facebook website and the FB app on''my new phone'', I’m able to reply to messages and comments and put up new posts with relative ease, from almost anywhere.''Twitter:''3-5 minutes to reply to questions, promote others’ posts/tweets and say hello to a few people''With Tweetdeck, both the desktop version and the phone app, doing everything I need to do on Twitter is quite easy''Blog post:''4-5 hours to write a draft, edit, complete the post, find photos and prepare it all for the blog''My posts are written in Open Office, saved as a raw text file and copied and pasted into my blog. I then upload any photos for the post to my''SmugMug''account, place the SmugMug links into the post, add some other code so that the post looks exactly how I want and everything is set to go.''Blog comments:''30–60 minutes to reply to any new comments left on any of my posts''Normally, I check the WordPress app on my phone whenever I have a minute or two so that I can just approve any comments that are being held in moderation as quickly as I can (comments from first time commenters are always held in moderation). Then, when I have more time, I just log into my blog and respond properly to all the most recent comments.''Wandering Earl Tours:''up to 4 hours depending on when the next tour will take place''Organizing these tours involves research, communicating with my contacts in each country, creating PDF documents with information about the trip for all participants and communicating in general with those who have signed up for the tours. I simply use a series of spreadsheets to keep everything organized and this has worked perfectly.''Other projects:''1-8 hours per day depending on what needs to be done''At the moment, I’m working on three other projects, the new website I will launch in two weeks, a new destination website and blog consulting. Sometimes they don’t require much work at all and other times they require a great deal of attention.''To keep track of these other projects, I do use''Trello'', an online organizational platform that is simple and very easy to use, which is why I like it. It’s actually extremely basic and all it really does is help me see everything I need to do on one screen.''In between all of the above, I also tend to eat on occasion, brush my teeth, take several breaks that usually involve going for a walk outside, I reply to my personal emails, have Skype conversations (both personal and business related), answer interview questions,''participate in podcasts''and read, and sleep.''And usually, I accomplish everything I need to get done, right on time.''But as you see, there’s not much to how I stay organized. Perhaps it has more to do with discipline and knowing that if I don’t sit down and get to work, I won’t earn any money in the end and my travels won’t be able to continue. That thought alone is enough to ensure that I do switch to my work brain whenever I need to, no matter how much I want to be in travel mode.''Being a Fool''Of course, after a solid few hours or full day of work is over, and before I can switch back to my travel brain, I do need to go through a stage where I act like a complete, silly fool.''An hour ago, I was about to start writing a post. Everything was in place – my laptop, my fruit salad, my glass of beer – until I quickly realized that one thing was missing. A topic. I had no idea what I was going to write about.''My next move was to check my Twitter account and check my''Facebook page'', and it was there on my Facebook page that I had a thought. I would invite my FB followers to ask me any travel questions they had and I would select one of those questions and respond with a full post.''But then, along came Michelle, a FB follower who suggested that my post consist of brief answers to ALL of the questions that were asked. I liked the idea, a lot. And so, that’s what I’ve done. All of the questions are listed below.''Before I get to those questions/topics though, let me just give a big thank you to Michelle for the idea and another thank you to everyone who asked questions and helped me create this post as a result!''Facebook Randomness''How about stories of being robbed, ripped off or scammed while on the road?''Apart from having my wallet pick-pocketed while walking through a market in Delhi one night, I haven’t really fallen victim to many scams, at least none that have cost me a ton of money or really put me in a tough situation. I can be quite stubborn, so if something doesn’t feel right, I won’t give in. With that said, I did get''kidnapped in Bangladesh''a while back, but they didn’t really get much out of me in the end.''I’d love to hear about how to work or make money in a foreign country over the age of 34.''For this, I would direct you over to my post “''42 Ways You Can Make Money and Travel The World''”  as the majority of ideas I mention there are perfectly suitable for travelers of all ages.''Have you been ever in a situation that you needed to stop traveling and return home, maybe forced to because you were tired? And I would like to know if that is something that crosses your mind from time to time.''There have definitely been times when I’ve become so tired that my travels started becoming much less enjoyable. What I normally do when this happens is quite simple. I stop. I find a place – a city, a town, a village – that I enjoy spending time in, I throw down my backpack and I rent an apartment or a room for a month, or even two or three months. Then, once I feel like moving around again, I pack up and continue traveling. If you’re feeling tired and you don’t stop, whether it be somewhere overseas or by returning home for a short while, you can easily get burned out and once that happens, traveling won’t be nearly as rewarding any more.''Please share your most interesting customs or border experience…''Apart from''this story'', my second most interesting border crossing was probably when I crossed from Bangladesh to India, using a remote border crossing in the town of Tamabil. According to the immigration log book, I was one of only a handful of foreigners that had used this particular crossing that year and when it came time for me to head to India, the Bangladeshi border guard had to give a signal to the Indian side. The reason for the signal, it turns out, was that the two sides were engaged in a long-running land dispute that had culminated into a gun battle. So, the signal was given, the gun battle stopped (the bullets were not being aimed aimed at the actual border, but at positions in the surrounding hills) and I was allowed to cross the 300 meter stretch of ‘no man’s land’ as guards on both sides kept an eye on me.''Can you write about Costa Rica?''I could, but it wouldn’t be very interesting. While I’ve traveled to Costa Rica a few times, my last visit was in 2008, and as a result, I don’t have much in terms of relevant information for travelers heading there these days. Sorry!''What are you gonna do when you get old Earl? Keep wandering with a walker? Or do you foresee yourself putting down ‘roots’ somewhere eventually?''I state it often on the site…if I were to wake up tomorrow feeling that it’s time to stop traveling, that’s exactly what I would do. Until then, though, I plan to continue doing what I love most. Will I put down some roots eventually? Perhaps. It’s certainly a possibility. But it’s hard for me to say what I think will happen. I prefer to just see where the path will lead. And if I still love traveling when it comes time for me to use a walker, I’ll find a way to make it happen!''Who is the most interesting person you’ve met during your travels?''I’ve thought about this question for the past hour and it’s probably the most difficult question in this post. It’s just not possible to choose one single person as I’ve met such an endless stream of fascinating people, including both locals and other travelers from all over the planet. Maybe it’s the guy who was riding a John Deere lawnmower from the UK to India or the Japanese Buddhist nun who constantly walks around the world for peace or the…oh man…it’s not easy to pick even a few!''How many different nationalities of women have you chopped?''Somewhere between 1 and 206 🙂 [that’s the number of sovereign states in the world]''How about your romantic endeavors along your journey?''Well, usually, I prefer to keep this topic off the blog since, I’ll admit, it’s nice to have some part of my life that I keep private. But I will say that, over the years, I have had a few long-term relationships and as one might expect, I’m meeting like-minded, interesting people all the time. So, romance and relationships are bound to happen along the way!''I’d like to hear if you have a favorite destination, and why?''At this point, I would say that''Mexico''(most underrated country on the planet with all that it has to offer travelers) and''India''(most culturally fascinating) are my two favorite destinations, with''Socotra Island''(unique, isolated and 100% otherworldly) and''Romania''(so much to see, do and experience, but so few travelers) right behind.''I’m a young traveller and I want to start travelling free style either by myself or with a friend. My parents aren’t very happy about this and I was wondering if you had any advice on what to do?''Many parents aren’t too thrilled by the idea of their children traveling! The best thing you can do is to talk to them openly and honestly but instead of just saying “I want to travel”, make sure you have a more concrete idea of what you want to achieve. Tell your parents why you want to travel, what you hope to gain, how you will fund your travels, the benefits your experiences will give you and where you plan to go. The more information you can provide, the more confident you will sound and the more your parents will realize that you are not just planning on being a ‘bum’ but that you actually have thought things through and you know exactly what you’re doing. You can also show them examples of others who have traveled and who have turned their travels into an actual lifestyle. Often times, your parents will come around but sometimes, they still might not be too happy with your idea. All you can do is stay confident in your ability to achieve your travel goals and start your adventure…once your parents see that you are out there living the life you truly want, that might also help them change their minds and start supporting your decision in the end.''What about discussing the bittersweet reality of constantly meeting so many amazing people only to arrive alone in your next destination? We love making new friends but at times it would be nice to round them all up in the same city!''It’s not easy but I tend to always keep this idea in mind: I’ve met so many amazing people but I would never have met these people had I not been traveling all over the world. And while it can be downright painful to move on to a new place and leave such new friends behind, I always know that if I don’t pack up my bags and move on to a new destination, I will miss out on meeting even more amazing people out there. Also, if a true friendship has been formed, I’ve discovered that the bond remains even while apart and the chances of seeing those friends again is actually much higher than I ever would have imagined. These thoughts definitely help me deal with the constant ‘hellos’ and ‘goodbyes’ of this lifestyle.''What is your favorite season and why? In what country or region do you enjoy spending that season, and why?''Summer! By far the summer. I love warm…no wait, I love very hot weather. I just feel healthier and more relaxed when it’s hot outside and the sun is shining each day, and as a result, I tend to enjoy everything I do to a much greater extent. And I don’t mind where I spend the summer, any summer in any destination will do for me, as long as it’s 80F (27C) or warmer, I’m one happy individual. Although, being near a white sand beach certainly is a bonus.''How about the country you most identify with now that you have been living outside the US for so long?''When it comes down to it, I still identify with my home country the most. While I’ve traveled a great deal and have spent significant amounts of time in certain places, and I’m extremely comfortable in many other countries, none of those other countries ever truly feel like home. My guess is that our childhood/teenage years are just too important and by the time we’re 21 or 22, we have such a connection to our home country that no matter how much traveling we do (unless we move to and stay in a new country for many, many years), it will be hard to feel as comfortable anywhere else.''How about time spent back in the homeland? Every time I come back after months away I have something like culture-shock in my homeland which I did not have during my travels.''I understand that reverse culture-shock for sure, although, for me, I haven’t experienced it in many years. These days, I return to the US for around 2-3 weeks at a time and I do that generally twice per year. But the thing to remember is that travel has a major impact on us, from everything you experience, every person you meet and everything you learn out there. So it’s natural that when you suddenly find yourself in your home country, with all of this new information, all of these new ideas and beliefs and friendships and on and on, it will be quite difficult to re-adjust to a place that now seems so foreign. The good news, at least in my experience, is that it does get easier as time goes on and there are ways to ensure a smoother transition. Don’t forget about your travels! Stay in touch with those you met, look at your photos, think about all that you experienced and also, if you plan to travel again, stay focused on achieving that goal. Holding on, at least to some extent, to your travel experiences will ensure that your adjustment at home is not as abrupt. It will help keep your travels fresh in your mind, giving you time to think about ways to incorporate everything you learned on your adventures into your life back at home.''‘Taking the plunge.’''All I can say about this is that if you ask almost anyone who has taken the plunge, whether they took off for 1 month, 3 months, 1 year or indefinitely, and regardless of the experiences they ended up having, you’ll have a very difficult time finding someone who has regretted that decision to just go. That alone would provide me with all the confidence I’d need to take the plunge myself!''How about missing the joys of material items and material living?''This was quite easy for me since I started traveling before I had my own place back in the US, so I never accumulated much. And as soon as I started traveling and enjoying the benefits of my experiences, it was quite clear to me that those experiences were worth far more than any material item I might have wanted at the time. And my feeling about that has never changed.''How do you cook while travelling? Do you take cooking equipment with you or do you buy new stuff when you stay in a new place? Do you find that ingredients vary much from place to place and does that mean you have to learn to cook new things?''I’ve never traveled with any cooking equipment over the years as I actually don’t cook too much unless I’m staying in one place for a longer period of time. And whenever I find myself renting an apartment or room for long-term, I think I’ve always rented a place that was furnished (and had all the cooking equipment already) or that had a communal kitchen with everything I could need. As for ingredients, yes, they do vary from country to country and I do tend to cook different things depending on where I’m living, but actually, I’m not sure if that has to do with the ingredients available or the fact that I tend to be in a mood to cook Mexican food when I’m in Mexico and so on! (On a side note, keep in mind that in many countries, eating out is so inexpensive that it’s hard to find the motivation to cook. If I can eat out for the same amount of money or less than cooking at home, I’ll almost always eat out.)''How to travel as a couple on a budget?''Well, I’m no expert on this at all so I’m going to lead you to some couples who have managed to travel on a budget themselves for quite a while:''NeverendingVoyage.com''and''UncorneredMarket.com''.''What is the most dangerous thing, person or situation you have ever run into during your travels?''Tough call on this one, but I think it has to be the time I spent several hours''hanging out with some members of the Taliban''in northwestern Pakistan. It wasn’t something I planned at all, it all happened quite unexpectedly and while it did go well in the end, it definitely could have turned into a much different situation I imagine.''Some people think a portable lifestyle and being a digital nomad = homeless. On the contrary. I believe you wrote about this before, but I’d love to read your expanded thoughts on this topic?''Yes, I did write a bit on this topic in the post,''Everybody Told Me I Was A Useless Bum''. Of course, those who are traveling long-term know that such travelers are not ‘bums’ at all but it’s still hard to convince some non-travelers that this is actually the case! I’ll write some more about the topic soon.''How do you find all of the coolest things to visit when you are in an area?''The thing is, if you’re in search of unique, cool experiences, destinations, hidden gems, etc. when you travel, the only possible way to find them is to talk to as many people as you can, including both locals and fellow travelers. There’s really no other way. The more people you talk to you, the higher the chances that they will have discovered something very cool and will share it with you. Talk to everyone you come across and you’ll be surprised by what you learn, experiences and places that you never would have been able to find out about on your own.''There you have it. I hope you enjoyed this question and answer session. I had a very good time writing the answers (which had nothing to do with the beer – okay, beers – that I drank over the past couple of hours I’m sure) and I look forward to doing something similar again. For now, though, it’s time for me to sleep…goodnight!''If you have any follow up questions or anything else you’d like to know about, just leave a comment and I’ll answer them in an upcoming post!''The time has come to announce the next set of tours that I’ll be offering through my''Wandering Earl Tours''project.''For those who may not be aware of what this project is all about, at the end of 2012, I started offering small group tours to some of my favorite countries/regions around the world, tours that I organize and lead myself. And so far, things are going quite well!''The goal is to offer you something unique, the kind of laid-back, local trip that a major tour company can’t offer. I like to think of it as “''independent travel with the support of a small group''”, where we experience the destinations, not from behind a tour bus window, but by actually wandering through the streets and lanes, by eating local food from local eateries, by using local transportation and of course, by meeting as many people along the way as possible.''So far, I’ve run two tours to India and one each to Mexico, Romania & Moldova and Istanbul. My third tour to India is coming up in March (which has sold out).''And now, announcement time….''here is the next set of trips for 2014 that I’ll be offering:''——-''Wander Across IRAQI KURDISTAN''Dates: May 4th – 13th''Overview: I mentioned this tour to the semi-autonomous, and safe, region of northern Iraq, a few months ago and it quickly sold out, but two people just had to cancel, leaving 2 spots available. So, if you’re interested in visiting a very off-the-beaten-path destination that will absolutely surprise you every step of the way, this might be the trip for you!''Full Itinerary''——-''Wander Across MEXICO (YUCATAN)''Dates: June 4th – 10th''Overview: This trip is short and sweet…a one week adventure around the culturally fascinating Yucatan Peninsula, with a couple of days on Mexico’s beautiful Caribbean coast as well. History, check. Culture, check. Excellent food, check. Adventure, check. Good times? Absolutely!''Full Itinerary''——-''Wander Across SOUTHEAST ASIA''Dates: August 15th – 29th''Overview: Many people have asked me to organize a tour to Southeast Asia, so here it is… This trip will take us through Thailand and Cambodia, two destinations loved by travelers from all over the world, visiting everything from vibrant cities to national parks to quiet villages to historical sights, mountains, markets, temples and more!''Full Itinerary''——-''You can read more about the''Wandering Earl Tours''concept, as well as feedback from those who have already participated in one my tours, right over here:''Wandering Earl Tours''If you have any questions at all, or if you wish to confirm a spot on one of the above trips, just send me a message and I’ll reply right away.''And I shall look forward to meeting and traveling with even more of you in the near future!''This post is brought to you by''Bupa Travel Insurance''.''During my senior year of high school, and after a great deal of debate, I eventually chose the university that I would attend for the next stage of my studies. I chose a university in Atlanta, Georgia. However, when I graduated with a Bachelor’s Degree some four years later, I had not only attended that university in Atlanta, but I had also attended a university in Melbourne, Australia and a university in my home state of Massachusetts as well.''——-''When I first started traveling back in 1999, my plan was to travel for three months. I even had a return flight back to the USA, for exactly ninety days after I touched down in Bangkok. Go figure. I ended up traveling for 14 years…so far. I’ve visited countries I never imagined I would ever visit, I’ve had experiences that I never even knew were possible and I’ve met people whose existence and culture I had been completely unaware of.''——-''Furthermore, when I decided to try and travel indefinitely, I quickly reached the conclusion that the only way to make this happen, to fund my travels, would be to teach English around the world. Fast forward to now and I’ve used a combination of English teaching, working on cruise ships and working online to help keep this traveling lifestyle going.''——-''In about two weeks or so from today, I’ll be launching a new website project that I’ve been working on with a friend of mine. And I’m extremely excited about this project, even though the project that will be launched looks absolutely nothing like the original idea we had started with a few months ago. There’s almost zero resemblance.''——-''The point of all this is that every stage of my travels, every stage of my life actually, never ends up being what I thought it would be. I go in thinking I’ll attend one university, I come out having attended three. I go in thinking I’ll travel for three months, and now I feel as if I could travel forever.''And you know what? I wouldn’t have wanted it any other way.''In fact, I’m a firm believer that''nothing should ever go according to plan''. Nothing. If something does go exactly according to plan, the chance is high that something is wrong. How can things go exactly as planned when there is no way for us to know exactly what will happen once we start to put that plan into action?''If we’re open to new ideas, and we welcome the chance for our ideas and goals to constantly evolve based upon new experiences we have in life and new information we receive or learn, it would only be natural that our plans should change often as well.''That Includes Travel Plans!''If it’s travel we’re talking about, it doesn’t matter if you’re going on a two week holiday to the beach, a three month trip around Asia or South America or a one year round-the-world adventure. It should never go according to plan in my opinion.''Of course, that’s up to each of us. The opportunities to disable our original plan and head off in a direction we once would never have conceived of instead, will always be there. Such opportunities will appear all the time. It all comes down to whether or not we embrace those opportunities and see where it takes us, even if it takes us far away from our original plan, or if we choose to ignore them instead.''When I traveled to Romania for the first time back in 2011, I was on the tail end of a two month Eurail train journey around Europe. And my plan for Romania was simple, to get a quick glimpse of the country over the course of one week and then hop on the train to Istanbul where my European adventure would come to an end. Well, that didn’t happen. Before I knew it, I was enjoying Romania so much that I made a sudden decision to abandon my original plan and change course completely. Soon after, I had set up a ‘base’ in Bucharest, I had started traveling all over this country and I began spending more time here than I would have ever guessed I would spend in this land over the course of five lifetimes.''And I’m so very happy I made that sudden change of plans. In fact, I’m so very happy that I made all of the above changes in plans over the years and that as far as I can remember, I’ve never completed anything major in my life according to the original plan. For me, the result of being open to spontaneous, unexpected change is a life more in tune with what I truly want to gain from each day I spend on this planet. And that certainly seems worth it to me.''So here’s to change. Here’s to a fuller life. Here’s to welcoming the notion that what might be our plan today, could very well be crumbled up, tossed away and replaced by an even better plan tomorrow.''Are you open to change? Do your travels/life situations usually go according to plan or do they end up being different than what you originally expected?''Who would have thought that sitting on a stone wall in the middle of the jungle would play such a role in my life? It was 1999. It was Angkor Wat, Cambodia. It was the location where I first decided that a life of indefinite travel might be the life that I was looking for.''And as that random idea slowly became reality, and the years of wandering around the world passed by, I made sure that I never forgot that stone wall. I made sure that I never forgot the mesmerizing, ancient temple that was in front of me at the time or the dense jungle, the first jungle I had ever seen, that surrounded me.''While I always talk about the people I meet being the most rewarding aspect of a life of travel, let’s face it, sometimes people can truly ruin our day. Since I started traveling, I’ve been vomited on, spit on and hissed at. I’ve been peed on, yelled at, chased down the road, pickpocketed, threatened, shoved and hit by a car. I’ve been ripped off, tricked, cheated and just absolutely screwed over.''I still love people of course but man, I must admit that I’m also grateful for those special places out there, those spots and locations around the world that have provided me with some time to just be alone with my thoughts, those spots and locations that have etched themselves into my memory or have changed the course of my life forever, for one reason or another.''That wall, that temple, that jungle at Angkor Wat, Cambodia, back on December 31st, 1999, is one such example for me.''This post is to celebrate the locations that prove so meaningful to each of us during our adventures. And it doesn’t matter how well-known or unknown a particular place may be or what other people think of the place either. All that matters is that a single spot on this planet had a major impact on our life at some point in time.''My Favorite Spots Around the World''It’s not every day that I find myself in the middle of nowhere, in Yemen, standing on a massive rock jutting far out over a valley below, with a view so appealing that I could have spent one month right there without moving or ever closing my eyes. Why would I want to close my eyes when I had such a sight before me?''Luckily, however, I didn’t spend one month there in the end. If I had, I would have missed the opportunity to stand in a location that even fewer people will ever get a chance to see, a place so spectacular that even six months after my visit, I still had a difficult time believing was real. The only reason I know it wasn’t actually a dream is because I still have a piece of my boarding pass from my flight to''Socotra Island''…''Other locations have forced me to realize how lucky I am to be traveling, how lucky I am to be in a place that I never would have known about had I not thrown that backpack on my back and taken that first step into the world…''That might be the Piatra Craiului Mountains above, in the heart of''Romania''or surreal Fanning Island, Kiribati, an island of 300 people way out there in the middle of the South Pacific, both of which have helped shape who I am…''There’s no way I can explain the feeling I had when I spent a couple of days along the too-gorgeous-to-be-real Napali coastline on the Hawaiian island of Kauai or when I drove from Darwin to Broome, straight through the most absolute nothingness I have ever seen, up there in the northwest of Australia, or when I just sat under the trees in the zocalo of Valladolid, Mexico, listening to the sweet tunes of a mariachi band, all while observing, and welcoming, the thoughts, the questions, the answers, the inspiration, the clarity, that those surroundings provided me.''And as I stated in my last post, you can''call me a tourist''for visiting, and enjoying, Las Vegas. Well, you can also call me a tourist for stating that I’ll take that touristy cable car up to the top of Table Mountain in Cape Town,''South Africa''any day, or that I’ll gladly contemplate life while looking out over the magnificent New York City skyline from 88 floors above the ground.''I’ll also always remember, as a younger, more naive traveler, crossing that rickety foot bridge over the Hunza River, just outside the small village of Passu, Pakistan. I remember stopping for a few moments half-way across, wondering if I was still on planet Earth as I stared at the magical Karaokaram Mountains, and knowing full well that after a visit into this remote, unchartered land, my life would never be the same again…''So, as I sit here today and allow my mind to wander through the years behind me, I instantly recognize that, from the Geirangerfjord in Norway to the Gros Morne National Park outside of Cornerbrook, Newfoundland, from the brilliant views of colorful Bundi, India while high up on the hill above town to my stay at the remote Bengstskar Lighthouse in the Archipelago Sea some 25 kilometers off the coast of Finland, I have repeatedly been inspired by so many remarkable places that I have visited during my travels.''And these are the kind of places that, for me personally, didn’t simply make for good photos. These are the kind of places that had such an impact on my life, both due to the location itself as well as the period of my life that I happened to come across them, the kind of places where I distinctly remember a change, maybe a change in my way of thinking or in my beliefs or maybe a change in my goals or dreams.''Yes, I love the people I meet every day during this adventure of mine, but heck, I sure won’t forget many of the places I’ve been to either.''And I’m certain that every traveler would say a similar thing.''What are some of the special places that have had a major impact on your life? For those who have yet to travel, what are some of the places you absolutely can’t wait to experience?''I love Las Vegas. I love it so much in fact that I made sure I included a visit to Las Vegas on the itinerary for my recent road trip around the Western USA back in December.''That itinerary also included visiting a good friend of mine in Los Angeles, a couple of days wandering around Santa Barbara, a drive along the California coast through Big Sur, a stop in beautiful Monterey and some days in San Francisco. It was a very nice trip, and I enjoyed every destination, but when the trip was over, the destination that stood out the most was Las Vegas.''And it had nothing to do with gambling. I did not win big. I actually barely gambled and in the four days I was in Vegas, I think I lost about $100 USD on the slot machines and never really had an urge to gamble any more than that.''So forget about gambling. What stood out the most for me this time (I had been to Las Vegas twice before) had more to do with some interesting lessons that I learned from my visit, lessons about myself and about travel, lessons that helped me understand how a person who spends most of their time traveling in the developing world, visiting countries that see very few travelers and writing about the benefits of such travel, can enjoy such a touristy city.''I realized these lessons, not during my actual stay, but in the midst of that five and a half hour, trance-like drive through the quiet ‘high desert’ from Las Vegas back to Los Angeles, when I had plenty of time to just stare straight ahead and think. And this is what I realized…''Sometimes we should visit destinations that don’t fit our normal travel style.''You might be surprised. As I mentioned in a recent post, you might actually discover that you do enjoy something or someplace you''never thought you’d like''. The only way to find out is to do things and travel to places that you normally wouldn’t! It really is as simple as that. (I know several other travelers who love Las Vegas even though they typically prefer locations that offer a much different experience.)''Destinations are not always what they seem.''We often think we know what to expect in certain places but unless we actually travel there for ourselves, we’ll never truly know. This is why we travel in the first place, to see the world with our own eyes. And to ignore a certain destination simply because we think it will be too touristy for us, and therefore not provide us with the kind of experience we prefer, seems to go against this core goal. As for Las Vegas, most people naturally assume that a visit to this city must revolve around gambling when that’s not exactly true. Excellent food, impressive shows (I did catch a performance of Cirque du Soleil’s “Zarkana” – very cool!) and an abundance of beautiful natural surroundings to explore could easily keep you busy for weeks. Throw in a stroll along Fremont Street in downtown Vegas, a drive through many of the neighborhoods far away from ‘The Strip’, a visit to the ‘''Pinball Museum''‘ and possibly catching a wedding at the famous “A Little White Wedding Chapel” (either your own or someone else’s, and no, I did not participate in this activity myself) and this city may very well prove to be much different, with much more to do, than you had assumed. And this is generally the case for just about every super-touristy destination out there in the world.''There’s no shame in visiting touristy places.''There’s a reason why touristy places are touristy. There is something to do or see that draws people in. In the case of Las Vegas, it is without a doubt quite a sight to see. There is no other city on the planet quite like it and I believe that a full day’s walk along the Las Vegas strip, while ducking in and out of the various casino properties in order to witness the bizarre, over-the-top attractions, such as light shows, musical water fountains, statues of Greek gods coming to life, polar bears made out of roses, gondoliers singing loudly as they paddle their gondolas through narrow waterways, the insane rides that hang you over the city from the 108th floor of the Stratosphere Hotel, the random singing, the random dancing, the costume-clad women on stilts, the superheroes on the street corners, the varied architecture and ridiculous themes and on and on, is well worth the experience, at least once. Again, where else can you see such craziness?''And the fact that Las Vegas is so unique makes the argument that some travelers are ‘better’ than others simply because they avoid touristy spots when traveling, seem a bit silly. What’s wrong with visiting such a unique destination? I personally don’t care where anyone goes and I’d happily travel to a touristy location such as Las Vegas or Phuket, Thailand or Playa del Carmen, Mexico myself in order to experience what they have to offer and to see why so many people flock there. Maybe I’ll like the place, maybe I won’t, but I don’t mind finding out on my own. And I certainly don’t look down on anyone else who wants to do the same, or even those who only travel to such touristy locations.''The point is, there’s no shame in a visit to Las Vegas, or any touristy location, no matter what kind of traveler you happen to be or what kind of traveler others believe you to be. Oh, and there’s nothing wrong with enjoying your visit either!''It’s up to us to create a rewarding adventure.''After all, we have some control over how much we gain from our travels, regardless of where we go. Whether we travel to Cancun, Mexico or Brebu, Romania (not quite as popular as Cancun!), we can always meet and talk with local people, find new activities to try, discover new foods to eat and ultimately, have a fun, educational and rewarding travel experience. While in Las Vegas, my father drove down from Utah for a couple of days to meet with me and while he’s not a local, he spends a great deal of time there for work. As a result, he had some recommendations of things to do and places to eat that I absolutely would never have found on my own. From a tiny, and excellent, Vietnamese Pho shop far off The Strip to a restaurant that serves a delicious sesame glazed banana that is prepared at your table, from beautiful, quiet mountain locations with magical views to a few small casinos that have some very interesting history attached to them, I can say with relative certainty that 99.9%, or more, of the travelers visiting Las Vegas, don’t make it to any of these places. So even in touristy Las Vegas I did a few very non-touristy things, and I loved them all.''Call me a tourist, I don’t care.''Tourists, travelers, again, it doesn’t matter to me. Call me a tourist for liking Las Vegas, I’m perfectly okay with that. I’ve never liked the ‘tourist versus traveler’ debate and Las Vegas only makes me dislike the debate even more. The thing is, as I’m walking around Sin City, I’m interacting, whether it’s a conversation, a handshake or a simple nod, with people of all kinds, from the husband and wife wearing their “My Name is Dave” and “I’m Dave’s Wife” t-shirts who are having a genuine blast on their once-in-a-lifetime trip, to the European tourists laughing and shaking their heads at the sight of it all, to kids and adults of all ages and nationalities mesmerized by the musical water fountain in front of the Bellagio Hotel, to the party-goers living it up like never before, to the newlyweds, the families, the sightseers and everyone else in between. And there’s no way I’m going to tell any of these people that the smile on their face, that the excitement in their step, that the memories they’re creating are worthless because they are just tourists who like to visit touristy destinations.''To me, they are all interesting people, all with their own stories, all with their own reasons for coming to this city, and I myself love the energy created by such a diverse mix of travelers, or tourists, or whatever they are. Who cares? Throw in the Las Vegas natives, as well as the staff at every casino, restaurant and shop, many of whom are from countries all over the world, and the mix of people becomes even more interesting. Couple all of that with the diversity of sights and of sounds and of atmospheres that Vegas offers, however touristy, superficial or ‘American’ it all might be, and you get a destination that allows visitors to have as unique, rewarding and fun an experience as they want.''So, instead of avoiding touristy places, why not join the masses and see what those places are all about every now and then? Why not forget about tourists and travelers and just enjoy the experiences together? We’re all just human beings, we’re all just tourists, we’re all just travelers and by realizing this, we can avoid labels, both of people and of destinations, and instead, just focus on what’s most important – meeting new people and seeing the world, every corner of the world, with our own eyes.''That’s right, meeting new people and seeing the world. Thank you Las Vegas for teaching me that any destination can be a destination worth exploring, a lesson that was certainly well worth the $100 I lost at the slot machines.''Ready to visit Las Vegas?''Vegas wikitravel''vegas.com''myamericaholiday.co.uk''Priceline Vegas packages''Have you visited Las Vegas? Have you visited other touristy destinations? What kind of experiences did you have? Tourist versus traveler, do you care?''It’s the start of the year and I’ve been sitting here for awhile trying to come up with the perfect topic for my first blog post of 2014. And I’m a bit worried because the idea that has so far stood out as much better than all the rest involves me showing you a video of my slightly webbed toes.''Oh heck, let’s see how it goes. Here, my friends, is a video of my slightly webbed toes, aka “duck feet”:''(If you’re reading this post via email, you’ll need to''click here''in order to watch the video directly on the blog itself.)''Fascinating, right?''Anyway, moving on…''The most likely reason why I have such a lack of ideas at the moment is the amount of travel I’ve done in the past two months and the exhaustion that the constant moving around has led to. And now that I’m back in Bucharest, finally able to rest, my brain has shut down somewhat, refusing to do too much thinking until it has a chance to adjust to one time zone and get into a normal rhythm.''Hence the reason why my mushy brain is unable to come up with anything better than a webbed toes video.''Of course, I could just go the more traditional route and write about my New Year’s resolutions for my first post of 2014, but the problem is that I don’t have any New Year’s resolutions. I’ve always believed that if there is something I want to do in life, the best time to start is immediately. Waiting for the New Year to come around to make changes in my life doesn’t seem like a good idea to me. The longer I wait to start something, the less of a chance there is of me actually following through.''So there won’t be any resolutions from me.''On the other hand, and this has nothing to do with it being the start of the year, I have had something on my mind lately, something that I definitely want to accomplish more of in the coming months. And no, it does not involve participating in swimming events so that I can take advantage of my webbed toes.''It’s actually much simpler than that.''I just want to meet more people.''It is true that I meet a lot of people already, that’s for sure. But I must admit that the amount of random people I meet has become less and less lately. I’m talking about striking up conversations with waiters and waitresses, shopkeepers and bakers, bus drivers and police officers, soldiers and tailors, students and retirees, entrepreneurs and any other stranger I come across, everywhere I go, with the sole purpose of exchanging stories, learning from each other and creating as many human connections as I possibly can.''That’s what I love to do. That’s why I’m traveling in the first place. So now it’s up to me to make sure I’m on track and still doing what I love.''If you read this blog, you’ll already know how much I believe in the benefits of human interaction, especially cross-cultural interaction, in terms of breaking down barriers and misunderstandings that could potentially, and needlessly, lead to hatred, discrimination, war and more. And all it takes at times is''saying “hello” to a person''standing next to you on the metro or smiling at the person you pass in the street or asking a question to the person at the next table. The effort required to connect with a fellow human being is so minimal, yet the potential benefits are huge, for everyone involved.''With that said, I do know very well that closing my laptop right now, heading outside and talking to random people won’t exactly “change the world”. It won’t put an end to any wars, violence or widespread hatred. I’d be foolish to think it would.''But, but, but…such an interaction can change a person’s day, it can change someone’s week, it can bring happiness, it can alter someone’s views, it can create friendships and teach us life lessons and so much more. Even if the only result of interacting with a stranger is an exchange of smiles, I personally feel that makes the brief connection more than worthwhile. Such an interaction certainly brings me more happiness than just about anything else in life.''That’s why it’s time for me to focus on meeting more people wherever I go, as of this very moment. I’m genuinely excited about where this will lead, who I will meet and what I will learn as a result.''And this way, I will also be able to promise that the next video I put on this site will highlight one of these interesting random interactions from my travels, something that sounds so much better than my other idea – a video of me cutting my toenails.''Do you talk to random people when you travel? How do you benefit from random human interactions? Any particular goals you have set for yourself right now?''I positioned myself, grabbed hold of the handles, tucked in my legs and asked for a push. And off I went…''While I’d like to say that I zooomed down the hill on my sled at maximum speed, slicing and dicing my way through the snow, hitting jumps and gliding through the air with such beauty and grace and consequently impressing everyone around me, the actual version involved a great deal of unplanned twisting and turning, a bizarre amount of time spent moving backwards, flying through the air in such a painfully clumsy mess, nearly taking out several small children along the way and eventually crashing into, and breaking, a mesh fence or two.''If there’s one thing I told my friends before arriving in Annecy, France for New Years was that I would not be partaking in any outdoor activities. After all, cold weather is not my friend and I truly cannot stand to be outside for more than a few minutes when it is less than 0C/32F.''Of course, on my second day here, after a few glasses of wine and some heavy nagging from my friends, I somehow ended up agreeing to go sledding. Before I knew it, I was in a car that was driving over the Forclaz Pass in the French Alps, climbing higher and higher towards the snow. My friends were all energetically chatting away during that ride, completely prepared with their snow pants and waterproof boots, with their ultra-warm gloves and heavily-insulated jackets. And there was I, horrified at spending time outside, stuck wearing my 10-year old, worn-out sweat pants, the most non-waterproof hiking shoes on the planet, and a ‘winter’ jacket I picked up in H&M for $30 bucks and that protects me from the cold as much as wrapping myself up in lettuce would protect me.''Nonetheless, I soon found myself standing at the top of a hill, fully dreading the fact that I would soon have to get on a sled. And before I knew it, I was indeed on a sled, slowly accelerating as I immediately veered far away from my intended path.''Yes, I crashed. Yes, I rolled through the snow. Yes, ice went into my pants and soaked my rear end. And yes, I was frozen like never before as I laid sprawled out at the bottom of the hill.''Oh, and yes, I forgot to mention that I absolutely loved it all. I loved it just as much as I did when I would go sledding as a kid on Chemung Hill, a good-sized hill located right behind the elementary school I attended. I loved this sledding session so much in fact, that I kept going down that hill, and the several other hills we visited yesterday, over and over again, despite the cold, despite my wet pants (from the snow!!), despite icicles hanging from my nose and despite the sub-freezing temperature of the air.''My friends and I had a genuine blast as we continued to crash and roll, to set speed records (at least in our own minds), to fly through the air, to compete with each other, and to be the only adults on sleds for miles around, screaming and laughing the entire time. Each time I finished a ‘run’ down the hill, I would stand up and give a few high fives, pump my fist in the air and wave to my imaginary fans, all while feeling as if I was indeed the sledding champion of the world.''And amazingly, I now shake my head at the idea that I would have missed out on all this good craziness, and being champion of the world, had I stuck to my original plan of never going outside. What a crappy trip to France that would have been. Lesson learned.''What lesson?''Sometimes you just need to try things you don’t think you would enjoy. You might be surprised.''We all have our set ways, we all have our own ‘rules’, our own likes and dislikes as we move through life. But we owe it to ourselves to evaluate how we live from time to time. Just because I haven’t liked cold weather for the past ten years doesn’t mean that I should avoid it forever.  We all change and what we once did not enjoy, or what we once might have thought uninteresting or even unbearable, might one day prove to be quite the opposite. And even if we discover that we still don’t enjoy something, it doesn’t mean we can’t have a little fun or enjoy certain aspects of it in the process.''It’s not as if this one sledding experience has convinced me to move to the Alps during winter and then hop down to the Andes Mountains in May each year in order to catch another season of pure coldness. I’m still looking forward to the next time I’ll be on a white sand beach, soaking up the sun, as much as I was the day before I went sledding.''However, by forcing myself to do something I wouldn’t ordinarily do, I managed to have an experience that proved to be immensely enjoyable and memorable, an experience that I now would not have wanted to miss out on at all. And as a result, I think I’ll start doing things I typically don’t enjoy more often. I just might discover that I’ve changed.''Seems like a good lesson to learn on this second-to-last day of the year.''Happy New Year!!''Is there something you usually would never do that you might want to try again? Have you been in a similar situation?''Everyone needs some stuff. You don’t need a lot of stuff, but it would be quite difficult to go through life without any stuff at all. And while my goal is still to travel with under 10kg of stuff as often as I possibly can, that still means I own at least 10kg worth of stuff.''George Carlin said that “''A house is just a place to keep your stuff while you go out and get more stuff.''” Luckily, I don’t think that applies to those who live out of a backpack.''During 2013, I continued using some stuff that I have been using for a long time and I’ve also discovered some more stuff that has made my life a little easier or more enjoyable. Again, it’s not a lot of stuff that I own, but it’s some stuff.''And since the holiday season is now here, right here in fact, I figured I would share a quick list of some of that stuff just in case you need any gift ideas for someone you know who likes to travel, which might even be yourself. Certainly we should give ourselves gifts from time to time, right?''I just bought myself a gift here at the Los Angeles International Airport. It was a burrito, one last taste of Tex-Mex food before I board my flight to Romania in a couple of hours. And since it was a special ‘end of the year’ gift, I even paid $1.79 extra for guacamole. Actually, that’s complete nonsense. Well, I am at the airport about to board my flight to Romania and I did just eat a burrito with guacamole, but the new phone below was the real ‘end of the year’ gift for myself. The burrito was just something I couldn’t stop myself from buying. It’s tough being a burrito addict.''Here’s the list…''XShot Camera Extender''– I’ve mentioned this brilliant camera tool quite often over the past year and I’m still using my''Pocket XShot''all the time. And with their new XShot Pro version that’s coming out, which is even sturdier, I’m excited to give it a try and continue taking unique photos (such as''these photos from my travels'') that wouldn’t be possible to take without it.''Eagle Creek Load Warrior Wheeled Duffel 22''– Here’s the thing…I realized recently that sometimes I need a different type of luggage instead of a backpack for those shorter trips where I don’t really have a need to carry my things on my back. And as I was thinking about that, I was contacted by Eagle Creek, and they offered to send me one of their suitcases to use. So I chose the''Load Warrior Wheeled Duffel 22''and it’s turned out to be quite a neat little piece of luggage. It’s lightweight, it can be taken as a carry-on, it has 45 liters of space and it has just the right amount of compartments, at least for me. I’ve used it over the past three weeks here in the US and it’s been quite an excellent travel companion I must say. It’s nothing flashy but it’s practical and that’s exactly what I need. (''*I accepted the Eagle Creek luggage on the condition that I would give it an honest review. I would never accept anything if a positive review was either required or expected.'')''Panasonic Lumix ZS20''– I haven’t changed my stance on this one. In my opinion, the''Lumix ZS20''is a perfect travel camera for those who don’t take photography too seriously. Excellent photos, solid video, small size, 20x zoom, ridiculously low price for what you get…not a bad combination. There’s the newer Lumix ZS30 as well that also gets excellent reviews.''Telecomsquare Mobile Wifi Router''– Yes, it is a bit pricey to carry around one of these devices (about $13 USD per day), however, if you are going on a shorter trip and need to make sure you have access to the internet at all times, this tiny''mobile Wifi router from Telecomsquare''is an ideal device. I’ve now used it in several countries, including twice in India, and it’s worked in every city and town that I’ve visited, as well as in the middle of nowhere. This has allowed me to work at any time and in any location without worrying about finding a reliable Wifi signal.''Macbook Pro w/ Retina Display''– Yes, as I mentioned earlier this year, I made the switch from a Windows laptop to a Macbook Pro. The''post I wrote about the change''turned out to be one of the most controversial posts I’ve ever written, with readers weighing in with all kinds of thoughts. While it might not be for everyone (and I understand every reason why people argue against buying one), I personally love my Macbook Pro as I get a lot more work done on this machine and I enjoy doing that work a whole lot more as well.  And to me, that makes it worth every dollar I spent on it.''Google Nexus 5 Smartphone''– My older Nexus S phone died about a month ago and so I picked up a new''Nexus 5''from the Google Play store. It’s a fun phone to use, it’s an ideal size for me and its features are very impressive, with incredibly accurate results. And at $349 for an unlocked 16 GB version, it’s an excellent value.''Crocs Modi Flip Sandals''– I still love my Crocs, more specifically, the''Modi Flip Flop''. Super lightweight, comfortable and durable, it doesn’t get any better than that for someone who wears sandals often while traveling all the time.''And how about some book stuff…these are my four favorite reads from the past year:''The Pirates of Somalia''by Jay Bahadur''Incognito: The Secret Lives of the Brain''by David Eagleman''Predictably Irrational: The Hidden Forces That Shape Our Decisions''by Dan Ariely''Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption''by Laura Hillenbrand''Have a wonderful, and safe, end to 2013! And as always, I truly appreciate you following along with this blog during the past year, whether it was for the whole year, a few months or even if this is the first time you’ve ever visited. I am already looking forward to more interaction with all of you next year!''(I’ll be back after New Year’s, ready to announce the dates and destinations for a few more Wandering Earl Tours.)''And I’m curious, where are you spending the final week of 2013?''Older Earl:''“Hey, man, how’s it going?”''Younger Earl:''“Not bad, yourself?”''Older Earl:''“Quite well.”''Younger Earl:''“Sweet.”''And so begins the conversation I would have with my younger self, if ever such a conversation were possible. My guess is that, if we could organize such a meeting, we would meet up at Town Spa, a well-known pizza place in my hometown of Stoughton, Massachusetts.''I can see the hostess leading us to our table and then, after we both order an unsweetened iced tea, we would stare at each other for a few minutes, trying to get comfortable. I might chuckle at my younger self’s ridiculous attempt at growing a beard, and my younger self will most likely stare in confusion at my plucked eyebrows, but hey, once we get over these peculiarities, the conversation should flow smoothly, maybe.''Older Earl:''“Hmmm….”''Younger Earl:''“What’s wrong?”''Older Earl:''“I’m trying to think of something to tell you, something to prepare you for the road ahead.”''Younger Earl:''“And you’re having trouble? Haven’t you learned anything over the years?”''Older Earl:''“Sure I have. I mean, let’s see….well, I’ve learned that Bucharest, Romania is a great place to live, especially if you ever plan to work online. And I’ve learned that arriving into Dhaka, Bangladesh by plane late at night is not such a good idea. Those taxi drivers will kidnap you, literally. What else? Here’s one…the best homemade taro chips you’ll find anywhere can be bought from a small general store in American Samoa. And….oh wait! Don’t worry about calling Capital One Bank before you travel anywhere because they’re going to block your account no matter how many times you tell them where you’re going. Yeah, that’s a good one.”''Younger Earl:''“That’s it? That’s all you have to tell me?”''Here’s the problem. The more I think about it, the more I feel that a conversation with my younger self probably wouldn’t be as deep or as inspirational as I might have originally thought. In fact, such a conversation would probably disappoint my younger self and leave him wishing he had just gone out with his much cooler friends that evening instead of spending time eating pizza with me.''While I’ve certainly learned a great deal during the past fourteen years of traveling around this world, I’m just not sure there is much that I wish I had known before I began this adventure. At first, it might seem that I would have wanted to know all of the great life-changing lessons I’ve now picked up, that I would be eager to share the advice and wisdom, about life in general and about myself, that I have gained, and that I would want to spend hours and hours talking with my younger self so that he ventures into the world as a more prepared and knowledgeable individual.''I actually started compiling a list of all the things I would want to tell my younger self. I have it open right now in another document. But the more I read the list, the more I realize that I actually don’t want to tell my younger self any of these things at all.''The main reason why these lessons and bits of wisdom are so important to me now is because I had to work hard to learn them. I had to struggle, to fail and to challenge myself over and over again in order to gain a little more understanding about who I am as a person and about the world I live in. And in the end, it is the struggles, the failures, the challenges, as well as the successes, that have shaped who I am and that have led me to try and improve myself as a human being as much as possible.''And if I were to go sit down with my younger self, that innocent, naïve 21 year old who is just about to graduate from university, I wouldn’t want to spoil the adventure ahead for him. I wouldn’t want him to know what I know now or else he wouldn’t have a chance to figure out life on his own.''I want him to start off naïve and innocent and completely clueless, just him and his life goals, staring into the future, uncertain and unaware of where it will all lead. I want him to try and uncover what is most important to him, what he wants to achieve and which direction he should take in order to succeed.''This way, my younger self would be forced to learn, not from my words or the words he can read in books, but from his own life experiences, which in my opinion is the most important educational tool we have access to. The wonder of life lies in those very experiences and in the actual discoveries that we make about ourselves as we venture off into and through the unknown, with only an open mind to help us move forward. I could indeed share an impressive-sounding collection of wisdom and pieces of advice with my younger self, but without my younger self actually getting out there into the world and making the same mistakes and earning the same victories, without him hitting bottom and rising up again, without him feeling truly lost and confused and without him knowing pure fear and pure happiness first-hand, my words mean nothing.''Older Earl:''“That pizza was good! Just how I remembered it.”''Younger Earl:''“Older Earl, are you sure there’s nothing else you want to share with me? You’ve seen and done so much, surely you have some advice to give me.”''Older Earl:''“Well, I already told you about my favorite beach hut in Goa, right?”''Younger Earl:''“Yup.”''Older Earl:''“How about working on cruise ships? It really is such a great opportunity to save money, network with people from….”''Younger Earl:''“…all around the world, and have one hell of a good time in the process. I know, you already mentioned that, several times.”''Older Earl:''“How about the amazing Dona Mary’s Tostada Restaurant in Playa del Carmen, did I forget to tell you that it’s closed on Mondays?”''Younger Earl:''“You told me.”''Older Earl:''“Hmmm…all that’s left to say is that you shouldn’t be afraid to get out there and live the life you want. You really can do anything you set your mind to, as simple as that sounds. Do you mind if I have that last piece of pizza?”''What would you tell your younger self if you had the chance?''It’s been some four years since I wrote my first blog post on this site. Four insane years.''When I clicked the “Publish” button on that very first post back in 2009, never could I have envisioned the wild ride that this website would lead me on. Never could I have imagined that a silly thing like a blog could play such a major role in everything I would do from that point forward.''How did this happen? Seriously, how did it happen?''I sure have no idea. And the more I think about it, the more clueless I am.''What I do know though is that I’ve met a massive amount of incredible people during this blogging adventure and I’ve learned a great deal about myself, about others, about the world in general. I’ve also learned what is important to me in life and I’ve discovered that there is definitely no one right way to do anything.''In fact, regarding that last point, and in terms of blogging, if I were to listen to all of the advice out there about how to blog correctly, I probably wouldn’t still be blogging today. I remember trying to figure out ‘how to blog’ when I first started and I also remember getting a headache after every research session. So much information out there, so many people telling me one thing, so many people telling me another thing. You need to do this, you need to do that. If you don’t do this your blog will explode, if you don’t do that you’ll never, ever, ever, ever have any readers.''Information and advice overload!''Before I continue, I know that many of you are bloggers as well or you’re thinking about blogging at some point. I know that you probably have tons of questions and you want to know what you should do in order to ensure that you achieve all of your blogging goals.''And while I could pretend right now to provide you with answers to those questions, answers full of advice that I could claim you ‘must’ follow in order to become a successful blogger (whatever that means), I’d rather just tell you that there are no rules, tips or pieces of advice, from anyone, that you ‘must’ follow to make that happen.''So, that’s why this guide to travel blogging is not about telling you how to blog. I’m about to tell you how I blog instead. Maybe it will prove useful to you in some way or maybe it will all sound absurd and give you a headache.''We shall see.''Be Yourself, Not Just Another Travel Blogger''It all starts here. I don’t consider this site a travel blog. I consider my site a blog, a blog about my lifestyle, and my lifestyle just happens to involve a great deal of travel. As you’ll notice, I don’t only write about travel. I write about things happening in my life, about how I feel, the challenges I face, the lessons I learn. Yes, much of that is related to travel since I am traveling all the time but I’m trying to share my personal experiences no matter what I’m doing.''Early on, I realized that there were indeed thousands of travel bloggers out there. And I remember thinking it was strange that we all wanted to be classified as a ‘travel blogger’ in the first place. Why do we need to be in such a category? In fact, being classified as such tricks us into thinking that we must always write about travel, about ‘what to do in Paris’ or about topics that you would find on thousands of travel websites already, when that’s not the case at all.''So, that’s why I decided that I didn’t need to be a travel blogger. I needed to be a blogger. This instantly freed me up to write about absolutely anything, allowing me to be more human and more personal in what I write and hopefully, to connect with all of you on a much different level as a result.''How I Gained An Audience''I’ll admit, I got a bit lucky on this one. My post “''How I Can Afford My Life of Constant Travel''” became quite popular somehow and ever since I wrote it back in June of 2011, it has brought me several thousand visitors per day. And since a lot of people connect with that post, many of its readers have stuck around and become regular visitors to the site, for which I am greatly thankful.''However, you don’t need a near-viral post to gain an audience. If I think about it, I can understand why that particular post was indeed popular. Based on the comments and the emails I receive, it is clear that this post resonates with a lot of you and has helped some of you realize that your travel goals are indeed achievable.''And that’s the key. When I write a post, my aim is to make it useful. I want to always help others in some way. Sure, sometimes it works, and sometimes I fail, that’s how it goes. Sometimes I just write plain nonsense because that’s the mood I’m in. You can’t write a useful or interesting post every time but you still don’t want to lose track of that goal. If your posts aren’t helping others, or entertaining them or making them think differently than they would normally think, it will be difficult to grow an audience because you are not creating any bridge between the two of you.''Just imagine yourself, it’s what I do. Let me clarify…I actually think about myself, not about your self, at least not in a naughty way, usually. Ok, back on track here…''I always imagine myself visiting my own blog. I certainly wouldn’t become a regular reader of my site, or any site, if what I read didn’t provide some value to me.''Keep that in mind. If you write posts aimed at attracting advertisers or you write posts whose sole purpose is to show up in Google searches for specific keywords or posts that are written just for the sake of writing something, I’d say you’re off track.''You simply forgot about the most important aspect of your blog – your readers. You can never forget about your readers. Never, ever, even if there is only one.''Everything you do should be done to enhance their experience. That’s something I’ve always believed and will never change my mind about because, as I’ve said before many times, without all of you, this blog wouldn’t exist and as a result, my life would not be as fulfilling as it currently is.''How I Continue To Try And Grow My Blog''Once I started to enjoy a consistent number of visitors finding this site each day, it was time to start thinking about ways to grow the readership at a faster pace, right? Well, yes. But, no. I love when my readership grows of course but I don’t really put much effort into making it happen apart from trying to continue writing useful posts. For me, it all comes back to that.''That’s why I sometimes write a post where I ask all of you what you would like me to write about. It’s not a trick question. It’s actually quite simple. I really want to know what you want me to write about so that I can provide you with exactly that.''I’ll be honest, writing doesn’t come naturally to me at all. It’s a struggle at times for me to put together a post and there are days, or even weeks, when I have real difficulty figuring out what to write. So, by telling me what kind of information you are looking for, I am able to ensure that I am providing you with posts that interest you, as often as I possibly can.''And my hope is that the more I can offer such posts, the more the word will spread about the blog to others who are looking for the same kind of information, the same blog experience. That can then lead to more mentions in various media outlets, on other blogs and even through word of mouth, bringing more readers into the community.''It’s All About The Community''About three months after I started this blog, I made a promise to myself. I promised to answer every email and comment that I would ever receive. Sure, I think I had downed a few, or seven, beers before I said it but I’ve tried my best to stick with it nonetheless. Unfortunately, I’ve failed myself with this one. While I do answer every single email and I do try to reply to every comment, I’ve realized that it’s just not possible to reply to them all.''I already spent about four hours per day answering emails and comments and I’m just unable to spend more time on it. My apologies to anyone whose message I may have missed…it’s not intentional at all. You can always feel free to write me again if I didn’t get back to you or leave another comment and just let me know I missed it the first time. I will respond!''This site is all about the community of readers, you, as I’ve mentioned above. And in my opinion, there can only be a strong, engaged community if the blogger plays a major role in the site apart from just writing posts, and only if the blogger truly loves being a part of it all as well.''This is why I reply to all emails. I love hearing from you, I love hearing your stories and reading your questions. And I love sharing whatever advice I can to hopefully help you achieve your travel goals. I want you to know that I’m as accessible as possible and that I don’t just write a post and then forget about it, and in turn, forget about you. This is how I believe blogging should work.''Social Media, Keeping It Simple''I used to spend about one to one and a half hours on Twitter and Facebook every single day, at least for the first two years. Did it help? Well, the best thing I received from the time I spent on Twitter in those early days were the connections I made. I met new people, interacted with other bloggers and travelers and learned a great deal from so many of them. This also helped me to start spreading the word about my blog and to finally get that consistent trickle of readers that causes bloggers to run up and down the street in their underwear, shouting their excitement at the top of their lungs and hugging every single person they see, until they get arrested of course.''So yes, social media, as well as commenting on other blogs and just interacting with the general travel blogging, as well as lifestyle blogging, financial blogging, motivational blogging, and other communities (not necessarily attaching yourself to any particular community, just interacting from your own space) was fantastic and definitely a major stepping stone in getting this blog off the ground.''And as many of you know, you could easily spend hours commenting and being on social media sites, trying your best to connect with even more people, to promote your site everywhere, to attract even one more reader over to your blog!''It can certainly be addicting, which is why, these days, I only spend ten minutes per day, maybe fifteen, on social media, which for me is still only Twitter and Facebook.''Call me old fashioned (or just old!) but I don’t really like to use any other social media sites. Not only do I have limited time but I just don’t have the interest. I spend enough time online as it is and as a result, I would rather skip out on those other social media sites and use my time to be outdoors enjoying my travels or wherever I happen to be staying at the time.''Would I benefit from more time on social media? Most likely yes. But at some point you need to find a balance and I’m personally willing to give up those benefits for more offline time doing other things that I love to do.''But don’t get me wrong, it doesn’t mean that I don’t enjoy social media. In fact, I thoroughly enjoy the interactions I have on my''Wandering Earl Facebook Page''. Every day I look forward to sharing random things with you, hearing your thoughts about whatever I post, learning from you and just getting to know so many new people, even if it’s through one comment or like at a time.''The point is, every blogger needs to figure out what works best for themselves. Do what you enjoy in terms of social media, skip what you don’t. That will take you much farther than trying to do ‘everything’ just because you’ve read in every guide to travel blogging that you need to be on Twitter, Facebook, Pinterest, Google +, Instagram, StumbleUpon, Tumblr, Foursquare and every other social media site for a minimum of six hours per day in order to be a ‘successful’ blogger.''Earning An Income Through A Blog''This is always the big topic to discuss as it seems like many people are starting a blog these days strictly to earn money from it. In my view, that’s the wrong reason to start a blog, or at least it shouldn’t be the focus before you even have an audience. I can’t say it enough. If your readers, or potential readers, aren’t your major focus, it’s going to be quite a difficult, and most likely disappointing, road ahead.''While it may appear that something like advertising income is easy to earn through a blog, what you have to realize is that nobody is going to pay to advertise on your site unless you can offer some value in return. That’s how advertising works. Nobody will pay $100 to place an ad in your sidebar if you don’t have an audience to actually see that ad. It wouldn’t make sense.''Also, if your focus is on attracting advertisers, consider again what you would want if you visited your own blog for the first time. That’s what I did. I asked myself, “''Would I stick around if my site was plastered with advertising? No way. Would I keep on reading each week if every post had sponsored links in it? Not a chance. Would I visit my site more than once if I felt that the writer’s focus was on earning money from their audience instead of helping them? Hell no.''”''That was all it took to convince me to pay close attention to the advertising I place on my site, which as you can see, is quite limited.''But I am aware that a blogger must spend so much time on their blog that it’s hard to put in the effort without receiving some financial gain. I understand that and felt the same way. Blogging can be a full-time job and I don’t know of too many people who would work a full-time job without getting paid for it!''Back in 2010, as the site started to grow, I thought long and hard about how to proceed. Eventually, I reached the conclusion that accepting advertising was a poor long-term strategy. So I decided to give up almost all of the potential advertising revenue that I could earn from that point onwards (I do accept a few ads per year) in the hopes of growing a larger audience, of creating a larger community of readers, of creating a site that visitors wanted to spend time on without being annoyed by ads.''My idea is that if you blog for your readers and you provide them with the blog experience that you would want yourself, you’ll discover other ways to earn some money, ways that will hopefully benefit your audience to an even greater extent.''I won’t go through it all here but you can read how I’ve been able to earn money in this post: “''How I Make Money Online To Support My Travels''”.''The only thing I’ve added since writing that post is something you’ll find on my contact page. When sending me questions or asking for advice via email, I do suggest making a $5 donation to my''Wander Fund''. The main reason is that again, I do spend over four hours answering emails every single day and I put a great deal of effort into every single message I write, always striving to offer the most detailed advice and answers to your questions that I possibly can. Will I answer your email if you don’t make a donation? Absolutely! It’s simply a suggestion based on the amount of time I do spend in putting together a thorough and hopefully helpful reply.''Overall, do I earn millions as a travel, sorry, as a blogger? No. Do I earn what I feel, and what I hope you, my readers, feel, is a fair wage for the amount of time and effort I put into this site, into my eBooks, into my tours, into everything I do that is related to this blog? Yes, I honestly do.''Conclusion''I’m quite a stubborn person. While I’m always open to advice and instruction from other people, I have a hard time actually listening and following that advice and instruction sometimes. I prefer to do things my own way, or at least to discover on my own, how I should do something.''The funny thing is that I realized, when it comes to blogging, you have to do it your own way. If you try to follow others or copy exactly what other bloggers are doing, you probably won’t get too far. You can learn from others for sure but you need to always remember to be yourself, to blog in your own style, to create your own rules and to always try and provide value to your particular readership if you want to stand out at all.''That’s what I think anyway.''Hopefully, you don’t have a headache at this point. If you do, just ignore everything above and you’ll feel much, much better.''Any questions about blogging? Any advice you want to share based on your own blogging experiences?''Her name is Eliza Massey. She’s 57 years old and she’s riding her motorcycle around a good chunk of the world over a period of 18 months…all on her own. I met Eliza while in Palolem, Goa, in the south of India, just a couple of weeks ago. Her mighty BMW G650, complete with a “USA” sticker on the side and a license plate from the state of “Maine”, had caught my attention when I first saw it and after trying to locate the owner for a couple of days, I finally tracked her down.''And it turns out Eliza was nice enough to sit and chat with me for a couple of hours on the balcony of my beach hut one evening. We just sat there talking travel, about our lives, about what it’s like to be a solo female traveler in much for the world (which I knew little about of course), and the more I heard her speak, the more I wanted to share her story right here.''So, for those of you afraid to travel on your own, for those of you who think that it’s impossible for a solo female traveler to truly get out there and explore the world, for those of you who think that there’s no time left for you to achieve your travel goals, this is one post you might want to read.''Who Is Eliza Massey?''Eliza smiles often. She loves people and she’s clearly intent on enjoying her life to the fullest. She also loves the fact that while she’s traveling the world, her daughter is backpacking around Australia at the same time.''From what I could tell there are only two things she doesn’t like about travel. The first is the reduction in genuine human interaction these days due to our obsession with technology, with travelers always on their phones and tablets when they could be looking up and enjoying a new experience. The second, which I’ll talk about more in a moment, is when travelers complain about, instead of appreciate, their travel experiences.''Eliza began her journey some 14 months ago in the town of Camden, Maine and has so far driven her BMW motorcycle throughout the US, Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama….then crossing into South America via the San Blas Islands before continuing on through Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia and Argentina….and then…..she shipped her bike across the Atlantic and rode through South Africa, Lesotho, Swaziland, Mozambique, Malawi, Kenya and Tanzania….at which point she shipped her bike to Mumbai…and started riding south. She hit Goa, threw her stuff down and planned to relax for a couple of weeks before riding around India for four months, at the end of which she will finally return to the USA.''As I listened to her tales, which included biking through tribal battles in Kenya, meeting mayors and dignitaries, invitations to camel races, being interviewed on South African television, random radio appearances, riding along empty roads lined with government snipers in the drug-cartel controlled north of Mexico, getting lost over and over again in Central America, meeting incredible people who helped her out when she needed assistance in the middle of Malawi and on and on, and all of which she told with that trademark smile on her face, I couldn’t help but find myself even more inspired than usual.''“''You’re never tool old to do a trip by yourself,” she told me. “You just need to get up and make it happen. One day I just woke up and realized, ‘Sh*t, I can go’ and so I did.''” Hell yeah she did.''Travel Is All About The People''The reason Eliza travels is quite simple. It’s all about the people for her. Sure, there are certain destinations and sights that she would like to see but at the end of the day, she just rides along the roads of the world with the sole goal of interacting with new and interesting people as much as she possibly can.''She believes in a “we are all one” philosophy (which she talks about on the ‘About Me’ page of''her blog'') where travelers should celebrate the human spirit by going out into the world and meeting its people in order to bring back those experiences and share the positive lessons learned with those at home. And every time Eliza travels overseas, she comes home with another bundle of such positive lessons to share, with even more love for her fellow human beings and with an even stronger belief that despite our differences, people all around the world are the same.''And if you’re ever in her presence, you’ll instantly notice that she puts her words into action every moment of the day in the way that she treats the people she comes across. “''The way we treat our fellow human beings is extremely important,''” she said at one point and she’s not joking. She is always polite, interested, understanding and so culturally aware no matter who she is speaking with that it’s no surprise everyone around her tends to be smiling as well.''In fact, she takes her cultural awareness quite seriously, which leads to her feeling of frustration when other travelers start complaining about certain things. Her typical reaction when she overhears complaining is…''“''What are you complaining about? Who cares if your hummus in India doesn’t taste 100% authentic or that there is no electricity for an hour or the wifi isn’t as strong as you want? Have respect for locals…you’re in a different part of the world, surrounded by a different way of life, a different culture…so don’t complain, understand how your fellow human beings, those who are living in the places you are visiting, live their lives. Don’t complain just because it’s not what you expected or you are unable to live the same as you do back at home. Just love and respect others instead, appreciate and experience and share in their culture.''”''As for Eliza, she never gets upset, simply because “''there is never a reason to. If I get lost, why get mad? If my bike breaks down? There’s no point in getting angry. I look at every situation I face as an opportunity to meet new people and to have new, educational experiences. As a result, nothing is ever worth getting upset over.''”''Safety Advice For The Solo Female Traveler''Eliza tells me that she’s definitely “''pro-solo female travel''”, something she feels is “''very safe on the whole, but you can’t get drunk and walk around late at night.''” Like many solo female travelers, she believes that common sense goes a long way, and without it, you’ll be in trouble. She also believes that you need to act responsibly when in new surroundings and that females on their own do need to be a little more cautious before trusting people they meet.''Of course, given her vast travel experiences, and given the destinations she has visited and the fact that she always travels solo, I knew that Eliza would have much more to say about safety, so I asked her to share some more of her own advice. And this is what she shared…''It happens all the time of course. I show up in a new town, I check out a few different guesthouses or budget hotels, I ask for the room prices and then I make a decision. And when I first started traveling, I would almost always choose the cheapest option for the sole purpose of saving my money. However, that is no longer the case these days, and the same is true whether I’m looking for a place to eat, an activity to participate in or anything else I might do while on the road.''I’ve realized something. The cheapest option is not always the best option…for me.''When we travel, especially as budget travelers, we tend to have the mindset that we must spend the least amount of money possible. We want whatever money we have to last longer, we want our travels to last longer, and as a result, the only way to achieve those goals is to stay at the cheapest guesthouses, to eat as cheaply as possible, to skip out on certain activities and to make use of only the cheapest transportation options available.''And that is perfectly fine. If I spend $10 overall today instead of $30, the money I save will absolutely help me stay on the road another day or so. Likewise, if you have $3000 in your bank account, you could spend $1000 per month and travel for three months, or you could spend even less money everywhere you go, travel for $600 per month and extend your trip for another sixty days.''But the thing is, travel, even budget travel, is not all about spending less. It’s about having the most complete experience, or in better words, the experience that matches your interests and goals the best. That is why, even though I naturally prefer to save money wherever I can while traveling, I also understand that sometimes it’s actually worth it for me to spend more.''Here’s an example…''For the past six nights I’ve been in Istanbul staying at a place called the''Agora Guesthouse'', the same guesthouse I stay at pretty much every time I’m in this great city. Prices at the Agora are definitely not the cheapest around and even a bed in a dorm room costs up to one and a half times what you can find elsewhere. As a result, many people would instantly give this place a pass.''However, I stay here because the extra money I spend leads to a much more enhanced experience than if I stay somewhere else down the road for a fraction of the price. My extra money gets me a supremely comfortable mattress (even in the dorm rooms) that allows me to sleep ever so soundly each night, it gets me an excellent, healthy, fresh, varied breakfast every morning (included in the price), it gets me an ultra-cozy, enclosed roof-top terrace with a sea view for me to relax or work in whenever I want, it gets me a large team of friendly staff to not only receive assistance from, but to interact and converse with as well.''I’m able to enjoy my days of wandering, and gain so much more from my travels here in Istanbul, after such a good sleep, such a good breakfast and a productive few hours of work in the morning from that splendid roof-top. And this is why I’m perfectly happy to shell out the extra money to stay here (after all, that mattress, breakfast, extra staff, comfortable sofas and so on costs the owners of the Agora money, so it is reasonable that their beds and rooms would be more expensive as well).''Of course, it’s up to us as individual travelers to determine whether or not the benefit received from spending more on something is actually worth it. It depends on each of our needs and goals.''Another example for me involves the trains in India. When taking those trains, I now usually travel in 1st Class 3A, which is the lowest level of first class (there are three levels). I used to travel in 2nd Class Sleeper because it was cheaper, until I realized that paying some extra money for the 3A class made more sense for me. First, it’s more comfortable, the beds are thicker and come with sheets, pillows and blankets, allowing me to actually get a good night’s sleep, something that was much more difficult for me when traveling on 2nd Class Sleeper. In addition, the passengers in 1st Class 3A tend to speak more English and so, I typically end up having plenty of interesting conversations and meeting plenty of new people, something that has lead to a variety of rewarding experiences.''With 1st Class 3A, once I arrive in my destination, even after something like a 14-hour overnight journey, I’m well rested, feeling good and I’m fully ready to explore. I’m not tired and cranky as I would often be after a journey in 2nd Class Sleeper, which would force me to spend the entire next day catching up on sleep and trying to get into a better mood.''To me, what I gain from traveling in 1st Class 3A is worth me spending an extra $10 or $15.''Don’t get me wrong, I’m not saying that I always choose a more expensive option these days when faced with a spending decision. Trust me, there are plenty of times when the value received by spending more money is not worth it to me and I’m perfectly content with the cheapest option available. It’s just that I’m more aware of what I want to gain from my travels and I understand that sometimes it will cost a little extra to achieve what I’m after.''I also understand that a higher price doesn’t always equate to a more enhanced experience. Sometimes tourism-related individuals and companies inflate their prices simply to try and squeeze as much money as they can from tourists, without offering much in return. Luckily though, we have online research available to us to make sure that something really is worth spending more money on and that it’s not simply a rip off.''In the end, as is the case with all things travel, it comes down to each of us. What works for me might not work for you and vice versa. Everyone needs to find their own balance in terms of the experiences you wish to have, what you hope to gain, how much comfort you need to achieve your goals and ultimately, how much you want to spend each day as well.''All I’m trying to say here is that instead of automatically thinking that the best option is to always spend as little money as you can in order to to try and travel for the longest period of time possible, you should first think about what you receive in return for the money you do spend. You may very well be happy always choosing the cheapest options, but for some, you might discover that spending some extra cash will lead to a more fulfilling travel experience overall, the kind of experience you were hoping for before you set out on your adventure.''How do you view money when you travel? If you haven’t traveled yet, do you think you would always try to spend less wherever you could?''My latest visit to India is about to come to an end. And from my beach hut balcony I now sit, staring out at the Indian Ocean, writing in rhythm with the lightly crashing waves, wondering how I still have my teeth given the amount of sand that has ended up in my mouth as of late…and most importantly, feeling as relaxed and clear-minded as I had hoped I would be from spending twelve days on Palolem Beach in Goa.''That’s twice in a row now. Two visits to Palolem in the past year, both visits to try and clear my head. Both visits a major success.''Maybe it’s the beach. Maybe it’s the quietness of the village. Maybe it’s all the fresh fruit I’ve been eating. Maybe it’s the breakfast-sun-work-wander-swim-sunset-dinner routine I’ve been partaking in every single day.''Whatever it is, I will leave India feeling happy and healthy, ready for the next adventure, ready to continue creating, thinking, enjoying and living life to the fullest.''Back to my beach hut balcony. Here it is…''Not bad, right?''During my''previous visit to Palolem''back in December/January, I stayed at a place called''Resort de Palolem''which was by no means anything that resembled a resort. However, they had some of the best value beach huts on the entire beach and staying there was an absolute highlight of my visit. But when I returned this year, six weeks earlier than when I arrived last year, Resort de Palolem was an empty patch of grass. Since it wasn’t the busy tourist season yet, they had not even started building their huts, something they have to do every year because the local law requires all beachfront establishments to take down all huts and restaurants during the off-season.''So, this year, off in search of a new hut I went. And that’s how I found''Havana Palolem'', where I am now, and where I’ve been for the past twelve days. This hut definitely rivals my hut from last year, offering a spacious interior (in comparison to other huts in the area), a comfortable bed, plenty of light and an ocean view, all located in a quiet little “hut neighborhood” only steps from the beach. Ideal indeed!''And the prices, always negotiable, range from around 2000 Indian Rupees for a hut on stilts down to around 800 Indian Rupees for a standard version, which is a great value on this beach, hence the reason why I would fully recommend staying here.''In fact, as I began this post, which was originally only going to be about Goa, I realized that there are all sorts of accommodation in India that I would love to recommend as well. Palolem isn’t the only destination I travel to over here and after 10+ visits and 2.5 years in total spent in India, I certainly have my favorite hotels and guesthouses. And perhaps this information will prove useful to anyone coming to India who is trying to figure out how to choose places to stay.''(Keep in mind that this list will focus on the north of India since that is the region where I’ve spent most of my time during my last few visits.)''My Favorite Accommodation In India''Delhi:''For years I’ve stayed at the''Smyle Inn''in Paharganj, a busy market area that is definitely hectic and intense, but is also conveniently located and somewhat easy to adjust to given that most budget travelers do stay over here. Smyle Inn offers good, clean rooms, with fans, air-conditioning, private bathrooms, free breakfast, solid wifi throughout and friendly, trustworthy staff who can assist with anything you may need. They have slightly smaller and cheaper rooms in their original building and larger, more expensive (around 1000 rupees per night) rooms in their ‘newer’ wing. Overall, this place is as reliable a budget option as there is in Delhi which is why I am always recommending it to travelers headed to this city.''McLeod Ganj:''When visiting this village in the Himalayan foothills, I head straight to''Pink House''these days. Yes, you have to walk down 147 stone steps to reach it, and you must indeed walk up 147 stone steps to get back into town, but believe me, it’s all worth it when you see the view from your private balcony. And that’s not to mention the large, comfortable, warmly-decorated rooms, private bathrooms and helpful manager who will make sure you are happy throughout your stay. Cheaper rooms are in the old building, and slightly pricier, but significantly nicer, rooms are in the newer building. Expect to pay between 600 – 1400 Rupees per night depending on room type and season.''Agra:''I’m not a fan of the area known as Taj Ganj, a neighborhood that is jam-packed with budget hotels and tourist restaurants and cafes. In my opinion, there’s a negative vibe over there and as a result, I prefer to stay away. I tend to stay at a random hotel called''Hotel Daawat Palace'', located just a two minute walk from the West Entrance to the Taj Mahal. Most of the people staying here are Indian tourists with a sprinkling of foreigners too but the rooms are larger than most in Agra, quite clean, come with air-conditioning, a large open courtyard on the third floor and a rooftop with a view of the Taj as well. The rates hover around 1000 rupees per night, a good deal for this class of room in this city, which happens to be one of the most expensive in the country when it comes to accommodation. (Also, just next door to the Dawat Palace is the''Maya Restaurant'', which I think is one of the most reliable restaurants, with great tasting food that does not cost a fortune, in all of Agra.)''Bundi:''Oh yes. Whenever I think of the''Shivam Guesthouse'', I immediately start to smile because I’ve had nothing but wonderfully memorable experiences while staying here over the years. Bright, clean, colorful rooms in an old family home right in the heart of town, run by a family who are all as helpful and kind as can be. It’s not possible to stay here and not be extremely happy, trust me on this one. Great food on the rooftop restaurant, only a few minutes walk from the Bundi Palace and as an added bonus, the owner’s daughter-in-law is one of the most talented henna artists I’ve ever seen in India and she’ll gladly henna ladies’ arms, hands, legs or feet for a small fee. Room prices are around 300 – 1000 rupees.''Udaipur:''Poonam Haveli Hotel''. Remember those two words and you’ll be all set. Simple, but spacious, quiet and absolutely spotless rooms, some designed in the style of a room in an old haveli (historical Indian private mansion), an unreal rooftop view of Lake Pichola and the surrounding area, and as perfect a location as you can get in this city. And you get it all for around 1000 Rupees per night. (If you’re looking for something less expensive, go to the''Panorama Guest House''. 400 rupees per night will get you a double room with private bathroom in a superb budget establishment.)''Varanasi:''Some people prefer to stay in the heart of the Old City and I’ve certainly done that myself. And when I do, I stay at the''Palace On Step Hotel''(also known as Ajaya Guesthouse), located right behind Rana Mahal Ghat, on the edge of the Ganges River. The rooms, spread out over a few buildings, all vary in terms of price and quality so make sure you look at as many rooms as they have available before choosing. And be sure to ask for a room that has a window overlooking the Ganges. The staff might be a little grumpy at times, but given that you’re a 30-second walk from the bank of the river and a 30-second walk from the heart of the Old City, and you have a clean room in a town that doesn’t have a great deal of quality budget accommodation, it’s still well worth it. Rooms here range from 800 – 5000 rupees per night.''On the other hand, if you prefer some peace and quiet instead during your stay in Varanasi, then I recommend heading south along the river, just past Assi Ghat, and staying at the excellent''Rahul Guesthouse''. As you pull up to the place, you’ll probably think that you’re experience is going to be anything but enjoyable, but once you enter your room, you’ll feel a lot better. The rooms are much more modern and comfortable than you would ever expect, the rooftop offers one of the best views of the city and the river that you’ll find anywhere, the neighborhood, while very local, is only a short walk away from the ghats and from plenty of restaurants and cafes, and there are also rickshaws hanging around that will whisk you into the Old City for 60 rupees. This place offers a truly quiet, peaceful experience, and the owners, a very kind family, will do their best to make you as comfortable as possible. Rooms typically cost from 800 – 2500 rupees.''Mumbai:''If you need to be near the airport, have a look at the''Anjali Inn''. It’s a small hotel located less than a mile from the airport entrance, with small, but more-than-comfortable rooms with private bathrooms and hot water for around 700 rupees (which is a bargain in Mumbai!). The staff are friendly, there is no shortage of restaurants on the main road out front and an airport pick-up and drop-off service is offered for guests as well.''If you want to be in the heart of the city, I would recommend the''YWCA International Guest House''(men and women are welcome) over in the Fort area which is probably one of the best budget values in Mumbai. Otherwise, if you want to stay in the popular Colaba neighborhood, which is the main travelers hangout, I would just head there and go door to door looking for a room that suits you. Quality is generally quite low over here and the prices are shockingly high, but there are dozens of options to choose from so eventually you should find a room that is good enough and won’t clear out your bank account. Then again, for the real budget-conscious, you might want to have a look at this''no-frills budget hotel''that I reviewed last year.''Good timing. My taxi driver has just arrived to take me from Palolem to the airport. And I’m all packed and ready to move on. So, upon closing my laptop in just a few seconds, I shall walk down the steps of my perfect little beach hut one final time, I shall bid farewell to the beautiful Indian Ocean and I shall walk away wondering when I’ll have the good fortune to find myself back in this small slice of paradise.''In the meantime, I hope the above helps and if you have any questions about accommodation in India, just let me know!''**I was''not''paid by any of the hotels or guesthouses for mentioning them here. None of them even know I’m mentioning them in this post. These are my 100% honest recommendations based on my years of travel to India.''Any of your own Indian accommodation recommendations to share?''Not a single thing did I know about organizing or leading tours. However, back in 2012, after receiving several requests from readers, I decided to offer a tour to India anyway, taking on the project with the exact same approach with which I’ve taken on just about every other project I’ve started in my life.''“''I’ll figure it out somehow.''”''So, I sat down and got to work.''Fast forward to today and I’m staring at a spreadsheet on my computer screen, trying to decide how many tours I’ll be offering next year, and to which regions of the world. Somehow, I figured it out.''When I decided to offer that''first tour to India'', I was ready to do anything and everything possible to ensure that it was a success. I didn’t care if that one tour would lead to more tours down the road. All I cared about was pulling this one tour off, turning that little spark of an idea, the idea that a travel blogger could offer, organize and lead a rewarding tour, and that people would actually want to join such a tour, into reality. I made a general plan, studied potential itineraries, calculated expenses, got in touch with local contacts, researched rules and laws, studied every destination, imagined every potential obstacle…and then repeated it all over and over and over and over again until I felt completely confident in the tour that I had created.''And then, before I really even had time to think about what was happening, the India tour took place, it went ever so smoothly, and I soon found myself organizing trips to Mexico, Istanbul, Romania & Moldova and another one to India. The tours were announced, they sold out and off we went…five tours have now been completed, with more to come, and just like that, a small tour company was started.''Back to my spreadsheet for next year…I already know that I’ll be offering a third trip to''India''(March) and a trip to''Iraqi Kurdistan''(May) as well. At the moment, there are two spots left on the India trip and two on the Iraqi Kurdistan adventure, so if you’re interested, please send me an email and I’ll forward you the details. Other trips I hope to run in 2014 include Southeast Asia, another trip to Mexico and perhaps a trip to Romania and Bulgaria or maybe around the Balkans.''Just writing about these tours gets me excited. I’m excited because I get to organize and lead more tours, which I love to do, I get to meet and travel with more of you in person and admittedly, I’m also excited at the fact that I managed to figure it all out.''How You Can Figure Things Out Too''I had an idea. Actually, you, my wonderful readers, had the idea. I took the idea (to lead tours), focused on it and piece by piece, tried to build something larger. It took a lot of effort, plenty of experimentation and a good amount of time but for not one second did I ever think I would not achieve my goal. It is that undying belief, that pure determination to succeed, that drove me forward each time I sat down to work on this project.''And once that first tour to India had come to an end and I announced a couple of more trips, that belief carried over, and once again, I couldn’t imagine anything but that next set of tours being a success as well.''Think about this…when you sit down to work on something or you set your mind towards a particular goal, do you believe in yourself, do you fully believe in your ability to achieve whatever you are working towards?''Last week, I received an email from someone who wants to travel more than anything. Long-term, indefinite travel has been his goal for many years and as he inches closer towards the potential start of such a journey, he is feeling unsure that he will be able to make it happen. In fact, he is feeling more than unsure. He admitted that he is downright pessimistic about his ability to achieve his travel goals and he really doesn’t think long-term travel is actually possible for him.''When I replied to his message, the first thing I told him was this: “''If you already believe you’re going to fail before you’ve even started, you might as well not even start. You will fail. When you find a goal that gets you so excited that you know you are going to achieve it, that’s something worth working towards.''”''If I had started my Wandering Earl Tours project thinking that it wouldn’t work, or even doubting that it would work, the chances of it actually succeeding would have been incredibly slim. But as soon as I began entertaining the idea of offering such tours, I checked in with myself first. Did I believe I could make it happen? Hell yeah I did. And only because I believed so wholeheartedly in the concept, in the benefits that it would hopefully give those who participated and in my ability to somehow figure it out, did I move forward with the idea.''Of course, there are other factors involved with whether or not an idea will work. First, you need to have a good idea, one that makes sense –  logistically, financially, etc. – an idea that shows all the signs of being a solid success if everything does fall into place. But assuming that you do have a solid idea, having a foundation built of determination and belief is going to give you the support you’ll need to turn that idea into something substantial, to achieve that end goal.''Let’s stop for a second and all ask ourselves these questions.''Do you believe in what you are trying to achieve right now? Can you envision anything but success?''The answers to those very questions might help you determine whether or not your current projects/goals are a good match for you at this point in your life and whether or not you will be able to actually figure it out in the end.''So, how did you answer those questions? Please do share below.''There I was, sitting on a metal chair inside of the ‘Upper Class Waiting Room’ at the train station in the Indian city of Gwalior. My''Wander Across India''tour group and I had about an hour before our train to Varanasi would depart and I was perfectly content to just sit there and stare at the walls to pass the time. I stare at the walls, lost in thought, quite often during my visits to India, most likely because this country constantly feeds me experiences that require an abnormally long time to process.''At one point during that hour-long wait, I needed to use the bathroom, and so I walked out of the waiting room and onto the platform. I turned left and started walking towards a sign that had a picture of a urinal on it. As I walked towards that sign, I remember looking around at some of the people I was passing. The platform was quite crowded, as many Indian train station platforms tend to be, but I distinctly recall seeing one man to my right who was resting with his head on his duffel bag, and a few feet further along, another man dressed in all white who was sleeping soundly next to the wall on my left.''I entered the bathroom, waited in line for about two minutes for a urinal to be free, relieved myself and washed my hands. And then, with little else to do, I began to walk back towards the waiting room.''And as I walked along the platform once again, I naturally passed the man who was sound asleep moments before, dressed in all white. But as I came upon him this time around, I instantly froze, very much unable to take another step as I stood only five feet away from him. Chills ran through my body, my eyes suddenly opened wide and refused to blink and my brain clearly had no idea how it should react.''The man’s body was lying on its back, but his head had been sliced off and was propped, with eyes open, on top of his knees. There was little blood on his white clothes, and little on the platform as well, but you could tell that whatever had happened had happened quite recently as his face, apart from no longer being attached to his neck, looked fully alive. A few people slowly began to gather. Three police officers were on the scene, standing ten feet off to the side, one drinking chai, as they nonchalantly chatted to each other. A random man walked up to the head, grabbed it by the hair, lifted it up a few inches, then put it back down before walking away. A different man started laughing out loud. Another man took a photo with his phone.''And still, there I stood, the feeling of nausea growing stronger, yet with my eyes unable to turn away. I stood there for about three minutes.''Finally, as the crowd around the body became larger, I managed to pull myself from the scene and after one last glance at the head, at the eyes, at the neck that had been sliced so cleanly through, I forced myself to continue down the platform. But I must have looked back at least twenty times before I reached the entrance of the waiting room.''Needless to say, I spent the rest of the wait before our departure to Varanasi staring at the walls once again, quite disturbed. I also spent a significant portion of the night on board that Bundelkhand Express train wrapped up in a blanket in my little bed, trying to handle the image of the man’s body and head that was constantly flashing in my mind.''And with each of those flashes, I felt a sudden urge to vomit, an urge that luckily passed each time without becoming a reality. I did manage to drift off once in a while but the first thing that popped into my head as soon as I would snap out of my light sleep was always the same thing.''Even now, a few days later, the man’s face is as clear as if it was right in front of me, and I have a feeling it’s going to stay that way for a long, long time.''This is India. No, it’s not full of headless bodies. But yes, it is''full of unique experiences''that can have a major impact on a traveler.''India jolts me, it shakes up my brain to the point where I must constantly think about life, I must constantly re-evaluate everything I know, or think I know, about how life is supposed to work. I am forced to process sights and situations that my mind does not normally process. And as difficult as it can be to process some of these experiences, I do believe that such a jolt is healthy. It ensures that our way of thinking does not become stale and that we think about things beyond our typical daily lives every now and then.''And regardless of whether the experiences that give me such a jolt are unimaginably disturbing or unimaginably beautiful – most of the life-changing experiences I’ve had in India have indeed brought smiles to my face – all of those experiences have eventually led me to think long and hard about my own life as well, as most intense and deep experiences tend to do.''Am I living the life I truly want? Am I happy? Am I being as good of a person as I can be? Are my priorities in order?''And, with my''Wander Across India''tour having now come to an end last night and a quiet two-week period in Goa about to begin tomorrow, these are indeed the questions that I will spend much time contemplating in the days ahead.''Yes, it is all thanks to the image of that headless body and that body-less head right there on that train platform in Gwalior, that image that seems to have no intention of disappearing from my mind any time soon, that image that has woken my brain from another sleep. And of course, I could just try to push that image out of my head, but I think I’ll choose to dwell on it instead, to accept the challenge that such an experience presents, and ultimately, to see how I answer the above questions that now sit before me.''How would you react if you saw something similar? What are some intense experiences you’ve gone through during your travels, whether disturbing or beautiful?''In the past two weeks, I’ve received two separate emails from readers who had planned to be traveling the world for at least one year but ended up returning home after just a few months. What happened is that they realized that travel wasn’t for them. They didn’t enjoy it as much as they had anticipated, at least not the style of travel they had decided to pursue, and despite staying on the road for a few extra weeks in order to hopefully find their ‘groove’, they eventually felt they were left with no choice but to fly back home.''Both of these readers told me that they felt like absolute failures for not having achieved their original goal of long-term travel and they were each clearly upset about it.''In one of those emails, the word ‘failure’ was used six times.''And I’m not a huge fan of that word.''I’ve met plenty of people who spent years of their lives believing that the only thing that would make them truly happy would be traveling around the world. Eventually, they sell every possession they own, they quit their jobs, they research every single destination and they figure out exactly where they want to go and exactly what they want to do. They look at bus and train schedules, they read reviews about accommodation options and they work out detailed travel budgets, planning right up until the very last minute.''Then, shortly after their travels begin, they discover that traveling doesn’t actually make them very happy at all.''Until we are out there in the world, it’s difficult for us to know exactly what experiences we will have or how we will react to travel in general. We may very well love it just as we had hoped or we may very well be faced with opposite feelings.''And if we decide that traveling isn’t what we thought, and if we really don’t enjoy the experience, there’s no reason to continue pushing ourselves to travel more and more simply to avoid feeling like a failure. If the path you’re on doesn’t feel right, stop and change paths. Return home and re-evaluate your life. It’s really no big deal. It’s certainly not failure at all.''Besides, we always learn something valuable from every experience we have, yes, even when that experience involves having our greatest dream in life turn into something that suddenly doesn’t interest or excite us at all. And I believe in the school of thought that says it’s not possible to fail if you have grown as a person in the process.''Luckily, with travel, no matter how your adventure turns out, you always grow.''Did you ever discover that traveling wasn’t what you had hoped it would be? Did you ever feel like a failure for not achieving a major goal in life?''It’s not a quiz. It’s not a contest. I’m genuinely interested in learning how you would handle the following situation.''Three days ago, I spent two hours in the''heart of Old Delhi''with a friend of mine who happened to be in the city as well. We wandered through the lanes of Chandni Chowk market, listened to the music inside of a Sikh temple and ate lunch at my favorite parantha-wallah. It was my typical routine. Every time I return to India, this is what I do on my first day in order to get re-adjusted to being back in this country. After lunch, I normally head back to my hotel for an afternoon rest as this is about the time when the long flight and time zone change start catching up with me.''The distance between the part of Chandni Chowk market where we finished wandering the other day and Paharganj, the area where each of our hotels were located, is about 4 kilometers (2.4 miles), and while I’ve walked that route on dozens of occasions, sometimes I just feel like taking a bicycle rickshaw. On this particular day, that was the case.''I went up to a rickshaw driver and asked him how much the ride would cost. He told me 100 rupees, a fare that translates to about $1.60 USD. And even though I knew perfectly well that a local Indian would probably pay a lower fare than this, I accepted his rate anyway. I personally don’t like to bargain when the difference I’m bargaining for would be around 50 cents or less.''The ride back to Paharganj began, and within minutes we were stuck in that famous Delhi traffic consisting of cars, trucks, buses, motorcycles, bicycles, bicycle rickshaws, auto rickshaws, pedestrians, bull carts and plenty of other vehicles that fill the streets. And I don’t know if you’ve ever seen how a bicycle rickshaw works, but these poor quality contraptions are not easy to put into motion when you have two people sitting in the back. It takes some strength to pedal these rickety things out of a complete stop, especially considering that the driver is usually not very big or strong due to the difficulty of his job and lifestyle. And here we are in traffic, our driver having to stop and go hundreds of times, not to mention being banged into by rickshaws behind us every few seconds, being yelled at by other motorists and constantly having to swerve out of the way of larger vehicles honking their horns and driving dangerously fast down the road. There is also a never-ending stream of unavoidable potholes, protruding manhole covers and random debris that the driver must navigate as well, leading to plenty of rough bumps and metal-cracking jolts.''Our ride went on, slowly. Ten minutes, fifteen minutes, twenty minutes. Our driver pushed forward as best he could, his face dripping in sweat from the 30C heat as we inched along in the midst of that Delhi chaos.''Eventually, after forty minutes of struggling, our rickshaw driver arrived at a long vehicle bridge that stretches over the railway tracks, a bridge that would lead us to our destination. He began pedaling us up the bridge but after 200 meters the incline was too steep for him to cycle us any more and so, as is the norm, he jumped off his seat and pulled us up the rest of the way. Not only did he have to pull us up, but he still had to dodge the usual intense traffic at the same time. Then, once we reached the center point of the bridge, the driver climbed back onto his seat and started pedaling once again.''A few moments later we reached Paharganj, some fifty minutes after we had left Chandni Chowk. Normally, this ride takes about twenty minutes. My friend and I got out of the rickshaw and we  handed over 100 rupees. The driver thanked us, smiled and wiped the sweat from his forehead. And then, just before I turned away, I noticed a helpless look in his eyes as he stared at the 100 rupee note in his hand. It was a look that seemed to say, “''What a life I have. To work this hard for this amount of money.''“''I hesitated for a second before I walked away. For the next few hours though, I couldn’t get the look on this man’s face out of my head. And I felt quite terrible.''What an impossibly difficult ride he took us on, one that was far more difficult than any of us had anticipated. What an impossibly difficult life indeed.''Yes, it is his job to take us to our destination for the price he quoted. Yes, ending up in traffic for thirty minutes and working much harder than anticipated is a risk of that job. Yes, 100 rupees is likely too high of a price already, although definitely nothing to be considered a rip-off.''(I was recently told by a local in Delhi that a cycle rickshaw should cost around 15 rupees per distance that would take 10 minutes to walk. And since it would have taken us 1 hour to walk from Chandni Chowk to Paharganj, the correct price should be around 90 rupees, not much of a difference from what we paid.)''But regardless, I personally think he deserved more, at least from me. Bicycling my ass around for thirty more minutes than planned, in the absurd Delhi traffic, sucks, simple as that. Again, I know it’s his job but it still sucks, especially when the reward for that effort is $1.60.''Keep in mind that the $1.60 is not pure profit for this guy. Many bicycle rickshaw drivers earn less than 100 rupees per day but since many also can’t afford to own their rickshaw, they have to rent one, an expense that can eat up 50% of a day’s earnings. In addition, the remaining money is often sent to the driver’s wife and children back in their home village, leaving practically nothing for them to survive on. Hence the reason why so many drivers sleep in their rickshaws at night. They can’t afford to sleep anywhere else.''That’s why, after thinking about it, I reached the conclusion that I should have paid my rickshaw driver more the other day, maybe another 50 rupees or so. To me, that would have been right considering the situation.''He earned that money and he needs that money, far more than I do.''How would you handle this situation? Would you pay 100 rupees or would you pay more? Would you have negotiated the original price?''There wasn’t much of a celebration upon reaching this milestone. In fact, I didn’t even know that I had reached 5000 days when September 4th came around. I was with my Wandering Earl “''Wander Across Romania & Moldova''” tour group at the time and we were in the city of Chisinau, the capital of Moldova. We spent most of that day walking around town before eating a late lunch. We did happen to finish off that lunch with several rounds of vodka and we also happened to continue drinking vodka back at our hotel later that evening, however, the vodka had nothing to do with any celebration for being on the road for 5000 days. We were simply in a part of the world that drinks vodka and so, naturally, we wanted to participate in this activity as well.''It wasn’t until a week later that I received the first congratulatory email from a reader of the blog. “''Congratulations on 5000 days!''” is exactly what it said. A few days later, in came another email, and then another, followed by a couple of messages on my Facebook page…and that’s when I finally took a moment to acknowledge the situation.''Yes, since December 25th, 1999, I have now been traveling, living, working and volunteering around the world for over 5000 days. Never thought it would happen, never even had this as a goal, never imagined that such a ridiculous thing was even possible, or an option, for a regular guy from a regular family who grew up in a regular town.''Apparently, it is possible. It’s certainly not as easy to achieve as many others like to claim (as in snap your fingers and voila!), but it absolutely is possible without a doubt.''At the same time, I must say that this lifestyle is not for everyone. While 5000 days on the road might seem like a dream come true, a dream that you would love to achieve yourself, a life of constant travel does not always match people’s expectations. It’s a far, far stranger and more challenging existence than most imagine to just pick up and go and go and go and go…''And that’s why it’s important to realize that the length of time a person travels really doesn’t matter. It’s the actual travel experiences – the interactions, the education, the life-changing moments – that count,  regardless of whether you are on the road for 5, 500, 5000, or even more, days.''Like I’ve said before, I certainly had no idea my 3-month trip to Southeast Asia was going to turn into 14 years and counting, and at this very moment, I have no idea if my trip is going to involve 14 more years, or maybe only 14 more days. Who knows? But even if my travels had ended after one month or one year, or if they end tomorrow, I’d be fully satisfied with my journey because my focus has always been on the experiences, not on trying to travel for as long as I possibly could.''So, the point of this post is that, while 5000 sounds like a nice big number, it’s really no big deal. It just happens to be how my life has unfolded. And while I certainly do very much appreciate the congratulations and kind messages I’ve received this month, I would also like to offer my genuine congratulations to every single one of you who has taken that first step already, to all of you who have traveled, who are currently traveling and who will be traveling soon, whether it be for 1 week, 1 month or more than 1 year.''Your own stories are what inspire others. Your own stories help us realize that our goals in life are achievable. Your own stories show that once the adventure begins, the effort and determination required to reach that point was, without a doubt, completely worth it.''Once again,''CONGRATULATIONS''to all of you travelers and soon-to-be travelers! We should all be celebrating together!''Are you traveling right now? How’s it going out there? Will you be traveling soon? Where are you going? Have you traveled before? What kind of experiences did you have?''Fear.''There was a time when I didn’t enjoy flying at all. In fact, it wasn’t too long ago that I wrote a post about that very subject, reaching the conclusion that the older I was getting, the''more afraid I was of flying''. It turns out I was wrong though. It was only a temporary bout of flying fear that had gotten a hold of me. Last week I was flying through the air at 38,000 feet, from Europe to the US, and I had a groovy time, no worries at all. I didn’t exactly want to stay inside that plane for another 8 hours of course, but that had more to do with KLM’s lack of a decent entertainment program than it did with being high up in the sky in a moving metal object that was occasionally passing through some turbulence.''And it’s a good thing that I’ve been okay with flying for the overwhelming majority of my life. A few months ago, during a flight from New York City to Frankfurt, Germany, I decided to try and calculate the exact number of flights I’ve been on. I reached 336 before I couldn’t remember any more. That’s a lot of flying.''Cost.''Not only did I fly to the US a few days ago, I’ll also be taking two flights while in the US, then I’ll be off to India. After six weeks in India, off I’ll fly once again, this time to Florida in order to visit some family before returning to Romania just before the end of the year. For 2013 I’ll have averaged 4.5 flights per month by the time New Year’s Eve comes around.''Isn’t all of this flying expensive?''It could be but it doesn’t have to be. The key is flexibility. If you’re flexible with dates, and even destinations, the chances are high that you can move the numbers/places around until you eventually find a flight that will take you to the general region you want to visit, for a price that seems very reasonable. Of course, another key is not taking 4.5 flights per month. It would obviously be far cheaper to fly to a certain country and then travel overland around that country and to neighboring countries, without stepping foot on a plane. A local bus or train is almost always going to cost far less than a flight.''However, there are times when you just need to fly and when those times present themselves, it also helps to experiment with different airfare search engines. I’ve definitely done my fair share of experimenting over the years and I’ve tried out dozens of sites, some that impressed me and others that made me wonder how on earth they even became popular at all. I’d actually be interested to know how many hours I’ve spent researching fares on airfare search engines during my life. My guess is that the answer would be quite depressing.''Luckily, right now, I seemed to have find my ideal website and therefore, I don’t do as much experimenting anymore. As I mentioned a few weeks ago, I’m completely hooked on''Vayama.com''these days simply because, for the flights I’ve needed over the past twelve months, they have consistently provided a combination of the lowest fares and the most attractive routes. They are particularly good for lengthy, inter-continental routes, most of which my flights happen to be, and as a result, I’m not spending nearly as much on flights as one might think, despite all of this criss-crossing the globe.''As an example, using''Vayama.com'', I’ll have flown from Bucharest, Romania to NYC to Delhi to Istanbul to Fort Lauderdale, Florida over a period of two months for a total of $1800 USD. Four long flights that will take me all over the planet for that amount seems like as good of a deal as one could possibly find, which is why I definitely recommend adding them to your list of search engines to try out.''Frequent Flyer Points.''Many people have asked what programs I use for frequent flyer points and how I work the system, as this is surely another way to save money on flights. And while I’m not a ‘frequent flyer hacker’ kind of person, here’s what I do:''Star Alliance & SkyTeam''– These are the two airline alliances that I use almost exclusively in order to make sure that I am constantly earning points that I can eventually use for free flights. Between the two, there is a wide variety of airlines to choose from so the chances are high that the lowest fare I find for a particular route will be on an airline that is part of one of these two groups. And then, for every mile I fly, I earn a point that, upon earning enough of these points, I can redeem for a free flight or an upgrade.''Jet Blue''– This is the only airline I’ll use while in the US in order to fly to various cities to visit family and friends. As a result, I’m also signed up to their TrueBlue award program and I have a Jet Blue credit card as well. I only use this credit card to purchase Jet Blue flights because they offer a large points bonus for doing so. In my experience, there is no other program that makes it so easy to earn free flights. Book a couple of tickets, pay with the Jet Blue credit card and you’ll already be quite close to a free trip.''Airline Credit Cards''– Up until last year, I had a couple of other credit cards that were tied to particular airlines. I had a''United MileagePlus''credit card and a''Delta SkyMiles''credit card. This way, all of the purchases I made would immediately give me extra miles as I was earning anywhere from 1 – 3 miles per dollar I spent. The more I spent on my cards, the more miles I earned and the quicker I had free flights with those airlines and their partners. However, the problem was that ‘free flights’ started becoming quite expensive. The taxes and fees that one must pay these days on the free flights earned through points can be absurd at times. Sometimes the taxes and fees charged are almost as much as just buying a normal ticket for that route. So in my opinion, it became less and less useful to rack up these miles when, in order to benefit from them, I still had to shell out a good amount of cash to cover those fees.''Bank of America Credit Card''– This is what I now switched to and it’s based on a points system. I gain points for the dollars I spend and when I’m ready to cash those points in, they can be used as a statement credit for any travel-related purchases. So if I have $300 USD worth of points, I can just find a charge for a flight or accommodation booking that I had made and apply the credit. And the best part about this credit card is that when I do redeem my points, I receive a 50% bonus. That means that when I’m ready to use that $300 credit, I actually get $450 to redeem instead. To me, this is a far better deal than the airline credit cards I was using in the past.''That’s really all I use. I prefer to keep it simple – two airline networks, one main credit card, one other credit card. So far, this has worked very well in helping me earn a free flight here and there. And while the whole airline miles credit card setup isn’t as equally accessible to everybody (depending on your country), at the very minimum, all travelers should sign up to the frequent flyer programs for one or two of the major alliances. Every flight you take should earn you some kind of miles or points.''Even if it takes two years to earn a free flight, that’s still a free flight after all.''How do you try to save money on flights? Have you used Vayama.com before? Any questions about frequent flyer programs?''There aren’t many things I truly hate in this world. In fact, olives might be the only one. I’ve tried to eat olives, I really have, at least a dozen times throughout my life. But ever since I was a child, the only reactions I can remember having to even a tiny bit of olive is gagging and making a genuinely disgusted face. Sometimes I’ve even gagged before I’ve taken a bite, just when the olive hit my lips or began to enter my mouth. The thought of olives right now has just made me cringe. I don’t even know why I’m writing about them.''One of my good friends loves olives. She loves olives so much, and I hate them so much, that we have had lengthy discussions about these little oval things. I think I can even remember one time when we actually started arguing about them. We argued back and forth until both of us realized that absolutely no progress was going to be made, leading us to sit across the table from each other in silence for about ten minutes. Eventually, we changed the subject, vowing never to bring up the word ‘olives’ in each other’s presence again.''The point of all this olive talk is that it occurred to me that my feelings towards olives is, in a way, similar to my feelings toward certain destinations I’ve visited over the years. While I’ve never actually “hated” any destination as much as I hate olives, there are a few locations that I’ve really tried to like, some more than once, but have not been very successful at doing so.''And since a few people sometimes point out that I’m overwhelmingly positive about the destinations I travel to, and that I rarely talk about anything negative, I’ve decided to put together an ‘olive’ list of my least favorite destinations below.''These are the destinations that, while they don’t make me gag, usually do lead to a contorted face when I think back to my experiences. With that said, I’d still visit them again if I had the chance…most of them at least.''United Arab Emirates''– If you ask me what is my least favorite country that I’ve been to, the UAE will always be the one I mention. I’ve been several times due to a long layover, visits to friends living in or passing through Dubai or Abu Dhabi and while working on board cruise ships, and I can’t really think of anything too positive to say about my experiences.''Dubrovnik, Croatia''– Beautiful? Indeed. But after one hour of walking around, I was ready to leave. I can’t pinpoint the exact reason, I just had no desire to spend much time there at all. As for the rest of Croatia, while none of the country would be in my list of favorite destinations I’ve visited, they wouldn’t be on my list of least favorite either. I guess that makes them average to me.''Cayman Islands''– During my cruise ship days, I must have visited these islands at least fifteen times and after a few visits, it became one of the only ports in the world where I would often stay on the ship instead of getting off. A destination is clearly not a good match for me when it offers white sand beaches and I prefer to take a nap or hang out in the crew areas of a cruise ship instead of making a beeline for the sun and sand.''Hungary''– I’m ready for the angry mob with this one but I did not connect with this country at all, including the city of Budapest. I even tried a second time but with the same results and I even visited with a local Hungarian friend of mine as well. I personally found it to be a little boring and didn’t find the atmosphere or energy of the country too appealing.''Switzerland''– It’s nice but a little too bland for me and after two visits, I’m not terribly interested in visiting again.''Hong Kong''– After telling you about the very cool view of the city from the harbor at night, I’ll have some difficulty talking about anything else from my two visits here, mainly because nothing really stands out as very memorable. I remember having a good meal over there once but the details, such as what I ate, are a little fuzzy.''Now back to the real olives. A few days ago, I ordered a vegetarian pizza without olives at a restaurant here in Bucharest and twenty minutes later, out came a vegetarian pizza with olives, plenty of them. And even after picking the olives out, I had extreme difficulty eating that pizza. I’m used to it now though as that’s pretty much what has happened every single time I’ve ordered a vegetarian pizza without olives during my time in Romania. The waiter or waitress repeats “fara masline” (without olives) and they even write it down, but by the time that pizza arrives in front of me, it becomes quite apparent that the chef doesn’t give a hoot. He or she is going to make the pizza their way and there’s no changing that.''And sometimes, that’s how travel works too. As we head off around the world, we are always trying to order an interesting, rewarding and educational experience in every destination we visit. Usually, that’s what we receive. But every now and then, at least for me, my order is indeed ignored and I get something different.''Sometimes that ‘something different’ is a travel experience better than what I had ordered, but sometimes I get an experience that I just want to spit out. It’s bound to happen.''Of course, I’m not saying that the above destinations are ‘bad’ or should be avoided, not at all. These are just my own personal ‘least favorite destinations’ based on my own experiences, interests and who I am as a traveler. There are so many factors involved when it comes to how well we connect with a particular place and some of those factors don’t even have anything to do with the destination itself (for example, when you’re in a bad mood before you even arrive). I certainly recognize that.''And that’s why I highly recommend you travel to every single one of the above locations and find out what they’re like for yourself. It wouldn’t surprise me one bit if you absolutely love some, or even all, of them.''We’re all different people in the end and we all enjoy different kinds of pizzas.''What’s your list of least favorite countries you’ve visited? Or countries you have no desire to visit? Do you like olives?''Two nights ago, my fourth''Wandering Earl Tour''officially came to an end. Our group of ten mighty fine individuals wined (drank beer actually) and dined for the last time together after having traveled around Romania and Moldova for the past two weeks.''And while I genuinely hope that everyone on the tour enjoyed their experience in this part of the world, I don’t hesitate for a second to state that I thoroughly enjoyed the experience myself. In fact, these last two weeks helped me reconfirm a couple of things.''First, I absolutely love running these Wandering Earl Tours. Never did I imagine I would ever work on a project like this but now, I literally can’t wait for every single tour to begin.''Second, I absolutely love Romania and Moldova and all of Eastern Europe in general. Despite the frustratingly poor customer service, despite the sometimes initially drab appearance of towns of cities and despite the fact that less things go according to plan over here than in India, there is a magic to this this region that makes it quite appealing to me.''And it is this second point that I want to expand upon below.''You see, during our group’s 8.5 hour bus ride from Chisinau, Moldova back to Bucharest a couple of days ago, I had plenty of time to think. My only other option was to massage the head of the man seated in front of me because of how far back he chose to lean his chair, but his hair didn’t look very clean and so I decided to just sit and think instead. \u2028\u2028And as I jabbed my knee into the man’s back in an attempt to give him some indication that I would rather not have his head in my lap, that’s when I randomly started formulating a mental list of my favorite locations in Eastern Europe, the cities and towns that, when I take my collective experiences from visiting each one, have created the foundation of why I love this region so much.''Now I want to share my favorite travel destinations in Eastern Europe with you, just in case you’re considering at trip to this part of the world…''(And when I refer to Eastern Europe, I am not trying to offend anyone. I’m simply referring to countries that would be found east of any line drawn from north to south through the exact center of Europe.)''Bucharest, Romania''Affordable, welcoming city for foreigners that I would consider one of the most livable cities in the world. There’s no shortage of friendly Romanians interested in making friends with travelers here and Bucharest’s location is ideal for exploring not only the rest of Romania, but several other countries in the region too.''Favorite aspect:''Definitely the people. I meet more local people in one week in Bucharest than I would normally meet in one month anywhere else.''Brasov, Romania''Whenever I end up in Brasov, I have a very difficult time convincing myself to leave. It’s a small (very walkable), medieval city wedged in between the mountains of Transylvania with a great mix of history, cafe culture, excellent food (try''Restaurant Sergiana''if you go!) and endless opportunities for day trips to surroundings towns, villages and nature activities.''Favorite aspect:''Overall atmosphere. I truly find it impossible to not be happy while in this town. Simple as that.''Chisinau, Moldova''During our stay in Chisinau as part of my Wandering Earl Tour we didn’t see any other tourists in the city center during our four day stay. And that’s because there really are very few tourists who visit, maybe due to the fact that there isn’t a great deal of things to do and see. However, Chisinau is still a place where I could spend some significant time. You’ll be asked “Why are you here?” by locals every day and that often leads to conversations and new friends, almost instantly. Throw in some more tasty food, some great nightlife, inexpensive living costs and day trips to wineries, the impressively set cave monastery at Orheiul Vechi, the''breakaway region of Transnistria''and you have a fun, culturally interesting (for example, the mix of Romanian and Russian languages used in daily life) destination that offers more than it seems at first.''Favorite aspect:''Clearly being one of a handful of tourists in the city at any given time. You’ll stand out and people will want to talk to you as a result, once again making it very easy to interact with locals and have a social life here.''Lviv, Ukraine''The main square in the Old City is quite an attractive one and while there might not be much to do except wander around every day, there’s something that makes Lviv the kind of destination you feel you could actually live in for a while. I planned to spend a few days and I ended up spending over a week here just a couple of months ago and the only reason I left is because I had a flight to catch.''Favorite aspect:''Ideal location for those who work online. During my time there, I had such a great daily schedule (when I wasn’t battling a cold) that involved a morning wander, a few hours of work at a friendly cafe, a delicious lunch, two more hours of work and an afternoon wander around the outskirts of town, all followed by a few drinks at one of the local bars or terraces around the city center.''Veliko Tarnovo, Bulgaria''Built along the Yantra River, on top of three hills, this community used to be a major cultural center during the Middle Ages and an old capital of the Bulgarian Empire. Now it is a stunningly located town with a castle, traditional old quarter, quiet villages on the outskirts, plenty of hiking opportunities, as well as delicious food, affordable accommodation, welcoming people and a laid-back atmosphere that often keeps travelers here for much longer than they had originally planned. As I’ve stated before, this town, as well Bulgaria in general, just might be one of the''best value destinations on the planet''.''Favorite aspect:''Eating and people watching. Most evenings I would head to the main street in the old town with a few other travelers, sit down at a restaurant, order some traditional food and just watch the people go by, often talking with those around us over a beer or two.''Berat, Albania''The window-heavy architecture of the homes in the old town is quite unique, the surrounding mountains are beautiful and the attractions (mainly the Citadel and the Berat Castle) are well worth a visit, but this town is all about taking a stroll. Each evening at around sunset, hundreds of locals walk out to the main avenue in the center of town where they simply walk up and down for a while. It’s a great scene, with both men and women checking each other out, friends meeting up along the way and those needing a rest throwing down some beer or coffee at one of the cafes that line the street. As a foreigner, you should just show up, join the crowd and see where it all leads and believe me, you’ll want to partake in this evening event every single day.''Favorite aspect:''That evening walk.''Ulcinj, Montenegro''Maybe it’s because I visited this coastal town at the perfect moment, right when I needed a''one week beach vacation''away from my laptop but my stay here was one of the most relaxing and therapeutic experiences of my life. I imagine it had something to do with the view from the balcony of the apartment I rented, although, the nearby beaches, picturesque old town and friendly locals had something to do with it as well.''Favorite aspect:''The view. I could have sat on my balcony all day, every day just staring out at the Adriatic Sea, feeling the light breeze while allowing my head to clear more and more every minute.''Kotor, Montenegro''Many places are described as having a ‘fairy-tale’ setting but Kotor might fit that description the best. As soon as you step through the main entrance to this fortified, medieval town, you realize you’ve entered someplace special and that feeling remains whether you’re walking around the narrow cobblestone lanes, climbing the fortress for unreal views out over the Bay of Kotor or going for a swim just outside the city walls. There’s also yummy baked goods being sold at several bakeries, a large fruit market, plenty of bars and terraces for the evenings and some great cafes located along tiny plazas amid the maze of lanes…not to mention Kotor being a short distance away from several other towns along Montenegro’s coast.''Favorite aspect:''Climbing the hill to the top of the fortress in order to watch the sunset. You won’t want to come back down.''Ljubljana, Slovenia''Another of my favorite capital cities, I immediately took a strong liking to this place when I visited. In fact, I enjoyed my stay so much that I quickly wrote a post called “''I’m In Love With Ljubljana''“. Read that post and you’ll see why I am so fond of this city!''Favorite aspect:''Everything.''So there you go. For one reason or another, those are my favorite travel destinations in Eastern Europe. I have nothing against any of the places that I left out. The above locations just happen to be those where I truly appreciated my experiences more than usual.''There are thousands of more destinations in this part of the world to visit of course and I am always meeting other travelers, and locals as well, who have been or who live in these countries and who have offered their suggestions of places I should visit. It’s never ending over here, although, the main problem, at least for me, is that the good weather only lasts for half the year at best!\u2028\u2028 I’ll get to them all eventually even if, after I ask this next question, my list of additional destinations to visit in Eastern Europe once again grows considerably.''What are you favorite locations in Eastern Europe? If you haven’t been, is there anywhere in this part of the world you would love to experience?''Before I decided to travel to North Korea, I had a good, long think about whether or not such a trip was right for me. And of course, one of the main debates I had with myself involved the ethical issues associated with visiting a country that is run by one of the most repressive regimes in the world.''There are many angles to view this ethical debate but in general, those who are against traveling to North Korea make the following arguments:''The money travelers spend goes to the regime, in essence helping to support their repressive policies, including endless human rights violations, and keep them in power.''Foreigners are used as propaganda tools by the North Korean government by presenting tourists as people who have come to pay their respects to the country, regime and their leaders.''Travelers to North Korea are only allowed to experience a very limited, and highly controlled, slice of North Korea as dictated by the government, making it pointless to visit since you don’t experience anything ‘real’.''Interaction between North Koreans and foreigners is of no value because foreigners are only allowed to interact with a hand-chosen group of loyal government supporters and are not able to interact with the general public.''I can certainly understand all of those points and I can also understand why some people would never visit North Korea based on the above. But, despite those arguments, I obviously decided that visiting this country was worth it in the end, at least for me. Even with that decision though, I was completely open to changing my opinion once the trip was over. Perhaps I would travel there and discover that the experience was not worth it after all and that such a trip does far more damage, or at least no good, than I imagined, making it seem like one of the more unethical travel decisions I’ve made.''However, I did not change my opinion after my trip and as I write this post, I still believe that the benefits of traveling to North Korea do indeed outweigh the negatives.''Let me be clear though. I don’t support the North Korean regime or its policies. I am in no way trying to create the image that North Korea ‘isn’t as bad as we think’ or anything like that. I don’t doubt or dispute the repression that takes place over there, the fact that executions are on the rise since Kim Jong-un took over power, that 200,000+ people live in horrible conditions inside of prison camps, that food and health care are luxuries to too many people, that free speech is non-existent, among so many other human rights violations, and that life in general in this country is infinitely more difficult than any of us could ever know.''What I am trying to do with my posts on North Korea is to simply present my thoughts on what it was like to travel there and whether or not such a trip seemed ethical to me.''As for my responses to the arguments against visiting North Korea that I listed above, here are my thoughts:''While some of the money I spent for the tour (probably around 400 Euros based on estimates I’ve seen) does go to the government, that’s a very tiny amount of money, even when multiplied by the 6000 tourists that visit North Korea each year. And there is some evidence, based on conversations with people who are quite familiar with tourism in this country, that much of the money the government does receive in this manner is used to further develop tourism. New restaurants and shops are opened, thus creating additional jobs, and more staff is also needed at hotels, museums and other points of interest, more and more of which are opening up to visitors. So, the few hundred dollars that you will give to this country really isn’t a significant amount of money, surely not enough to be considered funding for the North Korean nuclear program or enhancing the regime. Of course, the more foreigners that travel here, the more income the government will receive. I do understand that. It will be a while before significant numbers of tourists do visit though and once that time comes around, another debate will certainly be needed.''I’m quite sure that foreigners are used as propaganda tools to an extent, with the government definitely trying to make it seem as if foreigners travel to North Korea in order to pay their respects to the regime and its leaders. With that said, North Koreans still have brains, no matter how controlled their thinking may be, and when they see these ‘respectful’ foreigners standing around their city squares or in front of the statues of the revered Kim Jong-il and Kim Il-Sung wearing shorts, t-shirts and flip-flops, snapping photos, talking loudly and basically behaving in complete opposite fashion of the locals, I’m sure they start to wonder. Speaking from my experience, as part of a tour group of thirty people, we certainly didn’t appear or act in what anyone could really consider an extremely respectful manner all the time. We weren’t running around taking rude photos in front of the statues of course but anyone, especially the North Koreans around us, could see that we often found the propaganda and constant examples of forced dedication to the regime to be difficult to listen to and accept.''Yes, your experience in North Korea will be extremely limited. You will see what the government wants you to see, you will follow the itinerary set forth by the state-run tourism association and you won’t have much freedom, especially not to explore the country on your own. However, at least in my experience, the guides are not following you around all the time and keeping an eye on your every move. As I mentioned in''my first post on North Korea'', I was able to walk away from the group many times. Never was I chased after and told to turn around. So while it is a highly controlled experience, you are allowed a sliver of freedom, enough to allow you a small glimpse beyond whatever part of North Korea you are supposed to see. Maybe I was lucky, maybe my group’s ability to wander a little and not be constantly watched was due to the tour company I went with,''Koryo Tours'', who does have a long-standing (20+ years) relationship with the Korea International Travel Company. I don’t know. But I’m not lying when I say that I walked out of a restaurant where we were having lunch, went down the street alone about three hundred meters, shook some hands and took a photo of the Romanian Embassy and I’m not lying when I say that I wandered off on my own for twenty minutes in the Moranbong Park, with no guide in sight. And as I’ve mentioned before, my belongings were never searched, there were very few restrictions on photography and we were allowed to speak with absolutely anyone we wanted to throughout our stay, making it hard to believe that every single person we came into contact with was just a prop placed there for our benefit.''In terms of interaction between North Koreans and foreigners having no value, once again, this leads back to my “North Koreans have brains” argument. I stand by my belief that any interaction with North Koreans is beneficial, even if every single person I came across was specifically chosen and placed in front of me every minute of the day by the regime. That’s not the case but even if it was, North Koreans are capable of thinking and their brains must process information they receive just like the brain of anyone else. Here’s an example, although, the details will be a little vague so that I don’t get anyone in trouble. While on our bus one day, traveling around Pyongyang, another foreigner on our tour started showing movies and videos to one of our government-trained and appointed guides. I won’t say what the foreigner showed him but at one point, the guide vomited on the floor of the bus, clearly disturbed by what he saw. If he was not capable of thinking for himself, he would have no reaction to such things. But he’s a human being, as are all of the guides and people in the streets and children in the metro and even soldiers at the DMZ. And as North Koreans see more foreigners, and observe them, interact with them, smile and laugh with them, they are forced to think about and process their experiences. The more foreigners that North Koreans interact with, the more they will start to wonder what life is like in the outside world. They will also start to wonder how it’s possible that they can shake hands and laugh with citizens of the “Imperialist Aggressor” (USA), their greatest enemy according to the regime, or why Americans are even allowed in their country if they are considered so evil. Likewise, they will slowly have increased access to information from the outside world considering that foreigners’ laptops, iPads and other gadgets are not checked at the airport upon arrival. And again, the more that North Koreans see and learn, the more hungry they will be for even more information from beyond North Korea and the more they will realize that their lives are not as good as they are led to believe. Who knows where all of this interaction will really lead but I still believe that such interaction is worth the few hundred dollars that the regime receives from my visit, and that the eventual result will make it worthwhile, whatever and whenever that result takes place.''Furthermore, what I find interesting is that a visit to North Korea can lead to quite a great deal of criticism from others while a visit to most other repressive regimes often doesn’t lead to the same criticism at all. Why is it considered wrong by some to visit North Korea but nobody comments when travelers visit China, despite their own serious human rights violations, which according to Amnesty International includes “''torture, execution (in which China is world leader), excessive use of force in public order policing, repression of dissent and forced repatriation of asylum seekers without recourse to a refugee determination procedure.''” That last part involves sending North Korean asylum seekers back to North Korea despite knowing that they will most likely end up in a prison camp or executed.''And what about Pakistan or Syria or Myanmar? They are all very high on almost any list of the worst human rights violators yet I don’t think anyone has ever commented negatively on my travels to any of those countries.''Is the ‘most’ repressive regime the only one we shouldn’t support? Why are other governments that allow such abuses to take place treated differently and why is it okay to visit and spend our money in these countries, money that surely supports these governments? I’m not trying to use this as a justification for visiting North Korea. I’m genuinely curious as to why North Korea brings out such strong reactions as opposed to other destinations with governments that treat their citizens quite terribly as well.''Anyway, I could go on for many more paragraphs about this topic but I’ll conclude with a quick summary of my opinion. At the end of the day, I know that the North Korean regime is not dumb. They wouldn’t let foreigners in without having thought about it carefully, so I’m sure they have their own motivations for trying to increase tourism. But at the same time, despite whatever those motivations may be, I’m going to stand by the benefits of human interaction. During my years of travel, I’ve repeatedly seen the power of a hello and a handshake between two people from completely different cultures, between people who think and believe so differently from one another and between people who were ‘supposed’ to be enemies. Human interaction is as powerful as it gets and I don’t think the interaction that takes place inside of North Korea between foreigners and locals is any less valuable.''What are your thoughts about visiting North Korea?''Yesterday evening, I, along with my''Wander Across Romania & Moldova''tour group, arrived in Brasov, Romania. We checked into our guesthouse, threw our stuff in our rooms and decided to rest for a couple of hours. I ended up turning on my laptop and tried to get some work done, and I managed to reply to quite a lot of emails. At one point, though, I needed a break, so I went upstairs and walked out onto the balcony, a balcony that offers a panoramic view out over the Old City below, set so perfectly at the foot of the mountains, with the massive Black Cathedral so unmissable in the middle of the scene. I took a few deep breaths, inhaling that fresh Prahova Valley air, and before long I realized that, just as one of the members of my Romania tour had already stated within ten minutes of arriving in Brasov, “I could live here.”''And what if I did decide to move and live in Brasov? What if I stayed here permanently, perhaps for the rest of my life? I started thinking about this scenario, and while I knew perfectly well that I wasn’t actually going to move to Brasov for the rest of my life, these questions got me thinking about something else.''If I chose to live in one place all year round, albeit a place overseas, would I still be ‘traveling’?''I then began to think about the months ahead as well. Not only would I be here in Romania and Moldova, but in three weeks I will be heading to the US for a friend’s wedding. Is that traveling or is that just going ‘home’ for an event?''After the US, I’ll be off to India to meet my group for the Wander Across India tour in October. Is that travel? Some might think it’s ‘work’ since I’m leading the group around and not ‘traveling’ as they see it.''From India, I’ll head back to the US to visit my family for a couple of weeks. Again, is that heading ‘home’ or traveling? And after that trip, I’m quite certain I’ll plop down somewhere overseas for a couple of months and not move around much at all.''What is travel?''According to the Oxford Dictionary, the definition of travel is:''to make a journey, typically of some length''.''Some might agree with the simplicity of that definition, others might feel some extra clarification is needed. Either way, I think that definition is vague for a reason. Travel certainly means something different to everyone and whatever it may mean to you, that’s what it means. There is no right answer and naturally, there is no wrong.''Some might think you have to leave your own country to travel or you must be away for a certain period of time. Do you have to be visiting a place for pleasure or can it be for other reasons, such as visiting family or friends or to conduct some business? What if you take a cruise, are you traveling? What if you move overseas or live in one place for six months? What if you go abroad just to work, such as teaching English in a small town in Turkey or working for an international company in Singapore?''While out on that balcony yesterday, right about the time I finished a tall glass of beer, I realized that my own definition of travel is also quite simple.''To me, traveling is just going somewhere, anywhere, whether familiar or new. It doesn’t matter if it’s the next town over, a new country or a continent on the other side of the world. And I personally don’t think it matters if you’re gone for one day or one year or one decade. As long as you have even the slightest interest in the destination you’re visiting, and you’re open to learning about the places you visit and about yourself in the process, I think you’re traveling. It encompasses a great range of experiences, I know, but I personally don’t think the word ‘travel’ warrants a more complicated description.''And now, out of sheer curiosity, I’d be interested to know what travel means to many of you, to read your definitions in their infinite forms, based on your own individual ideas and experiences.''So, what does travel mean to you?''(''Travel Tip''– Over the past few days, I’ve received several emails asking which airfare search engines I personally use at the moment, so I thought I’d pass my experience along to everyone. This year, I have almost exclusively used''Vayama.com'', simply because they’ve consistently offered the cheapest fares no matter where I’ve been flying, often showing flights that other search engines don’t display. I’ve become a huge fan and for those who have met me in person lately, you’ll know that I always mention Vayama if the topic of flights ever comes up. Well worth checking out in my opinion.'')''On the second night of the trip, our group had the opportunity to witness the Mass Games in Pyongyang, North Korea. In fact, when I had signed up for the trip to North Korea, one of the main reasons I chose these particular dates and this particular itinerary was because it did indeed include this experience.''The Mass Games is a synchronized spectacle of gymnastics, acrobatics, dance, drama, music and special effects that has been held every year since 2002 in North Korea, between the months of August and October, as part of the annual Arirang Festival. It involves over 100,000 participants (yes, 100,000!), some as young as five or six years old, who practice for months leading up to the event. The performance lasts for 90 minutes and takes place inside of the May Day Stadium in Pyongyang, which is the only stadium where the Mass Games are held in this country and it also happens to be the largest capacity stadium in the world.''The focus of the event is on the story of North Korea, with a perfectly, and unsurprisingly, fine-tuned message that highlights the North Korean race’s superiority and their triumphant victory in the Korean War, while praising the national party, their leaders and the country’s founding principles throughout. There are acts that also focus on North Korea’s friendship with China and Russia as well as dramatic scenes that portray the folk story of Arirang, in which a young couple in love is separated from each other due to the actions of their landlord, naturally representing the division on the Korean peninsula (the couple) and the perceived outside interference of the USA (landlord).''What was taking place on the field during these 90 minutes was simply surreal, with not a single performance involving less than several thousand people it seemed. From our vantage point, the performance was absolutely flawless and these were not simple routines. They were complex, difficult and often involved such feats that few of us would ever attempt (let’s just say that there were a lot of people flying through the air).''However, perhaps the most interesting portion of the Mass Games is what takes place at the back of the stadium, directly opposite from those in attendance. This is where 20,000 students between the ages of 15-16 sit as they play an integral part of the show. Each of these students has a book with dozens and dozens of pages, each page with a different color or pattern displayed on it. Throughout the 90 minutes, these students constantly, and simultaneously, change the pages of their book while holding them in front of their faces. This creates massive mosaic ‘pictures’ that stretch along the entire back of the stadium that change according to the part of the story being told on the field below.''I must say, though, that I’m not sure if watching these disciplined students create these images (or even watching the performances on the field), working together in incredible unison, is unbelievably impressive or unbelievably frightening. While being chosen to participate as one of these students is apparently a great honor for the individual and their family, the training required is reportedly extremely intense. From what I was told, the group spends three months practicing every day for five hours after school and then they practice another three months during the summer, every day, all day, until the Mass Games officially begin. And the conditions/treatment to which they are supposedly subjected to in order to ensure they perfect their routines have also been labeled controversial. It’s certainly not surprising when you actually observe the perfection that is achieved. Imagine trying to convince 100,000 of your own countrymen and countrywomen to participate in such an event, and to undertake the months of practice required, all without getting paid, strictly for the love of the nation?''The night we attended the Mass Games, there were thousands of North Koreans around us, including dozens of highly decorated members of the military, as well as a hundred or so foreigners. And I had no idea what I would witness when I took my seat and waited for the spectacle to begin. When the stadium eventually went dark and the first note of music was blasted through the speakers, and the first mosaic picture was created by those 20,000 students, I leaned forward in my chair, turned on my camera and opened my eyes wide…''Here’s a few short videos and some photos of what I saw:''And that’s a sample of the 2013 Mass Games in Pyongyang, North Korea.''On a different note, some people have written to ask me how on earth I managed to go to North Korea in the first place. So I just wanted to say that just about anyone is welcome to visit this country but you do have to go as part of an organized group through an agency that specializes in North Korea tours. The agency takes care of your visa and it’s much, much easier than most would imagine. I went with''Koryo Tours'', who did cover the cost of my trip, which I briefly wrote about at the end of my''previous post about North Korea''.''What do you think of the Mass Games?''If I was going to win, I needed to knock down at least five pins. I grabbed the least heavy of the concrete-like balls, all of which weighed more than any other I’ve ever used, stuck my fingers into the misaligned holes and stood up straight, taking as deep a breath as I could. I moved forward with a few short steps, extended my arm and released the ball, just watching it roll away, completely blocking out the noise of the dozens of other bowling balls rolling down the lanes all around me. And I nailed it, scoring an eight, enough to give me the victory over the two Danish guys and one American that I had been playing against.''I turned around and pumped my fist high in the air in celebration and then I glanced to the left and to the right, taking in the scene around me. Never in my life would I have thought I’d be bowling at a jam-packed bowling center called the Gold Lanes, in downtown Pyongyang, North Korea.''I never really had an interest in visiting North Korea. Knowing full well about their repressive regime, as well as the fact that travelers must join an organized tour group in order to visit, simply led me to believe that such a trip was not for me. And then, back in June, just a couple of short months ago, I met two travelers who had been on one of those tours and who recommended that I reconsider. They told me that such a trip would not be what I expected and that going there had much more value than I ever imagined, both for the traveler and for the local people.''So I did some more research on the ethical considerations about such a trip, which I’ll write more about soon, found some time in my schedule and decided I was going to North Korea.''Seven weeks later I flew to Beijing, attended the tour orientation at the Koryo Tours office and met the group of thirty or so fellow travelers from around the world who I would be traveling with. The next morning we all boarded Air Koryo flight JS322 for our journey to Pyongyang.''(After extensive research, I decided to contact''Koryo Tours'', which is the largest of the tour companies that offer trips to North Korea. Their reputation was excellent and after a lengthy Skype conversation with their General Manager, I was confident this was the company I should work with.)''Not At All What I Expected''Those two travelers I met in June were absolutely correct. It’s not what you expect when you travel to North Korea.''I’ll tell you now that you’ll be quite disappointed if you believe that everyone you’ll meet in the country is a government-appointed actor playing the role of a ‘normal person’ or that you won’t be able to talk to anyone apart from your government-appointed guides or that you won’t be able to take photographs or that all of your belongings will be thoroughly searched when you enter and exit the country or that you’ll have no freedom of movement whatsoever. You’ll also be disappointed if you think that all North Koreans have no idea of what is happening in the outside world.''None of that is the case.''In fact, apart from a standard x-ray screening of your luggage upon arrival at the Pyongyang Airport, the authorities there don’t care what you bring in. You can bring your mobile phone (and can even buy a local SIM card to call friends and family back home), laptop, iPad, iPod, Kindle or anything else you wish. Nobody goes through your stuff when you arrive.''As for there being actors in the streets, well, that’s not true either and for those who think you won’t be able to interact with everyday people during the trip, let me tell you that you can interact with and talk to whoever you want and you’ll have plenty of opportunities to do so. You can go up to anyone on the street, in the parks, on the metro, at the hotel, in the restaurants, at the bars (yes, you do visit some bars during the trip), in the main squares, at the monuments or anywhere else you happen to be and you can ask any questions you want. Sure, the level of English is not very high among the majority of the people and the answers you’ll often receive are a product of the endless propaganda that North Koreans are fed, but regardless, you’ll end up communicating and laughing and joking around with more people than you would think. Nobody, not even your guide, will restrict you from talking to anyone you come across.''And do you know what I discovered? North Koreans know who Adam Sandler is, they know who David Beckham is, they watch BBC and American movies and they know about the situation in Egypt and they know what life is like in the US and Europe. Not all North Koreans have access to this information of course, but before my trip I was under the impression that none of them had such access. One evening, our bus turned a corner in central Pyongyang and there was a massive television screen in a public square showing a European football (soccer) match, with hundreds of people sitting around enjoying the game. While in the Grand People’s Study House, an educational center of sorts, Beatles songs could be heard playing on the stereo in one of the classes. Access to the outside world might be limited but these days, it’s impossible to restrict it completely, and in some cases, it’s openly allowed.''As our guide said, this is not the 1930s anymore. North Koreans don’t believe that life inside their country is paradise and that the rest of the world lives in misery. They know that life is different outside.''And in terms of photographs, I took over 1800 photos during my five days in the country. You can basically take photographs/video of anything you want. There were a couple of places, such as the mausoleum of the late Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il, where you are not allowed to bring your camera, but there are certain places in every country where that’s the case. Whether you’re wandering around Pyongyang or at the DMZ, the demilitarized zone at the border with South Korea (see the second photo below), or at that bowling center or fun fair or on the metro or strolling through the parks or even while riding through the countryside or visiting towns such as Kaeson, you can snap photos of everything you want for the most part, with the main exception being checkpoints and soldiers on duty (although several soldiers did pose for photos).''Also, contrary to popular belief, your photos are not checked when you leave the country either. Nobody goes through your memory card to make sure that you only took photos of things you are allowed to take photos of, probably because, again, you are generally allowed to take photos of almost anything.''While it is true that you must follow the itinerary set up by the state-controlled tourism agency, Korea International Travel Company, when you travel to North Korea, it is not as if you must march around the country in a single file line all the time, without any freedom of movement whatsoever. You may roam off on your own at times (you can’t disappear for long periods of time but you can definitely stray from the group) and nobody is going to follow, or arrest, you.''At the Moranbong Park, which we visited on Liberation Day, a national holiday that celebrates North Korea’s liberation from the Japanese, I wandered off at one point and ended up meeting dozens of locals who were cooking food, drinking beer and dancing together. There were families and groups of friends everywhere and we exchanged handshakes, some basic conversation and plenty of smiles. I also wandered off at the ‘Fun Fair’ amusement park to go search for some ice cream and I was allowed to walk around the entire place on my own and interact with anyone. Even in central Pyongyang, nobody was going to tackle me when I walked alone to the far corner of Kim Il-sung Square, about 500 meters away from the group or when I left one of the restaurants after lunch and walked up and down the streets outside for twenty minutes. I even managed to walk down a random street by myself and snap a photograph of the Romanian Embassy and at one point, I wandered away from the Monument to Party Founding (see below) and went down the road a bit without anyone noticing at all.''Before the trip, I was under the impression that I would be watched everywhere I went, but as proved to be true on so many occasions, that was not the reality in the end.''I Am No Fool''While all of the above is what I experienced, and my experiences were so very different to what I had expected, let me state that I am in no way naïve. I am aware that what I saw of North Korea was a tiny, tiny slice of that country and what I learned was also only a tiny, tiny piece of the truth. I didn’t get taken to the remote, and poorest areas of the country, and I certainly was not invited to visit a prison camp either. I did not, in any way whatsoever, receive a full picture of what life is like in this country. That I understand.''I know full well that North Koreans suffer tremendously under a repressive regime, that prison camps do exist, that the living conditions in the countryside are far worse than what I can imagine, that brutal police checks, lack of permission to move around, shockingly low salaries, electricity cuts, non-existent healthcare and so much more is what so many North Koreans must deal with on a daily basis. I know all of that.''And I saw hints of it as well.''Despite what I’ve written so far, something definitely still felt odd while in this country. Something just didn’t seem right no matter where we went. Yes, North Koreans were bowling and dancing and working and laughing and talking to us foreigners and all that, but I can’t deny that almost everyone I did encounter, to some extent, seemed to clearly know their place in the system. Nobody spoke against the regime of course, although some locals did laugh or shrug their shoulders in a ‘what can I say, that’s what we learn’ kind of manner when confronted with an inconsistency between the propaganda and reality of the world outside, and there was a definite lack of free thought or creativity in daily life. Everyone’s movements seemed too orderly, too conservative, too much like the movements of people who had no choice but to accept their situation and who feared the consequences of trying to change it.''Back to the propaganda for a moment. It pervades almost every aspect of life in this country and the amount of it, whether on display on large signs throughout Pyongyang, in North Korean films, on television, as part of everyone’s education, in theater performances and cultural events, books, newspapers, music and more, is unreal. The propaganda tends to focus on anti-US (the Imperialist Aggressors) and anti-Japanese themes, on racial pride, the importance of the military and the need to show devotion towards the state. We would often listen to our guides talk about the North Korean version of the Korean War (which is the only version for them) and about the brilliant ideas and philosophy of the “Great Leader” Kim Il-sung and “Dear Leader” Kim Jong-il every single day, which showed how deeply this propaganda machine works.''There is plenty of inconsistency in all the propaganda of course but it all goes completely unnoticed, or at least that’s how it appears. The tales of their leaders often involve such ideal stories, such as the belief that Kim Jong-il was born in a house on the most sacred of mountains, Mount Baekdu, when official records (not the ‘official records’ later created) show he was born in Russia. The museums and monuments that are constantly being built or renovated are so elaborate and cost so much money yet everyone is so very proud of them all, despite the fact that the money could have been used for better purposes, such as providing food to the poverty-stricken majority. That’s just a small sample and I’ll talk more about the propaganda in future posts, but let’s just say that there was plenty of head scratching on this trip by us foreigners.''But again, you would think that all this anti-US talk and other propaganda would lead to some unfriendly people who did not welcome foreigners into their country. Heck, you would think that if the US is actually the evil Imperial Aggressor, they wouldn’t let Americans travel to North Korea at all.''However, we are welcome, as is just about every other nationality, and almost everyone I met on the streets was more than friendly even after learning where I was from. Even many of the soldiers we encountered would smile and wave to us and shake our hands. Only one man, while in the mausoleum of Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il, hissed at us group of foreigners as he passed by. He literally made a face like a cat hissing and hissed loudly at us. That was the only negative reaction I noticed during my time in North Korea though, which was surprising considering their beliefs.''Leaving With More Questions Than When I Arrived''In the end, I traveled to a country that I believed would be much different than what I witnessed. This is still not a free country by any definition of that word, not even close, but I certainly didn’t expect to be shaking hands with soldiers, riding on the metro and joking around with schoolchildren, taking photographs of anything I wanted, dancing with locals in a park, drinking beer with North Koreans at a micro-brewery or joining in the celebrations when the girl in the next lane over bowled a strike for the first time.''Yes, you could argue that I ‘didn’t really see North Korea’, which I’m sure some of you will, but at the same time, what I saw, even if I was only allowed to see certain, controlled parts, was indeed North Korea.''And the above is my interpretation of what I experienced during my five-day trip to this mysterious country that only receives approximately 6,000 foreign visitors per year.''On the final morning of the tour, our bus pulled out of the hotel parking lot at 5:30am and headed off towards the airport, just as the first rays of light rose above Pyongyang. And as I stared out the window at the buildings and the empty streets, at the monuments and the city squares, at the massive statues and paintings of their leaders, I soon realized that I had come to North Korea with a handful of questions but was leaving the country with more questions than I could even count.''As a result, I’ll admit that what I’ve said above may very well be so far from the truth that this post is the biggest piece of rubbish I’ve ever written. To be honest, I don’t think I’ll ever know.''**The tour cost for my trip to North Korea was covered by Koryo Tours. However, I never accept such a deal if I am required, in any way, to write positively about any company, organization or experience. I will only take such a trip if I am free to write honestly and openly based on the actual experiences that I have. And I can honestly say that my experience with''Koryo Tours''was indeed a positive one, from the organization of the trip itself to every staff member I came across, and as a result, I don’t hesitate to recommend this company for anyone considering a visit to North Korea.''Any questions about North Korea? Anyone else interested in visiting?''While I knew that I would be back in Bucharest on August 18th, just nine days after leaving Ukraine, my flight out of Kiev this past Saturday took me to a destination far, far away from Romania. It was going to be a busy week.''First, I landed at Moscow’s Sheremetyevo Airport where I enjoyed a relatively comfortable five-hour layover before boarding Aeroflot SU200 at 1:00pm, a direct seven and a half hour flight to Beijing’s Capital Airport.''The flight was uneventful and involved mostly sleep as I tried to fight off the remaining remnants of the''illness I had been battling''for a week in Ukraine. And somehow I managed to sleep for most of the flight, which left me feeling quite good as I stepped off the plane and into mainland China for the very first time.''Immigration was quick as I asked for, and instantly received, the “72 hour transit visa” that''citizens of 45 countries''are now able to obtain upon arrival in Beijing and Shanghai. A few minutes later, at around 1:30am, I found myself standing outside breathing in the heavy Beijing air that I had heard so much about, before I jumped into a taxi.''After twenty minutes, and because I had already done some research on''places to stay in Beijing'', I arrived in the Santilun district of the city, checked into my hostel and went straight to sleep.''First Impressions of Beijing''For the past two days in Beijing, I have wandered around the city as much as possible. I have visited the Forbidden City and Tiananmen Square, I have become lost in the''hutongs''(lanes and alleys that make up certain neighborhoods) and I have checked out a few palaces and markets and random neighborhoods as well. It’s been a quick visit but a decent introduction to this country, a country that I have openly stated is last on my list of countries I have a desire to really travel around (more on this in a minute).''My initial reaction to Beijing probably won’t surprise anyone. It’s polluted. I’ve actually yet to see the sky during my stay, or at least any blue sky. The city has remained covered in a depressing light brown layer of smog the entire time.''The streets seem to be mostly wide avenues that create massive city blocks, so as you walk around you don’t feel as if you are in the ‘downtown’ of a city of 20,000,000 inhabitants. It’s just huge block after huge block, where you walk on wide footpaths and must cross many major intersections. Speaking of walking around Beijing…doing so in August is absolutely exhausting with this heat and humidity. I’ve been drenched in sweat about 80% of the time I’ve been here!''The people I’ve encountered during my wanderings have been friendly, if not a little sneaky and dishonest, and more people speak English than I was expecting. The food I’ve eaten – ranging from noodle soup to roast duck to other random dishes that I randomly chose from the photos on the restaurant menus and don’t really know what they consisted of – has been decent. The prices are about average, nothing that I would classify as very cheap but it’s not too expensive either (hostel room – $15 USD / meal – $6 USD / metro ride – 33 US cents).''With that said, you do have to watch out when spending money as even the staff in the hostel try their hardest to get some extra money from you as often as possible. People will make up anything in order to convince you to part with your money right away. While I was standing outside of a restaurant trying to decide whether or not to enter, a waiter came outside and told me that I should come inside because they had their best dish ready and they were closing in twenty minutes. I didn’t enter in the end but about two hours later I walked by again and they were still open. So, don’t take anything too seriously over here and from what I’ve heard, you usually have to haggle for just about everything.''As for the ‘sights’, the history of the Forbidden City and the Ming and Qing Dynasties is interesting but seeing the actual Forbidden City now was quite underwhelming. I would probably say the same about most of the temples and palaces I’ve visited. Getting lost in the markets and hutongs was definitely more exciting to me.''While I’ve had a good time over the past two days, and despite knowing full well that two days doesn’t even give me a tiny, tiny, tiny speck of an idea of what this city or country is all about, I must say, though, that my short stay did not exactly change my original thoughts. I still don’t have much of a desire to visit more of this country and I can’t see myself adding it to my travel itinerary any time soon.''I know some of you love traveling, or even living, in China and many of you will tell me I’m crazy and that I should definitely spend more time here. And while I’m happy that your experiences in this country were so positive and while I understand that there certainly is no shortage of places to explore in this vast land, again, it just doesn’t appeal to me much. Not sure why exactly, that’s just how it goes.''Where I’m Going Next…''Anyway, I won’t have a chance to experience more of this country this time around. That’s because, early tomorrow morning, I’ll board a flight that leaves Beijing for…''Pyongyang, North Korea''That’s right! The idea to visit North Korea came into my head about six weeks ago and while it is true that you can only visit this country on an organized tour, I thought it would be quite interesting nonetheless. An opportunity then arose to join such a trip and that was that. I’m heading over there for five days and after the orientation meeting last night with the group, I’m even more excited about the upcoming experience. I’ll even have a chance to witness the Mass Games during my stay. I know that traveling to North Korea can be a controversial topic but I’ll be writing more about this, as well as the details from my trip, once it’s all over and I’m back in Bucharest.''Until then, I hope you all have a great week everyone!''**I won’t have internet at all during my five-day stay in North Korea so I will reply to all comments and emails and catch up on Facebook and Twitter once I am back out on the 18th.''How was your experience in Beijing? Or do you have any interest in visiting Beijing, China in general and/or North Korea?''My apologies for the lack of activity as of late. I arrived in the city of Lviv, Ukraine back on July 29th and I’ve been in the country ever since. However, I have also been quite sick during that entire time unfortunately. It all started the day after I arrived – a cold, a temperature, body aches, sore throat, cough – and while the symptoms began to subside by about my fourth day in town, they all became much worse soon after.''And so, four days ago, I found myself in the beautiful village of Kosmach, Ukraine, in the Carpathian Mountains, unable to get out of bed at the family-owned guesthouse where I was staying. It was a real shame actually because I was very much looking forward to exploring this part of the country and I had a nice itinerary of activities lined up for me as well. I had managed to connect with the wonderful people from''Active Ukraine'', a small eco-tourism business that is trying to bring foreigners, in an environmentally and culturally responsible manner, to some of the more off-the-beaten-path destinations of this country. We had started communicating via Twitter several months ago and when I finally managed to find time to visit Ukraine, I knew that I wanted to participate in one of their unique programs.''Although, I bet Olesia, my''Active Ukraine''guide, had no idea what was in store for her when our three-day trip to the mountains began. Instead of guiding me around the region, she ended up making frequent trips to the local pharmacy, boiling pot of tea after pot of tea and basically making sure I was still coherent, as I laid motionless in bed.''Luckily, it was a comfortable bed with a large window next to it, and with a large apple tree right outside that window. And that tree was home to many birds who seemed quite intent on trying to keep me positive with their cheerful tunes. It didn’t work though. They sang, I moaned and so the days passed.''On my second day in Kosmach, however, I did become a tad bit too optimistic when I declared to Olesia that I felt good enough to attempt the light hike that was planned for that day. Well, it wasn’t so light. I ended up on a five-hour hike, three hours of which was straight uphill, and to be honest, I was absolutely shocked that I didn’t just fall to my knees and pass out on several occasions. I have no idea how I survived that trip at all. Maybe the fresh mountain air helped me through the pain? Maybe it was the calming sight of the horses we passed or of the shepherd’s working on the mountainsides? Perhaps it was the blueberries, raspberries and strawberries that Olesia kept picking for me along the way? I have no idea.''What I do know is that as soon as the hike came to an end, a nice bout of delirium set in, I collapsed into bed and watched my body deteriorate at quite an incredible pace. My temperature rose to 38C/101F, my chest hurt more than ever, my sinuses were fully blocked, my head was pounding, my vision was a little blurry and I barely had a voice.''I passed out quickly and that was the end of my day.''I’m really not sure what happened with this visit to Ukraine.''I arrived in Lviv on such a positive note back on the 29th. My first day was splendid, roaming around the streets and lanes of a city that certainly felt under-appreciated by worldwide tourism. I couldn’t help but smile while outside wandering these streets…and the food, oh the borscht!, was my kind of food as well. The cafes were plentiful, the people were welcoming and easy to talk to and overall, Lviv felt like a town that could easily win the “Most Pleasant City in the World” contest, if there ever was one.''But then it all went downhill. It just happened, as it does sometimes.''And right now I am in Kiev, having just arrived from the mountains on an overnight train. The train journey was quite comfortable and incredibly, I’m feeling better today than I’ve felt in the past eight days. Of course, now that I have a little energy, I must sit at my laptop and catch up on work because in thirty-six hours I’ll be leaving Ukraine for my ‘secret destination’ that I mentioned in a previous post (I didn’t quite mention the actual destination yet!). And it appears that I won’t have internet for about a week once that trip starts. Plenty of work to do!''So, that’s my update. It seems that my body really did not want me to experience much of Ukraine for some reason. All I’m left with is random memories of strudel, borscht, horses, honey-infused vodka, chimichangas (don’t ask), a variety of medicines, homemade cheese, walnut gelato, lots of smiles, dirt roads, a cemetery, street musicians everywhere, a clock tower, nice people, beehives and tissues. I guess it could be worse.''*If you’re planning to visit Ukraine, I do highly recommend getting in touch with Oksana over at''Active Ukraine''. Depending on your individual interests, she will really give you an opportunity to experience something different during your travels to this interesting country.''How was your trip to Ukraine? Have you wanted to visit this country?''If a country has a reputation for human rights abuses, would I travel there?''If a country has laws that suppress a certain segment of the population, will I go?''If a country is considered to be anti-gay, anti-minority, anti-anything-I-don’t-agree-with, will I still place it on my list of countries I wish to visit?''These are questions that I wrestled with often during the first few years of my travels, but eventually, my experiences around the world helped me to reach an actual conclusion, a conclusion that I’ve stuck with for the past several years now. And I still believe it to be the right decision for me.''So, how do I deal with human rights and travel? Will I visit countries that fit the above descriptions?''Yes, yes I will.''Here’s why…''First off, if I create a rule in which I avoid countries with a history of human rights and/or other abuses or troubling issues, I basically couldn’t travel at all. There’s almost not a single country without some kind of problem that I, and many people, would be disturbed by or object to. And this includes my own country, and probably most of your home countries, as well. So, not only would I be required to stop traveling, I wouldn’t be able to go home either.''Where would I draw the line?''As a traveler, I aim to see the world with my own eyes, to learn from the world through first-hand experiences and as a result, I prefer not to draw a line at all. I am comfortable with traveling anywhere and everywhere in order to meet people, learn from them and hopefully have them learn from me. If I refused to travel somewhere, I would be contradicting my very own belief in the importance of travel by allowing myself to reach conclusions based on second or third hand information.''Sure, there are indeed countries with a very clear lack of free speech, countries that treat women terribly and countries with large anti-gay movements. In fact, Ukraine, where I am right now, is known for being quite anti-gay itself. But that doesn’t mean that everyone in Ukraine is anti-gay. In fact, the other night at the guesthouse where I’m staying here in Lviv (a city in Western Ukraine), the very topic was discussed among a large group of both foreign travelers and locals. And not one of the Ukrainians in the room was anti-gay at all.''Again, I’m not denying that there are major, and unbelievably disturbing, human rights abuses taking place around the world, but I’m simply not going to hold such abuses, no matter what the situation, against an entire population. There are good, respectful people everywhere, in every single country, and they shouldn’t be isolated because of the actions of some others. In fact, they should be supported by visiting them and their communities, staying and eating at their establishments and using their services. I tend to believe that supporting those who believe in human rights for all is infinitely more powerful than distancing yourself from those who don’t.''Is it possible to visit a country and ensure that your money is only spent with such people? Of course not, but we can try as hard as possible to make it happen and even when we fail, I still think the benefits of travel outweigh an occasional negative.''By traveling to countries that are home to movements or policies that you don’t agree with, you also have a chance to create some open, healthy debate. Human interaction and the exchange of ideas leads people to re-evaluate their beliefs. After all, this is exactly how I’ve grown and changed as a person over the years myself. I’ve met people all over the world who think differently than I do and I’ve listened to their stories, tried to understand their points of view and then, I’ve examined my own belief system and often made adjustments as a result.''Avoiding a country altogether just seems like a far less effective ‘protest’ than bringing your own beliefs, aligning with the portion of the population who believes the same and hopefully engaging in conversations in which all ideas are shared and discussed.''(I’m sure some of you will disagree with this of course, and I look forward to hearing your thoughts below.)''And once again, as I stated above, I feel that it would be quite inconsistent of almost anyone to avoid traveling to countries for such reasons as human rights abuses and/or other problems given the fact that very few countries would be exempt from such a list. Whether it is a lack of any number of freedoms, the presence of torture, corruption, political intimidation, an anti-gay movement, racism, poor environmental policies, gender inequality or any one of thousands of other issues that the world currently faces, such issues are indeed present all over the world.''Do you make travel decisions based on the presence of such issues? Would you make such decisions?''On July 18th, I was sitting at a cafe in Bucharest talking to a fellow traveler, Jeremy, from''TheWorldOrBust.com'', when he randomly mentioned that Pegasus Airlines, a budget airline based out of Turkey, was offering extremely cheap airfares from Bucharest to Bishkek, the capital of Kyrgyzstan.''Interesting.''Upon hearing this piece of news, I decided to double-check his claim and sure enough, the fare was indeed $232 USD, quite a bargain for such a long-distance flight to a part of the world that is often very expensive to reach.''Nevertheless, I had a few hours of work to finish up and so it wasn’t until I was back at my apartment later that afternoon that I pulled up the deal again on my laptop and gave it some serious thought. That serious thought ended up being, “I am definitely going to Kyrgyzstan!” I even went over to my''Facebook page''and announced my intention to go.''After all, I had planned to spend the last week of July and the first three weeks of August traveling somewhere new anyway, mainly because I had to leave Romania for visa reasons (for those who have been following along, I didn’t have time to renew''my Romanian residency visa''yet and it has since expired). So, what better place to travel to than Kyrgyzstan, especially with a $232 USD flight.''To say that I was excited would be a major, major understatement. I know almost nothing about Kyrgyzstan, which makes it even more attractive, and it would be my first foray into Central Asia, apart from my trip to Afghanistan several years back.''However, moments before I hit the ‘Confirm’ button to purchase my flight ticket, I remembered something.''Between the dates of August 13th – 19th, I have somewhere to be. I had already organized a special trip to what I will only mention now as another ‘secret destination’. And if I was going to visit Kyrgyzstan first, I needed to make sure I could get from Bishkek to this ‘secret destination’ relatively easily and cheaply.''Well, it turns out I couldn’t. When I first checked, the prices for such flights could only be described as out of control. I waited another day and tried again, but no luck this time either. I even waited six more days, checking for flights almost hourly, but the prices never went down.''Finally, this past Thursday, I had no choice but to give up the idea of visiting Kyrgyzstan right now.''Plan B''It was therefore time to move to Plan B, which, in fact, was my original plan before I heard about that cheap flight from Bucharest to Bishkek. Plan B involved traveling to the Republic of Georgia and Armenia and that idea suddenly sounded as appealing as ever. So, I went back online and looked for airfares.''I found a flight from Bucharest to Tbilisi, Georgia for $183 USD and immediately decided to take it. But then, I once again remembered that I also needed to purchase a flight to my secret destination afterwards, as well as a flight back to Bucharest in time to lead my “Wander Across Romania” Tour at the end of August.''Naturally, I was very disappointed to discover that it would take a good $1500 USD for the flights I needed after visiting Georgia and Armenia. That wasn’t going to happen. I waited another day and tried again, but the fares remained the same.''Oh my.''At this point it was Friday (yes, just three days ago) and I was staring at my laptop without a plan. All I knew was that I needed to leave Romania by Sunday. It was a strange feeling knowing that in two days I would be in a different country even though at the moment I had no idea which of the 195 or so countries on the planet it would be.''Where Am I?''Ukraine. Yup. Lviv, Ukraine.''That’s where I am right now.''On Saturday morning, I had started looking for airfares yet again. I searched for flights to/from Delhi, Bangkok, Tallinn, Oman, Morocco, Singapore, Los Angeles, Copenhagen, Dubai, Tel Aviv and dozens of more destinations before, all of a sudden, the Ukrainian city of Lviv randomly popped into my head.''I typed it into the search engine and within seconds there appeared a remarkably cheap flight from Bucharest. I then looked for airfares from Ukraine’s capital city of Kiev to my secret destination and then back to Bucharest, and I could not believe it when I saw the results. In fact, the airfare was so reasonable that I didn’t even take a moment to think about it as I quickly entered my credit card details and booked the tickets. Done deal.''The next morning at 8:30am I was on a flight to Istanbul, where I had a full 27-hour layover to spend relaxing at the''Agora Guesthouse''(my favorite guesthouse in the city), eating at my favorite local restaurants and enjoying a shisha session at my favorite nargile cafe, before catching my direct flight to Lviv earlier today.''And now here I am, in a city and in a country that never even crossed my mind as a potential destination until a mere 48 hours ago.''That’s how this long-term travel stuff works sometimes.''One minute you think you’re going to Kyrgyzstan and the very next minute you’re on your way to the Republic of Georgia. But somehow you end up in Ukraine.''It’s not for everyone, that’s for sure, but I still get a kick out of this frequent uncertainty that rules my life. If that wasn’t the case, I’d have stopped traveling a long time ago.''Have you had similar situations? Do you enjoy the uncertainty? If you haven’t traveled yet, do you think you would enjoy this kind of uncertainty?''A little over a month ago, I mentioned my desire to organize a''Wander Across Socotra Island Tour''as part of my Wandering Earl Tours project. I had recently returned from my trip to Yemen at the time and my experiences on Socotra, that remote Yemeni island in the Indian Ocean, were so incredibly memorable and unlike anything I had ever experienced before, that I just had to put together a tour.''And from that single mention of the idea on the blog a month ago, I ended up with over twenty people on the ‘early list’. The ‘early list’ is what I use to gather the names of those who are interested in the tours I am planning before I have finalized all of the details. Once the details are finalized, I then email everyone on that ‘early list’ and give them a chance to confirm a spot on the tour before I formally announce the trip on the blog.''Well, the details are now finalized for this''Wander Across Socotra Island Tour'', and after contacting everyone on the ‘early list’ over the past couple of weeks, I’ve had twelve people already confirm their spots. And while twelve people is more than I normally prefer for my tours (usually the maximum is ten people), this tour is a little different.''With the way things work on Socotra Island, it will be quite enjoyable to have a larger group this time around. To be honest, I think everyone will love sharing our experiences together as we camp out under the stars, hike through the mountains, explore some very cool caves, wander around some of the most idyllic beaches you’ve ever seen, swim in the turquoise waters of the Indian Ocean and on and on and on.''This trip is really going to be more than just a tour. It’s also going to be a gathering of like-minded travelers who truly want to experience something unique. (Check out the''Socotra video''I made in order to get an idea of what this island is all about!)''So, for anyone interested in joining this group and exploring one of the most unbelievably bizarre, exotic and simply awe-inspiring destinations on the planet, here’s the details…''Wander Across Socotra Island''Dates:''January 8th – 18th, 2014''Tour Cost:''$1900 USD per person''Includes:''Flight – Sana’a to/from Socotra Island, all accommodation, all meals on Socotra Island, all transportation, visa fees, visa preparation service, all permits and entrance fees to protected areas on Socotra''For a detailed itinerary and more information, just follow this link'':''Wander Across Soctora Island – 2014''Once you’ve had a read, if you have any questions or you wish to book a spot on the''Wander Across Socotra Island Tour'', just send me an email and I’ll respond right away!''*In addition to the Socotra tour, I’ll also offer another Wander Across India Tour in March of 2014. And I will be adding tours to Iraqi Kurdistan, Mexico and hopefully Southeast Asia as well, all of which I will announce soon.''If you want to be placed on the ‘early list’ for India or any of these other trips, let me know and I’ll go ahead add your name.''Have a great weekend!''When I first began this blog several years ago, it was purely an experiment. I knew absolutely nothing about blogging and I had never really written much before, especially not for an audience.''I also had no idea how to attract readers, although that didn’t bother me since I never believed it was even possible for anyone apart from a few family members and close friends to be interested in what I had to say. Heck, I didn’t even know what I had to say or what I wanted to say.''And it turned out that my family and friends weren’t as interested as I had imagined anyway. After all, they were already familiar with my travel experiences since I had been traveling for ten years by the time I started WanderingEarl.com, so they understandably had little reason to hear about it all again.''Regardless, during those first couple of months, I wrote some posts anyway, mostly focusing on my experiences in Sayulita, Mexico (where I was living at the time) and some general travel thoughts. I wrote for fun, didn’t pay too much attention to the final result and didn’t care if someone actually read it.''Then came Angelline.''I Can Be A Blogger!''Angelline was the first person to comment on my blog who wasn’t a family member or friend or friend of a friend. She commented on my post “''Travel Rule: Buy Something, Throw Something Away''” and I recall very clearly the morning when I returned to my apartment in Sayulita after a lengthy, and disappointing, surfing session, turned on my laptop and saw her words. She had written:''“Hey Earl, I’ll be packing next weekend for our upcoming trip to Puerto Vallarta (maybe I’ll see you in Sayulita)…anyway this blog has helped me re-think my packing plans. I will pack with the thought of any chacharas I buy in PV must include the rule of giving something away that I brought with me from home.”''My first reaction was, “''Holy sh*t! Someone commented!''” and then, after reading the comment over and over about a dozen times, I began running around my apartment giving imaginary high-fives to, well, every single one of the imaginary people that suddenly filled my bedroom, kitchen, living room and balcony.''And that’s the moment that changed the course of this blog.''A Few Beers & A Realization''After my high-five session had come to an end, I sat down in a chair with a bottle of Pacifico beer in hand and I did some thinking. First, I contemplated the idea that somehow, a random person out there in the world had not only found my blog but was actually interested enough to write a few words in response. That notion was absolutely mind-blowing and I wanted to try and understand what it all meant.''After a long while (enough time to drink a few beers) I eventually reached a simple, yet life-changing, conclusion.''If one person can find my blog, it is reasonable to believe that hundreds or thousands of people should also be able to find it. If one person is interested in what I write, there must be others who would be interested as well.''“''Holy sh*t! No way!''”''And, you guessed it, after this realization of the “One Person Rule”, I quickly found myself giving another round of high-fives before heading out to celebrate with actual human friends late into the night.''There was still plenty of work to be done of course, but the foundation had been set. The fact that one person had left a comment opened the door to endless possibilities.''How You Can Use This Rule In Life''If you’re starting your own blog, I encourage you to use this rule as well. I’m telling you, if one person has commented on your site, there’s no reason why you can’t enjoy 10 or even 100 comments on each post. Whoever that one person is, there are more people out there on this planet of 6+ billion who think the same or who are looking for the exact same information. As a result, your audience is definitely out there somewhere…you just need to go and find them.''Not a blogger?''Well, the “One Person Rule” applies to almost anything you may want to do in life. Just think…''When you seek out and find at least one person who is doing exactly what you want to do in life, you’re bound to enjoy a major boost in confidence and motivation.''Perhaps you want to travel but you have student loans to pay off or you can’t decide between starting a career or taking a year off to explore South America first or you really want to go to Australia and Asia but don’t know how you can fund that trip… concentrate on finding another person who has been in your situation and managed to make it happen. With the reach of the internet, it shouldn’t take you too long to find one person out there who has done what you want to do. Read their story, contact them and ask your questions and make the realization that if this one person has achieved such a goal, there is a great chance that you can do the same.''Maybe you want to start a business…what’s your idea? Email people you know and ask what they think. If one person replies that your idea would be very useful for them, well, chances are there are more people that will think the same way. One person is all it takes to gain momentum.''Do you dream of creating an actual lifestyle out of something that you’re passionate about? If you just sit around on your own thinking about how to turn your love of wine or horses or painting into something more than just a hobby, you’ll probably lose motivation at some point. You’ll start to ask yourself “''How do I take the first step? Is this really possible? Am I being unrealistic?''” and you’ll answer those questions with “''It’s not going to work. I have no idea what to do. This is useless.''”''Instead, I say, find one person who has already turned their passion into an actual lifestyle/career/job and learn directly from them. See what mistakes they made and listen to their advice, while always keeping in mind the “One Person Rule”.''Use that one person you find as a constant reminder, as an unbreakable foundation of confidence and motivation, and the chance of you losing hope and giving up in frustration, will greatly diminish.''Let’s come back to this blog for a second. The truth is that everything I’ve done in relation to this site has been based on this “One Person Rule”.''– One person asked me for detailed information on how they could get a job on board a cruise ship and so I created my “''How to Work on a Cruise Ship''” guide. I reached the simple conclusion that if one person needed this information, there must be plenty of other people who were interested as well.''– Last year, one reader asked if I had ever thought of creating small-group tours to offer through this blog. I hadn’t thought of it before I received their email. It got me thinking though and, again, I reached the conclusion that if one person was interested in joining me on a tour, there could very well be many others. And that’s how my''Wandering Earl Tours''project began.''And those are just a couple of examples out of many instances where I’ve used the “One Person Rule”. In fact, if you leave a comment on this site and you ask a question, I will often use that question as the focus for an upcoming post. The reason is exactly what I’ve been talking about above. If one person is looking for that information, many people are probably looking for that information.''Keep in mind that I’m not trying to claim that following this rule makes everything easy. It merely provides a useful tool to base your decisions on. Hard work is always required, especially after making the realization that other people are interested in your idea or in your blog posts or after you find someone else who has managed to achieve similar goals to your own.''It’s not as if every post I wrote after “''Travel Rule: Buy Something, Throw Something Away''” was suddenly read by thousands of people simply because I now believed it was possible! But at the same time, I would never have started putting endless hours of effort into this site had I never received that original comment.''The first step towards anything, as they say, is typically the most difficult, and in my opinion, the first step is believing that what you’re trying to achieve is actually possible. The “One Person Rule” makes you believe.''And in my case, both in terms of this blog and my life in general, I have Angelline to thank for that.''What do you think? Have you used something similar? Does the above sound reasonable to you?''For a moment, I thought it might have been the end. The path was steeper than I had expected and I had some serious doubts that this was even a path at all. I took another step, trying to hold on to a flimsy branch to maintain my balance….and then I slipped. The branch broke off and I was going down, sliding along the muddy incline with no end in sight. I prepared myself to tumble over the rocks, and to get banged up quite badly, on my way to the bottom of the hill, far below.''I probably slid for a mere three seconds in the end but it was an intense three seconds. Had I not stopped where and when I did, I would have been in some serious trouble. But somehow, I managed to cling to a patch of grass, to which I held on tightly in order to avoid another potentially dangerous fall and to figure out my next move at the same time. And there I remained for a while, stuck and holding on for my life, and all I could do was laugh at the fact that I was now covered in mud only ten minutes after my hike had begun.''So, that was how my seven hour wander through the Carpathian Mountains of Romania, inside of the Piatra Craiului National Reserve, got off to a start this past weekend. I did manage to slowly inch my way down eventually and after tripping over a few rocks near the bottom and stepping directly into a creek that I hand’t noticed, I found myself back on track and ready to continue the adventure.''A Long, Difficult Hike''Hiking around mountains and through forests is one of my favorite activities while traveling the world. It’s something I do whenever I have a chance simply because, as is the case for so many others of course, extended periods of time in nature tends to be remarkably therapeutic, especially for someone who also spends extended periods of time staring at a computer screen.''Interestingly enough, however, it wasn’t until this past weekend that I realized the similarities between the hiking I enjoy so much and my life in general. And I made this realization while eating a piece of homemade, wood-fired apple pie and drinking a tall glass of vin fiert at a remote mountain lodge, halfway through my hike the other day.''When I, or anyone else, begins a hike, we must choose a particular path before we can start walking. Then, once on that path, we tend to start off moving quite quickly, perhaps a little too quickly as our overexcitement about the adventure ahead and our overconfidence in our stamina and strength takes control. Undoubtedly, the path we chose will soon have its twists, it will have its turns and chances are it will have its ups and downs as well. There will be moments of ease and then, as soon as we turn a corner, we will encounter moments of hardship.''Just think about those times when you are hiking along, humming a tune, wide smile across your face…and then you come around a bend only to find yourself at the foot of a steep, steep incline. You tell yourself it will be easy and you begin to tackle the climb, step by step.''After a short while, a bead of sweat drips down your forehead, your breathing becomes heavier and you begin to feel some discomfort in your thighs, in your knees, in your back. You try your best to push forward with that same excitement that you started the day with, but the path only gets more difficult.''As you continue to climb, the clouds appear and before long, it begins to rain and you are now forced to trudge through slippery, muddy conditions. You stop for a quick rest and now you can’t help but wonder if this hike was such a good idea after all. The idea of giving up, turning around and heading back down the mountain creeps into your mind as your steps become shorter and shorter and your heart beats harder and harder.''A minute later, you need to stop for yet another break, hands on knees, breathing ever more deeply, sweating, wincing in pain, wishing this hike was just over and wondering what on earth you were ever so excited about in the first place.''But somehow, despite that pain, after a few gulps of water, you summon an extra ounce of energy, just enough to make it over the next hill. One foot in front of the other, you move on, through the mud, over the rocks and then…''…you look up and find yourself staring out at a wide, lush green valley surrounded by a massive forest of beautiful pine trees, you hear the meditative sound of the bells swinging from the necks of the grazing cows below, you watch the dark clouds part, as if on cue, and the sun begin to shine, providing you with a warmth and joy that, for a little while, you had forgotten was even possible.''A short distance away, you see a small mountain lodge, the lodge that you never thought you would find. With an extra bounce in your step, you now continue walking until you reach that lodge, where you immediately find other hikers hanging around. Some are taking photos, others are chatting away and some are simply standing on the balcony admiring the undeniably awesome view.''You go inside and meet the friendly lodge owners, a family that has lived for so many years in these isolated mountains. You have a great conversation with them before ordering a piece of their homemade, wood-fired apple pie and that tall glass of vin fiert you’ve been waiting for and you sit down on a bench to enjoy your well-deserved rest. And at this point, you realize that the mud no longer matters, that every drop of sweat was well worth it, that the pain in your legs and back have vanished…and that your mind is clearer and happier than it’s been in a long time.''The confidence, the inspiration, the excitement returns and now you can’t wait for the second half of your hike to begin.''Life Is Like A Long Hike''Life, and hiking, do not involve flat paths through forests filled with enchanting sounds, endless fruits and dancing hobbits inviting you to celebration after celebration after celebration. They involve ever-changing paths instead, paths that wind and climb and descend, paths that are sometimes light and sometimes dark, paths that feel secure and paths that make us afraid…and everything in between.''But the good news is that you never know what you’ll find around the next corner. It could be a steeper hill or it could be the most amazing view you’ve ever witnessed. You may meet other hikers along the way, perhaps some that you connect with, or you might end up on a long stretch of path all alone. You’ll probably feel some pain from time to time and you’ll suffer and you’ll question many of the decisions you’ve made as you stumble towards your goals, but you’ll also experience the absolute best and most inspiring that this world has to offer.''The important thing is to understand that you must climb uphill at times, you must sweat, you must get dirty, you must face moments of confusion and moments when all you feel is lost. Only then will you have a chance to experience the benefits and the wonders of life, most of which lie on the other side of those difficult challenges.''If you give up, though, and run back down the mountain at the first sign of hardship…well, I personally don’t want to know what happens then.''Have you faced the challenges that have appeared in your life or do you tend to back away? Any examples of overcoming difficult times and being rewarded in the end?''You arrive in Rome. You call your friend to have him pick you up from the airport. You talk for ten minutes. You still can’t find him, so you call again. Ten more minutes later, you finally understand where he’s telling you to meet.''= $20 USD''You have a few drinks while partying on the beach in Thailand. You decide to start texting that guy/girl you met in Bangkok last week. You exchange twenty texts. The next night, you do the same. You also send a bunch of texts to friends back home.''= $14 USD''You suddenly need to get to Granada, Nicaragua but you can’t figure out the bus schedule from San Jose, Costa Rica. You call the bus station several times to no avail before calling a friend of a friend living in Costa Rica for advice. Since it’s last minute, you call several guesthouses in Granada until you find one with an available room at a price you like. You’ve spent forty minutes on the phone.''= $60 USD''(*Based on current international rates from AT&T)''That’s a bit pricey.''Unfortunately, many people pay these incredible amounts of money to use their mobile phones while traveling simply because at first, it often seems that using an international roaming plan from your home country is the only option. And while it might be the easiest option (often, all you need to do is go online and activate the additional plan), it’s an option that really has very few, if any, other benefits.''And that’s why I’ve never used that option myself.''Here’s a rundown of how I use my mobile phone as I travel around the world:''T-Mobile Sim Card'': T-Mobile is a large mobile network company in the US and I have signed up for their “''T-Mobile Pay As You Go Plan''”. With this plan, I pay $50 per month for unlimited phone calls, text messages and data. What makes this plan quite ideal for a traveler such as myself is that I only pay whenever I’m in the country. So, if I was traveling to the US tomorrow, I would login into my T-Mobile online account before getting on the plane, pay $50 and that’s it. As soon as my flight lands in the US and I place my T-Mobile SIM card into my phone, my service is activated and I have one month of unlimited usage. Then, once I leave the US, I simply stop paying and my account remains on hold until the next time I activate it. And while I can’t use my T-Mobile SIM card overseas as a result, this is a great deal for me as I wouldn’t want to use their expensive international roaming rates anyway.''Local Prepaid SIM Cards'': When overseas, I always use local prepaid SIM cards instead. This involves buying a SIM card from a local mobile network provider in whatever country I happen to be in and then paying for credit whenever I need it. This credit allows me to make phone calls, send text messages and connect to the internet. When the credit runs out, I simply stop by any mobile phone shop and add more. As a result, I don’t pay a regular monthly rate and I’m not signed up to any kind of long-term contract. I now have a collection of five local SIM cards from around the world, one each from Australia, Thailand, India, Romania and Mexico. And this generally covers all of my travels. So, whenever I land in Romania (or anywhere in Europe for that matter), I use my Romania SIM card. When in Thailand (or anywhere in Southeast Asia), I use my Thailand SIM card and on and on.''Why Is This The Best Solution For Me?''First, it’s the cheapest. Here in Romania, for example, I have a SIM card with Vodafone and I spend about 30 RON ($8 USD) per month and that’s enough for text messages, phone calls and the occasional checking of email. I’m not exactly a socialite, chatting away on the phone and texting all day, every day, but for minimal to normal use, that’s all it costs me.''Also, it is easy to think that the reason you want to have phone service while traveling is to stay in touch with friends and family back home. However, I just use Skype or Google Voice for that. What you really need your phone for is to get in touch with locals you meet, to make accommodation reservations, to call the bus station to find out when the bus really leaves and to have a local number so that others can contact you within that country.''Having a local phone number (with a local SIM card comes a local telephone number!) makes life a bit easier as you can now reach and be reached by anyone in that country. \u2028\u2028And like I mentioned, whenever I want to call home, I just find a place with Wi-Fi, turn on the Skype app on my phone or fire up my laptop, and call home. Or I send a text message home, something that doesn’t cost much at all with my Romanian SIM Card (about 50 cents).''In addition, I can use my Romanian SIM card all over Europe and the international surcharges are not too bad at all. In fact, I end paying much less than what mobile phone companies in the USA, or say, Australia, charge their customers to use their phones overseas. And to make it even better, as of July 1st, 2014, it will be illegal for mobile phone networks in the European Union to even charge any roaming fees at all. So once that happens, whether I’m in Romania, Germany, France or anywhere else in the EU, my rate for voice calls, text messages and data will remain the same as what I pay in Romania. Sweet!''Even though I’ve been using Romania and Europe as an example above, the same idea applies to many other regions of the world too.''When in Mexico, I use a local''Movistar prepaid SIM card''and not only does this give me very low rates around Mexico, but calls and text messages to the US and Canada are charged at the same low rates as well. There are no international surcharges at all for calling/texting those two countries. And when I lived/traveled in Mexico, I was putting about $30 USD of credit on my phone per month and I used my phone all the time, making it a great deal.''When in India, I use Aircel. When in Thailand, I use TrueMove. When in Australia, I use Optus. Together, these local prepaid SIM cards have allowed me to use my phone while traveling without spending a ton of money.''Using local SIM cards is also much easier to set up than many people think. It’s not a hassle in most parts of the world at all and the entire process typically takes less than five minutes. (Some regions, such as certain states in India, do make it more difficult for foreigners to get a local SIM card but such places are the exception I’d say.)''Once you settle on a mobile network provider (see below), you just ask for a prepaid SIM card and hand over some money, as it generally costs around $3 – $15 USD for the SIM card itself. You then place the SIM card into your phone and the staff behind the desk will type away on their computer for a moment. And within a couple of minutes you’ll usually receive a text message stating that your SIM card has been activated. Done deal.''How To Choose A Local SIM Card''It’s all about research. Ask locals and ask other travelers who have been to the country you plan to visit yourself. Look around online and find out which mobile network companies appear to be the most reliable while offering attractive rates. Keep your eye out for promotions as well because such special deals seem to be offered all the time in many countries. Sometimes all it takes is asking the staff working in the mobile phone shop what deals they currently have available.''You may find that if you add $10 of credit, you get another $10 of credit for free. Or maybe there is a monthly special going on where you get an additional 100 MB of data at no extra cost. Who knows? It could be anything and I’ve seen excellent deals of all sorts all over the world. All you have to do is ask!''Keep in mind though that while it might seem tempting at times to get a SIM card from a smaller, lesser-known mobile network company that is offering rates lower than the bigger competitors, that’s not always a good idea. You want a network that is widespread and reliable and usually, the bigger the company, the more widespread their network of course. This will help ensure that you have a signal as much as possible and that the connection will be strong. Cheaper isn’t always better, especially when the differences in amount for things such as prepaid calling and texting rates are usually not too much.''$25 Per Month!''By using local SIM cards, and Skype, everywhere I go, I estimate that my monthly mobile phone expense is about $25 USD. And this includes all the phone calls, text messages and data that I need. Admittedly, I don’t connect to the internet too much through my phone, simply because I spend so much time on my laptop that when I’m away from my computer, the last thing I want to do is constantly be checking my emails. That’s just what I prefer, and as a result, I can travel the world while always having a local phone number and always having a way to get in touch with people in the countries I visit, all for a tiny, tiny fraction of what it would cost if I used an international roaming service from a mobile network provider back in the US.''*Note:''In order to use different SIM cards from around the world, you do need to have an ‘unlocked’ phone that operates on the GSM network. You can either purchase a fully unlocked phone through a website such as''Amazon.com''or, if you bought your phone through a mobile network provider in your home country, you can have them unlock your phone for you. The two companies in the US that operate on the GSM network, T-Mobile and AT&T, offer this service. Without an unlocked GSM phone, you won’t be able to connect to another network and therefore, buying local SIM cards wouldn’t be an option.''How do you handle your mobile phone while traveling? Have you found any particularly good deals out there? Any questions about traveling with your phone?''In the past week alone, I have met six new people. I’m not saying that I bumped into six people or that I exchanged a few words with six people. What I’m saying is that I met, spent a good amount of time, and became friends on some level, with these individuals. That’s a part of traveling, meeting so many new people everywhere I go, creating new friendships all the time, and to me, it’s the greatest part of this lifestyle.''But how do I handle the fact that I might never see any of these six new people ever again, no matter how close we became during the time we spent together? After all, I might be here in Bucharest today, but who knows where I’ll be next week, next month or next year? And the same goes for anyone I meet as well.''Unfortunately, this is also a part of the traveling lifestyle, this coming and going, this saying hello and then soon after, saying goodbye. Friendship and travel don’t always seem to be very compatible because, unlike those who live in one place, those who have the benefit of a stable social circle, a stable group of friends to spend time with and to share their lives with, long-term travelers simply don’t have that luxury. We do have friends of course, close friends too, but we often are unable to spend significant time with most of them.''However, despite all of that, I wouldn’t give up this ever-changing nature of friendships for anything. After all, I would never have met many of my good friends had I never traveled in the first place and there are still so many interesting people out there in the world for me to meet. And I know perfectly well that even if I don’t see many of my friends often, the majority will still remain my friends. I can count on them, they can count on me, at any time. I’m also confident that my closest of friends, especially those from back home with whom I spent my high school or university years with, will always remain my closest friends, no matter how many days per year we actually spend together or how many miles apart we may be.''Is It Difficult to Always Say Goodbye?''I won’t deny it though. Even with my love of meeting new people, it is most certainly difficult, even after so many years of travel, to fully get used to saying goodbye so many times as I move on and leave new friends behind (or vice versa). Nobody likes parting ways with someone they have enjoyed spending time with. But what does make it slightly easier to handle, is the fact that I actually do see the people I meet and become friends with while traveling more often than most would imagine. Yes, there are plenty of people I meet and with whom I get along with very well, yet, I probably won’t ever see them again. At the same time, because I’ve met so many people, I often have friends wherever I travel. Maybe I’m passing through their home country or maybe, since we’re both traveling types, we end up in the same location once again at some point down the road. However it works out, the point is that it does work out, remarkably often, and I am always meeting up with people I had met earlier in my travels.''Let me look at Bucharest as an example. Since I began using this city as my base last year, I would estimate that I have met up with about one person every week I’ve spent here who I had previously met while traveling at some point over the past 13 years. And this is Bucharest, a city that is not a major tourist destination. I’ve hung out with people that I originally met during my days traveling around Southeast Asia, from''my time in Mexico''and Australia, people I know from back in the US and on and on. I’m always surrounded by friends from my travels, even here, it’s just that the friends I’m surrounded with are not always the same all the time.''And while that may not be as ideal as seeing my absolute closest friends every weekend or more often in general, my situation is not such a bad deal either. My life has been significantly enhanced by all of the friends I’ve made around the world and I have learned a great deal about life, about myself and about other countries and cultures by having friends from all over the map.''You Never Know Who You’ll Meet''With all of this said, I can understand how this constant saying hello and saying goodbye stuff isn’t for everyone. And I do know people who couldn’t get used to it at all, so much so that the life of travel they once dreamed of became something they were no longer interested in pursuing.''These travelers have a hard time figuring out how anyone could possibly allow themselves to become close to new people they meet when they know they’ll most likely have to say goodbye at some point in the not-too-distant future. To an extent, yes, like I said, trying to mix friendship and travel can suck at times.''However, my theory has always been that it’s much better to dive in and bond with new people because in the end, you really never know where it might lead. You might have travel plans in place that will take you both to opposite ends of the world, but perhaps after spending time together with a new friend (or even a new “friend”) you decide that your friendship is more important or your potential relationship is more important, and you re-arrange your trips as a result. Maybe you plan to meet up later in the year, maybe you decide to cancel those flights you had booked for next month and travel together for some more time or maybe you decide to return to one of your home countries together for a while. Or maybe you just say goodbye to your new friend or friends, content with the idea that there’s always a chance you’ll run into each other again somewhere.''Every person you meet, anywhere in the world, could potentially be your next friend, maybe an extremely close friend, or perhaps a long-term partner or even a spouse. You just don’t know, and at least in my opinion, I’d rather meet as many people as possible, to bond and become friends with all those I connect with, to share great moments and memories and to know that some of these friendships will last, somehow, some way, despite having to say goodbye. Not all last, many fizzle quickly but some most definitely make it through the challenges of the traveling lifestyle.''As I mentioned, I’m always meeting up with friends I’ve met throughout my travels, no matter where I happen to be in the world, and I’m easily able to stay connected with those I really bond with via email, Skype and other methods. And that’s why, if I have a chance to meet someone new or spend time with someone I think could become a good friend, I simply won’t turn away, even knowing that soon I might already have to say goodbye. Instead, I go in with the mindset that life is full of surprises and that every “hello” I say and every hand I shake, could change my life forever.''And those potential life changes, and the friendships that are created, no matter what the form, are not something I want to miss out on.''How do you deal with meeting new people while traveling? Is it easy for you to always say goodbye or is it difficult? How do you feel about it all?''Often times, whenever I tell someone that I have been traveling, living and working around the world for the past 13 years or so, I receive a very similar response. It begins with a “''Hmm…''” and continues with a “''You don’t look like someone who has been traveling for 13 years!''”''At that point, I’ll ask for some clarification.''And this is when such observations as “''Your clothes are clean. Your hair isn’t a mess. You’re clean shaven. You don’t stink.''” are mentioned.''I usually just smile and say “''Yup.''”''The problem is that it’s quite common for some to think that long-term travel can only be accomplished in two ways – either with an endless supply of money or basically no money at all. And since I rarely take my Lamborghini with me on my adventures and I prefer to leave my Rolex locked up in the hostel safe, it is automatically assumed that I’m traveling on an extremely low budget. And if I’m traveling with such little money, surely I should fit the mold of what we think a person with such little money who bums around the world must look like…well, a bum. So, in conclusion, I should be disturbingly dirty and completely unhygienic, I should be someone who sleeps on the streets, eats trash, rarely showers, never washes my clothes and has forgotten what a toothbrush looks like.''But guess what?''Long-term travelers do laundry.''We take showers.''We even sleep in beds, usually!''And while I can’t speak for every long-term traveler out there, I personally travel with more than one shirt and more than one pair of underwear. My socks rarely smell too bad. I brush my teeth, every day, two or three times per day in fact! I shampoo my hair and I even shave. Heck, I also''shave my armpits''and even''pluck my eyebrows''. And I’ve found it quite easy to do all of these things and to avoid the transformation into a food-permanently-stuck-in-my-teeth, lice-infested, torn and stained clothes-wearing, disheveled and bedraggled mess. Amazing, right?''Not so much.''It really is not so difficult to practice good travel hygiene while out there in the world. Showers are plentiful (or at least a pipe with water coming out of it), even when you stay at the cheapest accommodation possible. Toothpaste, shaving cream, deodorant, shampoo, soap and even nail clippers can be bought everywhere. Laundry can be done in a sink at a hostel/budget hotel and laundry detergent costs as little as 2 US cents for a packet in some countries. In many parts of the world, you can bring your clothes to a laundromat and they’ll clean the lot for a few dollars. Even inexpensive new clothes can be purchased in just about any country in the event that your pants sustain a major rip across the crotch.''The point is that long-term travelers are not dirty folk and even on a budget of a few hundred dollars per month, it’s very possible to stay clean and healthy. There’s really no reason to live an unhygienic traveling lifestyle, unless you really want to, as you pretty much need to make a real effort to avoid showers, keep your clothes dirty and not give in to the temptation of clean teeth.''I personally feel good after taking a shower and I tend to enjoy life better when my feet aren’t itchy from a pair of socks that haven’t been cleaned in months. I know, I’m strange!''Feeling Dirty?''If you’re ever out there traveling and you do start to find that washing your clothes is becoming difficult or that keeping up good travel hygiene is not as easy as you thought, you might want to slow down your travel pace. You really might be moving too fast if you don’t have time to wash, clean, scrub, shave and brush. Stop for a week somewhere, relax and refresh, get your stuff in order, wash that massive bag of dirty clothes and even put some moisturizer on after a shower. You’ll feel good, believe me.''While you’re at, and this is important for all travelers, you might also want to ensure that you’re not only clean but in optimal mental and physical condition as well. Your travels will be infinitely more rewarding if you take a few minutes each day to really focus on yourself. Take some vitamins to supplement any potential deficiencies resulting from a constantly changing diet, try to eat as healthy as you possibly can, exercise often, either with simple''hotel room workouts''or even by walking as much as you can every single day (it’s a great way to experience a destination as well!).''Activities such as reading, meditation and silent contemplation, listening to music, yoga, even juggling your socks (preferably clean ones!)…they are all perfect travel companions. Anything that improves your mental and physical well-being and allows you to clear your head and keep your body in shape, is worth doing while out there on the road. Travel can be mentally and physically draining after all and if you don’t take care of yourself, it can easily lose its appeal after a while.''Stay healthy, stay fresh, stay clean and you’ll wake up every day with even more energy to get out there and experience life as a traveler. In fact, now that I wrote this post, I realized that I could use a little meditation session myself today and it’s also probably time I work on getting that piece of corn out of my teeth. That barbeque I attended here in Bucharest was almost three weeks ago.''Have you found it difficult to stay clean while traveling? Any concerns about maintaining hygiene for those about to travel? Anyone know how to get a piece of corn out of my teeth that’s really wedged in there?''As many of you might have heard, the Google service “Google Reader” will be shutting down on July 1st and as a result, the RSS Feeds that many of you subscribe to, including the feed for WanderingEarl.com, will no longer be accessible from that point onward through that service.''I know that a significant number of readers have been following this site and receiving my new posts each week via their Google Reader account, but I definitely don’t want to lose you once that service is gone! So, I want to offer up some alternatives so that you can continue following along as part of this wonderful travel community.''The below Google Reader alternatives are excellent options that are available to you free of charge. Also, they each offer “''1-click importing''”, allowing you to transfer all of your RSS Feeds over from Google Reader in about 10 seconds. It really couldn’t be easier to make the switch so that you don’t lose any of the feeds you’re currently subscribed to.''Here’s the alternatives…''Feedly''Pulse''The Old Reader''(there are other options out there as well but these are a few of the most popular and user-friendly)''In addition to the above, you can also subscribe to my site via email so that my new posts appear in your inbox whenever I publish them. And trust me, my new posts are all you’ll ever receive as I promise not to fill up your inbox with unwanted messages! You’ll receive no other emails from me, no spam, no nothing…only my new posts.''Sign up via email:''You can also follow me on my''Facebook Fan page''and on''Twitter''if you haven’t connected with me on those already. I actually post photos and random thoughts to my Facebook page almost every day and the interaction over there has been excellent. It might be worth checking out in addition to subscribing to the site!''It’s a shame that Google Reader is about to vanish but I really do hope the above options will help keep everyone connected to this blog and to the community that has been created. Besides, I have some new and interesting adventures coming up as well that I can’t wait to share in the coming month!''If you run into any issues while trying to move from Google Reader to one of the alternatives, just let me know and I’ll help you out as best I can.''Thanks so much everyone for following the site and I hope you enjoy your weekend ahead!''Most travelers carry some technology, some combination of gadgets, with them these days as they bounce around the world. Yet some travelers actually don’t carry any technology with them at all. It all depends on one’s needs. For me, in order to get my blogging/online work done, ensure I read often and keep me as connected to friends and family around the world as I can, I always travel with the following:''Macbook Pro 13.3” Retina''Panasonic Lumix ZS20 Camera''Samsung Google Nexus S smartphone''Kindle eReader''(You can read more about the items I travel with on my “''Travel Gear''” page.)''This is an ideal combination of ‘stuff’ for my situation. It’s not so much that I am weighted down, having to drag around two extra daypacks with me everywhere I go, but at the same time, it’s enough to help me run my blog and other online projects while living a nomadic lifestyle.''However, the question then becomes, “Do I have to worry about keeping these expensive gadgets safe all the time?”''Personally, I do worry about the stuff I carry, but in reality, I don’t worry about it any more than I would if I were back home. And in the years I’ve been traveling, I’ve never had any piece of technology stolen or lost for good, which is why I’m quite sure that I won’t be changing my ways any time soon.''Keeping My Gadgets Safe''There are two schools of thought when it comes to traveling with technology and keeping gadgets safe. Some travelers feel that the best method to keep their stuff safe is to always carry everything around with them so that they can always keep an eye on their laptop, camera, mobile phone and often times, all of their money and credit cards too. And then there are the travelers who feel that keeping everything in their hotel room or the hotel/hostel safe is the way to go because this way, all valuables can be safely locked up while they’re out and about.''I’m a follower of the second method myself, always preferring to leave my stuff in my hotel/guesthouse room every day. All I take with me when I go out is the stuff I need, a small amount of money and that’s it. I don’t carry my laptop or kindle or my credit cards around if I’m not going to use them. I personally don’t enjoy my days of wandering when I need to lug around my heavy daypack and try to remember to keep it in sight at all times. I’d rather have almost nothing in that daypack so that it’s no big deal if I accidentally misplace it.''But isn’t there a chance that my gadgets could be stolen out of my hotel/hostel room?''Well, here’s my theory on why that’s not very likely to happen. (It’s never happened to me, in any country I’ve ever been to.)''First, I don’t choose accommodation options that have a suspicious atmosphere where it seems that the staff, or other guests, would be quite eager to steal my stuff. I choose places that feel safe and secure, with staff that seem trustworthy. Also, if a place is busy and/or has a lot of foreign guests, the chances are quite high that the owner does not want to risk their reputation, and all future business, by hiring staff or allowing in guests that would steal something out of a room. One such incident and even the most popular hotel on Tripadvisor or the most popular hostel on Hostelworld.com will drop in the rankings and lose a ton of business. Why would they want that to happen?''Over the years, I’ve kept my stuff locked up safely (usually just on my bed or maybe inside of my backpack) in budget hotel and hostel rooms all over the world, including a 60 cents/night, grubby room the size of a bathtub in the Bangladeshi countryside where a prostitute stood outside my door every day trying to convince me to make use of her services. When the owner of that hotel saw me walk in, he was eager to chat and super-excited to have a foreign traveler at his hotel, so excited in fact that there was no way he was going to let anything happen to my stuff.''And as for the idea that traveling with technology, especially expensive technology, makes us bigger targets for theft, I don’t really think this to be as true as one may think. It’s not as if I pull out my new Macbook for an hour while on a local train packed with hundreds of people before placing it under my bench as I nod off into a deep sleep. I also don’t pull out my Macbook or Kindle or phone while waiting for the city bus, all alone on the sidewalk, in a part of town I’ve never been to or while I’m sitting in a seedy, half-empty restaurant located down a dark lane at 2am. I pull out my Macbook when I’m in my hotel room or at a nice cafe with wi-fi most of the time. And when I’m done working online at such a cafe, I pack up my laptop, put it in my backpack and bring it back to my hotel room before heading out to wander around the town or city I’m visiting.''As a result, very few people will ever know that I even have such equipment with me.''In the end, the only time I’ve ever lost my stuff is when I’ve broken from my norm and carried my valuables with me during the day for one reason or another. I’m forgetful at times and so I may put my bag down for a moment or leave it on the back of my chair at a cafe and simply forget about it when I walk away. But even when I have left my daypack somewhere with my laptop or camera inside, it wasn’t missing for very long. I’ve always had it returned to me with everything still there, including the time''I left my backpack at a shisha cafe in Istanbul''for over 16 hours, with my camera and passport inside.''Internet Security''When the time comes to crack open my laptop and get onto the internet while traveling, I do have a different ‘security’ mentality than I do with the physical gadgets themselves. I want to always protect my data/information as much as possible, both on my laptop and on the secure websites I use (ie. Bank accounts, PayPal, etc.), and so I pay close attention to how I connect to and use the internet overseas. Here’s some of the main precautions that I take:''Avoid doing anything that requires me to log in if I’m on a completely open network at an airport, cafe or anywhere else.''Obtain a''PayPal ‘security key’''and password tokens from my banks, which adds an additional layer of security to those websites. After entering my password on these sites, I then must generate a code on my security key/password token that I also need to enter or else I won’t be able to log in.''Limit the time I spend on secure websites. If I need to check my bank account, I do so quickly and immediately log off once I’m done.''Always try to connect to a password-protected network associated with the cafe or hotel I’m at, not just any open network that I might come across. This doesn’t guarantee security of course, but it seems like a smart move nonetheless.''Do whatever I can offline and then connect to the network only when I need to. (For example, I will write a post in Word and edit any accompanying photos offline and then when it is all ready to go, I’ll quickly transfer it to my blog.)''My passwords are all computer-generated and completely different for every account I need to log into, something that goes a long way in protecting your online data.''If something seems odd about any network connection I’m on (pop-up boxes start flashing on the screen, strange messages, etc.) I immediately disconnect and go somewhere else.''And while it’s impossible to be 100% secure all the time as you travel around the world and connect to the internet from so many different places, the above certainly helps, even if it requires you take a few extra minutes to get online or your work gets delayed from time to time when you discover you’re on a risky connection. As soon as we get lazy and start breaking a few simple security rules, everything can change very quickly. All it takes is one hacking of your website (I’ve seen the enormous troubles this has caused for some other bloggers), one hacking of your bank account or one security breach of anything you do online to really create a major problem, one that can potentially ruin a part of or even all of your remaining travels.''As for keeping your physical gadgets themselves safe though, as I said, I don’t believe it’s worth worrying about them to the point where you load up your daypack with every piece of technological equipment you own, strap that pack to your front every day, grasp it so tight as you wander around and look at everyone that walks near you with a suspicious eye. Just lock up your stuff in your hotel/hostel, go outside carrying only what you need, trust in your fellow mankind and enjoy yourself. This method has certainly worked quite well for me over 13+ years and 84 countries.''*On a side note, a reader recently asked how I access such websites as Facebook, Skype and YouTube while in a country where that content is blocked (as is the case in several countries). I’ve always used''Hotspot Shield VPN'', a solid Virtual Private Network service that allows me to access any content from anywhere in the world. Most long-term travelers are quite familiar with Hotspot Shield and it’s definitely a useful service for anyone on the road.''How do you handle technology while traveling? How do you keep your gadgets safe? Any questions about gadgets, internet security or anything else?''When I first started this blog three years ago, I made the claim that it’s possible to travel the world for $1000 USD or less per month. And that is a claim I still believe to be true today.''I am confident that if I averaged out the amount of money I’ve spent during all of my own travels, the figure would indeed be right around that $1000/month mark. Of course, there are countries you can visit that will require you to spend much more money, but at the same time, there are plenty of countries you can visit that will allow you to spend less, and in some cases, much less.''The question for this post is – which are the countries that can be visited or lived in for less than that $1000/month figure?''Here is my updated list based on the countries that I have visited myself. (And for those countries I haven’t been to within the past 12 months, I’ve contacted fellow travelers in order to confirm prices, so the information is as up-to-date as possible.)''Europe''Western Europe is tough to make happen on $1000/month but it can be possible if you really transform yourself into a budget traveler who is willing to cut costs wherever you can. Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe, on the other hand, are a different story, offering a diverse collection of interesting countries that can be thoroughly explored for much less money. I’ve been spending a great deal of time in this region over the past year and a half myself and I am repeatedly amazed at how good of a value these countries are for travelers. Just head to some of the destinations on the below list and you’ll understand what I’m talking about. In this part of the world, accommodation can be found for less than $15/night and as low as $7/night (for a bed in a dorm room at a hostel), local meals can be eaten for $2 – $10, bus and train transportation is very reasonably priced and other activities (entrance fees) are typically less than in Western Europe as well.''Slovakia''Slovenia''Croatia''Bosnia & Herzegovina''Serbia''Montenegro''Albania''Macedonia''Bulgaria''Romania''Moldova''Estonia''Latvia''Central America & Mexico''Another region of the world that typically falls into the ‘you can travel for $1000/month’ category, you could spend months traveling around most of Central America on a tight budget. I know of many travelers who begin their adventure in a place like Guatemala and several months later, they have still yet to leave. For those interested in a relatively low-cost introduction to the Spanish-speaking world, Central America is a solid option. And if you add Mexico into the mix, you might get stuck in this region forever. Mexico is one of the most underrated countries I’ve ever spent time in. It’s an incredibly diverse land, full of friendly people, with excellent food and intriguing culture everywhere you turn (it’s also''much safer than most people think'') and you can experience it all quite well even as a budget traveler.''Panama''Costa Rica''Nicaragua''Honduras''El Salvador''Guatemala''Mexico''Asia''With so many countries to choose from, and with most of these countries more than ideal for budget travelers, it’s no wonder that Asia, especially Southeast Asia, is often the first stop on many travelers’ itineraries. With countries such as India and Indonesia offering some of the least expensive travel options on the planet ($500 USD per month is possible) and countries such as Thailand offering some of the best value travel experiences you can find anywhere, Asia is as good as it gets for anyone looking to travel for less than $1000 per month.''Thailand''Cambodia''Vietnam''Laos''Malaysia''Indonesia''Myanmar''Bangladesh''Nepal''Sri Lanka''India''Others''I’ve now been to''South Africa''twice and while my particular trips were not exactly as budget-friendly as usual, I did notice that $1000 per month would allow you to travel quite decently over there. You’d have to pay some attention to what you spend each day, and when it comes to the main attractions (ie. wildlife safaris) you’d want to check out the budget options instead of the pricier game lodges, but budget travelers in South Africa can definitely get by and have as rewarding an experience as anyone else.''Turkey is another country that can be visited for $1000 or less per month, although, that might not be true if you spend a lot of time in Istanbul, a city with prices that are on par with Western Europe. But outside Istanbul, prices drop significantly and $1000 per month is enough money to ensure you don’t end up broke after one week.''Also, over the course of this summer I hope to travel around Georgia, Azerbaijan, Poland and Lithuania, all countries where I’ve been told that $1000 is more than sufficient to travel well. I won’t be spending a full month in each place but I’ll be sure to report back after those visits to let you know how much it really does cost to travel in those areas.''So, even a few years after initially making the ‘travel on $1000 per month’ claim, much of the world can still be seen for this reasonable amount of money. Tell that to those who believe travel requires thousands and thousands of dollars and that it can’t be accomplished on such a low budget. One’s own spending habits and travel style also plays a role naturally, but if you’re able to travel simply (which is not the same as''traveling in poverty''as some believe), you really are able to experience the world, and benefit from that first-hand education that travel provides, for less money than you are probably spending at home.''Again, the list above consists of countries that I have personally been to so it goes without saying that there are plenty more out there that are perfect for budget travelers. And that’s why I want your input as well!''What country(s) have you traveled to or lived in for $1000 USD per month or less?''If you were to read every article on this blog, you would probably notice that there are only a handful of occasions when I speak about travel or any of the destinations I’ve been to or any of the experiences I’ve had over the years, in a negative manner. This is not some trick and I am not trying to deceive anyone into thinking that travel, or more specifically, long-term travel, is nothing but a never-ending stream of overwhelmingly positive experiences. But I do believe that our own attitude affects our own travels and if we do find the right mindset, we can find the positive in just about any destination we come across.''Of course, while almost 14 years has passed since I first started this journey of mine, my memory is also not so terrible that I can’t remember feeling scared, confused and lonely while traveling around Bangkok and its surroundings back in 1999 and feeling as if travel was significantly more complicated and frustrating than I ever imagined. It was my first real solo travel experience after all and those first few days were tough, very tough.''I couldn’t understand the language, I had no idea about the local customs, I didn’t know which places were safe, which should be avoided, what foods to try, what had a higher chance of making me ill. I didn’t have any friends around, I didn’t know who to trust or how to find out any reliable information and I didn’t even know what I was ‘supposed’ to be doing every day.''So, to say that travel is without its struggles would be misleading. What I prefer to say is that travel has its struggles, but they can be somewhat easily overcome.''How to Overcome the Struggles of Travel''Take a deep breath and start talking. That’s really what it takes. In the end, the only way to learn some of the language, the only way to learn about the customs and where to eat or what’s on the menu or how to find information is to communicate with those around you. Talk to the shop owners, ask your waiter a question, start conversations with fellow travelers (many of whom are wandering around struggling with the same things as you!), rely on the hostel staff for some advice.''Don’t be afraid to make a few cultural errors, to completely butcher some local phrases or to sound like a fool from time to time…we all do it, even experienced travelers! That’s how we learn and as a result, that’s how we overcome the challenges that travel involves.''Who cares if your attempt at saying “''hello, can you help me find the train station?''” in Turkish ends up sounding like “''hello, can shoes eat fried mangoes?''”. Chuckle with the local person you asked, who will undoubtedly be chuckling if not staring at you with the blankest face you’ve ever seen. No big deal! Why? Chances are that after that chuckle is over, that same person is going to help you out or they are going to help you find someone else who can help you out. People are overwhelming friendly all over the world, even when you need to find mango-eating shoes.''If you’re at a restaurant and you can’t read the menu. Ask! It sounds so basic but I know that it can be difficult to do when you’re in a foreign land and you don’t speak the language. Ask anyway! Pull out your phrase book and say “Chicken?” in the local language while pointing to a dish on the menu. Look up the word for ‘recommendation’ and ask your waiter to do just that. You’ll see that such interaction will almost always lead to assistance. People will help you figure out what’s on the menu or where that train station is located. That’s just what people do.''And whenever you do meet someone that is willing to help you out, take a moment to ask your other questions. Ask what is acceptable versus rude behavior in certain situations. Ask if a particular area is safe or not. Ask what foods are the best to try. You’re not expected to know everything before you arrive. And the majority of the time you are going to get answers and you’re going to not only walk away with more confidence but with a smile on your face at the interesting interaction that took place.''Another option is to visit websites such as''Couchsurfing.org''and meet up with locals wherever you are, locals who have a profile on that site simply because they want to meet up with you. This is not just a site to find couches to sleep on. There really are endless numbers of people all over the world who just want to meet travelers for a chat because they enjoy meeting different people. You’ll notice these people very clearly because they have a coffee cup in their Couchsurfing profile. Meet up with some, ask them questions, learn from them and make some friends.''(I am often asked if I am lonely while traveling. It’s actually the opposite. It is hard to have some alone time while on the road, simply because I am''constantly around new people''everywhere I go.)''Most of the fear we have while traveling is a result of not talking to anyone. We feel alone as we wander the streets, we feel helpless, we feel that there is nobody around us that we can communicate and share our days with. But there are hundreds, thousands, even millions of people around us all the time and all we have to do is open our mouths and start a conversation or two. Once we do that, the entire situation changes and before you know it your worries, along with the challenges that have been so frustrating, will suddenly disappear.''So if you’re out there in the world struggling to enjoy your travels and wondering how on earth others can be on the road for so long feeling so lost and lonely while traveling, just start talking. The more people you talk to, the richer your travel experiences and the fewer struggles you’ll have. In fact, you might end up having so few struggles that you’ll want to continue traveling for a few extra months….or even years.''If you’ve traveled before, do you agree that interaction is the best solution? If you’re traveling now, are you dealing with some of these struggles?''Ever since 2008, which is when I decided to stop working on board cruise ships, something I had been doing on and off for several years prior, I’ve known no other work but the kind that can be done on the internet. But at the same time, I understand that saying “I work online” doesn’t really give others much insight into how I actually earn my money and consequently, how I fund my travels these days.''The question that a lot of people want to know is: “What does ‘working online’ really mean?”''First, let me give you a quick background about how I got started. After saving up a decent amount of money during my time on cruise ships, as soon as I ended that stage of life I immediately decided to put all of that money into a savings account that was not to be touched for a long time. This forced me to start looking for new income opportunities right away because it was as if I had almost no money at all. This really put the pressure on and so I started reading a few books about other people who managed to earn money while traveling.''And it was the books about those people who were able to make money online that really caught my attention and so, I decided to give it a try myself. I chose a couple of options that appealed to me (there are thousands of ways to earn money online) and got to work.''For the first 4 months I failed miserably. I earned a grand total of $0.00 during that period of time, something that certainly made me doubt my decision. I was working/learning every day for at least 8-10 hours but my efforts yielded no results. However, it has always been my belief that those who fail at something are those who give up and that if you can push through the obstacles and continue to learn as much as possible, success will eventually be achieved.''Fast forward a few years and here I am, earning all of my income online, an income that allows me to continue traveling around the world as much as I want.''And now I’m going to try and explain exactly where that money comes from as best I can in the hopes of giving you a clearer picture of how ‘working online’ works for me.''It Starts With The Blog''This blog is actually my main online project and as a result, the main source of my income these days. I work on my blog almost every day and I could easily spend 50+ hours per week on this one website alone, writing posts, promoting posts, being active on all social media channels, answering emails and comments, updating my eBooks, adding new pages of information and on and on. Blogging is a ton of work, far more work than most aspiring bloggers ever imagine, especially if you want your blog to earn you some money.''Through the blog, I earn my income in a few ways…''eBooks''To begin with, there are the''eBooks/Travel Resources''that I have written. These books are designed to help others achieve their travel goals using the knowledge I’ve gained over the years, and they also help me earn an income. I spent months working on each one, pouring a ton of energy and effort into the content, and I am constantly updating the material as well in order to make sure that each product is always as relevant and useful as possible.''But despite this setup, every now and then I receive an email from a reader who is disgusted that my eBooks need to be purchased. Usually their argument is that this is just a travel blog and as a result, all of the information should be free. In addition, they claim that if I really wanted to help others achieve their travel goals, then I would release all information openly, at no cost whatsoever. Fair enough, I certainly understand their point.''However, here’s how it really works. If I didn’t charge money for my eBooks, there would be no WanderingEarl.com, and as a result, I wouldn’t be helping anyone at all achieve their travel goals. As I stated above, maintaining this website is no joke, it takes up the majority of my time and I work mighty hard to keep this site going. If I didn’t earn any money from the blog, it, and I, wouldn’t survive. Everyone needs some sort of income to live. It’s as simple as that.''Also, one thing I’ve always tried to do on this site is to keep advertising to a minimum. While I will promote certain companies that I truly believe in, I actually turn away approximately 95% of the advertising offers that I do receive in my inbox. Recently I decided to estimate how much money I have given up by not putting much advertising on my site over the past 4 years. The figure I came to was $40,000 USD.''But since I’m a firm believer that a site flooded with advertising is a site that isn’t going to last very long at all, I plan to continue giving up this income. I’ll take a little here and there but that’s it.''So, that’s why I charge some money for my eBooks, in order to maintain and grow this site (which also involves me being able to travel). And if the feedback I receive every week is any indication, the amount I do charge for these products is well worth what you receive in return, which is the balance I have always worked hard to achieve.''Wandering Earl Tours''While''Wandering Earl Tours''is a relatively new project of mine, something I started only towards the end of last year, I’m quite blown away by the success so far. I have already led three tours and I have three more planned for this year, all of which are sold out at this point. I absolutely love organizing and running these tours and I can’t wait to start choosing destinations for next year’s trips as well.''Of course, at the same time, organizing these tours involves a great deal of work, not only during the actual tour as I travel around with the group, but in the months leading up to the tours when I am extremely busy with the preparations, bookings and overall organization. Tack this work on top of my normal blogging workload, as well as trying to travel to new places in between, and I barely have a free moment these days.''Am I earning a fortune from these tours? No way. That’s not my goal. Besides, I told myself that for the first year of Wandering Earl Tours, I just wanted to break even and maybe enjoy a tiny bit extra for my efforts if possible. And as the tours hopefully continue to grow, which will involve another increase in workload, I do plan to try and compensate myself fairly for all of the effort that I do put into each and every trip. Again, the plan is not to become rich from this project, but to offer affordable trips to various countries in exchange for a modest income.''Advertising''When it comes to blogging, you will find an endless debate about whether or not there should be any advertising on such a site. I’ll tell you this. When you start a new blog and suddenly an advertiser is offering you $50 to place a link on your site somewhere or $100 to place a banner ad, it’s hard to turn that cash away. You now have a chance to make money online and of course you’re going to be excited!''Every blogger needs to tackle this topic on their own and decide how much advertising, if any, works for them. Yes, the money is tempting, but I’ve seen far too many bloggers who begin accepting as many advertising deals as they can only to lose their audience completely, simply because readers don’t want to see a site loaded with ads. Then, once your readers are gone, the advertising offers will stop coming and any other chance you have of earning money through your site most often goes out the window with them.''On this site, I made a decision when I first started to not accept any advertising for the first two years and I stuck to that.''These days, I’ve decided to accept minimal advertising here on the blog, usually in the form a small banner ad in the sidebar for a company/service/website that I have used or tested out myself and that I believe is indeed useful for travelers. I don’t place any sponsored posts on this site at all but I might, on occasion, add a short blurb at the end of a post promoting something that, again, I truly believe is really worth checking out.''The reality is that if I accepted all of the advertising offers that come into my inbox each day at the moment, I could probably earn $3000+ per month in advertising alone. But I don’t. As I said, I turn away 95% of those offers and as a result, I usually earn just a small amount of ‘pocket cash’ instead. The thing is that I really want all of you to stick around this site and to continue being a part of this community, so there’s no way I’m going to plaster ads all over the place and try to squeeze out as much advertising income as I can. I’m sure that’s not what you want to see and therefore, it won’t happen.''Sponsorships''On occasion, I have an opportunity to create a sponsorship deal, something that typically nets more money that a simple advertisement. I enter into such deals only when it’s a product/service that I absolutely support and love, something that I really want to share with all of you, such as the''XShot Camera Extender''. Should I be taking money for promoting these products/services? There’s certainly a debate in that as well but again, the way I see it is that given the amount of effort it takes to maintain the site, the odd sponsorship deal here and there doesn’t hurt, especially if I believe in what I’m promoting.''As you see though, I don’t do these deals often so it’s not a huge money maker either, just some another small stream of income in the end.''Affiliate Marketing''Affiliate links are links on this site that, if you click on them and purchase a product/service on the other end, provide me with a small commission. The biggest, and almost exclusive example of affiliate links on WanderingEarl.com, can be found on my''Travel Gear page''where I link to the Amazon.com sales page for all of the gear that I actually travel with and that I think are great items. If you were to click on any of the links and then purchase something on Amazon (doesn’t have to be the item you clicked on, it can be anything on the entire site), I receive about a 6% commission. It’s not much but as you’ve probably figured out by now, it’s another source of income that, when combined with all of the other small sources of income, eventually adds up to an income that helps keep me traveling around the world.''Other Stuff''Apart from the blog, I also work on many other online projects from time to time. But to tell you the truth, most of these projects fail or they don’t lead to any income. That’s just a part of working online. You need to experiment all the time in the hopes of finding something that works, and eventually, some do pan out.''For me, some of my more successful projects have included freelance work as a writer, some basic website building, writing/selling a couple of non-travel related eBooks on other websites, affiliate marketing and some blog consulting. Almost all of these opportunities resulted from networking with other travelers or people in the travel industry and up until this year, when I decided to stop some of these projects in order to concentrate more fully on the blog, they kept me busy most of the time.''Each of the above also offered another stream of income to add to the pile.''And trying to grow that pile is what it takes to make money online.''Do I receive a fixed income every month? Nope. In fact, I never know how much I’ll earn each month at all. I have great months, terrible months and average months and I also never know if the extra effort I put into anything will actually yield better results. But, I am earning an income in the end and somehow, over the past few years, this income has allowed me to continue traveling around without having to tap into my savings.''It has also allowed me to continue working on this blog''and to try my best to highlight the benefits of travel while proving that long-term travel is more posible to achieve than most people think. And after all, this is the core reason this blog even exists.''Everything I do is intertwined…without travel there would be no blog, without the blog there would be no travel. And luckily, earning my income online, which hopefully I’ve managed to explain somewhat clearly above, allows me to keep it all flowing together.''Any questions about how I work online or about working online in general? Let me know below and I’ll be happy to answer!''How do you choose your next destination when you have the ability to choose almost anywhere in the world? Then, once you decide where to go, what do you do to prepare for your travels? And finally, for those who don’t have a limited number of days for their trip, how on earth do you decide how long to stick around each place you visit?''The above questions were asked in the comments section of''my last post''when I asked all readers of the blog to specify what you want me to write about. They are great questions because, if you’re planning on spending a significant amount of time traveling the world, you will have to answer them over and over again. And since I’ve needed to ask myself these questions all the time over the past 14 years as I’ve moved around the world from place to place, always trying to figure out where I should go next, I figured it would be a good idea to provide my answers in a post.''Let’s begin…''Choosing a Destination''Very rarely do I know where I’ll be more than one month in advance. I’ve never been much of a planner and with the current lifestyle that I’ve carved for myself, it is almost impossible to make future plans without having to change them once, twice or several times.''So, I don’t plan.''I prefer to use that simple method of ‘going with the flow’, making decisions last minute whenever I feel the inspiration or need to move on to a new country. Sometimes I’ll choose to visit a country because of something I read recently, other times I’ll choose based on something I want to learn or people I want to see. All I know is that if I were to wake up tomorrow with this burning desire to traverse the remote plains of Mongolia as soon as possible, I’d start looking for flights…and chances are I’d be in Mongolia relatively soon, even though the thought of going to Mongolia was nowhere to be found in my head today.''Choosing my next destination really is quite random for me.''With that said, I do believe that traveling must have a purpose. Without a purpose or goal, traveling can get boring quite quickly (hard to believe but it’s true!). As a result, I try not to choose destinations just for the sake of seeing a new country. Instead, I choose destinations because there is something I want to do there, some goal I want to achieve.''An example would be my recent''trip to Yemen''. That trip materialized in about two weeks after the thought of really visiting Yemen came to mind. And my reason for going was to visit a country that sees very few visitors so that I could hopefully shed even a tiny bit of light on this land and its people. I also wanted to visit''Socotra Island''because I had a feeling that it would be an incredible place to organize a''Wandering Earl Tour''and of course, I wanted to see it first-hand before organizing such a trip. (And yes, I’m still working on the details of that tour. Should be finalized very soon!)''Again, purpose. Travel needs a purpose. This doesn’t mean that you need to spend years thinking of some grand goal you’d like to achieve and which country would be the most ideal for you to achieve that goal, but having a goal, any goal, in mind certainly helps narrow down your options. I certainly wouldn’t go to China in order to learn Spanish and I wouldn’t go to Mexico to learn about European history.''Think about your interests in life and that will help you choose your travel destinations. Do you want to learn a language? Do you have friends somewhere in the world you want to visit? Is there a particular sight you’ve always wanted to see with your own eyes? Do you prefer to spend some time surrounded by nature or in a big city or on the beach?''Ask those kind of questions, which is what I do all the time, and deciding where to go next won’t be as daunting of a challenge.''Preparing to Visit a New Country''This is an easy one for me because I really don’t prepare much at all. Since I do choose my destinations at the last minute, I just don’t have time to do much research before I land somewhere new. And since I no longer use guidebooks (nothing against them, I just prefer to travel without them these days), I typically land somewhere knowing very little beyond what I already know just from being a traveler who is interested in the world in general.''If I know of a travel blogger who has recently been to the same place, I might check their blog or send them a quick email before I begin my trip in the hopes of finding some good recommendations, maybe for a place to stay or perhaps a location/experience that was particularly memorable. And on occasion I’ll head over to the''WikiTravel page''for the city I’m landing in and have a quick read, maybe to get a list of a few budget hotels to check out when I arrive. But that’s about it.''Overall, the reason I prefer this type of minimal preparation is because it allows me to travel with as few expectations as possible. If I don’t read a ton of stuff about where I’m headed, I feel that I’m more open-minded as I travel around. Filling my head with too many details, stories, news articles, etc. before I arrive would diminish my ability to treat every moment without prejudice.''On the other hand, doing almost no research can often lead to a longer adjustment period upon arrival. I will certainly need more time to figure out ‘how things work’ and there will be more surprises along the way, some potentially unpleasant. It can be a harder to find accommodation, find places to eat, learn how to get from one point to another or anything else you need to do while traveling if you need to learn it all as you go.''My recommendation is to do what you are most comfortable with. And if you’re just starting out traveling, definitely do some research before visiting a new country. I certainly did when I first started out. I had a guidebook in hand almost everywhere I went for the first few years. Then, once you become more experienced, you won’t feel the need to rely on a guidebook as much because you’ll have gained a travel confidence that is hard to explain until it happens. Strange situations just won’t seem strange after a while and the fear and worry that you once had when traveling to new destinations will eventually disappear, leaving you feeling as if you don’t need to conduct as much pre-trip research as you once did.''How Long Do I Stick Around?''Deciding whether I should stay in a particular country for a day, a week, a month or even longer is, unsurprisingly by this point, something that I also don’t plan out in advance. As I seldom have somewhere to be, I am able to just show up and see how things go. If I enjoy a town, city or country, I stick around until I’m ready to see something new. If I don’t enjoy a place so much, I move on much sooner.''However, these days, I am not the same traveler I was in the beginning when I would strap on my backpack and set off for months at a time in a particular region of the world. Now that I work online and have things I need to get done in order to earn a living (more details on this in a future post), I can’t keep up that same pace. I need to travel slowly at times so that I can get things accomplished and sometimes slowly even means staying in one destination for a few months or more.''So, what I started doing (when I first began working online) was alternating between periods of normal backpacking where I would visit a few countries for a couple of months and periods when I would stay put in one particular destination for a month or two. This allowed me to continue working online, to put some real energy into this blog and to still see more of the world in the process.''It also helped keep my costs down because whenever I do stay in one place for a longer period of time, I am able to''rent an apartment quite cheaply'', making it much less expensive than staying in a private room at a hostel, guesthouse or budget hotel.''Eventually, though, my travel style changed once again and became what it is today. Now I prefer to have a long-term base, a location where I can really be comfortable and somewhat ‘settled’ while also being in a convenient location so that I am able to jet out for weeks or even a month or two at a time to new places. This ideal setup allows me to create stronger friendships, gain a deeper understanding of the local culture and of course, get more work done while at my ‘base’. I also have a comfortable and familiar place to return to after spending some time away.''The first place I used as a long-term base was''Playa del Carmen, Mexico''and now it’s been''Bucharest, Romania''for the past 18 months. I’m still traveling all the time but having a place to return to, a place where I can leave my stuff, has made a huge difference in helping me maintain my excitement about this traveling lifestyle. It’s just too difficult to build a blog and to really work on anything while constantly moving around the world from new country to new country.''How did I end up choosing Bucharest? It was actually completely unplanned. I showed up in Romania towards the end of 2011 as part of a Eurail trip I took around Europe and my plan was to stay for about 10 days before moving on to Bulgaria and Istanbul. But after a week in Romania I had met such wonderful people and had really enjoyed every place I visited that I simply made a sudden decision to stop and throw down my bags for a while. And I chose Bucharest because that’s where most of the people I met were living.''I certainly never imagined that I would end up spending so much time in Romania but that’s the beauty of travel – there’s always surprises and you never know what will happen once you cross the border into your next destination!''Any questions about choosing a destination, preparing for a destination or deciding how long to stay in one place? Let me know in the comments!''Over the past few months there has been a great surge of traffic here on the blog and along with it has come an influx of new readers. And from what I can tell, you are all people I’d love to see stick around for a while!''So first, I’d like to welcome everyone who has recently come across the site (and to thank everyone who has helped spread the word about the site as well!). I’m very happy to have you here and I certainly look forward to interacting and talking travel with you, whether through the comments, via email or through the''Facebook fan page''.''Second, considering that the aim of this site involves helping others achieve their own travel goals, encouraging people to get out of their comfort zones and learn about the people and places of this world first-hand and trying to convince you that “a life of travel is not a crazy fantasy, but a realistic lifestyle option instead”, I just want to make sure I’m still on the right track.''Let me begin with a summary of what I’ve been up to over the past 14 years…''In 1999 I took a 3-month trip to Southeast Asia with only $1500 to my name and that trip has never really ended. Ever since, I’ve been living, working, backpacking and volunteering overseas, having spent time in 84 countries around the world so far. I’ve taught English in Thailand and India, worked on board cruise ships as a Tour Manager for several years and since 2008 I’ve been earning a living online, through a variety of projects. I’ve been blogging since December 2009 and the truth is, I would have never imagined that this blog would actually have readers or that it become such a major part of my life. These days, the blog is what I spend most of my time working on, whether writing posts, promoting the site, interacting on social media, answering emails, updating my eBooks and also organizing and leading my''Wandering Earl Tours''. And I do all of this while continuing to travel, something that generally involves me having a base somewhere (it’s been Bucharest, Romania for the past 1.5 years) and exploring more of the world from there.''That’s how my life has been going. It’s a very basic summary of the past 14 years of course, but hopefully that gives you a quick idea of why I label this blog “The Life of a Permanent Nomad”.''Question – What Do You Want to Know?''Now that you know what I’ve been up to, here’s what I’d like to do. To begin with, let me state again that it is indeed my desire to help you achieve your own travel goals and I do believe that I have enough travel/life experience to make that happen. However, I’ve realized that the only way for me to provide you with the most useful information possible is to know exactly what you’re looking for.''And while there are over 200 blog posts on this site (the most popular/useful being listed on my “''Getting Started''” page), I know that there is so much more for me to talk about, discuss and share from my years of travel. But instead of just guessing, I’d really love to know what topics you would actually like to read about (or see on video!).''So, I’d like to ask…''What would you like me to talk about? What do you want to know about travel? What do you want to see? How can I help you travel?''I invite you to leave a comment below, telling me whatever it is you want me to put on this site. And I promise that if you do leave a comment, I will answer and provide the information you are looking for in an upcoming post.''Also, it doesn’t only have to be a request for practical ‘how-to’ information. It could be a request for additional details about any of the''countries I’ve been to''or about any of the experiences I’ve had. It could be about the logistics of long-term travel or short-term travel, asking for certain advice or recommendations, questions about the people I meet or about my own personal travel style or even about my life in general…absolutely anything!''What do you want to know?''(I’m looking forward to the comments on this one as I’m excited to give you the information you are truly seeking in order to help get you started with your own travels!)''Yes, it was.''Why?''My Macbook Pro works. Simple as that.''It’s efficient, stable and it’s infinitely more user-friendly than any other laptop I’ve ever owned, which includes an HP, a couple of Acer machines and a Sony Vaio. And my Macbook is also incredibly fun to use, something that, for someone who spends as much time online as I do, makes a major difference. When everything looks and works perfectly, tackling a list of 50 ‘Things to Do’ each day, regardless of how boring or uninspiring each task may be, is a complete breeze, an enjoyable breeze actually.''The Macbook I settled on, after three weeks of research and ten lengthy visits to the Apple Store, is the 13.3” inch Macbook Pro with Retina. It has 500 GB of memory, 8 GB of RAM and a 3.0 Ghz dual-core i7 processor. I bought it''refurbished directly from Apple’s online store''for $1650 USD, a price tag that definitely comes with a painful sting, but when compared to buying a Macbook Pro with Retina, non-refurbished version (which goes for $2199), the $1650 actually looks quite attractive. That’s how I justified it anyway!''I am clearly aware that I could have bought a Windows laptop with the same or better specifications for less money but still, no Windows laptop that I have tested (and I tested dozens during my research), comes even close to the feel of the Macbook. The Macbook is just such a smooth, impressively fine-tuned machine that I actually get excited to turn it on each day, especially considering that it only takes a half of a second to wake it up from its sleep mode. And all of this makes it worth dishing out some extra money for, at least to me.''With that said, I still stand by my earlier claims that my previous laptop, the''Acer Aspire Timeline-X AS1830T-6651'', is almost as good as it gets when it comes to travel laptops, for most people. The power, speed, weight and price of the Acer are all more than ideal, creating what can only be considered an undeniably impressive package. But for me, these days, I need something a bit more powerful, a bit more ‘professional’, a bit, well, smoother and, in all honesty, enjoyable to use.''And that’s exactly what I landed with my Macbook.''I turn it on and it does everything it should in a way that allows me to get more done in a shorter period of time and to enjoy getting that stuff done as well. Based on that alone, buying a Macbook Pro was a wise work decision for me and I really am quite happy that I made the change.''But I haven’t been fully converted yet. I still prefer my Android phone over an iPhone!''What do you think? Is it Mac or Windows for you? Care to share why you prefer one over the other?''Ever since I arrived back in Bucharest some ten days ago, my level of motivation has been at an all-time high, so much so that even the gray communist-style apartment blocks scattered all over this city seem inspiring these days.''Where does all of this motivation come from?''As I often state as my answer to many questions….it’s all about the people.''Lately, I have been meeting such inspirational people that I can barely sit still, leaving me with a constant need to brainstorm, to create, to work on new ideas. Everyone I’m coming across, whether in person or online, just seems to have such inspiring travel stories to share and it’s pumping me up as well.''These people are not only interested in also turning travel into an actual lifestyle, they are dedicating themselves wholeheartedly to making it a reality.''Some of those I’ve met have already succeeded, others are well on their way. A few more have just started, completely fired up about the adventure ahead and completely unwilling to accept anything but the achievement of their goals.''And talking with each of them has undoubtedly increased my own motivation. Now I want to pass that motivation on to you by showing exactly what these people that I’ve met are currently up to. It is my sincerest hope that these examples will help convince you that you could do the same. Let us see…''Cruise Ship Work''– One of my Romanian friends has just returned from working on board a cruise ship in Tahiti for the past four months where she admittedly worked very hard but also enjoyed the experience immensely, not to mention the several thousand dollars she saved, all of the French Polynesian islands she had a chance to visit and the friends and contacts she made as well. Not a bad way to boost the bank account and now she’s ready for even more travel and adventure, knowing that she could return to ‘''ship life''‘ at any time.''Starting a Hostel & Tour Company''– A very motivated young guy, and passionate traveler, has recently started a chain of hostels here in Romania, along with a tour company designed to offer one-of-a-kind trips all over this country that focus on giving people as unique an experience as possible. He wants this concept to work so much that you can see the determination in his eyes when he talks about it. This is one person who won’t accept anything but success and if you spend just five minutes with him you’ll certainly find all the motivation you need to tackle your own life goals!''Taking the First Step''– Despite working in a decent computer programming job for the past few months, another guy I met has made the decision to travel for one year starting next January. The decision is final and he’s about to book his flight now that he has started getting some freelance clients, whose projects he can work on from the road. This guy has always wanted to travel and he won’t let anything stop him, knowing full well that he has what it takes to make his dreams a reality.''Photographs & Documentaries''– They’re a couple and they’ve taken their passions – photography and film-making – and turned them into an actual lifestyle. She takes the photos, which are often used in television commercials and magazines, and he shoots the documentaries which are shown on television stations around Europe. They both love to travel as well, which meshes perfectly with their skills and knowledge, allowing them to create ‘work’ as they explore different countries. And they are even planning to''travel to Yemen''soon where I have no doubt they’ll capture some incredible, and very sellable footage.''Escorting Groups Around the World''– This creative individual worked out a deal with a travel agency in which the agency would sell small group tours to destinations around the world and he would escort those trips. He’s not the guide, but he acts as the liaison between the travelers and the local guides, hotels, transportation companies, etc., earning a decent amount of money per person while traveling for free at the same time.''Earning Money as a Waitress or Chef''– Working at a resort on the island of Cypress, one girl I met spent four months there, saving up money in the process, which she then used to travel around Southeast Asia for five months. Her boyfriend worked as a chef at the same resort, where he was paid 1000 Euros per month, with apartment and meals included for free. They are thinking of heading back to Cypress for another contract in order to save up again for another trip, perhaps to South America this time around.''Using Social Media Skills to Travel''– Another female I ran into has traveled around the world offering her knowledge of Twitter, Facebook and other social media sites to various hostels in exchange for a free bed and even a weekly payment. She boosts the hostels’ online presence, gets more people excited about the properties, increases their audience and more, making it a win-win situation for everyone.''Staying Put in One Place as an Au Pair''– Sometimes it’s as simple as applying for a job through an Au Pair agency and before you know it, you’re taking care of a child in a foreign country. Sure, you have to work hard but you get paid as well and don’t have to pay much in terms of living expenses. One female traveler I know has been doing this in Istanbul for 5 months, allowing her to not only live almost expense-free, but to experience an amazing city more deeply than most people who simply visit for a short period of time.''Freelance Design from Anywhere''– The freelance designer that I just met two days ago certainly impressed me with his story. He used his web design skills to gain clients on''Elance.com'',''Odesk.com''and other similar platforms where freelancers can find work and now he has no boss and no office. He works whenever he wants, wherever he wants and his portfolio continues to grow. With the money he earns, he can travel the world without having to worry about how to pay for his next meal or where he’s going to sleep, and he’s as happy as can be about it. (On a side note, this designer is absolutely brilliant so if you need any design work, let me know and I can put you in touch with him.)''How are you feeling right about now? Just read these stories over a few times and you’ll realize that these are all ordinary people, just like you and me, who simply had a desire to travel and a ‘nothing is going to stop me’ attitude. Yes, they were all''afraid at some point'', afraid to follow a path that had no clear structure or guarantees of any kind, but they summoned the courage regardless and plunged into the unknown. For all of them, it has certainly paid off, something that is quite clear from the positive energy they give off and the brilliant smiles on their faces when they talk about their projects and travel-infused lifestyles.''And those smiles are addictive and motivating, and over the past ten days, they have caused me to get incredibly excited about working on more of the crazy ideas bouncing around the inside of my own head.''I know that some of the above stories might not have the ‘wow’ factor you were possibly expecting, but that’s the point. Inspiring travel stories don’t need a ‘wow’ factor. The most important thing is to see that ordinary people have found a way to get out there and travel, often by taking simple, yet determined, steps.''Forget about ‘wow’. Look straight ahead and go for it, just as those above have already done.''How about you? Are you feeling motivated these days or are you in a rut?''Few people have even heard of this place and even fewer people have any idea where it’s located. But for those who do know and who do travel to Socotra Island, which happens to be one of the most isolated landforms on the planet, there is only one natural reaction – to wonder aloud why on earth more people aren’t visiting.''Socotra Island is a part of''Yemen'', however, it is far removed from anything happening on the mainland. The culture is different, the language is different and unlike the mainland, which has had to deal with separatist movements, Al-Qaeda cells and a revolution over the years, life on Socotra has remained as peaceful and quiet as can be.''However, almost nobody makes the distinction between Socotra and the Yemeni mainland and as a result, being a part of Yemen has kept travelers away. Rough estimates (according to several locals involved in the Socotra tourism industry) that in 2013 only about 1000 foreigners are expected to travel to Socotra. Just wait until you see the video below – that number will seem so absurdly low for a place so incredible.''The island is home to approximately 50,000 inhabitants, scattered among dozens of small villages, most of whom never make it off the island. There are more goats than people, hitch-hiking is the most common form of transportation, there is no crime and there’s only one internet cafe in the capital village that acts as their connection to the outside world.''This is truly a destination unlike any other and when I recently spent a few days on Socotra Island, it was the first time in my 13 years of travel that I felt as if I was on another planet altogether. It’s that magical, that bizarre, that stunning, that unbelievably remote of a destination.''And that’s why more people should travel to Socotra Island! You can even fly there directly from the United Arab Emirates so that you bypass the mainland of Yemen altogether. And once there, I guarantee that you will not want to leave.''Just have a look at this highlight video I put together from my own visit:''Note:''As a I stood on Erher Beach during my last day on Socotra, looking all around me at the most beautiful water, the most beautiful sand and the most beautiful mountain landscape I had seen in a long, long time, it should be no surprise that I came up with an idea…''Announcing the''“Wander Across Socotra” Tour''!''I’m still working out the details but the tour, part of''Wandering Earl Tours'', will take place either over New Year’s (for the most unique New Year’s celebration you could possibly have anywhere) or sometime in January 2014. And since this tour will have limited space, if you might be interested, let me know so that I can add you to the list!''*For more information on travel logistics, have a read of the following written by my friend and fellow travel blogger Anil from FoxNomad.com:''How to Travel to Yemen and Socotra Island''*You can also listen below to the podcast I did over at''Amateur Traveler''about Socotra Island and Yemen in general:''Who wants to travel to Socotra Island???''I need your help.''In the coming months, I’ll be starting work on a couple of new projects (as always!) and these projects have the potential to raise a good amount of money that I will want to give to charity. And while I have a few charities in my mind that do some excellent work out there, I wanted to hear your thoughts as well, knowing that many of you would have a favorite charity somewhere in the world that I probably have never heard of.''And since I’d like to do as much research as possible before choosing a charity or two or three to work with, I’d love for you to share your recommendations below. I know that some of you already listed your favorite organizations when I asked a similar question on my''Facebook page''earlier this week, and I absolutely thank you all for your quick responses. I’ve already started looking more closely at many of the charities you listed.''Right now, I’m just interested in getting even more ideas and learning about as many organizations as possible before actually making a decision.''I’m of course looking for organizations that not only claim to make a positive difference in the world but that are truly working hard to achieve their goals, organizations that use all, or the overwhelming majority, of money they receive to fund actual projects.''I’m open to anything, big or small, local or international, well-known or lesser-known causes, in any part of the world, as the projects I’m working on will hopefully have a global reach.''And while we’re at it, in order to make this post even more useful for anyone who happens to find it, please feel free to list any organizations that you have volunteered with overseas as well, organizations that offer opportunities to lend a hand without requiring you to spend a ton of money on administrative and other fees.''I’m constantly receiving emails from readers looking to volunteer with small, well-run, honest, local organizations in all corners of the planet, the kind of organizations that aren’t mentioned all over the internet. So any suggestions you may have for this as well would be greatly appreciated, not only by myself, but by your fellow readers of this blog.''And on that note, I shall look forward to reading your feedback and I thank you all very much in advance for your assistance!''So, what is your favorite charity? What is their aim? Why are they reputable? Where have you volunteered?''When I started researching how I could''travel to Yemen'', I must admit that I assumed it would not be possible at all. Given the strongly worded government travel warnings about this country, coupled with the fact that any positive news about Yemen seems to be in great shortage, I just figured that things such as obtaining a tourist visa and even finding good, safe accommodation options would be impossible, paving the way for only the craziest of the craziest travelers to dare venture here.''And while I’m open to doing some crazy things, I’m not sure if ‘craziest of the craziest’ was a category I wanted to be a part of.''But surprised was I when I started to learn that a few travelers are making their way to Yemen and that traveling in these parts is not nearly as difficult, or dangerous, as I had once thought.''Surrounded by Soldiers''And then, a few weeks later I was in the back of an old Toyota 4×4 with a local driver and guide, heading out of Sana’a into the Yemeni countryside. The road wound through some rocky hills, passing along the edges of valleys and eventually cruising across a massive 2000 meter high plateau. En route to our destination for the night, we stopped at the impressively situated rocktop Palace of the Imam (Dar Al-Hajar) and we wandered through the streets of Thula, an ancient, and very well-preserved, village with structures dating back some 3000 years.''After a couple of more short stops, it was time to head towards the town of Shibam.''Before entering Shibam, somewhere on the outskirts of town, our driver had to stop at a military checkpoint where he handed over a copy of the travel permits that all foreigners wanting to enter this region of Yemen must obtain. The soldier glanced at the paperwork for a moment, asked our driver a couple of questions and then, with a flick of his hand, allowed us to pass.''A few minutes later, we entered Shibam, where we had a great lunch, wandered through the friendly town and made a quick visit to the village of Kawkaban, clinging to the edge of a mountain nearby. Upon returning to our hotel in the afternoon, just in time to''chew some qat''of course, I realized that, not for one moment, had I felt unsafe, at all.''As I began to nibble away on some qat leaves, I asked our driver and guide about the military checkpoints, but they both brushed them off as nothing to be worried about and told me that the areas we would visit were perfectly safe. It all seemed reasonable to me…''…until the next morning when I was eating breakfast with the driver and guide in the small restaurant of the hotel.''The guide started to explain that, during the night, sometime around 11:00pm, a group of six armed government soldiers had shown up at the hotel.''“Why?” I asked.''“To protect you,” he said.''“What? I thought it was safe.”''“It is safe. But whenever there is a US citizen visiting, the government sends soldiers just in case,” he stated with a big smile on his face.''Hmmm….''And for the rest of the day, our jeep was followed by a pickup truck with six armed soldiers sitting in the back. Not only that, whenever we got out of the jeep to visit a place such as the Al-Zakati Fort or the rocky cliffs near Bokur or to walk around the town of Mahweet, the soldiers got out of their truck as well and followed us around, never wandering too far away.''Even more surprising was the fact that this was quite a well-coordinated effort. As we were driving along a lonesome mountain road at one point, the soldier-filled truck behind us suddenly stopped. But sure enough, another truck, with another group of six soldiers was waiting for us right around the corner. This happened three times, with each group ‘handing us over’ once we reached the edge of their territory.''Now, before you let this whole soldier-following-you-around thing worry you, consider this. The Yemeni government, in an attempt to remain good friends of the USA, really does provide this soldier-escort service only to US citizens. Apparently, no other nationality receives this service. So, this does make me believe that such an escort is not really needed at all and is just for show. If these parts were so dangerous, the government would either provide the escort for everyone or they would add the area to the list of regions that foreigners are not allowed to travel to.''And whenever we got out of the vehicle, with our soldiers in tow, nobody in any town treated us any differently. It was as if the soldiers weren’t there and the soldiers certainly didn’t investigate anything, except for one town where they seemed to become a little more serious about their protective duties for a few minutes.''So, Is Yemen Safe?''Yemen is the kind of country you wouldn’t visit at all if you listened to all of the travel warnings. But it’s the kind of country you would probably be ready to visit if you listened to any traveler who has recently spent time there.''The thing is, Yemen has its fair share of issues. With a branch of Al-Qaeda operating in certain corners of the country, a south that wants to separate from the north and some tensions among tribal groups, it might seem as if any trip to this country would be doomed from the start.''However, if you travel wisely, which doesn’t really take too much effort, the chances of anything negative happening to you are extremely slim. Yemen, for smart travelers, is as safe as most places. Anil from Foxnomad.com wrote more about the safety situation in Yemen:''Is It Safe To Travel To Yemen?''I personally didn’t feel as if I was in danger at any time, nor did I ever have a moment when I thought “Uh-oh, this could be trouble.” The parts of Yemen that I visited, and keep in mind that the Government of Yemen will not allow foreigners to travel to parts of the country that they deem unsafe, left me with nothing but a positive impression.''But again, I didn’t wander into the areas of Sana’a where the staff at''our trusty hotel''suggested we didn’t wander. I didn’t try to sneak into regions of the countryside where foreigners are not allowed to go. And I did my very best to respect and adhere to local customs wherever I went.''The Result?''All of the people I met were extremely hospitable and welcoming (and many wouldn’t let us leave without taking their photos, something you can see from Anil’s “''Faces of Yemen''” post) in every single town in the country. I heard not one negative reaction when I said I was from the USA, only extended hands and smiles. The number of invitations I received for meals, or even to spend the night at a local’s home, from people I only met thirty seconds before, were too many to count. Again, friendliness, not danger, was what I felt the most during my stay.''And this was the case whether I was in the once-touristy town of Manakh or having lunch at a restaurant in some dusty crossroads community where everyone around us seemed as if they had never seen a foreigner before. It was the same when I was high up in the mountains, stumbling upon tiny villages only accessible by foot, and when I was walking through the nearly hidden back lanes of the main market in the historic Old City of Sana’a.''Of course, for some travelers, the sight of soldiers and tanks, dozens upon dozens of checkpoints (there are at least ten checkpoints between the Sana’a Airport and the center of the city) and the odd kaleshnikov-carrying man walking down the street might scare you away. And while those are all present for a reason, the chance of a traveler encountering anything but a smile or nod of the head from the soldiers or any gun-carrying individual, is not very high at all in my opinion.''Is Yemen Safe for Female Travelers?''Indeed it is. Speaking with my guide on the Yemeni mainland, it seemed as if he had just as many stories about female travelers he had recently shown around the country than about male travelers. And many of the females came either on their own or in a group of a few women. Of course, I am not a female but, based on the conversations I had throughout my stay, I learned that a foreign female would have no problems traveling throughout this country. For more specific information about traveling here as a female, be sure to read:''Solo Female Travel to Yemen – Your Questions Answered''Yemenis do understand that foreigners have a different way of life and as a result, they welcome foreign females to join in any of the activities that males would partake in, even if it is something that a local woman is not allowed to, or doesn’t normally, do. You will be treated as a traveler, and as a result, those you meet will want to show you the best of their country.''And, as a female, you would have a chance to do something that a male traveler has little chance of doing. You could speak with and interact with females, giving you a much different perspective on life in Yemen and an entirely different set of rewarding experiences. During my stay, I must admit that I only spoke with three local females the entire time. One was a schoolgirl who wanted her photo taken, one was a 20-year old divorcee in a small village and one was a 17-year old trying to sell me some jewelry. That was it unfortunately.''Also, I did meet two foreign female travelers in Yemen during my stay and they were both having an incredible time. I heard not one complaint of trouble, harassment or any other difficulty and instead, they each told me that Yemen was one of the most welcoming countries they had been to and much easier to travel around, as a foreign female, than they had ever imagined.''Socotra Island''I have something different planned for my upcoming post on incredible Socotra Island, the Yemeni island located in the Indian Ocean that I also visited on this trip. But for now, in terms of safety, I can tell you that the island is completely safe. They basically have a zero crime rate simply because it’s an isolated island. If you commit a crime, there’s absolutely nowhere to run to and everyone on the island knows each other. You can’t really find a safer destination to visit!''Travel Wisely''In conclusion, the risk of encountering any major problems in Yemen as a traveler is quite small if you travel wisely. This means staying away from spontaneous demonstrations (none of which we came across during our trip), learning which parts of the capital city to avoid, dressing appropriately, getting the necessary travel permits and most importantly perhaps, traveling with a licensed driver and guide through a reputable local company.''Traveling on your own in Yemen is not easy these days and you will find it to be quite a hassle to move around the country on public transportation and to pass through the dozens of checkpoints on every road. According to some reports, travelers are often turned away at checkpoints if they don’t have a local driver with them and just communicating with the soldiers in general (no English spoken) would be difficult. A local driver will also provide a bridge between you and the local communities, making it much easier for you to have rewarding travel experiences.''And besides, trying to organize the travel permits on your own would probably take up half your trip and conducting research in order to find reliable information on how to travel from one destination to another, where to get off the bus to visit a particular sight, how to reach the sights that are only accessible by 4×4 jeep along a non-existent road, which hotels are still in operation (many are closed now due to the lack of tourists), etc. would take up the other half.''Using a tour company to organize the visa, permits, driver and guide will ensure that you are able to see far more than you could ever see on your own, while enjoying a personally-tailored itinerary, for a price that suits your budget. And again, I’m going to recommend the tour company I used,''Eternal Yemen'', because they are as reliable as it gets and their team of kind, dedicated staff is what helped make my trip so memorable. (If you do use Eternal Yemen, make sure you request to have “Ali” as your driver…you won’t be disappointed!)''*Keep in mind that the above is simply my opinion and before traveling to Yemen, you should conduct additional research in order to decide if it’s the right destination for you to visit.''How does Yemen sound to you in terms of safety? Do you have any questions? Just let me know below!''I’m going to make this easy.''When you visit Sana’a, the capital city of Yemen, do yourself a favor and stay at the''Dawood Hotel''. Now I understand that might sound like an oversimplification and it might even entice you to examine the other accommodation options that exist in this city, but believe me when I tell you that, assuming you’re not looking for 5-star accommodation, this is the best hotel in Sanaa. It’s the place to stay. It’s not just a hotel, it’s a Yemeni travel experience all in itself.''And I only need about two minutes and a few photographs to prove it to you.''Everything You Need To Know About The Dawood Hotel''Location:''In the heart of the Old City of Sana’a, which, as a traveler, is exactly where you want to be. You’re less than five minutes walk from the markets, main gate, restaurants and other attractions in the Old City and the area around the hotel is quiet, friendly and full of activity.''Rooms:''There are over 20 rooms at the Dawood, and each room is designed in the traditional style of a different region of the country. Some rooms are full of color, others are huge, some have sitting rooms and balconies…and they all have infinite character and an interior that makes you feel as if you are truly staying in a special place. The beds are comfortable, the bathrooms clean, the views of the Old City from the windows extraordinary and the overall ambience will entice you to spend your entire trip inside your room.''Service:''Welcoming and friendly, what more do you need? From the moment we walked through the gate, which happened at 3:00am on our first day in Yemen, we were met with smiling faces and an unbelievably hospitable team of hotel staff. From the dedicated Reservations Manager Mr. Mogalli to the super-helpful Ibrahim, every single person working here was clearly keen on making this hotel the best in Sana’a. At one point I briefly met the General Manager as well and you know how you can just tell when you are in the presence of a genuinely kind and generous person? That’s exactly how I felt about Mr. Abdul Rahmed during our conversation, making me feel even better about staying here.''Atmosphere:''The building itself is 7 stories tall and is several hundred years old, built in traditional Yemeni style. It was actually the family home of the hotel’s owner, who decided to turn it into a hotel back in 2004 and to maintain the building’s character in the process. The outside of the building is simply beautiful and I’ve already mentioned the atmosphere inside of the guest rooms. Now it’s time to mention the comfortable rooftop, with views over the entire city of Sana’a (incredible at night!), the large open ground-floor terrace and adjoining tent, where you can eat from the hotel’s restaurant menu, sip tea or just relax and the mufrage rooms designed for''chewing qat''or smoking shisha, also with similarly ideal views from every angle. It’s a fascinating world inside this hotel, almost as if you are stepping back in time, and once the experience begins, you won’t want to return to present day life.''Price:''Single rooms start at about $35 USD per night and double rooms range from $45 up to $65. And while that might seem a little pricey for a budget establishment or for the budget of a budget traveler, keep in mind that good accommodation in the capital is more expensive than elsewhere in the country. Once you leave Sana’a and explore the rest of Yemen you can find good hotels (some of which I’ll be mentioning in an upcoming post) for around $12 – $20 USD per night. Paying a little more in Sana’s to stay at such a unique, welcoming, safe and centrally located hotel is well worth it in my opinion.''Okay, I’m going to stop here. After re-reading this post, I know that it sounds as if I own the hotel and I’m desperately trying to attract more customers. But that’s not the case at all. I was simply a guest at the Dawood Hotel, which I first heard about after a lengthy online search, and I truly did find my experience to be far beyond what I ever imagined.''(Rarely do I talk about hotels or hostels on this site simply because few ever really stand out so much that I feel the need to recommend them. The Dawood Hotel, however, is one of those rare cases that deserves to be mentioned. I ended up spending four nights here and the highest number of guests they had during that time was six. Thinking about that just leaves me shaking my head. This place should be full of travelers every single night and I really do hope this post encourages more people to stay here.)''How To Book A Room At The Dawood Hotel in Sanaa…''Website:''Their website (''dawoodhotel.com'') is not really functioning so well, so the best way to get in touch with them is via email.''Email:''Just send a message to both of these email addresses and a member of the staff will respond quickly –''[email\xa0protected]''/''[email\xa0protected]''Phone:''You could also reach the hotel by phone at 967-1-287270/292337''If you’re planning your entire Yemen trip through a local tour operator (using a tour operator is recommended for reasons I’ll talk about in the next post) such as the very reliable company I used,''Eternal Yemen'', you can also request that they book your accommodation in Sana’a at the Dawood.''Does this sound like your kind of hotel? Would you stay here?''If there’s one word that I heard more than any other during''my stay in Yemen'', it is the word ‘qat’. And the reason that word is so important is because, at approximately 2pm every single day, the entire nation stops everything they are doing and focuses on qat and on qat only.''Qat is a plant that is grown all over Yemen, on what seems to be every square inch of land, whether in the valleys or on the mountainsides, that could be used to grow a plant. When the leaves of the plant are fresh, they are chewed, an activity that leads to a state of increased excitement with the possibility of mild euphoria as a bonus. This state is the result of a stimulant similar to amphetamine that is found in the plant and which, using the best description I’ve heard, acts as if you’re drinking endless cups of very strong coffee. Qat, and the substance it contains, is actually illegal in many countries and its use is mostly limited to Yemen, Somalia, Ethiopia, Djibouti and a handful of other countries in the same geographical area.''In Yemen, people chew qat while walking, sitting, talking, driving, working and just about anything else they might be doing. And when I say ‘people’, I am referring to what appears to be the entire over-18 male population of the country as well as many women, who also chew the leaves according to their husbands at least.''It’s quite traditional for Yemeni males to wear a jambiya every day, a curved ceremonial blade that is displayed in the front by wedging it into a thick belt. And when qat time comes around, most males suddenly have a huge bag of leaves hanging from the handle of their knife so that they have easy access to their qat.''This is not just some hobby. Every male I met admitted that they were addicted to qat and that the only way they could stop chewing it was if they had no money at all and couldn’t afford even the cheapest variety, which runs about 500 rials ($2 USD) for a huge bag.''Did I try it out? Of course I did. Not a day went by when a local person didn’t give me a gift of qat to chew and you know how it goes…when you receive a gift of qat, it’s certainly rude to refuse.''HOW DOES CHEWING QAT WORK?''Morning''– Go to the Qat Market to buy your daily supply, choosing the best quality that you can afford. Qat typically stays fresh for one day so most people buy a new batch every day.''1:30pm''– Eat a massive lunch.''2:00pm''– Pull out your bag of qat, find a comfortable mufrage (sitting room designed specifically for chewing qat that can be found in every home, restaurant and hotel and may sometimes be located outside) and get into the proper qat chewing position. See below photos for an example…''2:01pm''– Start chewing qat by first pulling the leaves out of the plastic bag. Then, place a few leaves and stems into your mouth and chew on them for a minute before stuffing those leaves and stems, using your tongue, into the inner cheek on one side of your mouth. Continue chewing the leaves slowly, squeezing out the juice, while stuffing more and more leaves into your mouth the entire time until you have a bulge in your cheek the size of ?????. And then you repeat the process, over and over and over and over and over again, never spitting the growing mass of leaves out of your mouth.''3:00pm''– Keep on chewing qat, crunching up those leaves and growing that bulge.''4:00pm''– Don’t stop now! Keep chewing.''5:00pm''– You guessed it…chew away my friends!''6:00pm''– The weakest qat chewers will now spit their mushy ball of chewed up leaves out of their mouth while the stronger ones will continue going for many hours more.''Some time in the night''– The qat session finally comes to an end and you spit out the remaining qat from your mouth. You drink a cup of black tea and then you sit there on the cushioned floor of the mufrage, trying to engage in some conversation with the others around you until dinner is served or it’s time for sleep.''WHAT ARE THE EFFECTS OF QAT?''As mentioned above, qat users get a bit excited and as a result, they will often become extremely talkative and hyper, spitting out words in such a rapid and animated fashion to anyone who will listen. However, it also seemed to me that just as many users I met were perfectly content to sit in silence, staring at the wall and minding their own business.''Behind the scenes, your blood pressure and heart rate increase, you lose your appetite and to top it off, you become constipated. Long term effects may include cancer of the mouth, depression and psychosis, all fun stuff.''MY EXPERIENCE CHEWING QAT''It was okay. Seemed like quite an effort for such a little buzz. The qat made me a bit spacey and somewhat hyper, and I had a good time as a result, but it took four hours of chewing leaves to get there. However, with a 65% unemployment rate in Yemen, I can understand the appeal. A quick high would leave most people with very little to do all afternoon and evening. Qat fills in the day.''But for me, all that chewing was a painstaking process as the inside of my mouth became sore and raw, the stuff kept me awake at night and I’m quite sure that it messed with my digestive system. And that’s after only chewing qat for one week.''Would I do it again? Sure, simply because that’s the thing to do in Yemen and in the end, it is a social activity. Had I not chewed qat I probably would not have had the same interactions and conversations with locals that I ended up having. Qat honestly helped bridge the tourist gap, allowing me to take a few more steps closer to the culture I wanted to learn about.''I could definitely have done without the constipation though.''Have you ever tried qat? Would you try it?''A few weeks ago, I decided that I needed to take a vacation. I just needed to get offline for a while and take a short break from the blog. I don’t take such breaks often but a little time away every now and then sure seems like a wise idea in order to keep me fresh and motivated as much as possible.''So, I began brainstorming potential vacation destinations, thinking long and hard about where I should go…''Perhaps a simple hut on a white sand beach or a quiet mountain retreat? Maybe some picturesque European town or Melbourne, Australia, where many of my friends live?''Nope.''After talking with my good friend Anil from''FoxNomad.com''and discovering that he was also up for a blog vacation and a unique adventure, I remembered a particular destination that we had both been interested in traveling to for quite some time. And that was all it took. In an istant we settled on what, at least to us, seemed like quite an ideal place to visit.''Off we went…''On April 20th, at 2.30am, our flight from Istanbul landed at Sana’a International Airport. I obtained my tourist visa sticker from the visa counter, passed through the immigration inspection and collected my backpack. I then took a deep breath before stepping outside into the dark unknown, with the simple words that the immigration officer had said to me while stamping my passport playing over and over again in my mind. All he had said, with a big smile on his face, was…''”''You have curly hair. Welcome to Yemen. Thank you for coming here.''”''Travel To Yemen?''I know, it’s probably not the destination that most people would think of when they decide to take some time off from work. Not only that, but if you take a moment to look at the websites of almost every Western government, I’m quite certain that the various warnings you’d read would convince you never to step foot in this country…ever.''US Government:''“The Department of State warns U.S. citizens of the high security threat level in Yemen due to terrorist activities and civil unrest. The Department urges U.S. citizens not to travel to Yemen. U.S. citizens currently in Yemen should depart. The U.S. Embassy in Sana’a remains a restricted staffing post. As staff levels at the embassy are restricted, our ability to assist U.S. citizens in an emergency remains limited and may be further constrained by the fluid security situation. The security threat level in Yemen is extremely high.”''UK Government:''“The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all travel to Yemen and strongly urge British nationals to leave now. If you don’t leave the country now while commercial carriers are still flying it is extremely unlikely that the British government will be able to evacuate you or provide consular assistance. The situation in Yemen remains volatile with continuing unrest and violent clashes. The threat of an escalation of violence and disorder remains. There is a high threat from terrorism throughout Yemen. Terrorists continue to threaten further attacks. There is a high threat of kidnap from armed tribes, criminals and terrorists.”''The question then becomes, “''Why would I travel to Yemen? Why would I spend 9 days in a country that appears to be so dangerous?''“''The answer is easy. This is my drug, it is my ‘high’. Traveling to these kind of destinations, destinations that few people know anything about and that fewer people seem to visit, regardless of whether or not they seem safe, brings me the most satisfaction. It also provides me with the most interesting and eye-opening of experiences by placing me far out of my comfort zone, something that is difficult to reach these days after 13 years on the road.''As most of you know, I want to see the world with my own eyes in order to gain a better understanding about the cultures and people that call this planet home. And with the blog, I am then able to share my experiences in an attempt to break down the collection of inaccuracies, assumptions and misunderstandings that we all have about parts of the world we are really not so familiar with. This is why I travel.''And as simple as that may sound, that’s exactly why I went to Yemen.''This is also why I have traveled to''Lebanon'',''Syria''and''Iraqi Kurdistan''. It is why I like to spend so much time in''India''and''Mexico''and why I lived in''Romania'', traveled around''Montenegro'',''Albania''and''Macedonia''and so on.''Do I now claim to be an expert on Yemen just because I just spent 9 days there? Absolutely not. But what I do claim is to have seen a decent amount of the country, to have spoken with a good amount of local people and to have gained a much better understanding about this part of the world. And I also have a much better idea as to whether or not this country is a good destination for travelers, something that I will discuss in more detail in the coming weeks.''(I do want to mention that our trip was organized by the wonderful people at''Eternal Yemen'', a local tour operator based in Sana’a. The reason we used a tour operator is because it is much harder to obtain a tourist visa without going through one and in addition, given the limited tourism infrastructure, you can’t travel independently to many destinations. The only option is to have a driver and guide take you around and you need to obtain travel permits as well. We chose''Eternal Yemen''simply because of the positive reviews we found online and their impressive service during our email interactions with them. And after meeting the owners and their staff, I would definitely recommend them to anyone thinking about visiting Yemen as well.)''What Is There To See In Yemen?''I must admit that before I traveled to Yemen, I knew almost nothing about what I would find there…turns out I could have stayed for 9 months and probably still not seen it all. In the end, I had to skip many places that I wanted to see and believe me, the list of worthy destinations to visit is remarkably long for a country that sees not even a trickle of tourists passing through these days.''From the mesmerizing old city of Sana’a, to towns and villages such as Shibam, Kawkaban, Manakh, Mahweet, Al-Hajarah, Tawila and more, many of which are perched in the most improbable of locations and appear to have changed little in hundreds of years. There were the colorful canyons, the lush green valleys stretching as far as one can see and the Burra and Haraz mountain ranges, all of which offer landscapes that literally seem out-of-this-world.''And I haven’t even mentioned Socotra Island, a truly isolated and alien-esque Yemeni island located in the Indian Ocean, where we spent 3 days, an island that can only be described as a place you MUST see with your own eyes in order to believe it. (Just wait until I write more about this place…for now, here’s two photos to give you a small taste!)''The above destinations, combined with dozens of cups of tea per day, afternoon qat sessions with the locals (chewing a mildly intoxicating leaf for hours on end), military checkpoints, armed escorts, food ranging from superb to bizarre, the most beautiful beaches on Earth, laid-back people, wedding celebrations, two strange flights, barely existent roads, hiking and camping, kaleshnikov guns, talking with students and teachers in remote schools, conspiracy theories, maze-like markets, traditional music and dancing and so much more, turned this trip into one of my favorite trips I have ever been on in all of my travels.''Sure, some things abut Yemen confused me, some things made no sense to me, some things certainly were frustrating or did not align with what I believe is right in this world. But as a travel destination, especially one that manages to truly open the eyes of visitors to a land, culture and people that few of us are at all familiar with, Yemen could not have been better.''Why Did I Keep Yemen A Secret?''To be honest, I was a bit scared. Since I was not fully aware of what the actual safety situation would be for a foreigner, and after reading the government warnings I listed above and hearing such mixed reports about current security issues, I thought it best to keep my whereabouts unknown in order to be as safe as possible.''Was it safe in the end? Well, I’ll dedicate an entire post to that topic soon. Right now, all I’ll say is that I am extremely happy I traveled to Yemen and I never really felt as if I was in any real danger at any time during my trip. In fact, I wish I could have stayed for a much longer period of time.''This is probably why, as I sit here on the rooftop terrace of my guesthouse in Istanbul right now, where I flew to from Sana’a yesterday morning, I often find myself lost in thought, quietly repeating the word “Yemen” dozens of times in a row. Yemen. Yemen. Yemen. I honestly cannot believe that I was just there, that all of the experiences and interactions of the past 9 days actually occurred.''It will take some time for me to process everything that happened but I do know that I have so much I want to share about this trip and I can’t wait to tell you about it all!''What do you think of when you think of Yemen? Do you know much about the country? Any questions?''While I’m still on vacation, at that''mystery destination'', I wanted to let you all know about the remaining Wandering Earl Tours that I have planned for the rest of the year.''First, I must say that putting these tours together was just a mere fantasy at this time last year, an idea that sounded interesting but that I wasn’t sure I could turn into a reality.''Fast forward to today and I am honestly blown away by what this project has turned into. I still find it hard to believe that two tours have already come and gone, that I have several more scheduled for this year and that I plan to offer additional tours in 2014 as well.''Last week, before I left the US, I met a friend of mine,''Raam Dev'', for lunch. He asked me, “''What is your favorite aspect of running these tours?''”''I thought for a moment before realizing that what I love most is watching the people in the group have rewarding travel experiences. It’s hard to explain how genuinely happy I am whenever someone has a huge smile on their face during a tour, whenever they tell me they had an awesome day or an amazing interaction or even when they tell me that they loved the meal we just ate. To help fellow travelers have such positive experiences, in countries that perhaps they would not travel to on their own, continues to make this project the most rewarding I’ve ever worked on.''And that is why I plan to continue…''Wandering Earl Tours – New Page''I have just created a new page on this site where I’ll maintain a current list of future tour destinations and dates at all times. On that page, I’ve also added a little information about the concept of the tours as well as feedback from those who have already been on a tour with me.''So be sure to check out this new page if you’re thinking about joining a future trip! You can view it through the link here…''Wandering Earl Tours – Info & Schedule''Future Tours – 2013''Here are the tours I have planned for the rest of the year…''[jbox title_css=”font-size:0px;color:red;” jbox_css=”border:2px solid #7c7c7c;padding-top:1.5em;padding-left:1.5em; padding-right:1.5em; color:black;background-color:#FFFFFF;” title=”” radius=”0″ radius=”0″ shadow=”0″]''Romania & Moldova'': August 24th – September 7th, 2013''Sometimes I just feel like making a video…''(If you’re seeing this post via email, please''click here to view the video''.)''When’s the last time you’ve taken a vacation? Was it a good one? Are you going on vacation soon?''And before I go, I wanted to mention an interesting website whose founder I’ve recently been in touch with. It’s called Friends of Friends Travel, a new travel social marketplace. You can find a free place to stay, a place to leave your stuff, tips and information or have coffee with a local from your own trustworthy network of friends and friends of friends. You can sign up for free over at''Friends of Friends Travel''!''I know it’s scary. I know you’re worried. I know you’re ready to change your life and start traveling but no matter how badly you want it to happen, you just can’t take that first step. You try, and you try hard, but you just can’t get that one nagging question out of your head, that one question that stops you from walking out the door. That question is…''“What if I fail?”''Yes, what if you fail? Well, I’m here to tell you that you very well might fail. You might not achieve your goals. You might start traveling, quickly spend all of your money and be forced to return home, broke and without a plan.''That’s just how life goes sometimes.''However, I’m also here to tell you that if you do fail at first, who cares? So you have to return home and get a job. That’s certainly not the worst thing in the world, especially when you’ll have had some incredible travel experiences to look back on. And besides, you can always save up some more money and try again.''I’ve failed. In fact, I fail all the time. Whether it’s failing to find a way to follow through with some of my travel plans, spending months working hard on new projects only to watch those projects fizzle and vanish or failing to achieve many of the goals I set for myself each year, failure is a part of my life.''And I’m quite certain that failure is a part of many people’s lives, if not most.''Of course, even though we all fail from time to time, the thought of potential failure is still not easy to digest, especially whenever we are thinking about making such a drastic lifestyle change as the one involved with long-term travel or whenever we are thinking about doing anything that goes against what we’ve been taught is ‘normal’.''And that is why so many of us give up on our goals…we are simply unable to get beyond that fear.''But that’s the problem. If we allow our fear of failure to stop us from trying new things and to keep us from jumping into the unknown, many of our wildest dreams and most of our biggest goals shall be left unachieved. At the end of life, there we shall be, repeating a long list of regrets over and over again in our minds.''Being scared is not a valid reason to stay at home when our hearts and souls are telling us that we should be experiencing every corner of the world first-hand.''We all worry, we all fail. We’re all human in the end.''The difference is that some people say, “Well, I might fail. Screw it, here I go!” and then take that leap towards their goals despite their fear. And some people, upon failing, take a deep breath, stand up straight and try again.''These are the kind of people who eventually succeed, the kind of people who recognize that worry and failure are a part of life, the kind of people who don’t let that fact stop them from making the most out of their short time on this planet.''Which kind of person are you?''Are you letting your fear stop you from traveling? For those who did take the leap, was it worth it?''254''SHARES''Share''Tweet''Success! Now check your email to confirm your subscription.''There was an error submitting your subscription. Please try again.''Choose a Country''Afghanistan''Albania''Algeria''American Samoa''Andorra''Angola''Anguilla''Antarctica''Antigua and Barbuda''Argentina''Armenia''Aruba''Åland Islands''Australia''Austria''Azerbaijan''Bahamas''Bahrain''Bangladesh''Barbados''Belarus''Belgium''Belize''Benin''Bermuda''Bhutan''Bolivia''Bosnia and Herzegovina''Botswana''Bouvet Island''Brazil''British Indian Ocean Territory''Brunei Darussalam''Bulgaria''Burkina Faso''Burundi''Cambodia''Cameroon''Canada''Cape Verde''Cayman Islands''Central African Republic''Chad''Chile''China''Christmas Island''Cocos (Keeling) Islands''Colombia''Comoros''Congo''Democratic Republic Of Congo''Cook Islands''Costa Rica''Croatia''Cuba''Cyprus''Czech Republic''Côte D’Ivoire''Denmark''Djibouti''Dominica''Dominican Republic''Estonia''Ecuador''Egypt''El Salvador''Equatorial Guinea''Eritrea''Ethiopia''Falkland Islands''Faroe Islands''Fiji''Finland''France''French Guiana''French Polynesia''French Southern Territories''Gabon''Gambia''Georgia''Germany''Ghana''Gibraltar''Greece''Greenland''Grenada''Guadeloupe''Guam''Guatemala''Guinea''Guinea-Bissau''Guernsey''Guyana''Haiti''Heard and McDonald Islands''Holy See (Vatican City State)''Honduras''Hong Kong''Hungary''Iceland''India''Indonesia''Iran''Iraq''Ireland''Isle of Man''Israel''Italy''Jamaica''Japan''Jersey''Jordan''Kazakhstan''Kenya''Kiribati''North Korea''Kuwait''Kyrgyzstan''Laos''Latvia''Lebanon''Lesotho''Liberia''Libya''Liechtenstein''Lithuania''Luxembourg''Republic of Macedonia''Macao''Madagascar''Malawi''Malaysia''Maldives''Mali''Malta''Marshall Islands''Martinique''Mauritania''Mauritius''Mayotte''Mexico''Federated States of Micronesia''Moldova''Monaco''Mongolia''Montenegro''Montserrat''Morocco''Mozambique''Myanmar''Namibia''Nauru''Nepal''Netherlands''Netherlands Antilles''New Caledonia''New Zealand''Nicaragua''Niger''Nigeria''Niue''Norfolk Island''Northern Mariana Islands''Norway''Oman''Pakistan''Palau''Palestine''Panama''Papua New Guinea''Paraguay''Peru''Philippines''Pitcairn''Poland''Portugal''Puerto Rico''Qatar''Romania''Russian Federation''Rwanda''Réunion''St. Barthélemy''St. Helena, Ascension and Tristan Da Cunha''St. Kitts And Nevis''St. Lucia''St. Martin''St. Pierre And Miquelon''St. Vincent And The Grenedines''Samoa''San Marino''Sao Tome and Principe''Saudi Arabia''Senegal''Serbia''Seychelles''Sierra Leone''Singapore''Slovakia''Slovenia''Solomon Islands''Somalia''South Africa''South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands''South Korea''Spain''Sri Lanka''Sudan''Suriname''Svalbard And Jan Mayen''Swaziland''Sweden''Switzerland''Syrian Arab Republic''Taiwan''Tajikistan''Tanzania''Thailand''Timor-Leste''Togo''Tokelau''Tonga''Trinidad and Tobago''Tunisia''Turkey''Turkmenistan''Turks and Caicos Islands''Tuvalu''Uganda''Ukraine''United Arab Emirates''United Kingdom''United States''US Minor Outlying Islands''Uruguay''Uzbekistan''Vanuatu''Venezuela''Viet Nam''Virgin Islands, British''Virgin Islands, U.S.''Wallis and Futuna''Western Sahara''Yemen''Zambia''Zimbabwe''SIGN UP TO THE NEWSLETTER''/* Layout */\r\n  .ck_form.ck_naked {\r\n  /* divider image */\r\n\tbackground: transparent;\r\n\tline-height: 1.5em;\r\n\toverflow: hidden;\r\n\tcolor: #666;\r\n\tfont-size: 16px;\r\n\tborder: none;\r\n\t-webkit-box-shadow: none;\r\n\t-moz-box-shadow: none;\r\n\tbox-shadow: none;\r\n\tclear: both;\r\n\tmargin: 20px 0px;\r\n\ttext-align: center;\r\n}\r\n\r\n.ck_form.ck_naked p {\r\n\tpadding: 0px;\r\n}\r\n\r\n.ck_form, .ck_form * {\r\n\t-webkit-box-sizing: border-box;\r\n\t-moz-box-sizing: border-box;\r\n\tbox-sizing: border-box;\r\n}\r\n\r\n.ck_form.ck_naked .ck_form_fields {\r\n\twidth: 100%;\r\n\tfloat: left;\r\n\tpadding: 5%;\r\n}\r\n/* Form fields */\r\n\r\n.ck_errorArea {\r\n\tdisplay: none; /* temporary */\r\n}\r\n\r\n#ck_success_msg {\r\n\tpadding: 10px 10px 0px;\r\n\tborder: solid 1px #ddd;\r\n\tbackground: #eee;\r\n}\r\n\r\n.ck_form.ck_naked input[type="text"], .ck_form.ck_naked input[type="email"] {\r\n\tfont-size: 18px;\r\n\tpadding: 10px 8px;\r\n\twidth: 34%;\r\n\tborder: 1px solid #d6d6d6; /* stroke */\r\n\t-moz-border-radius: 0px;\r\n\t-webkit-border-radius: 0px;\r\n\tborder-radius: 0px; /* border radius */\r\n\tbackground-color: #fff; /* layer fill content */\r\n\tmargin-bottom: 5px;\r\n\theight: auto;\r\n\tfloat: left;\r\n\tmargin: 0px;\r\n\tmargin-right: 1%;\r\n\theight: 42px;\r\n}\r\n\r\n.ck_form input[type="text"]:focus, .ck_form input[type="email"]:focus {\r\n\toutline: none;\r\n\tborder-color: #aaa;\r\n}\r\n\r\n.ck_form.ck_naked .ck_subscribe_button {\r\n    width: 100%;\r\n    color: #fff;\r\n    margin: 0px;\r\n    padding:  9px 0px;\r\n    font-size: 18px;\r\n    background: #2196f3;\r\n    -moz-border-radius: 0px;\r\n    -webkit-border-radius: 0px;\r\n    border-radius: 0px; /* border radius */\r\n    cursor: pointer;\r\n    border: none;\r\n    text-shadow: none;\r\n    width: 30%;\r\n    float: left;\r\n    height: 42px;\r\n  }\r\n\r\n\r\n.ck_converted_content {\r\n  display: none;\r\n\tpadding: 5%;\r\n\tbackground: #fff;\r\n}\r\n\r\n/* max width 500 */\r\n\r\n\t.ck_form.ck_naked.width500 .ck_subscribe_button {\r\n\t\twidth: 100%;\r\n\t\tfloat: none;\r\n\t\tmargin-top: 5px;\r\n\t}\r\n\r\n\t.ck_form.ck_naked.width500 input[type="text"], .ck_form.ck_naked.width500 input[type="email"] {\r\n\t\twidth: 49%;\r\n\t}\r\n\r\n\t.ck_form.ck_naked.width500 input[type="email"] {\r\n\t\tmargin-right: 0px;\r\n\t\twidth: 50%;\r\n\t}\r\n\r\n/* max width 400 */\r\n\r\n\t.ck_form.ck_naked.width400 .ck_subscribe_button, .ck_form.ck_naked.width400 input[type="text"], .ck_form.ck_naked.width400 input[type="email"] {\r\n\t\twidth: 100%;\r\n\t\tfloat: none;\r\n\t\tmargin-top: 5px;\r\n\t}\r\n\r\n.ck_slide_up, .ck_modal, .ck_slide_up .ck_naked, .ck_modal .ck_naked  {\r\n\tmin-width: 400px;\r\n}\r\n\r\n.page .ck_form.ck_naked {\r\n\tmargin: 50px auto;\r\n\tmax-width: 700px;\r\n}\r\n\r\n\r\n/* v6 */\r\n\r\n.ck_slide_up.ck_form_v6, .ck_modal.ck_form_v6, .ck_slide_up.ck_form_v6 .ck_naked, .ck_modal.ck_form_v6 .ck_naked {\r\n  min-width: 0 !important;\r\n}\r\n\r\n.ck_form_v6 #ck_success_msg {\r\n\tpadding: 0px 10px;\r\n}\r\n\r\n@media all and (max-width: 403px) {\r\n  .ck_form_v6.ck_modal .ck_naked {\r\n    padding-top: 30px;\r\n  }\r\n}\r\n\r\n@media all and (max-width: 499px) {\r\n  .ck_form_v6.ck_modal .ck_naked + .ck_close_link {\r\n    color: #fff;\r\n    top: 10px;\r\n  }\r\n}\r\n\r\n.ck_form_v6.ck_slide_up .ck_naked + .ck_close_link {\r\n  right: 10px;\r\n  top: -5px;\r\n}\r\n\r\n@media all and (min-width: 600px) {\r\n  .ck_form_v6.ck_slide_up .ck_naked + .ck_close_link {\r\n    right: 35px;\r\n  }\r\n}\r\n\r\n.ck_select {\r\n\theight: 42px !important;\r\n}\r\n\r\n@media only screen and (max-width: 499px) {\r\n  .ck_naked .ck_first_name, .ck_naked .ck_email_address, .ck_select, .ck_naked .ck_subscribe_button {\r\n  \twidth: 100% !important;\r\n  }\r\n}\r\n.ck_naked .ck_first_name, .ck_naked .ck_email_address, .ck_select, .ck_subscribe_button {\r\n      border: 1px solid rgb(0,44,84) !important;\r\n      border-radius: 5px !important;\r\n}\r\n@media only screen and (min-width: 500px) {\r\n\t.ck_naked .ck_first_name, .ck_naked .ck_email_address, .ck_select {\r\n\t\twidth: 32.5% !important;\r\n  }\r\n  .ck_naked .ck_subscribe_button {\r\n  \twidth: 300px !important;\r\n  \tmargin-left: 25% !important;\r\n  \tmargin-top: 10px !important;\r\n        padding-top: 5px !important;\r\n}\r\n}\r\n.ck_naked {\r\n  margin-top: -45px !important;\r\n  margin-bottom: -25px !important;\r\n}\r\n.ck_naked .ck_subscribe_button {\r\ntext-shadow: 0 0.075em 0.075em rgba(0,0,0,0.5) !important;\r\n}''/* This script handles submission and redirect */\r\nfunction overrideCKFormHandler() { (function ($) {\r\n  $("document").ready(function ($) {\r\n    form = $("form#ck_subscribe_form");\r\n    form.off("submit");\r\n    form.submit(function(e) {\r\n      e.stopPropagation();\r\n      e.preventDefault();\r\n      var subButton  = form.find("#ck_subscribe_button");\r\n      var btnText    = subButton.text();\r\n      var successMsg = form.parent().find("#ck_success_msg");\r\n      var errorMsg   = form.find("#ck_error_msg");\r\n      subButton.prop("disabled", true).text("Subscribing...");\r\n      var showErrorMsg = function() {\r\n        errorMsg.parent("div").css("display", "block");\r\n        errorMsg.css("opacity", "0").fadeTo(250, 1);\r\n      }\r\n      data = form.serializeArray()\r\n      if (!!document.referrer) {\r\n        data.push({ name: "referrer", value: document.referrer});\r\n      }\r\n      if (form.find(".optIn").is(":checked")) {\r\n        data.push({name: "course_opted", value: true})\r\n      }\r\n      $.ajax({\r\n        url: form.attr("action"),\r\n        data: data,\r\n        method: "POST",\r\n        success: function (response) {\r\n          /* Replace with your thank you page URL */\r\n          window.location.href = "https://www.wanderingearl.com/subscription-confirmation/"\r\n        },\r\n        error: function (jqXHR, textStatus, errorThrown) {\r\n          subButton.prop("disabled", false).text(btnText);\r\n          showErrorMsg();\r\n        }\r\n      });\r\n    });\r\n  });\r\n})(window.ckJQ); }\r\nfunction overrideCKFormWhenReady() {\r\n  setTimeout(function(){\r\n    if(window.ckJQ) { overrideCKFormHandler(); }\r\n    else { overrideCKFormWhenReady(); }\r\n  }, 300);\r\n}\r\noverrideCKFormWhenReady();''It’s been a busy year so far. After celebrating''New Year’s on Palolem Beach''in Goa, India, I hung out on that beautiful beach for a few more weeks before leaving for South Africa, where I spent ten days''traveling around with my mom''.''From there, I headed west, and after a quick visit to the USA, I continued to Mexico in order to lead my two-week''Wander Across Mexico Tour'', a tour that was an absolute blast and that I could not have been happier with. In fact, I thought the tour went so well that I’m working on putting together another Wander Across Mexico Tour, which I’ll run in November of this year. So, if you might be interested in exploring Mexico, let me know and I’ll place you on the early list so that you won’t miss out once I do make the official announcement in a couple of weeks.''In the meantime, I do have a few travel plans in place for the near future as well, plans that I’ve just finalized in the past few days.''First, in exactly one week from today I will be flying….somewhere….somewhere that I can’t tell you about just yet. I’ve decided to keep this destination a secret until moments before I leave. All I’ll say is that it’s a destination I’ve been very curious about for a long time and I really do think you’ll find it to be quite interesting as well. I really can’t even believe that the timing and logistics all worked out and that this trip is actually happening!''But enough of that until I announce the destination next week. Must keep secret.''Just before the end of April, once my above trip is over, I’ll be off to wonderful Istanbul in order to lead, along with Anil from''FoxNomad.com'', the “''I Love Istanbul''” tour during the first week of May, another tour that I can’t wait to get started. The tour will last for six days as we explore every corner of what more and more people, including myself, are labeling as one of their favorite cities on the planet. Let’s see if the tour participants agree!''Once the Istanbul tour is finished, I’ll then pop up to Bucharest, Romania for a couple of weeks (''I sure do miss that city!'') before heading back to the USA for a wedding at the start of June.''And those are my travel plans for the near future.''In other news…''I recently decided to make the switch to a Mac, with my new MacBook Pro with Retina having just arrived yesterday. I’ll let you know how the transition from my beloved Acer Aspire Timeline X goes once I have some time to fiddle around with the MacBook. (I still feel that Acer offers some of the''best travel computers''out there.)''This week, for the first time in my life, I tried Key Lime Pie. I must say, that’s one lovely kind of pie. It might rank up there with''papanasi'', a Romanian dessert, as one of my favorites.''Speaking of Romania, my''Wander Across Romania & Moldova Tour''has now been moved to the end of August. If you’re interested in participating in this trip, just let me know and I’ll send you more details!''What’s your plans for the near future?''Food plays a major role during my travels. I really enjoy my food, simple as that. And I look forward, each and every day, to the meals that await me wherever I may be.''During my recent trip to Mexico, the situation was no different, especially considering how fond I am of the cuisine. I really do love to eat in Mexico and my excitement about the food is only rivaled by my excitement about eating Indian food in India. So, I absolutely could not wait to eat at some of my favorite restaurants, to dig into some of my favorite dishes and to pay a visit to some of my favorite food markets during my travels to Mexico this time around.''It should also come as no surprise that, by the time the trip was over, I left Mexico more than satisfied, as usual, with the diverse culinary experiences I had throughout my stay.''So what did I eat exactly? What are my favorite Mexican dishes?''Here we go…''I stuffed my face with plenty of''Alambres de Pollo'', a mix of vegetables, chicken and cheese that I used to create my own tacos…''…devoured a few plates of''Enchiladas''…''…ate a massive''Vegetarian Tlayuda'', a crispy tortilla about 12 inches / 30 cms in diameter, topped with beans, cheese and vegetables such as yummy flor de calabaza (squash blossoms)…''…sampled a delicious''Dzoto Bichay'', a Mayan dish consisting of a chaya tamale topped with some kind of odd, yet tasty, dirt-like topping (chaya is a leafy vegetable similar to collard greens)…''…filled my belly with plenty of''Tortas Grandes''(large sandwiches), and while this might not seem too exciting, believe me when I say that Mexicans know how to prepare an excellent sandwich…''…giggled with happiness whenever I came across a perfectly made''Huarache'', an elongated, thick tortilla covered with all sorts of goodies…''…cried tears of joy as I slurped up bowlful after bowlful of''Sopa Azteca'', a nice simple broth loaded up with chicken, avocado, cheese, tortilla strips and some chile…''…repeatedly thanked whoever it is that first created''Mole'', which is now an incredible variety of flavorful sauces usually made from a combination of over 20 ingredients…''…gave even more thanks to whoever came up with''Mole Colorado''(red mole) as that is one dish I could eat every single day and never get tired of…''Those are my favorite dishes. And now I want to eat Mexican food. But I won’t because I know that I’ll most likely end up quite disappointed. The fact is, like with other foods, no matter where you may live, you just can’t find a tlayuda, mole colorado, sopa azteca, enchiladas or alambre that will even come close to what is served at a local joint in towns and cities across Mexico.''Restaruant Recommendations in Mexico''Here’s where we ate during the trip (these are the places I highly recommend):''Playa del Carmen''–''La Cueva del Chango'',''El Fogon'',''Dona Mary’s Loncheria''Valladolid''– Food market in the main plaza,''Conato Restaurant''Izamal''–''Los Mestizos''Palenque''–''Las Tinajas''San Cristobal de las Casas''– Emiliano’s,''El Meson del Taco'', local food market''Oaxaca''–''La Casa de la Abuela'', 20 de Noviembre Food Market (a must-visit place!)''Are you as big a fan of Mexican food as I am? Any other favorite dishes?''“Is Mexico safe to visit?” is a question that not only am I asked quite often but a question that I see popping up all across the internet as well. And due to the fact that, just about ten days ago, I finished leading my two-week Wander Across Mexico tour, a tour that involved me taking a group of ten fellow travelers around this very country, I figured this would be a good time to bring the topic up on my blog.''During those two weeks that we were in Mexico, our group visited approximately ten different destinations located in four different states. We slept in six different towns and cities and we covered a distance of around 2000 kilometers (1200 miles) from the starting point,''Playa del Carmen'', to the ending point, Oaxaca. Basically, we traveled across the entire southern part of Mexico.''And while I could write an entire post telling you that Mexico is much safer than you imagine, assuming you don’t wander around the far northern areas where the overwhelming majority of the drug violence occurs, I decided that I would ask the travelers who participated in my tour to share their thoughts instead.''Asking the Group – Is Mexico Safe to Visit?''Keep in mind that even though everyone was on a ‘tour’, there was plenty of free time mixed in to the itinerary and this group would often wander around in smaller groups or simply on their own, without me around at all, in just about every place that we visited. They went out during the mornings, afternoons and yes, even late at night, throughout the tour.''Now you might have also noticed from my previous posts''about this Mexico trip''that the majority of the group were females. As a result, I figured that their input would be especially valuable considering how many people, both males and females, feel that traveling to a country such as Mexico would be quite dangerous.''So, I made the following request, via email, to everyone on the tour a few days after it came to an end:''“I was wondering if you could provide a few lines just about Mexico in general and whether or not you felt unsafe at any time in that country.”''And this is what they had to say…''Michelle''Maybe it was the smiling children, or the Mayan woman who invited us into her home for lunch, or the friendly greetings of “Hola, como estas, buenos dias” everywhere I went…..but “dangerous Mexico” is not a concept that I encountered, especially in the region we traveled. Don’t believe everything you hear….get out there and decide for yourself!''Rashelle''I’ve already been asked several times since my return if anything dangerous had happened. It just goes to show the level of propaganda people take so seriously is hugely misleading. I’d be MORE than HAPPY to SPREAD THE WORD THAT MEXICO IS SAFE!! Obviously you didn’t take us to the parts we shouldn’t go to where it is known for being dodgy, but you can generally cover a broad part of the country, visiting city after city without having to worry about anything. Not once did I feel threatened. Mexico was incredibly friendly and laid back, I never sensed any danger even when it was a few of us walking back home from a late night out. Anastasia and I went for a walk in Playa, it was after 9 (which isn’t that late) but we walked to parts where it was deserted and not once did I feel like someone was going to jump out of nowhere and attack us. I saw regular people out with their families and friends, people with their partners or on their own having a good time without hurting anyone. You can walk the streets of Mexico, smile at someone and get a genuine smile back without having to worry you may have rubbed someone the wrong way.''Queenie''During the time I was in Mexico, I think I told at least 5 people I was with that I felt safer walking around the streets there than I do back home (Northern California). There was not a single point during the tour that I felt unsafe.''Anastasia''As for personal safety, I felt safer in Mexico at night than I do in Denver. People are friendly, respectful and polite. At no time on this trip did I feel threatened or unsafe. It has to be mentioned that I did not wander into the deep neighborhoods of the outskirts looking for drugs or weapons. 😉 And regardless of where you are traveling one should be aware, cautious, prepared and use some common sense! The areas of Mexico that we traveled to are not a threat to anyone’s life or health.''Alison''Mexico has a reputation for being dangerous and unsafe, but after spending about 3 weeks there in a few different places I feel this is quite undeserved. At no point during my travels did I ever feel unsafe. To the contrary, I was surprised at how safe it was and how relaxed the atmosphere felt.''Ken & Heather''During our entire trip in Mexico we did not feel concerned about our safety. We did note the policia made their presence clearly known. We live in Los Angeles, so we are used to being fairly vigilant and guarded against the deluge of clinically insane people wandering the streets here. While visiting various towns on the tour, we noted a strong sense of community. Families were out enjoying themselves even late at night, and many families had hand crafted gifts for sale. When we could not locate a restaurant or lavanderia, getting help with directions was fairly easy. Of course, the directions were not always accurate, but locals seemed happy to offer assistance any way they could.''Lisa''As far as safety in Mexico, I can only repeat what I have told a few friends and that is that I felt safer in Mexico than I do walking around in many parts of Minneapolis. The people were so warm and friendly, and everyone was so helpful. I think the kindness shown to us by so many Mexicans we encountered set an example that all the rest of us could follow.''Cindy''I have really enjoyed my time, 20 days so far, in Mexico. I must stress that never have I felt unsafe during my stay. To be honest, I felt safer walking down the main streets here than I have some places at home in New Zealand. As a blonde-haired, blue-eyed female, the only extra attention I ever had was somebody taking a second look at me out of curiosity. I never got hassled, even when walking alone. From Oaxaca to Playa del Carmen, I might have stuck out like a sore thumb sometimes but the way I was treated was with respect and warmth, just as they do with any other person. The people here are really relaxed and so is their way of life. I love it, and I wish I had given myself more time here.''There you have it, all of their responses, copied and pasted straight out of their emails. And I must say that I fully agree with everything they said.''If you’ve been to Mexico, did you feel safe? If you haven’t been, do you think it’s a dangerous place to visit? Any questions?''It happens to all of us when we travel. We walk down a street and before we know it, people are approaching us, locals who are trying to sell us something we don’t need or trying to convince us to eat there or sleep here or to join a day trip somewhere. Maybe they want us to exchange money at their shop, have our shoes shined, eat their street food or buy their blankets. You get the idea. Foreigners are targets and as a result, we often have to deal with people trying to convince us to part ways with our money.''Our typical reaction when we encounter these situations is to often put our head down and keep on moving, ignoring the pleas and sales pitches and promises. We tend to label anyone who is trying to sell us something as a nuisance and as someone that we need to avoid. We distrust such people so easily, perhaps because they appear to only be interested in getting our money, or perhaps because of the assumed differences between us.''We fear what we don’t know and when a woman wearing a traditional village dress or a man who is talking to us in a language we can’t decipher approaches us, we just don’t know how to react. Our natural tendency is to grab onto the fact that since they are trying to sell us something, it’s okay to just walk away.''But wait a minute…''Who cares if they are trying to sell us something? Who cares if they are wearing jeans or a traditional dress or speaking in Hmong?''At the end of the day, we really aren’t so different from the people we come across, no matter what they are wearing or what their language might be or what they are trying to sell.''The important thing to realize is that almost everyone we encounter is a fellow human being just trying to survive in this world, exactly like you and me. And as a result, such fellow human beings deserve to be treated with respect. Instead of ignoring them or getting frustrated by their presence, we should look them in the eyes, we should say ‘hello’ (in the local language of course!), and we should acknowledge them with a smile or a polite ‘no, thank you’.''I’m not saying we should buy something or even engage in a conversation with every single person that approaches us, but a little acknowledgement certainly never hurt.''The point of travel is to connect with foreign lands, cultures and, yes, people and the only way to achieve this is to treat others with respect and to recognize that we all need to earn a living, we all need to feed our families and we all want to improve our lives as much as possible. In the end, this is why we all go to work each day as well and that is why those trying to sell you something on the streets of Delhi, in the markets of Bangkok or in the lanes of Cairo, deserve to be recognized as fellow human beings, not as anything less.''(During my recent Wander Across Mexico Tour, our group was often approached by people selling things wherever we went. And I was happy to see the members of the group usually look people in the eyes and say ‘No, gracias’ instead of just turning away. It might sound silly but even these small gestures make a difference.)''I had a very good friend during my University years who would always hug people whenever she saw them or said goodbye. It had a lasting effect on me as, since then, I have always tried to shake as many hands and offer as many hugs as possible, or at least touch someone on the shoulder while speaking with them. It adds a greater degree of human connection and I have noticed a major, and positive, difference in how people react when I do these things. (''Thank you Angela!'')''Such simple actions help create a bridge between people and cultures, even if it is a tiny bridge, instead of widening the gap that already exists between foreigner and local. And once you start doing it, I’m certain that it will become as positive an experience for you as it has been for me and I am also certain that those you interact with will be very appreciative.''Not only do people hassle me less when I look them in the eyes and say ‘no, thank you’, but often times, they put aside their interest in selling me something and we end up having an actual conversation. Over the years I’ve ended up having tea and meals with people who were originally trying to get me to open up my wallet, and I even once spent the night at the home of a tout who had been following me down the street in Delhi trying to get me to book a room at a crappy hotel that his ‘friend’ owned. We became friends and he ended up showing me around the city for two days as well.''A little human connection goes a long way.''With all of this said, I’m a realistic guy and I understand that sometimes it is indeed annoying as heck to have a group of people mob you while walking down the street, everyone trying to get you to shell out a few dollars for their low-quality goods. But, we are visitors to their country after all, and the idea is to not let that frustration ruin your day or stop you from interacting with locals at all.''If we can always remember that we are all connected, then we can bring ourselves to look people in the eyes, to smile, to touch their shoulders and to say, ‘not today, thank you’, instead of automatically walking away with our head down, widening the gap between us in the process, a gap that we should be helping to close.''What do you think? How do you handle people approaching you while traveling? Any other pieces of advice or good stories to share?''I don’t buy much while traveling.''After all, I don’t have a house or an apartment to call my own and so, where would I put things if I bought them? I’m certainly not going to lug everything around with me everywhere I go and at the same time, I usually don’t see the point of buying something only to put it in storage.''With that said, over the past 13 years, there have certainly been times when I simply couldn’t resist. I saw something and I wanted it and even though I knew that it was going to end up in that''one box I have in a closet''at my mom’s place in the US, there was no stopping me.''And that, my friends, is how I ended up buying a''zoo''while in Oaxaca, Mexico just a few days ago.''Yup.''I bought a zoo, sort of.''While wandering around the Mercado de Artesanias (Artisan’s Market) in the center of Oaxaca, I stumbled upon a small shop that sold some extremely colorful handmade crafts. And I’m a sucker for bright colors. So as soon as I stepped foot inside, I knew right away that I wasn’t leaving without a bag full of stuff.''And that’s how I ended up with an…''Octopus''Elephant''Cactus and Bird''Lizard''Porcupine''Basically, I bought a zoo’s worth of animals that day, and for a mere $50 USD too! Those were the only things I bought during the entire month I spent in Mexico, and even though these aren’t exactly traditional cultural items, I found them to be irresistible (just look at that octopus!) and had no choice but to buy them all.''Of course, when I leave the US in a couple of weeks again, into the box they shall all go until the time comes for me to unpack them and place them on a shelf in a house or apartment that I can finally call my own. I’m sure it will happen one day!''So, my question for you is…''What do you buy while traveling? Do you think you would buy a lot or not much at all if you were traveling long-term?''Photo credit: Zoo entrance by''Jim Moore''Yesterday, my second''Wandering Earl Tour''came to an end. And I must say, it was a strange feeling to say goodbye to another group of splendid people, people whom I was fortunate to get to know quite well over the past two weeks.''I would absolutely love to continue traveling with everyone, to continue sharing experiences, to continue engaging in interesting conversations and to continue learning about each other and the places we visit.''But of course, such a trip must finish eventually and after fifteen days of wandering across Mexico, from the beaches of the Caribbean coast all the way to the central state of Oaxaca, while stopping in a variety of destinations along the way, the time has come to part ways with this group of ten fellow travelers.''However, in order to keep the memories alive (and to provide others with what I think is a great itinerary for a Mexico tour), I shall now give an outline of the route that we took during this''Wander Across Mexico''excursion. This will be a basic summary as I plan to write several posts, with much more detail, about this Mexico trip in the near future. There is just so much I do want to share!''Playa del Carmen''White sand beaches, turquoise waters, soaking up the sun, and unfortunately some rain…that sums up the first two days of this tour as we hung out in the laid-back, international beachfront community that is Playa del Carmen. Of course, we also ate at many of my favorite restaurants all over town, where we sampled alhambres, tostadas, empanadas, enchiladas, chilaquiles, tacos al pastor and other fine items, while often washing them down with a few beers, an activity that had a tendency to lead late into the night.''Akumal''Tanned and ready to hit the road, we then left Playa in two rented vans early in the morning of day three. Our first stop would be the tiny town of Akumal where we all jumped in the water to snorkel with the sea turtles that swim around just off the shore. Luckily, we arrived at 7:30am, far before the crowds, and as a result we had the beautiful beach to ourselves, and every person in the group managed to see some turtles.''Tulum''From Akumal, we continued south to Tulum, the Mayan ruins that are more well known for their impressive location atop a cliff along the Caribbean Sea than they are for the actual structures to be found there. We spent a couple of hours walking around the site before relaxing on the tiny idyllic beach located at the bottom of the cliff face.''And then we were off to Valladolid…''Valladolid''We spent two nights in this beautiful town, with its colorful pink, green, yellow and red buildings, cobblestone streets and lanes, picture-perfect cathedral-backed zocalo (main plaza), excellent local food market and Mayan chocolate shops, not to mention its friendly people, many wearing their traditional Mayan dress as they go about their daily business.''And just a few miles from the center of town lies the cenotes of Samula and X’Keken, which are underground water-filled caves that visitors can enter and even swim in. We went over to Samula and I think everyone in the group except for me jumped into the chilly water…''After leaving Valladolid on day five of the trip, we took the country road to Chichen-itza, probably the most well-known Mayan ruin site in Mexico, where we spent over three hours exploring the various groups of structures despite the extreme daytime heat.''Izamal''We popped into a roadside restaurant for a quick, and delicious, lunch of roasted chicken, before we were back in our vans and back on the nearly-deserted, one-lane road that cuts through dozens of tiny Mayan villages in the Yucatan Peninsula. Two hours later we pulled into Izamal, the small town where just about every single building is painted yellow. It’s quite a sight to see and it amazes me that more travelers don’t spend time in this unique community.''While in Izamal, we walked around the streets, visited the old monastery (which is also yellow), hiked up to the top of the Kinich Kak Mo Mayan pyramid that sits at the edge of town, sipped some coffee in the main square and ate a variety of local Mayan dishes at one of the few sit-down restaurants.''The following day was a long one as we drove back to Playa del Carmen, a drive of about three and a half hours. And once we arrived, most of the group went straight to the beach for the afternoon before we all met up again at the bus station for our overnight bus to the town of Palenque, located some 12 hours away in the state of Chiapas.''Palenque''Luckily, the bus, as is common with Mexican buses, was incredibly comfortable, with wide seats, plenty of leg room, two bathrooms and a relaxing environment that made it quite easy to catch at least a few hours of good sleep, which was a bonus considering that we arrived in Palenque too early in the morning to check into our hotel.''Instead, we just dropped off our bags, freshened up a bit and went straight back out, catching a colectivo (shared van) over to the Palenque ruins, another Mayan site dating back some 2200 years and set amidst the thick Chiapas jungle.''And in the end, despite being tired from the long bus journey and despite being in the midst of the busiest couple of days of the trip, I think just about every person in the group enjoyed Palenque more than the other ruins we had visited. It was actually my first time there as well and I thought it was the most impressive Mayan site I’ve seen…perhaps due to the fact that you are still able to climb up many of the temples, and as a result, marvel at the perfect views over the other ruins and the jungle below.''We only spent one night in Palenque and since there wasn’t much to do after visiting the ruins, we all had an afternoon rest followed by a local dinner in town and a nice little gathering on the roof top of our hotel where we had a few drinks, once again, well into the night…''San Cristobal de las Casas''The following day involved a late start in order to catch up on sleep before we boarded another bus, this time to take us on the 5.5 hour journey to San Cristobal de las Casas.''And once in San Cristobal, we all happily threw our luggage down in our rooms at our hostel, ready to spend the next four days exploring this town and the surrounding region.''While in San Cristobal we wandered all over this “''Pueblo Magico''”, embracing it’s colonial, lively atmosphere, climbing to the top of hills, visiting its most well-known cathedrals and historical sites, spending time at a local cultural museum, eating in a variety of restaurants, watching the concerts and dance performances in the main square and simply enjoying what has to be one of Mexico’s most beautiful and livable towns.''Of course, we also took a couple of day trips, including a boat ride through the massive Sumidero Canyon….''….and a visit to the fascinating Mayan communities of Zinacantan and San Juan Chamula. If you haven’t read my post about San Juan Chamula yet, check out “''The Most Amazing Church I’ve Ever Seen & Can’t Show You''” in order to learn about the intriguing, secretive religion that is practiced inside of the main church.''Finally, on the fourth day of our stay in this beautiful region, and after everyone had a chance to roam around San Cristobal one last time, we went to the bus station to catch our overnight bus to the city of Oaxaca.''Oaxaca''Oaxaca was the final stop of this tour and it was a great place to wind things down. It’s a vibrant, attractive colonial town that feels a little more European than the other places we visited. With its large bustling markets, atmospheric, tree-lined parks, highly-regarded local cuisine, trendy cafe culture, traditional mariachi bands in the main square, unique local crafts, beautifully lit cathedrals, pedestrian-only avenues, endless street performances and infinite number of food stalls, it’s no wonder that most visitors label Oaxaca one of their favorite destinations in all of Mexico.''We spent our first day here trying to do, see and sample all of the above, not to mention partaking in another Oaxacan activity, mezcal tasting at a local mezcal bar. Oaxaca is famous for its mezcal which is an alcoholic drink derived from the maguey plant. It should therefore come as no surprise that once the mezcal session was over, a session that involved several strong shots, we all magically found the courage to munch on some chapulines (local specialty of fried crickets) before our evening meal.''The next day, we somehow managed to wake up early and venture over to Monte Alban, home to a series of ancient Zapotec ruins perched above town on a small mountain. We spent a couple of hours roaming around the site, but we were struggling the entire time, due to both the heat and the very late night we had the night before (yes, another late night!).''After the ruins we stuffed our faces with tlayudas (massive fried tortillas covered with beans, cream, cheese, vegetables and for those who want, meat) in the local food market, had a much-needed afternoon rest and then went out for our final group dinner at a restaurant overlooking the main square.''And then we hit one last rooftop bar in the historic center for a quick farewell drink before the time came to start saying goodbye to each other.''All of a sudden, my second''Wandering Earl Tour''was over.''Before I end this post, I would like to thank every single person – Michelle, Lisa, Ken, Heather, Rashelle, Cindy, Queenie, Anastasia, Laura, Alison and Anil – for participating in this Wander Across Mexico Tour. I had an incredible time over the past two weeks and, as I sit here at the Oaxaca Airport about to board my flight back to the US, I have already begun to play our trip over and over again in my mind. And I’m smiling the entire time. You will all be missed greatly and I have no doubt that I will be talking about this tour for a long, long time!''Gracias everyone!''Yesterday, our''Wander Across Mexico''group visited the town of San Juan Chamula, a community of 95,000 Tstozil Mayans that lies approximately ten kilometers away from San Cristobal de las Casas. And during that visit, yes, we entered what I can only describe as the most amazing church I’ve seen in all my travels.''Let me give you a little background…''The Tsotzil Mayans live in their own autonomous region in the Mexican state of Chiapas, a region that Mexican police and military are not allowed to enter. These Mayans, in order to maintain their culture and traditions, have extremely strict rules and practices and when any member of the community rebels or doesn’t adhere to these cultural rules, they are expelled, simple as that.''In addition, the Tsotzil believe that when you take a photograph of someone, their soul is taken away and so, visitors to the town are generally not allowed to take photographs directly of people, especially any civil or religious leaders. If the local police, who walk around wearing white fur ponchos and holding long black sticks, catch you taking a photograph of something they don’t want to be photographed, the punishment can range from a verbal reprimand to having your camera confiscated or even being fined or tossed in the local jail.''And the most sure-fire way to end up in that jail would be to take photographs inside the town’s one church, the''Church of San Juan'', a simple-looking church that sits at one end of the main square. This church is the center of Tsotzil life as this is where every member of the community practices their unique religion, which is an intriguing mix of traditional Mayan customs and Spanish Catholicism.''Photography is strictly prohibited in this building, simply because, as you’re about to find out below, what actually takes place inside the sole church in this community is unlike anything else you will ever see in any church on the planet…''Inside the Church of San Juan''I can only try to explain what I saw as best I can. But believe me, you really need to see this place for yourself (as is the case with most things) in order to truly appreciate it.''The church has no priest. It is open 24 hours per day. Members of the Tsotzil community can enter at any time. When they do visit the church, they walk through the large hall, which has no pews, and they find an empty spot on the floor, which is completely covered in fresh pine leaves. The Tsotzil then set up a variety of candles in front of them, candles of different colors that each represent a specific type of problem that they need to be solved. When we visited, some people had a few candles in front of them and others had almost one hundred, creating a scene in which there were well over 5,000 candles in total burning inside this church.''Once the candles are lit, the Tsotzil pray, in their local Tsotzil language, to one of the dozens of Catholic saints whose statues line the sides of the main hall, or to the large statue of John the Baptist encased in glass at the far end of the room. Sometimes they pray for a few minutes, other times for hours on end. They are free to remain inside for as long as they wish until all of their issues are dealt with.''Once they have finished their prayers, and especially when they are suffering from a more serious problem, the Tsotzil consult one of the medicine men or medicine women who are wandering around the inside of the church. The shaman comes over, lifts up a live chicken (which the praying Tsotzil had brought with them) and rubs the chicken against the afflicted person or persons. Every now and then the shaman checks the person’s pulse until they determine, through the pulse somehow, that the problem they are praying about has been transferred to the soul of the chicken.''Then, the Tsotzil takes the chicken and wrings its neck so that the problem disappears forever.''Finally, the newly ‘freed’ individual or individuals take a giant shot of ‘posh’, a local sugar-cane based liquor, and often a long swig of Coca-Cola as well, until they begin to burp. Once they burp, they believe that they have been fully cleansed of the evil that had been haunting them, allowing them to end their prayer session and head back outside.''Now, in summary, just imagine an entire church hall, eerily lit and full of Catholic saint statues and thousands of burning multicolored candles on the floor, with dozens of traditionally-dressed Tsotzil families, couples and individuals sitting on a layer of pine needles, praying on their knees, chanting in ancient tongue, drinking homemade booze, burping out loud and killing chickens.''The scene was fascinating and I am certain that every single member of our group could have stayed inside watching it for a long, long time. I have never seen anything like it and I’m not sure if I ever will.''Again, taking photographs inside this church is completely prohibited and so I have no real proof to back up the above. However, if you ever travel to the state of Chiapas, Mexico, or more specifically, to the town of San Cristobal de las Casas, you absolutely must venture over to San Juan Chamula so that you can also experience this community for yourself.''Only then will the above actually seem real.''Have you been to San Juan Chamula? What do you think about their unique religious practices?''Whenever I am living in one place for a good amount of time, let’s say a few weeks or more, I tend to be quite a clean and orderly individual. I always make my bed each morning, I keep my clothes in a closet or in drawers and I make sure that everything is in place before I head outside. If I cook some food, I always clean the kitchen soon after (sometimes even before eating) and after taking a shower, I make sure the bathroom floor is dry and spotless.''I enjoy a clean room or apartment. It makes me feel good, especially when, at night, I climb into my bed after another long day out and about. Knowing that the space around me is in perfect order helps my mind remain calm and orderly as well.''But…''When I pack up my backpack again and hit the road, it’s an entirely different story.''If I’m staying in some short-term accommodation, maybe a hostel or hotel or guesthouse or a room in someone’s house, I tend to destroy the place. I don’t exactly graffiti the walls or pick up the chair and smash the lamps and tables to smithereens, but in terms of my possessions, I can’t seem to keep them from scattering all over the room.''And usually, it takes approximately three minutes after my arrival for me to turn the room into such a disaster area.''I don’t know exactly why this happens. I can only guess. Perhaps it’s because if I was organized in these kind of places, I would feel too settled. It would start to feel as if I was staying long-term and of course, the more comfortable I am in a hostel or hotel, the harder it is to leave, naturally. But sometimes I want to leave and having to take my newly organized room and place it all back into my backpack becomes a difficult task.''By creating a disaster zone instead, it becomes very easy to just pack up and take off to the next destination, even on very short notice. There’s no attachment, in the form of comfortable and organized surroundings, to my room at all.''And this is why, only five minutes after arrival, my current room at the''Rossco Hostel''here in San Cristobal de las Casas, Mexico, the hostel where the''Wander Across Mexico''tour group is staying, looked like this…''So, are you an organized traveler or a messy traveler? If you haven’t traveled, what do you think you would be? And what does it all mean?''This is what happens when you let your friends drink tepache.''Some people really like it…''Some people are not so sure how to react…''Some take the drink quite seriously…''Others need to be fed the stuff…''Some find the taste quite pleasant…''Some people even look quite bad-ass drinking it…''And a rare few seem to be in excruciating pain while the drink goes down…''Tepache is a simple Aztec creation (at least in this part of the world) made from the fruity flesh and the rinds of pineapples that are mixed with brown sugar and left to ferment for a few days. But since the fermentation time is so short, it doesn’t quite turn into alcohol and it ends up leaving behind what can only be described as an interesting taste.''You can buy this drink from street vendors who ride their bicycle carts around towns and cities all over Mexico. You just flag them down, place your order and then the vendor uses a ladle to scoop up the tepache from a big barrel or bucket and places it into a plastic bag. It typically costs 5 pesos (40 US cents) for a couple of scoops.''And just about everyone on my current''Wander Across Mexico Tour''all had a swig or two, or in some cases, nineteen, of this stuff yesterday while we were walking around the beautiful town of Valladolid. I just couldn’t let the vendor roll by without giving everyone a chance to try it out.''So, the question is this…''If you saw a guy pedaling a rusty cart down the road trying to sell you a plastic bag full of a gooey brown liquid that has been swishing around in a bucket, would you stop him and order some of his intriguing drink?''Or would you gladly step aside and watch him keep on pedaling down the road, perfectly content to let someone else try the mysterious beverage?''Let’s see how adventurous you are!''If you want to travel the world, you need money. That’s a fact. Of course, as I try to point out often on this site, the amount of money you do need isn’t nearly as large as most people imagine (''How Much Money Do You Need to Start a Life of Travel''), but you still need a little cashola in order to achieve your travel goals.''At the same time, your ability to travel long-term (or short-term) is not fully dependent on how much money you earn. You can always make money all over the world. It’s what you do with that money that really matters.''Even with myself, I know perfectly well that had I not learned a few very valuable lessons early on in my own travels, lessons about how to save and avoid wasting my money, there’s a good chance that I would have been forced to stop traveling a long time ago.''Let’s take a look at some of the factors that can help you make your money last longer while traveling…''Staying With Friends''Every now and then I receive an email or comment telling me that I’m a fraud because I sometimes stay with friends in different countries for a few days or even a couple of weeks, and therefore do not pay for accommodation during those times. I am told that this is ‘cheating’ and that I should admit to my readers that I save a great deal of money by staying with these friends. First, I certainly don’t hide the fact that I stay with friends. And second, I don’t see it as cheating. When I first started traveling, I really didn’t have any international friends and I definitely didn’t know anyone who I could just call up and ask to crash at their place for a while.''It was only natural that the longer I traveled, the more friends I made around the world, friends who would kindly let me sleep on their sofa whenever I was in the area. The good news is that the same would happen to any traveler. The more you travel the world, the more people you will meet and in the end, you’ll have great friends in every corner of the globe too that will offer you a place to stay. And not only do you get to spend time with your friends, you do get a chance to save some money on accommodation, something that can definitely help a person stay on the road much longer.''Flexible Destinations and Dates''The more flexible you are (flexibility with travel planning, not yoga flexible!), the cheaper your travels will be. For example, if I am thinking of flying to Thailand and the airfare is $800, I might start looking at other destinations that I’m interested in visiting. Maybe I’ll find a $400 flight to Cairo and so, I’ll go there instead and save Thailand for another time. If you’re flexible with your dates as well, you can really shop around in order to find the cheapest possible flight to any destination that appeals to you. I’ve saved thousands of dollars over the years as a direct result of being flexible with my plans.''Almost Zero Monthly Payments''I don’t own a home, I don’t have a car, I don’t pay for utilities each month and, apart from health insurance (here’s a post I wrote about''how I’ve handled health insurance''over the years), I don’t have any other major expenses that I must pay on a regular basis.  Even my mobile phone is on a plan that allows me to stop paying whenever I’m outside the US. Just think of how many thousands of dollars all of this saves, freeing up the money I do earn to be spent directly on my travels and again, keeping me out there wandering the world for many more years that I once thought possible.''Slow Travel''By staying in some locations for long periods of time, such as 3 or 6 months, or even longer, I am able to pay far less money for accommodation by renting a local apartment at local rates. Spending 30 nights in budget hotels while traveling around Mexico could cost $1200 USD but I could stay in my own studio apartment near the beach in Playa del Carmen for one-third that amount if I stay in that same town for a month or more. I also save on transportation by not having to travel long distances during these periods and I can save even further by using the kitchen in my apartment to cook my own meals. Staying put in Mexico, Romania, Thailand and other locations over the years has played a major role in helping me keep my dream of indefinite travel alive.''Embrace Technology''Some people love technology, some hate it, and I find myself right in the middle. If used wisely of course, technology can reduce your travel costs drastically, simply because you can usually find the cheapest airfares, cheapest accommodation rates, cheapest everything, online. (This isn’t always true and it does depend on your style of travel, but for the most part, the internet does allow you to search around and make more educated decisions that will save you money. It also allows you to get real time information about travel costs from bloggers or other travelers who are currently in the destinations you are about to visit.)''Always Saving Money''After deciding that I wanted to try and travel indefinitely, I remember sitting down one day and making a list of all the things I needed get in order. On that list I wrote something like “Always save money” and I have stuck to that rule ever since. No matter how much money I’ve earned over the years, I’ve always saved a portion of it each month and I’ve always made sure my bank account never went below a certain level. If it started to approach that threshold, I knew that it was time for another cruise ship contract or time to find some way to fill my account back up again. And as the years passed, I began increasing that limit in order to make sure that I was saving more and more money. This way, I’ve always had some extra cash in case I hit a rough patch at some point at a time when I am still not interested in giving up my traveling lifestyle. This savings plan has really forced me to be disciplined and the result is that I never found myself completely broke with no money for a place to stay or no money for my next meal. This goes a long way in keeping me motivated to continue my travels as I’m not sure I would have carried on exploring the world if I was barely surviving day to day.''No Set Plans''As I mentioned above, being flexible with dates and destinations is key, but being flexible once you arrive in a particular destination is as equally important. I’ve talked to many travelers who plan out their entire six-month trip beforehand, pre-paying for accommodation, transportation and activities, only to discover that once they arrive, they no longer want to follow their original plan. Sometimes we learn about places we had never heard of before and want to head there instead or sometimes we meet some new friends that we now want to tag along with. And changing our pre-arranged plans at this point can be costly. I learned early on that locking myself into a plan had some serious risks, mainly that I would waste money by paying for things in advance that I would no longer want to do once I arrived in a particular country. Things change and going with the flow allows me to change with them without throwing my hard earned money out the window, money that I would rather use for my new plans.''As you can see, achieving your travel goals is not only about earning money. It’s about making smart travel decisions, some of which are quite simple, that help you spend your money wisely, or in some cases, save your money when it doesn’t have to be spent. As I mentioned above, had I not learned these lessons myself, I would not still be traveling right now. I would have burned through my money at some point and given up, forcing myself to return home and admit defeat. Instead, I managed to make the money I did have, and that I did earn, last much longer, something that naturally lead to more opportunities to not only earn more money, but to continue traveling the world as well.''What did I miss? What other decisions have you made that have helped you spend wisely or save money while traveling? If you haven’t traveled yet, what do you think of the above, does it make sense?''During my lengthy stay back in 2010/2011, I had nothing but positive things to say about the''town of Playa del Carmen, Mexico''. It was as ideal of a destination as there could be for someone like me who prefers warm climates, beautiful white sand beaches, a laid-back environment, diverse food options, a town that is walkable, a location that is easily reachable from the US and a region with plenty of options for day/weekend trips to interesting sights.''To live in Playa del Carmen was living a dream as far as I was concerned, which is why I called it my ‘home’ for over 1 year.''Fast forward to last week…''I returned to Playa del Carmen for the first time since June 2011, wondering whether I would find the same ‘perfect destination’ as before. If I did feel the same way, I knew that I would have a hard time leaving and that the chances of me using Playa as my base once again where extremely high. On the other hand, there was always the chance that I would discover a completely different place this time around, one that no longer appealed to me as much as before.''One week into this visit and I still haven’t reached a conclusion.''The Beaches''Oh, they are still made of pure white sand and the water is still as turquoise and as mesmerizing as ever.  The beaches do seem a bit more crowded during the day than I remember, even for high season, and it is harder to find a nice stretch of empty sand, something that wasn’t difficult at all a couple of years ago. But hey, whenever I do step foot onto the beach, and glance out at the Caribbean Sea and the island of Cozumel in the distance, I feel that same sudden ‘whoosh’ of calmness overcome me, just like when I lived here, and any negative feelings or bad mood instantly disappears. The beaches of Playa are still some of my favorite beaches on the planet.''(I managed to take a photo from above using my brilliant''XShot Camera Extender''!)''The Cafes''This might not seem like something that is important but for someone who works online and prefers not to sit in my apartment all day, having a nice variety of welcoming cafes to use as my ‘office’ is something I do take into consideration. When I was here before, there were about six cafes on my circuit, all of which offered comfortable seating in an air-conditioned setting, fast wi-fi, good coffee and staff who didn’t mind if I sat there for a few hours on my laptop (I would buy something every hour or so). Well, I was sad to see that out of those six cafes, only two remain these days. And after asking all of my friends who live here, many of whom work online as well, I have yet to find any other suitable replacements. (The cafe''Ah Cacao''is still my top choice to get some work done and it is now almost my only choice.)''The Costs''Without a doubt, this is the biggest change since 2011. While you can still live cheaply in this town, it is significantly harder to do right now. For those looking to spend long periods of time here, consider this…my 2-bedroom apartment that I rented for around $800 USD per month in 2010/2011, now goes for $1500 USD per month. Where $500 per month used to get you a very nice one bedroom apartment, that amount will generally get you a studio these days, and most likely not in the exact city center. There are exceptions of course but it is more challenging to find such good deals at the moment. And of course, costs for just about everything else have gone up as well – hotels, food and drinks (some restaurants and bars have raised their prices by 50% in 2 years), activities and just about anything else you need to spend money on. Playa del Carmen is no longer a dirt cheap paradise unfortunately, catering more towards those who have a good amount of extra cash to throw around. It’s not impossible to eat, drink and play cheaply, but you really need to ask around to in order to find the ‘out of the way’ places that don’t cater only to tourists.''The Food''For the most part, all of my favorite eateries, some ‘out of the way’ and some not so much, are still here and are still serving up the dishes that I couldn’t get enough of during my previous stay. From Dona Mary’s tostadas on Avenida 30th (where I made a video about how to actually''eat a tostada'') to El Fogon on Avenida Constituyentes, to the no-name quesadilla, salbute and panucho eateries scattered around, to Mr. Kiwi’s tortas and the always delicious breakfasts at La Cueva del Chango, among many others, I’ve been reliving my dining escapades from when I lived here. And if you do stick to the restaurants around Avenida 30th, you can still have a filling meal for around 40 pesos / $3.50 USD, keeping your food costs way down. (Buying food from the supermarket seems to cost about the same as before and is a great way to save money if you live down here.)''The People''Overall, Playa does have a different feel than I remember. I always used to state that despite the tourism here, it was still possible to go for an entire week without seeing another foreigner if you stayed in the more local areas of town. These days, that seems somewhat impossible as vacation rentals have spread into so many more neighborhoods and tourist-oriented restaurants and bars are now found in much greater numbers away from the main 5th Avenue. And with what appears to have been a massive increase in the number of foreigners now calling this town home, either long-term or for a few months, the time has definitely come to classify Playa del Carmen as a tourist town. Is it still possible to live here and stay somewhat away from the mass tourism? Yes, absolutely, but at the same time, being a part for the tourist culture is no longer completely avoidable.''I do want to note that the locals living in Playa have so far been as welcoming as ever and even on 5th Avenue, which is a 1.5 mile long pedestrian-only stretch of tourist shops, restaurants and bars, the atmosphere is still quite relaxed, with local vendors not nearly as aggressive as in many other similarly popular tourist spots around the world. People here are laid-back and for the most part, helpful and kind. While I have heard an unfortunate story or two from others living here, most of what I hear confirms that Playa has maintained its reputation as a friendly destination.''One other thing I do need to say is that on several occasions, I have been absolutely shocked by local people who have actually remembered me from 2 years ago. So far, there have been five instances when I have walked into a cafe where I used to spend time working on my laptop or into a local restaurant that I  used to frequent, and one or more of the staff members immediately yelled out “Derek!” (they don’t know me as Earl). And I can’t even explain how that makes me feel considering that it has been 20 months since my last visit and that most of these cafes/restaurants have hundreds of ever-changing customers every single day. It’s really incredible and it has blown me away each and every time.''The Conclusion''As far as what I look for whenever I’m thinking of staying put for a while or as I continue my search for the ‘''perfect home base''‘, there is no doubt that Playa del Carmen offers just about everything I could possibly want. I’ve had a blast this week running around to all my favorite spots and the time spent on the beach and in the water has so far been nothing but therapeutic.''Does everything feel as comfortable as it did when I lived here? No, and that’s why I have yet to reach a conclusion as to whether or not Playa really is the perfect location for me.''Perhaps it’s just that I’ve been gone for so long that I feel more like a stranger right now. I don’t know many people here these days and it’s hard to ‘settle in’ when I know I’ll only be here for just a short time at first.''Or maybe it’s simply because things are rarely the same the second time around. As travelers, we often revisit certain places in the hopes of reliving our previous experiences but rarely do they prove to be as rewarding as the first time.''Of course, I’ve only been back here for a week. So it is possible that after a few more freshly-prepared tostadas, watching a few more sunsets while floating in the Caribbean Sea and making a few more new friends, I could very well find my groove again and make the decision to call this beach town ‘home’ one more time.''(Note: This post looks at Playa del Carmen as a place to live for a while, not as a place to visit short-term. I will always love this town/region as a travel destination and I absolutely cannot wait to share my favorite spots with the group of 10 cool individuals who are arriving in a couple of days to join my''Wander Across Mexico Tour''!)''Photo:''Playa del Carmen Beach''(Wiki Commons)''Does Playa del Carmen sound like a place you would want to live?''The idea for this post came about after I mentioned one of the “dumbest things I’ve done while traveling” on my''Facebook Page''the other day. The result was not only having my kind readers confirm that what I had done was indeed quite stupid, but also a long list of tales from others who were willing to share some of their not-so-brightest moments from their own travels.''I figured I’d move that discussion over here by adding a few more examples of how I can be a little, well, ‘slow’ at times. Luckily, however, I’m fairly confident that every single traveler out there has had plenty of similar moments, which hopefully we’ll soon discover!''Let’s start with the dumb moment I mentioned on my Facebook Page and go from there…''Mango incident:''I was in India, someone handed me a mango for the first time in my life and I had no idea how to eat it. So, I just stuck the entire thing, with the skin on, in my mouth. The man who gave it to me looked horrified and asked “What are you doing?”. Sensing that I had done something stupid, I just said, “This is how I eat mangoes.”''Eating a rat:''While in Vang Vieng, Laos, two other travelers and I decided to visit the local market one evening. The idea was that we would each purchase some kind of food item to bring back to the guesthouse and share with the group for a nice local dinner. So, I bought a rat from a woman who was selling whole rats that were sliced open and grilled over a small fire, complete with rat nose, rat eyes, rat toes and rat tail still in place. When we returned to the guesthouse, the others were not too thrilled with my choice and so I was left to take a bite out of it myself (see above photo). After taking a bite, I looked a little more closely at the rat only to discover over a dozen maggots moving around in the flesh. I vomited. And then I felt extremely sick to my stomach for a good couple of days afterward.''Wrong airport terminal:''This one’s a classic and has probably happened to many people….I once waited at the wrong terminal at Bangkok’s old Don Mueang International Airport for over three hours for a friend of mine who was arriving from Australia. Had I spent one second reading all of the information on the huge “Arrivals” screen I would have clearly seen that her flight had arrived at Terminal 1, not Terminal 2 where I had been waiting. I ended up leaving the airport completely worried and confused as to why she hadn’t arrived, and naturally, my friend had left the airport completely upset as to why I wasn’t there to pick her up. This tale did end well though, with a crazy story of how we''finally managed to meet up in Bangkok''.''Nearly frozen to death:''Combine -20C temperatures, a massive snow storm, sidewalks covered in ice and my occasional stubbornness and you get a very dumb decision on my part. It happened during the winter of 2012 while I was in Bucharest, Romania and I had just finished meeting up with''Niall Doherty''for some afternoon shisha and good conversation in the old city center. After parting ways, I tried to hail a taxi to take me back to my friend’s apartment where I was staying, but every taxi I asked either wouldn’t take me or they wanted an exorbitant price because of the snow storm and resulting road conditions. I refused to pay the inflated rate and so, despite being in jeans, t-shirt, light winter jacket and running shoes, I decided to walk the 4 kilometers back to the apartment in protest since that was my only other option. By the time I arrived, my face was a block of ice, I couldn’t feel my feet or hands and I was about to collapse, feeling quite sick as I stumbled through those final steps. When my friend opened the door, I just looked at her and said, “I’m going to die.” Later that evening, after telling my friend the story, she simply stated, “Why didn’t you just take the metro? You walked past three metro stations”.''(Here’s a video I made that shows you exactly how to survive an''Eastern European winter''!)''Blood for nothing:''I was working on my first cruise ship when, one evening during my second week on board, I wanted to get some fresh air and just stand on the outside deck for a while. But since my work was finished for the day, I was no longer wearing my uniform and so I had to sneak through the ship in my shorts and t-shirt in order to reach the main outside deck, hoping that I wouldn’t get caught. Eventually, I found a large door that led outside and I pushed it open, only to have a huge gust of wind push it straight back, causing the bolt of the door to slice open my thumb. As blood started to pour out, I quickly ran inside to the Reception Desk to get help and they called the nurse and had me taken care of. The next day I had to meet with the Hotel Director and I assumed that I would get in trouble for being out of uniform in the passenger areas. Instead, he just looked at me and said, “You do know that we have an entire outside deck just for crew members?” Oops.''Bucket shower:''In India, many budget hotels only have cold-water showers and if you want to take a hot shower, you need to ask the hotel staff to heat you up a bucket full of water. The first time I did this, the owner of the small hotel brought me the bucket of hot water and I went into the bathroom, where I scooped up some water with a small bowl. I then dumped the water straight over me. It never crossed my mind that the steam coming out of the bucket was a result of the water being extremely hot and that the proper method was to mix that water with some of the cold water from the actual shower. I just poured a bowl of near boiling water on myself instead. Oh yeah, it hurt.''I’m sure at this point you know what’s coming. It is indeed time to hear about your own ‘not so bright’ moments during your travels, whether they happened overseas or in your home country. So, what’s some of the dumbest things you’ve done?''Please help me feel better about my own dumb moments by sharing yours below!''The time has come to announce the remaining tours that I will be offering this year as part of my''Wandering Earl Tours''project. When I first started with these tours, I had no idea that it would grow into what it has already grown into. I assumed that I might run a couple of tours and that would probably be it.''However, after receiving so many emails and requests for more tours, I simply could not, and did not, want to ignore the fact that even more of you are interested in exploring a part of the world with me. And to me, it is my absolute pleasure and honor to play such a role in the achievement of your travel goals.''With''Wandering Earl Tours'', the concept is ‘independent travel with the support of a small group’ as these are not your typical tours. We don’t travel in large private buses, we eat in actual local restaurants and I try my best to give you as much time in each destination as possible so that you can enjoy more than a fleeting glimpse of what a particular place has to offer. Basically, we travel as I would travel if I were on my own.''So, here are the next tours I would like to announce for 2013…''Wander Across Romania (and Moldova!)''Dates:''June 16th to 30th, 2013''Highlights:''This trip is going to expose you to a region of the world that is seldom explored, despite being home to a wonderfully diverse range of destinations that constantly awes those travelers who do indeed make the trip. Just imagine an experience that includes the highly underrated capital city of Bucharest as well as a visit to the heart of mountainous Transylvania, where you’ll stay in one of the most atmospheric towns in Romania and one of the best-preserved medieval towns in all of Europe. Then, we shall venture deeper into the countryside, visiting three regions that offer not only incredible natural beauty, but a collection of imposing ancient citadels, the super-impressive painted monasteries of Bucovina (UNESCO World Heritage Site) and villages that offer a chance to take a few steps back in time. And after our exploration of Romania, we’ll cross the border into neighboring Moldova for a glimpse of a country that is one of the least visited on the planet. And believe me, its combination of unique sights, super-friendly people and of course, its good wine, will leave you thrilled at having had a chance to visit this tiny nation. It will also act as the perfect finale of a tour through such a rewarding region that has still yet to be discovered by mass tourism! Are you ready?''Some of the main places we’ll visit include: Bucharest, Sinaia, Brasov, Sighisoara, Neamt County, Bucovina, Moldova & Transnistria''Cost:''$1580''What’s Included:''—''Accommodation''– 14 nights at quality budget guesthouses, hotels & hostels''—''Meals''– 10 meals throughout the trip (mix of lunches & dinners)''—''Transportation''– all transportation within Romania & Moldova during the tour''—''Activities''– all included activities and associated entrance & guide fees''Wander Across India''Dates:''There will be two tours to India this year…''Departure #1 – September 18th to October 5th, 2013''Departure #2 – October 9th to October 27th, 2013''Highlights:''With 28 states in India, it’s impossible to see it all, but this 19-day itinerary will cover a good portion, allowing you to experience some of the country’s most important destinations, including historical and religious sights, chaotic and intense cities, peaceful and remote villages and a constant stream of experiences that will challenge, delight, shock, inspire and change you in more ways that you can ever imagine. From the Golden Temple in Amritsar to the Tibetan communities of the Himalayas, to the beautiful Taj Mahal and the 16th century palaces and forts of Madhya Pradesh State, as well as the holy city of Varanasi, the holiest place for Hindus in the entire country, you’ll certainly have an opportunity to understand what makes India one of the most life-changing destinations in the world. And that’s just a taste of what we’ll explore on this trip!''Some of the main places we’ll visit include: Delhi, Amritsar, McLeod Ganj, Rishikesh, Agra (Taj Mahal!), Orchha and Varanasi''Cost:''$1300''What’s Included:''—''Accommodation''– 19 nights at good quality budget guesthouses & hotels''—''Meals''– 14 meals throughout the trip (mix of lunches & dinners)''—''Transportation''– all transportation within India during the tour''—''Activities''– all included activities and associated entrance & guide fees''There you have it, the''Wandering Earl Tours''offerings for the rest of 2013.''More Info & How to Book''If you are interested in any of the above tours, just send me an email through my''contact form''and I’ll forward you the complete itinerary and all the details you need to confirm your spot. Remember, each tour typically has a maximum of only 10 people, so space is limited and these tours do tend to fill up fast!''And of course, if you have any questions at all, just let me know.''As always, I’m looking forward to meeting, traveling and getting to know some of you this year on one of the above excursions!''After my recent post that outlined “''42 Ways You Can Make Money and Travel the World''”, it was brought to my attention that while the options I listed all sound good on ‘paper’, a select few of the options have some real risks associated with them.''So, I promised the reader who mentioned this to me that I would write a post focusing on the riskier side of travel, something that he felt wasn’t discussed realistically, or at all, on most travel blogs.''It’s a tricky topic to tackle though, mainly because everyone has quite different opinions on what constitutes risk and whether or not the risk involved with travel is really any more than the risk involved with our normal everyday lives in our home countries.''I personally feel that travel is not any more risky than life at home, assuming we put our common sense to use at all times. Bad things happen almost everywhere, and in reality, I often feel safer and more well-taken care of  while overseas than I do while back in the US.''(Just yesterday I visited a relative who had injured her leg after falling while on a trip to New Zealand. She needed surgery and extensive medical care, including visiting nurses to dress her wound, and she didn’t have to pay anything for this at all. If she were at home, it would have been a completely different, and much more expensive, situation.)''Often times, people bring up the fact that I was once''kidnapped in Bangladesh''as proof that travel is dangerous and risky. However, my response is always this… How many of these kind of incidents do you hear about? Not many at all.''It’s not as if things like this happen every day to travelers all over the world, it’s just that when we do read about them, and since the incidents don’t take place in our home countries, we automatically reach conclusions that a certain place is dangerous or that travel in general is extremely risky as a result.''I could probably count the number of terrible travel incidents that I’ve heard about from fellow travelers over the past 13 years on one hand. And I’m talking about kidnappings, violence, unlawful arrests, detainment, major theft, serious and expensive injuries, people being deported, near death experiences, etc….all the things that would seem to be a huge risk. That’s not what I would call ‘common’ considering how many travelers are out there in the world at any given time.''Being alive is risky. Walking out your front door is risky. Things happen and things happen everywhere.''Of course, the idea of this post is to focus on the risks that do exist for those who decide to venture overseas and in all fairness, I would never state that travel is risk-free or that there aren’t any risks that you should be aware of before leaving home. There are indeed risks when traveling and the more you are aware of them, the lower the chance you’ll be affected by them.''Local Laws''Naturally, every country has their own set of laws and if you don’t take some time to learn at least the basic rules about a destination, you might find yourself in a troubling situation. Some countries are stricter about certain things to the point where you could end up jail for something that you could easily get away with back home. Even a minor drug offense in some countries could land you in prison for life or even lead to the death-penalty, and you can’t expect much help from your government if you have broken a local law.''Working Overseas''Some of the ideas I mentioned in the “42 Ways You Can Make Money and Travel the World” post involve opportunities that are technically not legal. These include anything in which you would be working ‘under the table’ and getting paid directly in cash, such as at a cafe, restaurant, bar, hostel or on a construction site. If you don’t have a proper work visa, then you’re basically not allowed to work in that country and as a result, there are risks involved.''If you do get caught by the authorities, you would not only lose the job but you might be kicked out of the country or even banned from re-entering for a certain period of time. You might have to pay a fine or face other legal repercussions. Have I personally heard of this happening to anyone? Nope. But I’m sure it has happened to some and it’s something to keep in mind before you agree to start working.''Also, if you were to be injured on the job, again, while working without a proper visa/employment contract overseas, your employer would not be responsible. You could not really claim compensation or medial coverage since you were working illegally in the first place. So it does pay to understand the job you’re about to accept and to consider whether or not it is a safe, or reasonable, option for you.''Theft''There are always stories about people having things stolen while traveling and theft is certainly something to be aware of. Many years ago I had my wallet pick-pocketed while in Delhi and I lost all my credit cards and a good wad of cash. At the same time, that’s the only incident of theft that I’ve personally encountered in 13 years of travel, despite going to plenty of countries that are typically deemed unsafe and dangerous. The thing is, if you’re not aware of your belongings and you don’t take certain precautions, you could definitely end up having some of your stuff stolen, no matter where you travel, and that would of course be quite unfortunate.''Acting Irresponsibly''When we travel, especially for the first time, it is common to feel as if there are no rules overseas because we are away from home, but in reality, there are rules and often times, the penalties for breaking those rules are severe as mentioned above (just ask any of the foreigners serving time in prisons in places such as Thailand or Colombia).''And apart from legal consequences, it would be a real shame to head overseas only to end up addicted to drugs, which you started taking every day because they were so cheap and readily available and you could take them in the comfort of your guesthouse room way up in the mountains of India. You get stuck there for months until your family and friends have to come and drag you home and force you to get help. It happens, and it happens more than you would think, simply because travelers go overboard with their new found freedom.''Injuries, Illness & Insurance''I think few people would disagree that injuries and illnesses can happen anywhere. Of course, in some areas, certain serious diseases are much more common and it would be wise to take necessary precautions, such as immunization shots, before visiting those areas. And if you do get sick while traveling, it’s usually not so fun, especially when on your own and you can’t leave your hotel room or you’re in the hospital. But this is just one of the downsides and hopefully, you won’t have to deal with it!''It’s also always a good idea to check the safety of any activity you want to participate in because in some countries, the safety standards might not be up to par. If something were to happen, such as injury or being''stranded in the middle of the water''after the boat you were on sinks, the chances of compensation or medical coverage from the company, in many parts of the world, will be nonexistent.''When it comes to travel insurance, you could be in big trouble if you do get injured while overseas and you don’t have such coverage. In some countries, medical expenses can be exorbitant and if you had to be flown home as well, you’re looking at dishing out a ton of money. It’s also important to note that even with travel insurance, you are often only covered while traveling. So while your insurance might pay to fly you back to your home country for medical care, they may not cover any of your medical expenses once you land. Also, travel insurance doesn’t cover many ‘high-risk’ activities/sports, so you should always make sure you are aware of what your policy does cover before you do anything that could be deemed risky.''What else?''To be honest, I have no idea. When I first started this post, I assumed that I would be able to come up with a long list of potential, real risks that travelers should be fully aware about. But the above is all that came to mind apart from some other things that are just as risky as if you were doing them at home.''I guess I could also mention such things as…''Having difficulty once you return home after your travels. Maybe you won’t be able to find a job right away, you won’t have much money and you’re not motivated to do anything but travel some more, all while facing the challenge of reverse culture shock. That could be considered a risk you’ll be taking.''Terrorism/kidnapping definitely exists in several regions so it would generally be a wise idea to avoid those areas. At the same time, you can never avoid this risk altogether these days, you can only try to limit your chances of encountering it.''Transportation regulations in some parts of the world are somewhat ‘looser’ than in others and this means you should always familiarize yourself with local traffic rules (or the lack of), the road conditions, state of the buses or trains and to also think twice before renting or buying a scooter or motorcycle to buzz around on in order to reduce the potential risks associated with traveling from place to place.''The point is, yes, travel is risky and there is plenty that you should be aware of while overseas. But is it that much more risky than being at home and is there enough risk out there to make you think twice about traveling at all? I would say ‘no way!’.''At the same time, I wouldn’t go running around Thailand bragging that I’m now free to take as much drugs as I wish and party like never before and I wouldn’t go around Amsterdam telling everyone about my new ‘under the table’ job at a restaurant either. And if I were to pick up some construction work while in Australia, decide to hop on a sketchy looking ferry in Indonesia or travel to the''tribal regions of Pakistan'', I’d make sure I fully understand what I’m getting myself into and I’d have to decide whether or not I am prepared to accept the potential consequences.''What do you think? And what did I miss? What are some other risks associated with travel?''This is a random post as I don’t normally write on Wednesdays, but I’ve been doing a lot of reading lately and I thought that I might as well let you know which books I’ve come across. It certainly doesn’t hurt and perhaps one of them will catch your attention if you just so happen to be looking for a new book to delve into!''Here are three books, two of which are written by fellow bloggers, that I’ve read in the past month or so.''The Food Traveler’s Handbook''I’ve mentioned her before on my site, not only because she is a friend, but because she knows her stuff when it comes to travel and also when it comes to food. And it was only a matter of time before Jodi, who is also the writer behind the site''LegalNomads.com'', wrote a book that combined the two.''Here’s the official description: “''The Food Traveler’s Handbook provides a compelling argument for why it is important to use food as a lens through which you see the world. Using this handbook as a guide, you will learn how to eat safely in developing countries, source cheap but delicious streetside meals and discover how to make food a tool for understanding a new place and connecting to its local culture.''”''Those few lines sure had me intrigued when I first read them and it should come as no surprise whatsoever that Jodi’s book didn’t disappoint at all.''Great reading material for anyone interested in travel and/or food, which is probably just about everyone!''The Food Traveler’s Handbook''How to Travel the World on $50 a Day''The second book I want to mention is written by Matt Kepnes from''NomadicMatt.com''. It’s called''How to Travel the World on $50 a Day''and it focuses on providing tips and advice aimed at helping you save money, and make your money last longer, while out there traveling the world.''It’s a book designed for first-time travelers as it covers all the major aspects – food, accommodation, transportation, activities – and it discusses them in relation to the most popular travel destinations around the globe. So, for example, if you want to know the cheapest ways to travel around Europe, what you can expect to pay for accommodation in Central America, how to choose the right backpack, the ins and outs of travel insurance and how to save money on entrance fees and activities during your adventures, this book is a good reference that will answer those questions and more.''How to Travel the World on $50 a Day: Travel Cheaper, Longer, Smarter''The Pirates of Somalia: Inside Their Hidden World''Finally, I have to mention this one, which I read towards the end of my recent trip to India. It’s an interesting account, written by Jay Bahadur, of the pirate issue that has been present in Somalia for quite a few years now. Jay traveled to the Puntland region, which is considered to be the ‘hub’ of Somali piracy, in order to learn exactly who these pirates really are, what their lives are like and how this surge in piracy started in the first place. It was another great read, one that left me far more knowledgeable about the current pirate situation, and its origins, than I had ever imagined possible.''The Pirates of Somalia: Inside Their Hidden World''Anyone have any other good book recommendations? I’m looking for another book myself!''Have you ever asked yourself, “How will I possibly make money while traveling?” or “How will I survive on the road?” or maybe “How can I can’t start traveling when I don’t have much money?”.''Chances are that these very thoughts have indeed crossed your mind (they cross all of our minds at some point!) and there’s also a chance that you haven’t found any answers. As a result, you’ve still yet to take that first step and start traveling and as time passes by, you start to wonder if you’ll ever achieve your travel goals.''Here on the blog I’m always making the claim that you can make money and travel much more easily than most people think. But yesterday I realized that I should probably back up that claim with some actual examples. So, that’s what I want to do here. I want to help you answer those questions above.''Are you ready? Here’s a list of 42 ways you can make money while traveling (keep in mind this is just a fraction of the opportunities that actually exist!)…''Teach English''– Job opportunities are all around the world and in many cases, you don’t need to be certified. You just need to be a native speaker. Check out''eslcafe.com'', send in a few applications to schools in South Korea, Japan, Thailand or dozens of other locations & you’ll be surprised at how many interviews you land.''Sell Timeshares''– If you were born to be a salesperson, then head to Greece, Thailand, Mexico, the Caribbean or any other major resort area and you can find work selling timeshares. These resorts want salespeople who can relate to their potential customers, so they prefer to have Americans selling to Americans, Italians selling to Italians and so on. The earning potential is huge in this line of work.''Resort Jobs''– If selling isn’t your thing, resorts all over the planet often hire staff from other countries for a variety of positions, such as front desk, restaurant or the activity/entertainment department.''Work in a Hostel''– Hostels are often looking for new staff who are willing to work some hours each day, either at reception or cleaning or maybe both, in exchange for a free bed each night. Not a bad way to save money at all.''Online Freelance Work''– Whether you have a background or interest in web design, programming, illustration, writing, marketing, consulting, legal work, engineering or able to do any type of admin work, you should definitely look at websites such as''Elance.com''and''Odesk.com''. These are platforms that connect freelancers with people and companies who need work done. Even if your background is in something else, have a look anyway as there is freelance work to be found in dozens of different fields.''Act in Films & Television Overseas''– Head to Mumbai, stand on a street corner in the Colaba neighborhood and before long, an industry scout will ask you if you want to act in a Bollywood film. (I once acted in an''Indian daytime drama''!) You won’t make millions, but you’ll be on the big screen. I also know people who have done the same in Kenya and earned very good money.''Working Holiday Visas''– Countries such as Australia, New Zealand, Canada, France, Ireland and Singapore offer these to foreigners, generally those who are between the ages of 18 – 30. If you’re in that age range, the working holiday visa might just be your best option to make money and travel. It allows you stay in a country for up to one year and in some cases, to apply for and work in any position you want. Yes, it is a sweet deal and one incredible way to earn an income while being overseas.''Fruit-Picking''– Get out into the sun, grab a basket and start picking fruit. Such an option is quite common for travelers/backpackers passing through Australia and the pay can include payment per kilo of fruit you pick, room, board or any combination of the three.''Travel Blogging''– It’s not easy to earn a big income with a travel blog. The amount of time/effort required to do so is much more than most people imagine. But if you’re looking for some extra cash to help fund part of your travels, while keeping the world informed of your adventures, starting a travel blog might be your answer. (Have a look at the high quality, extremely useful''Superstar Blogging Course''by Nomadic Matt if you’re serious about earning money from your blog.)''Any Kind of Blogging''– You don’t have to start a travel blog just because you’re traveling. Whatever your interest may be, that might be the kind of blog you should start. There are always opportunities to earn some money no matter what you choose to focus on.''Affiliate Marketing''– Making money this way is definitely possible even though the competition can be high. But if you’re willing to dedicate yourself to a couple of months worth of research, you’ll find your niche and hopefully a steady paycheck. If you don’t know much about affiliate marketing, have a look at''Affilorama.com'', which offers an excellent series of free lessons to get you started.''Selling Goods Online''– Found some cool product that you think others would be interested in? Have your own handmade product you want to sell? You could set up a website or a shop on eBay or any other type of online sales outlet and start selling. Your success will depend on many factors but again, if you’re willing to learn how to get your goods in front of the right people online, even a few sales each week could potentially keep you on the road.''Day-Trading''– It may not be for everyone, but there are people out there earning a living and traveling as a result of their day trading efforts. One in particular is Marcello from''WanderingTrader.com''.''Housesitting''– Who wouldn’t want a free place to stay? While you typically won’t get paid, if you don’t mind looking after somebody else’s house while they’re away, this is a great option. I know many people who just hop around from house-sitting gig to house-sitting gig, essentially avoiding accommodation expenses for years. Gigs can be one week, one month, one year or anything in between. (Jess & Dani from''GlobetrotterGirls.com''and Pete & Dalene from''HeckticTravels.com''are the experts when it comes to house-sitting!)''Work Remotely''– There’s no rule that states you must quit your current job in order to travel. Perhaps your position allows you to work remotely and all you need to do is speak with your boss in order to make the adjustment. Head down to a place like Playa del Carmen, Mexico and you’ll find foreigners everywhere who are doing just this, able to make money and travel wherever they wish.''Haircuts''– Choose a popular hostel, put up a sign (ask first!), charge a reasonable amount and off you go. I remember meeting a traveler who was doing this in Zagreb, Croatia and she was making $40 USD per day by advertising in 3 hostels. She would cut hair for a month, then travel for a month and repeat. Not bad at all.''Massages''– Follow the same idea as above but offer massages instead! I’d sign up for sure after a long day wandering around a town or city.''Bartending''– There are bars in many towns and cities that pay ‘cash in hand’ to travelers who can work a bar and are willing to stay in one spot for a while. Bars connected to hostels are often your best bet.''Cafe/Restaurant Work''– The same goes for cafes and restaurants. If you’re in a popular backpacking destination, just ask the hostel staff if they know of any cafes that hire travelers. Sometimes you’ll find a local classifieds/coupon traveler-oriented magazine lying around the hostel as well. Flip it open and many times you’ll find restaurants advertising for help.''Website Design''– Know how to build simple websites, or even more complex ones? Start your own business and look for clients online, through family & friends or even overseas. Staying at a hostel in Turkey that has a crappy website? Tell them you’ll completely improve their site for $50. (When I was''traveling in Syria'', just because I worked online, I received over a dozen offers from budget hotels, restaurants and other tourism-related businesses who were willing to pay me up to $500 USD to set up a new website for them. And this can be done anywhere.)''Teach Musical Instruments''– Piano? Guitar? Flute? Glockenspiel? Whatever you can play, chances are there are people all over the world who want to learn as well. Advertise in local online classifieds or put up signs in busy areas, such as gathering places of college students, and you just might have a few classes lined up before you know it.''Teach Any Language''– English isn’t the only language people want to learn. Speak French, Spanish, German, Italian, Mandarin, Arabic or anything else? Look for jobs or set up your own classes by advertising at universities or popular hangouts such as cafes.''Teach Dance Classes''– Again, put up some signs around town, find space in a public park and teach others how to get their tango on. You could also work out a deal with a restaurant/bar where they pay you to hold a class at their location because it will bring them plenty of extra business.''Teach Yoga''– You could do the exact same thing as above with yoga or any form of exercise!''Construction Work''– If you have construction experience, or you can fake it, this is one industry that tends to hire people for short-term work while paying them ‘under the table’. As a result, this makes for a great option for travelers looking to earn some quick cash.''Au Pair''– The situations vary but you’ll get room, board and a weekly paycheck for helping take care of a family’s kids, allowing you to explore the country you end up in during your free time as well.''Surfing Instructor''– I’d be fired as a surfing instructor in two minutes right now (here’s the''video proof''), but even after I had practiced for a couple of weeks during a stay in Mexico back in 2008, I was offered a job teaching beginners. You don’t need to be an expert to land a job, you just need to be better than those who have never tried surfing before!''Scuba Diving Instructor''– Are you certified? If so, there are dozens of great scuba destinations around the world – Egypt, Mexico, Thailand, Australia, Hawaii – where you could find work. Talon from''1Dad1Kid.com''has done just this in Central America.''Tour Escort''– Many international tour operators, especially those such as Indochina.com that offer budget tours around the world, hire tour escorts to accompany each group. The pay is on the low side and you usually must sign up for a 1-2 year contract, but the benefit is that you get to explore parts of the world without spending any money at all, while gaining some great work experience in the process.''Sell Your Art & Crafts at Local Markets''– There are markets in many places where foreigners can rent a stall and sell their goods. Usually these are markets that are geared towards tourists and other travelers. As a result, there are many people who follow the market circuit, bouncing around from market to market all year round, selling their hand made crafts, artwork, clothes from India or other goods that are in high-demand.''Tour Operators in the Caribbean''– When I worked on board cruise ships and we would dock in places such as St. Thomas or St. Maarten or Cozumel, many of the staff working for our local tour operators were from the USA, Canada and Europe. Their job was to greet the passengers coming off the ship, keep the groups organized and lead them to their tour bus or van or boat. The pay was okay and they got to live and work in a tropical location for a while.''Photography''– I’m an average photographer at best but for those who know what they’re doing with a camera, it is possible to try and sell the travel photos you take. You could set up your own ‘shop’ on sites such as''SmugMug.com''and you could try and sell your photos to a variety of travel magazines and to companies that have stock photography collections.''Travel Writing''– If you’re a decent writer, there are opportunities out there to write about your experiences and the destinations you visit and then have those articles published on websites or online magazines. It’s not an easy business, but if you can get a couple of articles published and start to establish yourself, your articles might soon become sought after.''Corporate World''– Maybe you want to live overseas but you want to have a proper career or are looking for a higher paycheck. Well, there’s nothing stopping you from applying for corporate or other long-term jobs around the world. China has a growing number of opportunities for foreigners, Singapore and New Zealand are very popular and several countries in the Middle East are home to thousands of expats living and working for companies there.''Cruise Ship Employment''– I always recommend this option as an excellent way to earn good money while getting a taste of the world, gaining some solid work experience and networking with hundreds of people (both fellow crew and passengers) from around the world. Not a bad list of benefits. If you’re interested, you might want to look at my popular eBook –''How to Work on Cruise Ships''.''Work on a Yacht''– Sometimes they pay, sometimes they don’t, but if you look at websites such as''DesperateSailors.com'', you might find it hard to turn down an offer to work on board a yacht or sailboat, especially one that will spend a few months in the Caribbean or Mediterranean or perhaps even head across the Pacific.''Travel/Tourism Industry''– This won’t ensure that you’re on the road all the time, but a job in the travel industry at home might be perfect for some. A steady paycheck, plenty of good networking possibilities and if you end up in the right position, you’ll just have to travel as part of your work. (''Work in Travel''is a great resource for anyone interested in working in this industry.)''Edit English Signs/Menus''– It might sound silly but there are travelers out there earning decent money by wandering around touristy areas all over the world and getting paid to correct the English spelling/grammar on signs and menus of businesses that try to attract foreigners. I met one guy in Thailand who would charge $10 for his editing services and he would have approximately 20 clients per week. Not a bad way to earn $800 bucks per month.''Busking''– Do you have some kind of talent? Maybe you don’t have talent but you’re more than willing to have people laugh at you, especially if they’ll throw their spare change in your hat. Many, many travelers are playing guitar, juggling, dancing and singing their way around the world. It may not be legal in some places though, so be sure to check the rules.''Volunteer Work''– In most cases, this won’t pay, but you’ll have an unforgettable experience while usually saving money on room and board, which is just like getting paid! You don’t have to spend a lot of money with large global operations in order to volunteer as there are local organizations in every country that would love to have you. One good website is''GrassrootsVolunteering.org''.''Work Exchange''– Just check out the listings on''HelpX.net''and you’ll be ready to pack your bags today. If you’re willing to work a few hours each day in exchange for room, board and sometimes, some extra cash, there is no shortage of opportunities. There’s also''WWOOF.org''which focuses on organic farm work.''Be Creative!''– One of the best examples of this involved a female traveler I met in Central America who had funded over 6 months of travel by using a very simple business model. She would hop from beach town to beach town, contact several local tour operators (who usually offered snorkeling and scuba diving trips) and then worked out a deal. In exchange for bringing them business, she would receive a good commission. Each day she would hang around the hostels and travelers cafes and recommend the tour operators she was working with. Let’s just say she was doing very well. So put on your thinking cap, brainstorm some ideas and don’t be afraid to get creative!''And that’s the list. I really do hope that this has helped you realize that you can make money and travel, that earning money on the road is not as impossible as you once thought. If it were impossible, there certainly wouldn’t be so many people, from countries all around the world, traveling and working as they explore this great planet of ours.''Of course, there are many more ways to earn money while traveling as well, so if you have anything you’d like to add or share, please leave your thoughts in the comments below. The more opportunities we list, the more we can help each other!''If you are interested in more details about how to start traveling, you may want to read my “''How to Live a Life of Travel''” eGuide. It’s specifically designed to prove that a life of travel is not a crazy fantasy but a realistic lifestyle option instead.''This post is the second part of my mom’s series about our''recent trip to South Africa''.''Thank you all for the nice comments about my last post. As I said, I am not a writer and as I write this second post, my respect goes out to all of you who write blogs…a tough thing to do. I would now like to share with you the last leg of our journey, the part of my trip that was my dream, the South African safari that I had been anticipating for years…''We landed at the airport in the small community of Hoedspruit in the eastern corner of the country, on a runway which is the second longest in South Africa thanks to the nearby Air Force Base.''[''Earl: This massive runway was chosen as a site for emergency NASA shuttle landings in the 1980s but they never had to use it. On another note, often times flights have to abort their landings here and try again due to warthogs hanging out on the runway. And get this…the airport has released three cheetahs onto the airfield in order to scare the other animals away.'']''Every now and then, while out there traveling, I end up in a conversation in which someone asks me “''What do you like best about your home country?''” The first couple of times it happened, I actually had to think real hard to come up with an answer, simply because I spend so much time focusing on international travel and all of these foreign destinations that I rarely paid much attention to what I enjoy about the USA.''However, the more I traveled, the more the answer to such a question eventually did become quite clear. It became quite clear because I realized that every time I returned to the USA, the exact same thing happened.''My flight lands. I get off the airplane and I walk through the airport. I stand in the immigration line and then, I just look around me. Before long, I feel goosebumps forming on my skin. I proceed through the immigration inspection, grab my backpack, pass through the customs check and walk into the airport terminal. And the goosebumps intensify.''Then, for the duration of my stay in my home country, whether I’m in New York City, Boston, Washington D.C., Los Angeles, Florida, or just about anywhere else, the feeling remains, the feeling that I am surrounded by something that doesn’t really exist anywhere else on the planet.''What I am surrounded by, and what has become my answer to the question “''What do I like best about the USA?''”, is…’''incredible diversity''‘.''Where else can you find such a diverse collection of people living together? Just on my walk this morning from my friend’s apartment to the small cafe in Brooklyn where I am writing this post, I passed by businesses that are owned by Yemenis, Thais, Chinese, Italians, Mexicans, Ethiopians, French and Indians. That was in a span of just three blocks.''And while New York City offers diversity to the extreme, and I realize that such diversity is not present in every single town in this country and that everyone is not living together in perfect harmony all of the time, it is impossible not to notice, and appreciate, the level of diversity that does exist in so many parts of the USA. After spending so much time overseas, I certainly notice the impressive diversity here instantly and I certainly feel lucky to have grown up among it and to now be able to experience it several times per year.''Life is just so much more interesting and fulfilling when you get to interact with so many different kinds of people every day!''Now I pass it over to you as I ask…''What do you like best about your own country?''Hello everyone. I’m Sue and I’m Derek/Earl’s mom and right now I’m on my way home from the most amazing vacation to South Africa. I asked Derek if I could write a post, and of course, he wouldn’t say no, however, keep in mind that I am not a writer and have never written a post before.''When Derek (aka Wandering Earl) was a child and I was a young mother, I would never have imagined that I would be in South Africa with him one day. He was the son that wouldn’t sleep overnight at his friends’ houses, he cried until I returned whenever I left him somewhere and when he went to overnight camp, we received letters begging us to pick him up and get him out of there or else he would never speak to us again.''[''Earl: You’ve been threatening to tell my readers about this for a year now…I guess it’s better to just get it over with!'']''Somehow, later on down the road, during his college years, he decided to spend a semester studying in Australia and when he came back to the United States he was a completely different person. He had left in sneakers, with a crew cut and a life that revolved around sports and he came back in sandals, with a huge bushy afro and with his eyebrow pierced. He had discovered a world out there and that was the beginning.''We all have a bucket list and as I approached a ‘big’ birthday, Derek reminded me that South Africa was always at the top of my list and there was no time like the present. So, thanks to''DSA Vacations''who planned this excellent itinerary, I got a chance to experience this wonderful country, to meet its friendly people and to have a trip never to be forgotten. And I got to spend this trip with my son…''I left my home one morning at 10:30am and after 3 flights (the longest being 15 1/2 hours) and 30 hours of travel, I was at the''Winchester Mansions Hotel''in Cape Town, South Africa. This was my first taste of a country that friends and family wondered why I wanted to visit in the first place. They just all told me to “be safe” and that it was too far away for them.''Cape Town – Wow!''The Winchester had an elegant charm to it. The room was perfect and the bed must have been really comfortable because I was asleep in 5 minutes!!!  The hotel reminded me of a hotel in Florida, with the bar overlooking the street and the restaurant in a beautiful courtyard. In the morning we had breakfast with an impressive spread of cheeses, fruits eggs to order and the staff was warm and hospitable. The location was perfect with the ocean in front and with a bus stop across the street where it was easy to catch either a local bus or a double-decker tour bus straight to the popular waterfront area.''[''Earl: It was definitely a great hotel with a classic feel to it and being in front of the water, and so close to the city center, was a huge bonus.'']''Our first day we spent visiting Table Mountain. We chose to take the cable ride up, although if Derek was without me, he probably would have walked.''[''Earl: I would have tried, not sure if I would have made it though.'']''As I alternate this morning between packing my backpack and standing on the balcony of my room in the South African wilderness, where I have a clear view of some zebras and wildebeests wandering around the river bed, I am left speechless.''I am speechless, not because of the animals, but because of the fact that I have now traveled to South Africa, not once, but twice in my life at this point. I am also speechless at the fact that before South Africa, I was in''India''for three months, and that prior to India, I had spent time in''Romania'',''Finland'', Estonia,''Moldova'',''Montenegro'', Albania, Bulgaria, Turkey and many other destinations just within this past year.''Actually, I am speechless whenever I think back to any of the destinations I’ve visited, to any of my travels over the past 13 years. As a result, I am constantly wondering: “How on earth did I arrive in Southeast Asia back in 1999 with only $1500 to my name and somehow manage to create this lifestyle that allows me to continue traveling?”''It seems a little ‘too good to be true’, yes, even to myself at times. In fact, if I were to read about another person who claims to have done the exact same thing, I would be quite suspicious, and highly doubtful that such a life would be possible for me as well. And given this truth, I can completely understand if you feel the same way whenever you read about my story or listen to my claims of ‘anything is possible’ or that ‘there is very little stopping you from a life of travel too’.''After all, maybe I’m lying about how I began. Maybe I was really born into extreme wealth. Perhaps I don’t actually travel as much as I say I do. I could be making this all up.''While I can tell you that absolutely none of the above is true at all, why should you believe me? Why should you trust my words whenever I state, as I do often, that “if I can make this lifestyle happen, anyone can make this lifestyle happen”?''Here’s why…''The reason I ask you to trust me and to believe so deeply in yourself and in your own ability to achieve your travel goals no matter what your current situation, actually has very little to do with my own story. The real reason I am so confident that anyone can travel is because of YOU.''It is the emails you send me, the comments you leave, the tales you tell and the sheer excitement in your ‘voice’ that gives me such confidence. So many of you have written to tell me that you have suddenly found the confidence to book a flight to some faraway destination or that you have landed a job teaching English overseas or on board a cruise ship. Some of you have sold everything at home in order to finally take that round-the-world trip you’ve been dreaming of for years, while others finally convinced themselves to start traveling on their own since none of their friends were interested in joining them. And the number of people who are taking off to travel soon after discovering websites such as Helpx.net or Workaway.com or finding out about working holiday visas or simply learning that travel doesn’t have to be nearly as expensive as it seems, continues to grow at a very rapid pace according to my inbox.''And I can’t even explain how thrilled I am whenever I hear that yet another one of you has built up the cajones to take the leap and start traveling in some shape or form, to enter the unknown with such confidence that no obstacle could possibly stand in your way for long. I’ve read your stories, I’ve seen your photos and have been impressed with all of your journeys, journeys that convince me over and over again that everything I claim on this site is indeed full of truth.''Whether your adventure has lasted for one or three months, six months or one year, or in some cases, indefinitely just like my own, the point is that many of you have achieved your travel goals despite having once thought that it would be impossible to do so.''Have there been challenges along the way? Sure there have and some of you have written to tell me about them. However, you’ve all kept moving forward and in the end, not one of you has written to tell me that things went terribly wrong or that you regret having made the decision to travel. Instead, the number of emails I receive from those who are ecstatic about their adventures and who wish they had started traveling earlier now that they understand how possible it all is, grows by the day!''Again, don’t take my word for it or trust in my story alone. Find your inspiration in the fact that one after one, many of your fellow readers of this blog have turned the impossible into pure reality themselves. And if they can make it happen, each with their own unique background, then no excuse is strong enough to convince me that the same isn’t possible for you as well.''Let’s try this. It’s an idea that just came to me…''Questions:''If you have any questions at all about travel or about something that seems to be holding you back from taking that first step, please let us know in the comments below. Feel free to ask about anything you want and remember, we all had to ask questions before we started, so every question is a good one!''Answers:''If you have already gone out there into the world and achieved your own travel goals, I now invite you to tell your own story or to offer your own insight below, either as a comment or a response to any questions that are asked. Through your own experiences and mine, we can help ensure that every concern is addressed, every doubt squashed, every fear conquered and ultimately, that everyone’s travel dreams are fulfilled.''So, how can we help you achieve your travel goals? What is needed to convince you that you can  explore this world of ours?''Walking from the airplane towards the immigration area, I noticed that I was walking a little faster than normal. And when I turned the corner, walked down the small staircase and straight into the immigration line itself, I could not help but smile widely.''I received my entry stamp, picked up my backpack (which for the first time in all my travels was one of the first few pieces of luggage to come out onto the luggage carousel) and proceeded through the customs inspection. Seconds later, the sliding glass door opened, I walked right through and there I stood in the Arrivals Hall of the O.R. Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg, with an array of brilliant flashbacks popping into my head.''It felt mighty good to be back in South Africa.''Only 14 months prior had I been standing in that exact same spot when my flight from New York City had arrived and the''South Africa Travel Blogger Tour''that I had been invited on, had begun. This time, I had flown in from Mumbai and while I wouldn’t be traveling with a group of other bloggers on this particular trip, I would not be traveling alone either.''This current South Africa trip of mine is all about my mom. In order to celebrate her birthday, we decided to meet in the one country that has been at the top of her list of places to visit for a long time now…sweet South Africa!''After agreeing on the dates a few months ago, I looked into the logistics, I was put in touch with the wonderfully helpful people over at''DSA Vacations''and before we knew it, we had our trip all planned out.''And now, here we are.''I’m excited, she’s excited and, even though I’ll be traveling a little differently than I normally do over the following ten days, I hope you’ll be excited to follow along with us as well.''And what exactly do I mean by ‘traveling a little differently than I normally do?’ Well, as my goal was to make this trip as special as possible for my mom, we’ll be staying at some accommodation along the way that I probably wouldn’t stay at if I were backpacking on my own. (Let’s just say that there won’t be any''mice running around''these rooms!)''But hey, this trip is a birthday celebration and I wanted to do it properly. Besides, the next ten days and beyond will be full of activities and excursions that will give you an excellent idea of what a visit to this diverse country is all about. As for our itinerary, we’ll spend three days in Cape Town before heading over to the Garden Route and staying a few nights in Plettenberg Bay. From there we’ll fly up to Johannesburg for a quick stop and then continue on to Kruger National Park for a 3-day safari.''And the best part (for me at least) is that this trip includes visits to parts of this country that I did not have a chance to experience the last time I was here back in 2010.''So, are you ready to explore a little bit of South Africa with my mom and I? I’m highly confident that you won’t be disappointed! After all, we’ve only been here a couple of days so far and there’s already been African penguin sightings, a drive along the mesmerizing Cape Peninsula, wine-tasting in beautiful Stellenbosch and of course, a trip up to the top of impressive Table Mountain.''It’s off to a spectacular start and there shall be plenty more to come…''Any questions about South Africa? Is this country already on your list of places you want to visit?''The time has come for me to announce the next Wandering Earl Tour…''“I Love Istanbul” Tour''Dates: May 1st – 6th, 2013''This unique tour of Istanbul is being organized by myself and my good friend/fellow travel blogger Anil from''FoxNomad.com''after the idea to organize such a tour came to us one day while discussing how much we both, well, love Istanbul. And the more we talked about, the more we realized that, as a result of our own travel experiences and the contacts/ connections we’ve made in this city, we could put together an amazing itinerary, one that offers an experience unlike any other. So, we got to work and put together this tour, and now we’re ready to take bookings!''Here’s a description of what this tour is all about….''“The tour will cover major sights such as the Blue Mosque and Hagia Sofia, but will also focus on lesser known locations and neighborhoods throughout this city. The “I Love Istanbul Tour” offers an experience that simply could not be had on your own. You’ll have visits to impressive Ottoman-era palaces, unique and educational walking tours, a hamam experience (Turkish bath!) and even behind-the-scenes access to Turkey’s most famous baklava factory (complete with a baklava ‘tasting’ session) all as part of the adventure as well.''That’s not to mention the incredible Turkish cuisine that you’ll enjoy along the way, with nightlong traditional mehane dinners, lunches at some of the best local joints, incredible Ottoman cuisine and the most delicious street food the city has to offer. As for entertainment, how about some Turkish folk music at a popular late night venue, a night out along famous Istiklal Street and a relaxing evening or two chatting with locals, sipping tea and puffing away at a shisha cafe. It’s all included, plus plenty more, part of this unforgettable six-day experience to one of the greatest cities in the world!”''What’s Included:''Accommodation – 5 nights (private room) at a wonderful historic hotel in a prime area''Meals – breakfast and dinner every day, as well as some lunches''Transportation – airport pickup, unlimited tram/bus/ferry pass, all taxi rides''All mentioned activities and all associated entrance fees''Plenty of excellent surprises along the way!''What’s Not Included:''Flights or other transportation to/from Istanbul''Meals not mentioned''Travel/health insurance (will be required)''Passport/visa fees''Tour Dates:''May 1st – 6th, 2013''Tour Cost:''$1995 USD per person''If you’re interested, just''send me an email''and I’ll forward you a more comprehensive description of the tour. Once you have a read of that, if you then want to confirm your spot, just follow the deposit instructions and you’ll be all set to go.''Keep in mind that space is very limited. We’ve already had a few people sign up from those who asked to be placed on our early list and we’ll only be taking a maximum of 8 participants. This way, we can keep the tour truly personal and ensure that this is the most rewarding adventure imaginable!''If you have any questions at all about the tour or about Istanbul, just let me know…''One of the most important things about travel, something that every person should understand before they set off on their adventures, is that no two people will ever have the same experiences. What one person will love, another won’t enjoy at all. What one person feels is a ‘must-see’ place, another person will label ‘not worth visiting’.''There are simply too many personal factors involved with travel in order for a concrete conclusion to be reached about any particular destination. I doubt there is anywhere on this planet that every single traveler agrees upon in terms of liking or disliking it. It just doesn’t happen, not when we all have our own individual likes and dislikes, our own interests, our own needs and comfort levels, our own beliefs and interpretations, and on and on.''Such differences in opinion obviously extends to activities, cuisine and of course, accommodation as well. A hotel that I feel comfortable at, you might hate. And this is exactly why I can’t tell you if the hotel I am staying at right now is the worst or the best hotel in Mumbai, India. The only thing I know is that this hotel could be either, and that it all depends on the traveler.''The Prison Version''The entire building of the Sheel Hotel appears to be over one hundred years old and it is in the exact condition that you would expect of such an old building that has been neglected for most of its existence. The entrance is narrow and takes you through a long, dark hallway, the staircase leading from the crowded, gloomy lobby to the rooms above is cracked and feels quite unsturdy, the air vents are covered in dust, piles of dishes are being cleaned in the hall and there are people who might or might not be staff hanging around, on occasion sleeping on the floor. The common areas on each level are half-inside and half-outside as they have only three walls, with the fourth side open to the elements, giving you a perfect view of another crumbling building next door.''Most of the rooms are very small, with two narrow single beds, very thin ‘mattresses’, somewhat clean but stained sheets (as you find all over India), smudged walls, a loud, unsteady ceiling fan and no window at all. The air inside the room is a bit musty and there are a few small pieces of trash under the bed, left over from the previous occupants.''You’ll find the common bathrooms at the end of the hall where you have one Indian-style squat toilet to share with every other guest on your floor and two cell-like shower rooms, with only cold water coming from the pipe sticking out of the wall.''Oh, there are also some resident mice, two or three it seems. And while they’re tiny, they occasionally scurry into your room through an opening under the door, scoot around for a while, and sometimes climb up onto the other bed, before darting back out again. The staff will give you a mouse trap to place in your room (see the photo at the top of the post!), with a piece of chapati dangling from the hook, but it’s quite pointless considering that once the mice are captured, they simply escape a few seconds later through a hole in the worn-out metal trap.''To top it off, the hotel is located at the edge of a busy market area, with a constant rush of people coming and going in the lanes outside, motorbikes and cars speeding through the crowds, street vendors constantly calling out to you to buy their goods and a few extremely daring, car/truck/bus-avoiding crossings to be made if you want to reach the other side of the main road.''But what do you expect when you book a room at such a prison-like establishment?''The Palace Version''As hard as it may be to imagine right now, this exact same place, the Sheel Hotel, could also very well be the best hotel to stay at while in Mumbai.''The location is absolutely ideal, just across the street from the main CST Train Station and right in the heart of the Fort district. It’s only a twenty minute walk to the popular Colaba district and there is no shortage of shops, good local restaurants, cafes and great food stalls in the immediate area. And as soon as you enter the hotel itself, the noise from all the activity outside suddenly disappears.''The manager of the hotel, Jitin, is one of the friendliest and most helpful managers of any budget hotel that I’ve come across in this country. He greets you with a smile, offers his assistance and is the main reason why the shabby lobby feels so comfortable.''As you climb the stairs to your room, you’ll pass several staff members, most of whom will greet you with a ‘Namaste’ and a smile as well. The common area on your floor, while basic, offers a big table and several plastic chairs where you can sit in the natural light coming in from the lack of a fourth wall.''Your room is small, but with enough space to move around. The beds are adequate and there’s a sheet and blanket on each. The room is clean (apart from under the bed), there’s a little table, plenty of hooks and a full length mirror. The ceiling is quite high and there’s a fan to keep you cool. Amazingly for a budget hotel, there’s also an air-conditioner that you can use at no extra charge at all. And you even have a television, complete with cable channels, as well.''Sure, there are indeed some mice appearing every now and then, but watching them buzz around turns into entertainment after a while.''Those common bathrooms, including the sinks, the toilet room and the two shower rooms, are very tidy, as they are  fully cleaned by the staff at what appears to be every hour on the hour. Speaking of staff, while many don’t speak English, they are all ready to assist at any time and a couple of them go beyond what you would ever expect for such a budget place.''The hotel has a reasonably-priced laundry service, you can use their printer at cheap rates and they also have free Wi-Fi in the lobby.''And even though the staff requests that you leave your key at reception whenever you go out, which you would want to do anyway considering that the attached key-chain is about the size of a blue whale, you feel perfectly safe in doing so. Despite being a budget hotel, it feels remarkably secure, especially knowing that Jitin, who is on a mission to attract more foreign customers, is looking after things.''Of course, the best part about this hotel is that a room costs a mere 750 Rupees / $15 USD per night, making it one of the cheapest hotels in Mumbai, a city with a reputation for the highest accommodation rates in all of India. It’s nearly impossible to find a decent room for that price over here as most of the budget hotels offer far poorer quality for two or three times the price.''The Sheel Hotel beats them all. It’s like a palace in comparison.''And that’s how travel works! It’s always quite intriguing to me to hear different travelers express their views about the very same places, and as a result, I can easily understand how some of you might view the Sheel Hotel as a complete dump and some might think it’s a great value after reading the above.''I personally find it to be an excellent deal as I’d rather pay $15 USD per night at a friendly, convenient, clean, yet very basic, hotel than to pay $40 or more per night (which is what I found during my research and previous visits to Mumbai) for a room that is only slightly better.''But again, that’s just my opinion!''What do you think? Is this hotel a prison or a palace (maybe not a palace but perhaps just a ‘great deal’)?''For the past thirty minutes, I have typed nothing. Not a word. And the staff here at the Cafe Coffee Day, a sort of Starbucks-like Indian coffee chain, have started whispering to each other every time they glance in my direction. My guess is that they are confused. Why would I be sitting at a table for so long, with my laptop open and turned on, with my hands on the keyboard in typing position but, without my fingers moving at all.''In all honesty, up until a moment ago, I was as equally confused as they have been.''The problem is that it’s been a struggle for me to write as of late. I sit down and my mind is blank, over and over again. As a result, I was even forced to skip my Monday post this week, something I try very hard to avoid doing.''As I mention often, it’s not easy working/writing while traveling and when that traveling takes place in a country as tiring as India, it is even more of a challenge. To constantly switch between a traveling state of mind and a work-focused state of mind is often a near impossible task (it takes time to prepare the brain for work and I can’t just pop back to my hotel for a couple of hours and get cracking) and it doesn’t take long to fall behind, very behind, when I’m unable to get in the right work mode. Once that happens, the pressure is on and my brain tends to stall.''But at the same time, without the traveling, there would be no work at all and so I must always continue to try and accomplish both at the same time.''And while''my time in Goa''over the past couple of weeks was delightfully relaxing, the final week was a little less so, which has led to my current writing struggles. I’m sure that my intense''bout of fish poisoning''(which still hasn’t completely gone away) had something to do with it and when the overnight bus journey from Goa to Mumbai a few nights ago ended up involving one badly broken bus, being stranded on the side of the road, taking two long rickshaw rides to towns I’d never heard of, being stuck at a bus station that had no buses going anywhere and eventually having to take an expensive taxi ride for the remaining 60 kilometers of the trip, it makes sense that I’m not really in the mood to blog right now.''Also, even though I do keep a list of potential post ideas in a folder on my desktop, ideas that I can always turn to whenever the inspiration is lacking, I’ve been unable to turn any of those ideas into actual posts either. Day after day I stare at my screen without making any progress.''However, when I woke up this morning, I realized that it’s Thursday and that I had no more time to waste. I needed to write a post today as I wasn’t about to skip two posts this week.''That’s why, as I walked out of my hotel in the Fort district of Mumbai at around 10:00am and began the one and a half kilometer walk to the quieter Colaba neighborhood, I found myself begging my brain to concentrate, to spend that walk doing nothing else but thinking of an idea for today’s post, or at least the beginning of an idea. I wanted to have a topic ready by the time I settled into my chair at Cafe Coffee Day so that I could get to work and finally accomplish something.''Unfortunately, whether it was the Mumbai traffic and all the noise, the death-defying street crossings I had to make en route or the mild headache that I woke up with today, I couldn’t concentrate at all. By the time I reached this cafe, and had ordered my cappuccino and taken a seat at the last remaining table, I was as lost for a post idea as I have been all week.''An Idea…Finally!''Incredibly though, just as the frustration really started setting in after thirty minutes of sitting here, right as  I was shaking my head in disbelief and angrily asking myself ‘How can you have nothing to say?’, everything changed. It suddenly occurred to me that this one question was actually the answer to my problem.''Yes, I have nothing to say. I have absolutely nothing to say at all today.''That was all it took. After a quick smile at the thought of letting all of you know that I have nothing to say today, I shrugged my shoulders, licked my lips (which helped me discover a piece of toast that had apparently been stuck to my upper lip since breakfast and which was probably the real reason the staff at this cafe were talking about me) and started moving my fingers.''The result is this post, all about nothing. And even though I certainly do apologize for wasting a few moments of your day with this post about nothing, I must admit that it feels extremely satisfying and quite therapeutic to be writing it. I even contemplated writing a 500 word post where I would simply repeat the word “Nothing” 500 times.''Just the realization that it is perfectly alright to have nothing to say every now and then, and to also write about having nothing to say, has made me feel so much lighter and happier. I know that I could have very easily just skipped this post altogether and spared you from such nonsense, but I really couldn’t help it. I felt like writing it all down just because it feels so good. Sorry!''But here comes the best part. It seems a little rude of me to just end this post right now and to leave you with only the above written nothingness. The least I could do is to show you some video nothingness as well.''So here’s a short clip that was taken while I was in Goa a few days ago, at a time when I was unsuccessfully trying to get some work done despite dealing with, in addition to the fish poisoning, an incredible two-day bout of nonstop hiccups that suddenly appeared.''After searching for some hiccup remedies online, this video is the result of what I found…''(If you’re reading this post as an email, you can''click here''to watch the video.)''Enjoy your weekend everyone and thank you for putting up with me today!''By the way, do you have any hiccup remedies to share?''It is only natural that the day after I published my post on how''healthy I’ve been feeling''as of late while here on the beaches of Goa, I would be stricken with an illness. And what an illness I’ve ended up with.''My face is swollen and red, there’s a rash on my arms, my legs and even in my ears. And if I were to list all of my body parts that have been affected and that have been itchier than the itchiest chickenpox, it would be one long list, not to mention quite inappropriate for a travel blog. Yes, that’s right.''The culprit appears to be seafood poisoning as all of my symptoms began only thirty minutes after eating a questionable fish curry a couple of nights ago. Actually, the fish curry looked fine but it was the restaurant that looked questionable.''Despite a strong dose of anti-histamine that I received from a pharmacist and despite a visit to the local government hospital (which was quite a nice hospital I must say and which charges only 300 Rupees / $6 USD for a visit) where the knowledgeable doctor confirmed the medicine I had was the best option, the swelling, rashes and itchiness have remained, although there has finally been a slight sign of improvement this evening.''But this morning, it was an entirely different story.''I woke up, washed off the zinc oxide soothing ointment that I plaster on my face every night in order for me to enjoy a semi-itchy-free sleep and then I went out to the beach. Thirty minutes later I felt tired and so I returned to my hut and laid down on my bed.''And it all went downhill from there. I only remember a little from the following couple of hours but according to my friend, who has had the most unfortunate job of taking care of me, I was in a most delirious state. I passed in and out of sleep, often times waking up in an instant, muttering some nonsense and then closing my eyes immediately after. My words were jumbled, I couldn’t focus on any one location for more than a second and I wasn’t comprehending much of what she was saying to me. Using my own strength to sit up was impossible and I would alternate between very quick and extremely slow breathing.''After about an hour of this, my friend finally managed to get me to stand up and while she wanted to take me straight to the hospital again, I used my ridiculous stubbornness to convince her that I should eat some lunch and see how I felt after that.''And then, on the way to the restaurant in front of my beach hut, I nearly walked into a tree. I didn’t even see it and again, according to my friend, I could barely walk in a straight line at all.''Anyway, I sat down, ordered a tomato soup and within minutes of taking my first spoonful, I thankfully started to feel a little better. But even though I managed to regain some of my awareness, I found it difficult to do much more than just stare into space and after my meal was finished, I just went back to my bed again for another sleep.''So now, here I am tonight. I just took my latest dose of medicine after waking up again after taking a long hot shower, and now my body is not nearly as itchy as it was earlier. I’m still covered in a good amount of rash and tiny white bumps, though, mostly on my fingers and legs, but this is the best I’ve felt since I ate that fish.''Of course, I am wondering if my brain has been severely affected by this poisoning considering that I am sitting here telling all of you about the swollen, itchy parts of my body, something that I am relatively certain you don’t really want to know about.''All I can hope for at this point is that I wake up tomorrow morning feeling a lot better and that you’ll forget I ever wrote this post. So, on that note, it’s about time for another layer of ointment and then I’m off to sleep.''But before I go, just in case anyone is curious, there seems to be two basic types of seafood poisoning – Ciguatera and Scombroid. Ciguetera seems to be more severe, at least the symptoms are, and is caused by eating fish that have ingested certain toxins that are produced by dinoflagellates (that word sure gives me a flashback to high school science classes!) that are found in tropical and sub-tropical bodies of water. Scombroid, on the other hand, which is what I’m dealing with, occurs when you eat fish that was not properly refrigerated or preserved after it was caught. The toxic agent in this case is histadine, which is found naturally in fish, however, if the fish reaches a certain temperature (which would occur if it was not properly preserved) the histadine transforms into histamine which is what causes the allergic reaction. And once the histamine forms, it remains, even if the fish is cooked properly.''Good stuff.''Any seafood or any kind of food poisoning stories to share?''It’s all thanks to the beach. I’ve been planted here on Palolem Beach in Goa for 17 days already and this morning I realized that it’s been a long time since I’ve felt this physically and mentally healthy.''My daily routine since arriving in this paradise has been quite simple and it has barely changed at all during my stay. I generally wake up at around 9:00am, I head to the beach for a couple of hours for some sun and a swim, eat a late breakfast/early lunch consisting of muesli and fruit or an omelet, spend a few hours working on my laptop in order to avoid being out in the midday heat, head back to the beach around 3:30pm for some more sun and swimming, where I stay until just before sunset, which I watch from my beach hut at around 6:00pm. I then work another hour or so before showering and wandering into ‘town’, where I choose from one of the several local restaurants along the one main street for my dinner. After this meal, I might head over to a cafe for a fruit smoothie and then I’ll typically walk back along the beach to my hut.''I’ll finish the day by working another hour or two and then typically, I’ll go to sleep just before midnight. There are some daily variations to this routine of course but that’s the general outline.''Like I said, it’s a simple routine, but for me, simplicity is a most welcome change from my normal stream of constant traveling and travel planning, while trying to squeeze my work in as well. Here, I know where I’ll sleep each night and I don’t need to think about how I’m going to get to my next destination. I am free to simply enjoy my surroundings for a while, enjoy them to the fullest, without any worries whatsoever.''Palolem Beach is quiet, peaceful and apart from Christmas and New Year’s, remarkably empty for such a beautiful beach in India’s most touristy state, making it''my ideal beach location''. And because it is located in the far south of Goa, far removed from any major towns, it means that I have been far removed from the stress of city (or even town) life, or of the outside world as a whole for that matter. There is no traffic, there is no noise, there is no hustle and bustle to be found anywhere here in Palolem.''Instead, there are laid-back people who are never in a rush to go anywhere, laid-back cows, dogs and pigs who seem to be quite content with their lot in life, and a ‘slow down’ attitude that emanates from every interaction, every palm tree and every rolling ocean wave that can be heard from almost anywhere in the village.''In fact, on the one day that I ventured into the closest ‘town’, the small community of Chaudi located some 5 kilometers away from Palolem, it felt as if I had suddenly arrived into the chaos and intensity of Mumbai, even though this town mostly consists of one scarcely inhabited main street stretching for about one kilometer and its population is only 15,000 people or so.''After picking up a few supplies from the supermarket and pharmacy in Chaudi, I was quite happy to hop in a rickshaw and get back to tiny Palolem as quickly as I could.''And apart from physically being in the middle of nowhere (which I’ve mentioned my fondness for during my''time in Romania'') I also seem to have lost touch with the happenings of the world in general since I’ve been on this beach. I haven’t checked any news sources or done any random internet surfing in a long time and I’m quite content to keep it that way for the time being. With my head as clear as it is right now, I don’t want to cloud it with an ambush of information that I just don’t need to know.''For the next 7 days, which is all I have left to spend here on the beach, I prefer to maintain my routine,  to eat my fruit, to walk and swim, to enjoy the sunsets, the star-filled sky and the warm ocean winds, to interact with locals, to listen to the waves…and most importantly, to continue improving my physical and mental states as best I can.''And this is why I can never get enough of the beach.''What kind of destinations help you clear your head and make you feel as healthy as possible? Where would you want to go in order to get away from it all for a while?''Sitting here on the small balcony of my''beach hut in Palolem, Goa'', in the South of India, with the Arabian Sea only 30 meters in front of me and a palm tree full of coconuts providing me with some much needed shade, I can only smile. Exactly one year ago, I was sitting in an apartment in Bucharest, Romania, afraid to venture outside into the -20C temperatures and the constant snow and ice that was part of the coldest winter I have ever experienced.''From snow to beach, from big city to small village, from twenty layers of clothes (here’s my video of''how to properly dress for such a cold winter'') to being shirtless for days on end, from keeping warm with cup after cup of hot tea to staying cool with mug after mug of watermelon juice…what a change it’s been!''But of course, over this past year, this set of 365 days that will forever be known as 2012, not only did I enjoy such vastly different starting and ending points, I was also fortunate enough to enjoy another long list of unforgettable adventures in between.''It was quite a journey, a journey that went a little something like this…''Despite the unbearable winter last year, I somehow became addicted to Bucharest and within a few weeks of arrival, I decided that it would be my base for awhile. And so, that’s where I stayed, moving into an apartment with a friend in a quiet, park-filled neighborhood just a 20 minute tram-ride from the city center.''I then used the cold as a good excuse to spend many hours each day inside working and the result was the creation of my latest eBook –''How to Live a Life of Travel''– which seems to have been met with great success so far in helping others get on the path towards the achievement of their own travel goals.''However, once that eBook was finished and launched, it was time for me to do some traveling as having a base wasn’t going to keep me stuck in one place for too long.''Where I Traveled In 2012''Leaving Romania, my first destination was Veliko Tarnovo, Bulgaria (perhaps the''best value destination''on the planet?) before continuing on to Istanbul for a week. Then I went back to the USA for a quick visit home, a trip that was followed by another stint in Istanbul before returning to Bucharest.''Next, I went to visit a friend in''Bratislava, Slovakia''and a few weeks after that trip ended, I was off to the Balkans where I visited Belgrade, Serbia, before enjoying my very first ‘vacation’ from the blog, a two-week, work-free period that I spent in the small''beach town of Ulcinj''and the beautiful ancient''town of Kotor'', both in Montenegro.''When my vacation came to an end, I continued traveling through Albania and Macedonia before making a quick stop in Sofia, Bulgaria on my way back to Romania.''A short while late and I was off to Moldova where I spent time in the capital city of Chisinau, as well as an interesting day in the''breakaway region of Transnistria''.''There was another trip back to the USA in August and some time after that, I flew from Bucharest to Riga to start a three-week trip through Latvia, Estonia and Finland, the highlight of which was that amazing night I spent at the remote''Bengtskar Lighthouse''.''Then, after my final (and very short) trip to the USA to visit family, I was on a 14-hour direct flight from New York City to Delhi, India, the country I have now been in for over two months this time around and where I’ll be for a couple of more weeks.''It certainly wasn’t a bad year of traveling at all, with a healthy mix of slow and fast travel, a combination of 23 flights, 22 bus journeys, 11 train trips, 1 ferry ride, 16 countries and sleeping in 54 different beds, and a great bonus of having a completely different, and much deeper, experience in Bucharest than in other destinations where I spent a much shorter period of time.''Mentions – Both Positive & Negative''While I don’t pay too much attention to blog rankings or statistics or any of that stuff, I must admit that I was quite honored when WanderingEarl.com was listed as one of''Time Magazine’s Top 25 Blogs of 2012'', and then, just a few weeks ago, I was voted (by readers) as one of the''Top 13 Travel Blogs to follow in 2013''over at Elliott.org.''On the other hand, one of my posts was also mentioned on the front page of the popular website,''Metafilter.com'', where dozens of people who are in no way whatsoever familiar with my site or with me, proceeded to strongly criticize me (tear me apart would be more like it) and this blog, not to mention spread lies based on untrue conclusions. But, what to do…so it goes!''Overall, I am extremely happy with how the blog is going, with the growing audience and especially with the wonderful comments that are left on all the posts. I always mention that I want this site to be a community instead of just a one-way street involving me yakking on about my travels and every time I receive a notification that a new comment has been left on the site or every time I receive an email from one of you, I really do feel that this goal has been achieved. So thank you!''Interesting Discussions from 2012''Speaking of which, the following posts this year led to some interesting/useful discussions in the comment sections so be sure to check them out if you haven’t already…''Do You Need A University Degree To Travel Long Term?''Do Long-Term Travelers Prepare For Retirement?''Please Don’t Be Afraid to Travel on Your Own''Am I Destined to Wander the World All Alone?''How I Can Still Afford My Life of Travel''What’s In The Closet…A Look At Everything I Own''In Other News…''I decided to bring back my afro this year and it’s now been a good six months of walking around with a huge mop on my noggin.''My camera, the''Panasonic Lumix ZS20'', which I bought over the summer, is still what I would consider the perfect travel camera and for the first time in years, I’m enjoying taking photos everywhere I go (especially when I attach my''XShot Camera Extender'')!''Recently, I was not able to''visit the Taj Mahal''because of my first disturbing illness in a long, long time and my resulting need to be very close to a toilet, but luckily, I managed to actually make it inside the Taj a few weeks later.''My favorite food items that I discovered this year include the Romanian fasole prajita (sort of like baked beans) and ardei umpluti (stuffed peppers) and the Romanian dessert known as papanasi (warm cheese donuts covered with cream and jam). Notable mentions are also given to every dish I ate in Finland that included fresh yellow chanterelle mushrooms, Moldovan clatite cu pui si ciuperci (crepes stuffed with chicken and mushrooms), Istanbul’s kumpir (baked potatoes overflowing with vegetables and cheese), shopska salad (just a mighty yummy salad!) found in Bulgaria and Macedonia and the most delicious navratan korma (yogurt based curry with vegetables and fruits) from the Tadka restaurant in Delhi.''In terms of reading material, I can highly recommend two books I read in 2012,''Incognito''by David Eagelman and''The Pirates of Somalia''by Jay Bahadur, the former offering some great insight into the workings of your subconscious brain and the latter having pretty much solidified my desire to travel to Somalia at some point in early 2013.''I still pluck my eyebrows.''Several times this year I became a little too overwhelmed with trying to balance work and travel as 2012 was the busiest year for me since I started blogging and working online. What most people don’t realize is that I easily can work 40+ hours most weeks, especially as this site and my projects continue to grow. My lifestyle is no permanent vacation by any means and when you don’t have a permanent home and you live out of a backpack, it’s not easy to always be in the proper mindset necessary to work to your highest capabilities.''The toughest moment of 2012… It was probably one of the periods I just mentioned when I just couldn’t figure out how to handle all the work and travel at the same time and I felt completely burnt out as a result. Over the summer was when I had my worst of these spells and it did make me wonder if all the time I spend in front of my laptop is worth it.''The most rewarding moment was when I walked out of the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi, India on October 25th, officially marking my return to my favorite country after a long 2.5 year absence. I was also at my happiest when I took a random trip into the middle of nowhere Romania during autumn, a trip that made me feel as relaxed and at peace as I have ever felt.''While living in Bucharest, I met a lot of other travelers and travel bloggers who happened to be passing through the area and with whom I was able to meet for a quick coffee, a meal, some shisha and in some cases, a few days of exploring the city. And I met a lot of wonderful Romanians as well, both readers of the blog and non-readers whom I met through other friends. So many great people in that country!''After a good amount of reflection, I have realized the need for me to have a more proper base/home of my own which is why I asked all of you to “''Please Help Me Find a Home''” in a recent post. And as I continue the search for my perfect location, I can only thank you for all of the recommendations you made of places for me to consider. I am genuinely excited to check out many of your suggestions!''Wandering Earl Tours''Apart from finishing the eBook I mentioned above, another major goal for this past year was to follow through with the idea of setting up''Wandering Earl Tours''. And I am incredibly excited to not only have started this project, but to have already run a most successful first tour right here in India, and to have several more tours already planned for next year (with the Mexico tour already sold out).''At the moment, it looks like the next tours I’ll be offering, all of which I’ll announce formally over the next couple of weeks, include…''Istanbul – May 1st – 6th, 2013''Romania/Moldova – June 16th – June 30th''India – October 25th – November 13th''If you happen to be interested in any of the above, feel free to send me an email now and I’ll place you on the early list!''So that was a brief outline of my year, a look back at 2012. There was also some all night partying on Romania’s Black Sea coast, a rise of Istanbul as one of my favorite destinations on the planet and watching dogs eat a human leg in Varanasi scattered in, and I did go to the cinema quite often, ate a ton of fresh fruit and managed to update my small wardrobe as well.''You can imagine, therefore, that as midnight arrived here on the beaches of Goa, India on the 31st of December, and as I spent my time dodging poorly manufactured fireworks that shot in every direction except for the one they were supposed to, I took a few deep breaths, said goodbye to another remarkable year of this life adventure and quickly welcomed the journey that shall unfold ahead of me.''That’s it. I shall now switch off my mobile WiFi device that I have from''Telecomsquare.com'', the tiny device I’ve mentioned before that has incredibly enabled me to be online and complete my work wherever I’ve been in India, including some very remote locations, and then I shall head off to enjoy an evening walk along the beach, just as one does in Goa.''Hope you had a great New Year’s celebration and I wish every single one of you a spectacular 2013! Thank you for following along with the blog as always!''How was your 2012? Did you make the most out of it?''It’s high season here in the laid-back, popular tourist destination that is Goa, India. And despite the fact that most locals I’ve met have told me that this is the slowest high season they’ve seen in a while, there is still no shortage of tourists, both foreign and Indian, roaming around the beaches.''I have chosen to spend my time in South Goa, on a two kilometer stretch of sand known as Palolem Beach, with its thousands upon thousands of leaning palm trees (just as there is supposed to be on a tropical beach) and about fifty or so restaurants and beach hut operations scattered in between.''Palolem is touristy for sure and it looks more like an island in Thailand than it does a part of India. But hey, there’s nothing wrong with spending some time in a touristy location, especially when we need some rest and relaxation, which is exactly what I was in need of after two months of traveling around North India.''And so far, I love Palolem Beach. It’s friendly, super-relaxed and enjoys a diverse mix of tourists – independent travelers, couples and families – that helps create a most pleasant atmosphere. It’s certainly not a wild party place but it’s certainly not a boring, nothing-to-do destination either.''Palolem is also relatively inexpensive, something that definitely surprised me, especially considering the time of year and the large number of vacationers who fly straight to Goa for a 7- or 10-day holiday and then fly straight back home.''Accommodation Options''My friend and I are staying in a basic hut right on the beach. It has an attached bathroom, comfortable mattresses and plenty of room to move around. And when we walk out the door and down a few steps, we are on the sand. From our balcony, and pretty much anywhere inside the hut, there is a clear view of the Arabian Sea, and the soothing sound of the waves is the only sound we hear.''This hut costs 1500 rupees per night, about $30 USD.  That’s $15 per person which is a bargain for such a setup during high season here.''However, you could stay in Palolem for much cheaper as well, even during this time of year. I met two female travelers who are staying in a standard hut with shared bathroom for 500 rupees per night ($10 USD) and they are still only a one minute walk to the beach. And then I met another traveler who is staying in a simple, clean room in a small house, with his own bathroom, for only 300 rupees per night ($6 USD) and again, he is about a two minute walk to the beach and one minute walk from the main strip in town.''That’s cheap.''(My hut is the one on stilts to the right of the restaurant!)''Food Options''As for food, I must admit that it took me a few days to find the inexpensive options and at first, I thought that I was going to spend a lot of money on meals. I even checked an online guide to Palolem or two and still couldn’t find any good recommendations. The dozens of restaurants that line the beach are not so cheap by India standards, with meals in the 200 – 750 rupees range ($4 – $15 USD). But it turns out that there are a couple of cheaper places mixed in, such as Royal Touch, Chinatown and Rockit restaurants, all of which offer great food on the beach for about 100 – 300 rupees per main dish.''And then, if you leave the beach and walk one minute into the village itself, while there are still plenty of expensive eateries in this area as well, there are a few standout cheapies too.''My daily routine now involves waking up at 8:00am and walking down the beach in order to grab a double omelet sandwich with vegetables and a chai from a street stall on the main road, a hearty breakfast that costs me 25 rupees (50 US cents). For lunch, I’ll often head to a fruit stall in town, buy a pineapple, a large watermelon and ten bananas for about 125 rupees total, then return to my hut and eat it all on my balcony. And for dinner, I usually alternate between the Calcutta Restaurant, which serves very tasty fish thalis for 100 rupees and the Sai Shiv Restaurant that offers excellent punjabi thalis for 100 rupees, fish thalis for 60 rupees and many other delicious items at very cheap prices. There are also food stands hidden in the main parking lot near the beach that serve up fried rice and chow mein noodles for 50 – 70 rupees a plate.''In the evenings, usually around sunset time, and after my third daily swim in the ocean, I’ll enjoy a drink or two with some other travelers from one of the beach bars near my hut, something that costs me 80 Rps for a large Kingfisher Beer or 70 Rupees for a whiskey with lime soda.''And since I’m in more of a relaxation mood than a party mood right now, I’m typically back at my hut by around 10pm, more than ready to fall asleep to the sound of the waves outside my door.''This is how I’m spending my time in Goa, while getting some work done in between of course, and I couldn’t ask for anything more right now, especially for the price I’m paying. It feels like some kind of end-of-the-year therapy every time I look at the ocean or step foot on the sand, a therapy for both my body and my mind, and the result is an inner excitement and eagerness to discover where life shall lead me once the new year begins.''Video Tour of My Beach Hut''Ready to step inside my beach hut?''(''For those reading this post via email,''click here''to watch the video over on my site.'')''Other tips for Palolem Beach:''many of the restaurants put beach mats and umbrellas in the sand early in the morning and anyone is free to use them…they don’t cost anything''there is a small island at one end of the beach that is full of monkeys and you can walk here during low tide, otherwise, you can hire a kayak and paddle over''beware of the coconuts (seriously, beware, something''I learned first hand'')''bargain hard for accommodation here as there is an abundance of beach huts and rooms available''Have you been to Palolem or anywhere else in Goa? Are you interested in visiting Goa at all?''Today I write to you from Palolem Beach, a most idyllic stretch of sand in the southern part of the Indian state of Goa. And it is right here where I shall plant my nomadic rear end for the next ten days or so in order to catch up on work, to celebrate the New Year, and most importantly, to take part in some relaxed beach living, which happens to be a kind of living I enjoy sprinkling into my lifestyle every now and then.''And while I’ll write more about my time here in Goa at some point after the New Year, and knowing that many people are busy with the holidays and end of year festivities this week, this post will be a short one, the goal of which is to offer a piece of travel advice that just might save you some money on your travels.''It is this very same, and very simple, method that I’m about to explain that saved me about $193 USD the other day here in India.''Four days ago I was in that''crazy city of Varanasi''when my friend and I decided that we wanted to go to the beach. And after a quick online search revealed that the train ride from Varanasi to Goa would take almost 40 hours and that there weren’t any seats available on any trains heading in that direction for at least a week, we decided to look at our flight options.''It turned out that we could fly from Varanasi to Goa, having to change planes in Delhi en route, for $393 USD per person one-way. Ouch. That’s expensive and didn’t seem worth it at all.''But then, I started messing around with different destinations, combinations of flights and trains and any other possible routes I could think of. And after thirty minutes, I surprisingly found an infinitely better option.''The flight for $393 USD would have left Varanasi at 11:30am and arrived to Delhi at 12:50pm. The next flight would have left Delhi at 5:15pm and arrived at Goa’s Dabolim Airport at 7:45pm.''However, if I searched for each of those legs separately, I discovered that I could buy one ticket from Varanasi to Delhi for $70 USD and one ticket from Delhi to Goa for $130 USD. And the incredible thing was that these two separate flight tickets were for the exact same airline and the exact same flights as the more expensive ticket above.''So in the end, just by booking each of the two sections of the journey independently, I managed to save $193 USD.''To make sure this wasn’t a fluke, and knowing that I might have to fly to Bucharest in mid-January for a quick stop, I started researching airfares from India. And sure enough, after twenty minutes of looking, the cheapest option I found was a one-way ticket from Mumbai to Dubai, followed by a separate one-way ticket from Dubai to Bucharest. This option would save me $35 USD and while that might not be a huge amount of savings, it’s certainly not insignificant and, more importantly, it helps prove the point that you should always check to see if two separate flight tickets are cheaper than one!''You never know what you’ll find and you could end up saving big, like I did this week.''Safe travels everyone and I wish you all a wonderful holiday season!''And you might want to have a look at this pocket-sized''solar recharger''from GoalZero.com (a very cool company!). It could be the perfect gift for anyone who takes their gadgets on the road!''A few months ago, I wrote another post called “A Day in the Life of a Nomad” (Link) that described, as you might imagine, a random day of my travels. It was written about a particular day from my trip to Moldova over the summer and at the end of that post I mentioned that I would write about more random days from my travels every now and then.''So here it goes…the second installment of this random series about random days of my traveling life.''And since I’m in India, I figured that I would write up an Indian version, describing a full day from my visit to Varanasi this week, the city that I highlighted through photos (link) in my last post…''(If you want to really understand how crazy a trip to India can be, be sure to at least read the section below with the subtitle “The Boat Ride & The Human Leg”.)''A Very Early Start''At 5:30am, my alarm went off, something that was quite surprising considering how many times I have set it incorrectly on this trip and ended up missing out on some activity, or even a train, that I had booked in advance. This time the alarm worked (or rather, my own brain worked) and even though early mornings are not my friend at all, I forced myself out of bed this time around.''I brushed my teeth, quickly threw on some clothes, including my jacket as the morning temperature was quite cool, and walked outside. And then I turned left onto the narrow lane in front of the hotel, turned right, headed down a set of huge concrete steps under a dark tunnel, turned right again and there I was, standing at the top of Rana Mahal Ghat, one of over one hundred ghats (steps that lead down to the Ganges River) in this city.''In front of me was the holy Ganges River and after descending the thirty steps of the ghat, I was standing on its banks, along with dozens of holy men, bathing Indians, laundry-men washing clothes in the river by beating each item against a rock, cows wandering around, chai sellers serving up cup after cup after cup of steaming chai and of course, no shortage of boatmen trying to attract customers for a sunrise boat ride.''I had pre-organized by boat ride with the same boatman who had taken me out on the river the day before and so I walked over to the next ghat where this man and his boat were waiting.''And that’s when my day really began…''The Boat Ride & The Human Leg''For one hour I enjoyed a slow ride close to the banks of the Ganges where I was able to get a perfect view of all the activity taking place on every ghat we passed. There were maybe one hundred or more other boats out there on the water as well, creating a beautiful scene as the sun rose above the horizon, and as the bells starting ringing at the Hindu temples and the city started to come even more alive, I was quite happy that I had actually woken up for this activity.''Once the hour ride came to an end, my boatman, Lalu, dropped me off where we had begun and after paying him 150 Rupees ($3 USD), I turned around to walk back to my hotel. And that’s when my jaw dropped and I suddenly found myself unable to move at all.''There before me were two dogs standing only a couple of meters away from the water. Not only were these dogs standing but they were also eating. The thing is, they were eating a human leg, complete from knee to toes, that had obviously washed ashore, a leg that belonged to somebody whose dead body had been dropped into the Ganges instead of being cremated. (As Varanasi is the holiest city for Hindus, many people come or are brought here specifically for cremation.)''I think I watched these dogs chew this leg for about fifteen minutes, and I even took a few photos as well, photos that I won’t display on this site. It was a disturbing and nauseating scene, yet fascinating at the same time. India, once again, despite my ten visits to this country, had managed to shock me and to challenge my beliefs about what is normal in life.''After that experience, still feeling strange and a bit ill from what I had seen, I returned to my room, my small but comfortable room with a view of the Ganges from my window, and almost immediately I fell asleep.''Lunch & An Old City Wander''Two hours later I awoke feeling better, but hungry, and so, following a water pressure-less shower, which basically involved standing under a tiny stream of hot water dripping down from the shower head, I was out the door and off to the Shiva Cafe, a small restaurant run by a group of Nepalis that serves up some of the most consistently delicious food I had found in this city.''And even though it was somewhat of a struggle to eat my late breakfast (omelet, brown bread and potatoes) due to the image of those dogs eating that leg that constantly appeared in my head, thus sucking my appetite away for a few minutes at a time, I managed to finish it all after about an hour.''Heading back outside, I began my post-meal wander which took me all over the Old City, down dozens of narrow lanes full of tiny shops selling a few basic items such as bottled water, snacks and cigarettes, full of tailors using 100-year old sewing machines, sweet stalls, Hindu shrines and temples, silk shawl sellers, juice stands, ancient crumbling homes, massive piles of trash and endless piles of cow excrement, cows walking around as if they rule the city (which they almost do), along with some guesthouses and restaurants sprinkled in the mix.''It’s a centuries old city that certainly feels centuries old.''The Burning of Bodies''Lost among the lanes as usual, I had no idea where I was most of the time and so I was quite surprised when I suddenly arrived at the far end of Manikarnika Ghat. I had thought that I was far away from the river but now I was standing next to it. And as I stood there, a man approached me while holding out his hand, which I gladly shook. He then held onto my hand quite tightly and as I tried to pull away he said, “No money. I don’t want money.” He started to massage my hand despite my efforts to get my hand back and then he showed me a piece of cloth on the ground and asked if I wanted a hand massage. I said, “That involves money, you said ‘no money’.” He just released my hand and walked away.''Turning the corner, I soon stood at the other end of Manikarnika Ghat, an area that is also known as the “Burning Ghat”. This is where cremations take place 24 hours per day, 365 days per year, with up to 200 bodies cremated per day. And all of these bodies are cremated right there in plain view, on open flames along the edge of the river.''Within seconds of my arrival, a third man came up to me and quickly started telling me about the Burning Ghat. Within three minutes, he was explaining that he worked at the ‘hospice’ located behind the ghat and that ‘most foreigners give 1000 Rupees donation so that a family can afford the wood needed for someone to be cremated’. Knowing this scam all too well, I asked the man for his work ID or some paper that showed he did indeed work at the hospice. He just looked at me for a moment and then walked away as well.''Finally left on my own, I climbed up to the balcony overlooking the cremations where I stood for an hour, just watching body after body arrive, each carried on a homemade stretcher and marched through the streets as the family members and friends chant and pray until they reach the Burning Ghat. The bodies are then placed in line until it is their turn to be burned.''I watched feet and hair burn that day, I smelled the burning flesh, I observed a head fall off a corpse and I witnessed the charred remains of one body being poked with a long stick until it turned completely to ash. There was chanting, bodies being dunked in the river, cows eating the flowers that lay upon the waiting corpses and piles of wood being carried and laid out everywhere in order to burn yet another body.''It’s quite an experience to be standing at this particular ghat, an experience that forced me to remember how we all end up the same when this life is over, as dust, unable to take any of our possessions with us. One minute we’re a body and an hour later we are ash. It’s an intense thought and when you see the process unfold before you, it’s even more powerful.''A Ceremony, Dinner & Work''Eventually I pulled myself away from Manikarnika Ghat, and after a slow walk back towards the main Dashashwamedh Ghat, I found a good spot near the water to watch the nightly puja, a Hindu ceremony in which prayers are made to the holy Ganges River. For an hour I just watched the ceremony in silence, listening to the bells ringing once again and listening to the chanting and singing, watching the bowls of colorful flowers float along the water and watching the devout make their offerings, all while realizing that Varanasi is as unique a destination as there is in this world. Here, travelers have no choice but to witness, experience and interact with such a sheer intensity of raw life, so much good and so much bad, the serene and the crazy, the awe-inspiring and the unbelievably shocking, the holy and the most unholy, the dirty and the dirtier, all crammed together into this one city.''Once the ceremony came to an end at around 8pm, my day began to wind down. I walked through the Old City over to a small restaurant that I had eaten at during my first visit to this city back in 2003 and I sat down to enjoy what turned out to be one of the best malai kofta dishes that I’ve ever tasted. I finished my meal with a chai, paid my bill and picked up a bottle of water and a Cadbury Fruit & Nut chocolate bar from a nearby shop.''And then I went back to my room where I worked on my laptop for four hours while trying to get the one hundred or so ants out of my bed.''I fell asleep at around 1am, another day in India having come to an end.''Life along the holy Ganges River.''It’s one of the holiest, it’s one of the oldest and it is by far one of the most fascinating destinations not only in India, but in the world. And I’m lucky enough to be here in the city of Varanasi right now for the second time in my life.''I’m actually writing this post from my room at the Ajay Hotel, a room that offers a perfect view of the holy Ganges River from the window next to my bed. And every time I glance out that window I am overcome with a feeling of awe as everything below, from the dark river to those bathing in its water or praying along its banks, to the holy men meditating on the steps, to the simple wooden rowboats passing by, makes it seem as if life in this 3000 year old city has stood relatively still for a long, long time.''However, that feeling doesn’t even come close to the feeling I have whenever I am actually outside wandering. Varanasi, this holiest of cities for those of the Hindu and Jain faiths, is just the kind of place where even a twenty minute walk will lead you to a lifetime’s worth of travel experiences as you uncover an unfathomably diverse range of sights and encounters around every corner.''To give you an idea of what I’m talking about, here are twenty photos that I took today while wandering through the narrow, hundreds-year-old lanes and alleys and along the dozens of ancient ghats that line the Ganges River. Hopefully these photos will show you exactly why those who visit Varanasi often describe it as a city unlike any other on the planet, a mind-blowing city that one wants to visit over and over again…''That’s a taste of Varanasi. And as a result of what I’ve seen and done and of who I’ve met so far during my visit here, it looks like I’ll end up staying for several days longer than expected. Who knows when I’ll be able to pull myself away!''Have you been to Varanasi? Is it the kind of destination you’d want to visit?''I was in my room in Delhi one day when I looked at the time. I had to make an important phone call but I suddenly realized that I didn’t have enough credit on my phone and so I rushed out of the hotel in order to find a shop where I could recharge my local SIM card.''Walking into the market area nearby, I looked left and I looked right. I saw a mobile phone shop down the road and so I headed in that direction. On the way, a cycle rickshaw almost ran over my foot, a motorcycle driver beeped his horn incessantly, a car tried to squeeze itself down the small street, the driver yelling at everyone to get out of his way, I stepped in a pile of trash, another pile of trash was set on fire in front of a shop selling belts, a man spat on the street and some of his dribble landed on my shoe…not a good start.''Upon arrival at the mobile phone shop, I learned that they don’t sell credit for my particular mobile network. The man behind the counter just told me to ‘go that way’ in order to find what I needed and he waved his hand in a vague direction. I left and continued my search.''After ten minutes, I found myself standing on a street corner scratching my head. I didn’t know what to do. I had found three mobile phone shops but none of them sold credit for my particular network and at this point, I was already five minutes late for my phone call. Not only that but I was exhausted, having not slept much the night before, and I wasn’t in the mood to wander all over a busy Delhi market, to dodge vehicles, cows and street carts, to listen to all of the noise, to step in trash and to get tugged on by people in the street trying to lead me to an “Official Tourist Office” that really has nothing “Official” about it. I was getting frustrated already and I could feel the stress starting to spread rapidly.''After attempting to take a few deep breaths, which also frustrated me as these breaths led to a few deep coughs, I glanced all around until I spotted a large mobile phone store on the next corner. And this store had my mobile phone network’s logo clearly displayed in the front window.''I ran over, walked in and asked to recharge my phone, all while feeling tense and worried about missing my call. Since I still haven’t memorized my local number, I then handed the man a small plastic folder that I keep in my pocket that has a sticker with my phone number on the front. He typed my number into his computer, I paid him the money and one minute later I received a text message stating that the recharge was successful.''Then I went to leave, but I quickly realized that the man behind the desk had not returned my small plastic folder. And I wouldn’t have cared much except that I had an important piece of paper in that folder, a piece of paper with some contact numbers on it that I really needed.''The man looked at his desk and the folder was nowhere to be found. He opened a couple of drawers, looked on the floor, asked the other staff in the shop…but the folder never appeared.''Standing there, I could feel the anger growing inside of me. I asked for my plastic folder again, shaking my head in disbelief. The man looked all over one more time but all he could do was shrug his shoulders and say “I don’t have it”. Normally, I’m a calm guy, but I wasn’t so calm at this point and I replied with a “I gave you the folder, find it!”.''The man looked under the desk, he looked under his computer screen, he even checked all of his pockets. Nothing.''I checked the time on my phone, became even angrier once I saw that I was now ten minutes late for my call, and then I just told the man, in what I can only describe as a not-so-friendly tone, “Look again and when you find it, hold onto it and I’ll be back later!”. Then I stormed out of the shop and off towards my hotel, completely ignoring the shop owners calling out to me, pushing my way through the crowds, upset with everything and just trying to get back to my hotel room as quickly as possible.''A few minutes later I was finally in the quiet of my room ready to make my call. I took my phone out of my pants pocket and sat down in a chair.''And then, just before I started dialing the number, I noticed that along with my phone, I had also pulled out some Indian rupees from my pocket, as well as….yes, my small plastic folder.''The man at the mobile phone store must have returned the plastic folder to me when he gave me the change for my recharge purchase and my overall frustration at the time had simply made me forget.''Once I realized this, I just slumped down into the chair, put my face down and sat there feeling like a complete ass and idiot. It was not a high point of this trip.''Lesson learned?''Take it slow. Nothing is really worth getting so upset about that you end up taking it out on other people. Life is all about how we treat others. And the way I treated the man in the mobile phone shop was unacceptable and it was all because I let my own problems and my own frustrations affect my behavior towards those around me.''Eventually, I made my ‘important’ phone call and guess what, it didn’t matter at all that I was almost thirty minutes late. And had I followed my own advice and just ducked into a cafe, taken a seat in a quiet restaurant or relaxed in a park for a few minutes until my sudden bout of stress had passed, the entire afternoon would have turned out completely different.''Sure, I might have been a few more minutes late for my phone call but it wouldn’t have been the end of the world, and I surely would have ended up treating those around me in a manner that I wouldn’t have been so embarrassed about.''Any similar stories you want to share from your own travels or from life in general? How do you stop and check yourself before your frustrations affect your behavior?''Here’s the situation. I am still very much addicted to traveling and I don’t hesitate for even a millisecond in stating that I plan to continue wandering around this world for many years to come. The thought of hanging up my backpack for a different kind of lifestyle right now is simply not a thought that I’m able to entertain.''However, that does not mean that my lifestyle will always stay the same. In fact, my travels have already been constantly evolving over the years and when I look at the traveler I am today, it is quite clear that I am not the same traveler I was when I arrived in Bangkok back in 1999, nor am I the same traveler I was in 2003 or 2007 or even last year for that matter.''My goals, motivations and needs often change and as a result, I’ve had to make adjustments accordingly. There was a stage when''teaching English''worked perfectly for me, when''working on board cruise ships''was ideal, when I just wanted to''volunteer''or wander around aimlessly, or when I could think of nothing better than staying put in one place for a while…and on and on.''And over the past six months or so, I’ve realized that it is perhaps time to make some adjustments once again, to start a new stage.''What will this next stage involve?''Well, I think''it’s time for me to find a''home''.''I need my own apartment or house, a place that will provide a base for my wacky traveling lifestyle, a base that will undoubtedly help keep me focused on my goals as well as keeping me sane. Frankly, it’s not easy to continue moving around all the time while trying to not only enjoy my travel experiences, but trying to work on my blog and other projects at the same time. Being able to pop over to my ‘home’ on occasion, to buckle down, prepare my own cup of tea and get some work done in comfort (i.e. in my underwear), would have a major impact, a positive impact, on my life.''Am I looking for a place to move permanently?''Definitely not. In fact, I imagine that I would spend maybe two or three months per year at this ‘home’ that I’m seeking. It’s the idea of having that base that seems to make sense right now, even if I rarely use it.''Just knowing that there is a familiar bed to sleep in every now and then, my own set of drawers to hold my underwear, a wall to hang my Tibetan thangka painting that has been''buried in a box''for the past seven years and a mirror to sing my favorite Lady Gaga songs in front of without having to worry about others listening, would be an absolute dream.''I really can’t wait to sing me some Lady Gaga in peace.''The Main Problem''Here’s the thing. It’s one thing for me to decide I need a base/home. It’s an entirely different matter to try and decide where on earth this home should be. My family and friends are scattered all over the planet and I have no real ties to any one particular location these days.''I have no idea how to even begin this search.''And this is why I want to ask all of you for your help.''Knowing that the readership of this blog comes from all over the world, from almost every continent and dozens and dozens of countries, I figured that you would probably have some good recommendations as to where I should create my base.''So let me give you some information about what I’m looking for…''A small to medium-size city/town, one that offers a good standard of living for a decent price, preferably near the beach although it’s not a must, close to nature, easily accessible and decently connected by flights to other parts of the world, preferably a warm climate (doesn’t have to be year-round warmth), a laid-back community with opportunities to interact with diverse groups of people and having such facilities as a gym, basketball courts, cinemas and good food options in the vicinity.''And that’s it, although, I’m honestly open to hearing about any kind of place you have in mind, in any country!''I really am excited to hear your recommendations and I would like to thank you all in advance for taking a moment to help me find a home…''Have a wonderful week everyone!''Any recommendations??''After receiving a request for a post about how much it costs to travel in India from a reader of my''Facebook Fan Page'', I decided that such a post was a great idea. So here we go…''India is commonly known as one of the least expensive destinations for travelers, especially for budget travelers. Prices here can often seem shockingly low for anyone who has spent much of their time in North America or Europe, and even for those who have traveled to other regions of the world, India usually seems like an incredible bargain.''But just how much of a bargain is it?''For those of you on the tightest of budgets, you could survive here in India with a daily spending limit of $15 USD per day. This would enable you to stay in low-end budget hotels, to eat simple meals at local eateries and to utilize local and government buses, as well as 3rd Class trains to get around.''If you can manage $25 USD per day, you’ll be able to travel in significantly more comfort as you’ll soon see below. And for those who can spend more than $25 per day, your experience could involve the occasional 1st Class train, nicer budget hotels and a wider variety of eating options.''At the moment, the exchange rate for Indian Rupees (Rps) is:''$1 USD = 54 Rps''1 Euro = 71 Rps''1 GBP = 88 Rps''1 CAD = 55 Rps''1 AUD = 57 Rps''1 NZD = 44 Rps''And now, in order to provide a more thorough breakdown of the costs involved with a visit to India, here’s some additional information:''VISAS''When it comes to India, just about every traveler will need to secure a visa before they arrive. This can usually be done at any Indian Embassy or Consulate abroad although, certain Embassies/Consulates sometimes will not provide a visa unless you are an actual resident in the country where the Embassy/Consulate is located. But for the most part, at least in my experience, most Indian Embassies and Consulates will issue tourist visas.''Of course, given that this is India we are talking about, getting a visa is often not the most straightforward of processes. There are usually several types of visas available (3-month, 6-month and for US Citizens only, a 5-year and 10-year tourist visa) and they usually cost different amounts depending on your nationality.''Also, if you are a citizen of the USA, Canada, UK or Australia, and you are applying for an Indian visa while in your home country, you must apply for that visa through the official visa outsourcing company that the local Indian Embassy or Consulate has contracted with.''– US citizens must use''Travisa Outsourcing''– UK citizens must use''VFS UK''– Australian citizens must also use''VFS Australia''– Canadian citizens must use''VFS Canada''– For other nationalities, just check the visa requirements on your local Indian Embassy website''Just to give an example of potential costs, for US Citizens, the 6-month multiple entry tourist visa costs $76 USD (including processing fee) and the 5-year tourist visa (which I obtained this time around) costs $166 USD. But again, prices differ for all nationalities.''So you get your visa…now it’s time to pay attention to the fine print.''First, your visa is valid from the date it is issued, not the date you arrive, so if you obtain a 6-month visa on March 1st and you don’t travel to India until May 1st, you will only have four months to spend inside the country.''Second, for most nationalities these days, once you leave India, you cannot return for two months. Even if you have a 6-month tourist visa, and your visa is still valid, you still cannot come back to India once you leave until two months have passed.''The only exceptions are if you are traveling to Nepal or Sri Lanka. In these cases, you can obtain a Re-Entry Permit at any immigration office in India that will allow you to visit these neighboring countries and then return to India without having to wait the two months. Re-Entry Permits usually cost around $30 each.''*The following countries can now receive a 30-day, single-entry tourist visa upon arrival in India: Finland, Japan, Luxembourg, New Zealand, Singapore, Cambodia, Vietnam, Philippines, Laos, Myanmar, Indonesia''ACCOMMODATION''While there are some hostels that offer dorm rooms for as low as 50 Rps per night, budget hotels are more than plentiful and quite inexpensive as well, making such accommodation my accommodation of choice while here.''For the most part, in just about any town or city, you can get a somewhat grubby private room with a private bathroom in a budget hotel for around 300 – 500 Rps per night. In some locations you can find such a private room for 150 Rps and in others, especially Mumbai, you might have to pay closer to 1000 Rps per night if you want a room with walls that reach the ceiling and mattresses that are thicker than a piece of cardboard.''Here’s some more details about what kind of accommodation exists in India:''Dorm Room:''As cheap as it comes at around 50 – 100 Rps per night, poor conditions, questionably clean toilet facilities, usually men-only''Budget Room:''For 250 – 500 Rps per night you get a large bed with thin (often hard) mattress, sparse furniture, dirty walls, plug outlets that spark, somewhat clean private bathroom, sometimes with hot water shower (available during set times)''Deluxe Budget Room:''500 Rps – 1000 Rps typically gets you a more spacious room, with 24 hour hot water, more comfy mattress, television, some furniture and more of a ‘hotel feel’''Deluxe Room:''For 1000+ Rps per night, you can get a nice room, usually still with some marks on the walls and less than sparkling bathroom, but with proper mattress, more furniture, perhaps a desk, large television, air-conditioning and hotel staff that are significantly more attentive''FOOD''India is a dream when it comes to food, as you can barely walk two meters without facing another street stall or restaurant serving up some kind of snack or dish that you suddenly want to devour. Whether it be samosas, pakoras, lassis or momos, whether it be North Indian or South Indian cuisine…it is all so very tempting.''And luckily, for the traveler, most of this food is quite economical and so you can try as much as you wish (at your own risk of course…I’m not responsible for cases of Delhi belly!).''Here’s an idea of what it costs to eat in India:''Samosas or Pakoras''from a street vendor – 10 – 30 Rps''Sweet Lassi''from a lassi stall – 20 Rps''Plate of''4 Tibetan Momos''– 10 Rps''½ kg of Bananas''– 25 Rps''Thali''(meal consisting of a vegetable dish, dhal, rice, roti and more) – 80 – 150 Rps''Dish of''Matter Paneer''(Peas & Cheese Curry) – 40 – 100 Rps''Dhal and Rice''– 40 Rps''Chicken Tandoori''(½ chicken) – 120 Rps''Butter Naan''– 15 – 30 Rps''Masala Dosa''– 50 – 100 Rps''Chai''from a chai vendor – 5 Rps''Egg Sandwich''from a street stall – 15 Rps''You get the idea…it doesn’t cost much to eat in India. And even a filling meal at the rooftop restaurant of a nice hotel in a touristy town will probably only set you back around 200 – 300 Rps per person.''As some may be aware, Indian cuisine varies quite a lot depending on the region and actually, what many of us know as Indian food is generally only found in the north of the country. The food of the south is of an entirely different variety, with items such as dosas, uttapams, idlis and more to be found on the menus.''For vegetarians, India is ideal with the majority of restaurants being ‘Veg-Only’ considering that a significant portion of the population is vegetarian. With that said, there is no shortage of restaurants that serve up chicken dishes and even mutton (lamb) can be found in most places as well.''However, with the incredible diversity of vegetarian dishes available in this country, few meat eaters that I know of actually end up missing meat while here as the vegetarian dishes are usually quite delicious and filling.''TRANSPORTATION''By now, it should come as no surprise that transportation, whether by bus, train, taxi or even flights, are also quite affordable.''Let’s look at the options…''Trains:''Train journeys in India are more than transportation, they are complete experiences that are usually a memorable part of any traveler’s adventure here. If you want to truly rough it, you could travel in 3rd Class (no assigned seat, unbelievably crowded, people sleeping on the floor or in the luggage racks) from Delhi to Udaipur, a trip of around 12 hours, for as little as 50 Rps. If you want to move up to the much more popular 2nd Class Sleeper (assigned seats and beds, but no compartments or privacy, full open cars), you could travel the same distance for around 350 Rps. And if you want to experience 1st Class, you could choose the lowest level – 3A – which comes with a more comfortable bed, sheets, pillow and blanket, air-conditioning, plug outlets and a curtain to block off each section) for 1000 Rps. You could pay even more for 2A and 1A, the highest levels of 1st Class. But in general, if you stick with 2nd Class Sleeper, you’ll be able to travel around this great country for just a handful of dollars per trip while having a chance to meet and interact with all of the locals sharing the car with you.''Buses:''Buses naturally vary in quality and you can use either government-run buses or private buses. Government-run buses are usually cheaper and they can either be quite decent or truly painful. However, the quality of private buses can vary as well and so that extra premium you paid might not get you much in the end. Unfortunately, it’s a gamble as there is rarely any way to know ahead of time what kind of bus you’re getting for your money. In terms of cost, a normal government bus (bench seats, no A/C, lots of stops, can be super-crowded) from Delhi to Dharamsala, a journey of 11 hours, will cost around 500 Rupees, while a private bus (with reclining seats, A/C, limited stops and no more passengers than the number of seats) costs around 750 Rps for the same journey. In some states, you can actually purchase a ticket for a ‘bed’ on long-distance buses. These beds are located above the seats and are small compartments that usually have a sliding window on the outside and a sliding door or curtain for privacy on the inside. While the single beds are ridiculously tiny, the double beds are a great value, whether for one or two people. There’s enough space up there for two people and two backpacks and you just might get some sleep during the journey.''Long-distance Taxi:''Between some destinations, you may find it easier to just take a taxi, especially if you are several people traveling together. Usually, this will get you to your destination more quickly and you can stop wherever you want along the way. In general, it costs about 8000 Rps for an 8-hour journey although taxi prices can almost always be negotiated. With that said, the safest way to organize a taxi is to use the official taxi stands located in most towns/cities where you will be able to see the official rate in order to ensure you are not being ripped off. On the other hand, if you wish to take it slow and stop at several places along the way, you might want to use a car and driver from a reputable local travel agent as they will be able to customize the journey and hopefully give you a good deal.''Flights:''The number of budget airlines in India seems to be growing all the time and as a result, the fares are often remarkably low. I was just online yesterday checking out a few flights and I found a flight from Kolkata to Delhi for $75 USD, a flight from Delhi to Kochi for $85 and Delhi to Mumbai for $75.  I even found a flight from Kolkata to Guwahati in the Northeast State of Assam for $50, a flight that would save a traveler about 20 hours of travel time. So, flights are worth checking out these days, especially for long distances.''Local Transport:''When it comes to getting around towns or cities, you’ll basically have the following options…your feet, auto-rickshaws, cycle-rickshaws, taxis and local buses. And once you choose your method, it’s best to understand that you will almost always pay more than the local fare but with some confident negotiating you can usually keep the foreigner premium to a minimum. You might get lucky and find a taxi or auto-rickshaw driver who has and is willing to use their meter but chances of that happening are slim. The ticket collectors on local buses should quote you the normal fare, which should be very low, around 5 or 10 Rps per trip. And with cycle-rickshaws, you just reach an agreement and go from there…local fares on this method are absurdly low and even if you pay double that amount, it’s an inexpensive way to get around. In cities such as Kolkata and Delhi, you can also use the metro to reach many destinations, making local travel relatively hassle-free.''ENTRANCE FEES''As with everything else in India, entrance fees are all over the map. The Taj Mahal costs 750 Rps for foreigners, the Red Fort in Delhi costs 250 Rps and the wonderful Bundi Palace costs 150 Rps.  Some places might cost 5 Rps, others might cost 200 Rps, and many are free…there just doesn’t seem to be much of a pattern. One thing to note is that for many sites, there is a two-tier fee system where foreigners pay significantly more than Indians. Either way, the entrance fees are not too outrageous – almost always under $5 USD – and I can’t think of any place that is so overpriced that it’s not worth visiting.''INTERNET & MOBILE PHONE''The availability of internet for travelers in India has greatly improved recently, with free Wi-Fi now available at some budget hotels and at cafes that cater towards travelers. However, internet is often quite slow here and in many cases during my current trip, too slow to use at all. Another option is to purchase a local USB WiFi device from an Indian mobile network provider, but again, those travelers I met who had been using one were quite disappointed with the connection quality. In fact, their connections were usually much worse than the excellent connection I’ve been enjoying with my''mobile WiFi router''from Telecomsquare.com. So for those of you who really need reliable internet while traveling, you may want to check out Telecomsquare as well.''When it comes to using your mobile phone, India has now made it quite easy for foreigners to purchase a local SIM card. All you need is a passport photo and a photocopy of your passport and you can get set up at any mobile phone shop. On this trip, I bought a SIM card with the company AirCel. It cost me 100 Rps for the SIM card, 98 Rps for 1 month of unlimited data around the country and then I added 200 Rps worth of call/text credit. Not a bad deal at all.''FINAL TIPS''Here’s a few more tips that I’ve learned during my many visits to India that might help you keep your expenses as low as possible…''– Bargain…for almost everything. Unless the price is listed somewhere, you’re generally free to try and negotiate a better price.''– If you’re at a stalemate while bargaining, politely decline the vendor’s final offer and walk away. You just might find that he’s suddenly calling you back, willing to sell you the item at the lower price that you asked for.''– Stay calm and friendly while bargaining as this is all part of how business gets done here. Anger won’t get you anywhere.''– Keep a small amount of money in one pocket and a larger amount in the other so that you don’t have to pull out all of your cash when paying for small items.''– When purchasing items from a normal shop (bottled water, packaged snacks, soap/shampoo, etc.) there is always a MRP (maximum retail price) printed on the package. This is the price that you should pay as these prices are set by the manufacturer, not by the shop owners, so be sure to check before handing over your money and never pay more than what is listed.''– There is no shortage of ATMs in India but do keep in mind that local banks charge 200 Rps per ATM withdrawal for foreign bank cards.''– Credit cards are sometimes accepted at higher-end shops and hotels but they usually add on a fee of up to 5% so make sure you ask before handing over your card.''– When checking into a hotel, be sure to ask if there are any taxes or service charges added onto the final bill. These extra charges vary greatly among hotels and sometimes, you can negotiate to have all of those taxes/charges removed. (Some restaurants also add on taxes and a service charge and I’ve managed to avoid paying these with a little negotiating.)''– Remember that no matter how much you pay for something, you’re in magical India, and that you shouldn’t let a little overpaying ruin your incredible trip!''I hope the above helps out those thinking about traveling to the subcontinent and as always, I wish you wonderful adventures ahead!''If you’ve been to India, or live there, do you have any additional tips/comments to share?''Last week, after contacting all of you who had asked to be placed on the early list for my second Wandering Earl Tour –''Wander Across Mexico''– eight of the ten available spots were quickly filled up.''And so, there is now''only two spots left''for this adventure, and here’s the details!''Tour Dates:''March 11th – 25th, 2013''Itinerary:''Day 1:''Arrive at Cancun Airport, transfer to Playa del Carmen''Day 2 & 3:''Playa del Carmen – The tour gets off to a relaxing start with time spent on white sand beaches, eating excellent food and enjoying the true Caribbean side of Mexico!''Day 4:''We’ll drive to the beautiful Mayan town of Valladolid, with visits to Akumal (in order to swim with the turtles) and the Mayan ruins of Tulum along the way.''Day 5:''In the morning, off to the Dzitnup & Samula Cenotes we go for a cool swim in these incredible underground cave/water holes. The afternoon will be free time for you to wander the streets of enchanting Valladolid.''Day 6:''After a morning visit to the famous Mayan pyramids of Chichen-Itza, we’ll continue to the ‘yellow town’ of Izamal where we’ll spend the night. Evening walk around the main plaza, the old monastery and through the quiet streets of this unique Mayan community.''Day 7:''We’ll return to Playa del Carmen via a leisurely drive through the state of Yucatan and a stopover in Cancun to see one of the most beautiful beaches in all of Mexico.''Day 8:''This will be a travel day as we board a long-distance bus to the town of San Cristobal de las Casas in the state of Chiapas. (Approximate travel time will be 15 hours)''Day 9 – 12:''Once in Chiapas we’ll have four days to explore San Cristobal de las Casas and it’s outer region, which will include visits to the Cascada de Agua Azul Waterfalls, El Canon del Sumidero and the town of Tuxtla, as well as several other optional activities.''Day 13:''In the morning we’ll take a bus to the town of Oaxaca (travel time approximately 7 hours), the capital city of the state with the same name. We shall arrive just in time to spend the evening in the main plaza, listening to the famous mariachi bands and enjoying the atmosphere of what travelers often label their favorite town in all of Mexico.''Day 14:''We’ll have a full day in Oaxaca to visit it’s markets (where they serve up fried grasshoppers as a snack), parks, cathedrals, colorful neighborhoods and possibly the Monte Alban ruins high above town.''Day 15:''The tour comes to an end – at this point, options include taking a bus to Mexico City, heading south to Guatemala, spending more time in Oaxaca or others parts of Mexico or heading straight home. There are many bus/flight options from this town.''**I will stay in Oaxaca for one more day and any member of the tour is more than welcome to stick around and join me!''Included in the cost:''– 14 nights budget accommodation (Playa del Carmen x 4; Valladolid x 2; Ixmal x 1; San Cristobal de las Casas x 4; Oaxaca x 2; Overnight bus x 1)''– Transportation within Mexico – combination of overnight buses, rented vans/cars and taxis''– Activities mentioned in the itinerary, including entrance fees to the sites listed above''– 10 Meals (lunch or dinner)''Not included:''– Meals not mentioned''– Activities not mentioned above''– Flights to/from Mexico''– Travel/health insurance (will be required)''– Passport/visa fees''– Airport transfer to Playa del Carmen (pickup will be available for a small fee)''Physical Level:''While the tour to Mexico itself is not strenuous, budget travel in general can be tiring. As a result, it is recommended that tour participants are prepared for and able to handle long, exhausting days, overnight bus journeys, being in the sun in warm temperatures and other physically challenging scenarios that can certainly arise during this trip.''Accommodation:''Prices are based on twin share (2 people per room) and single members of the group will be paired together. We will be using budget guesthouses/pensions that offer basic facilities, sometimes with shared bathrooms, usually no air-conditioning and possibly without hot water showers at times. With that said, the places we stay will have plenty of character and will certainly be a memorable part of the trip.''Subject to Change:''While the goal is to follow the itinerary listed, travel almost always involves unexpected events and the occasional change of plans. However, even if things do change, it is important to remember that travel is all about the journey, so even the challenges we face along the way should be treated as part of the overall experience!''Waiver:''All tour participants will be required to sign a waiver. It’s just a formality but I wanted to let you know ahead of time.''Wander Across Mexico''Tour Cost:''$1450 USD''Potatoes. A simple leaf bowl full of fried potatoes from a street vendor. That’s all I wanted last night.''And while I did indeed end up eating a plate of potatoes from the potato street vendor that I encountered while wandering around the streets of the Pahar Ganj neighborhood in Delhi, the truth is, I probably paid more for those potatoes than anyone has ever paid for such potatoes in the history of potato street vendors.''Here’s the mistake I made. After walking up to the vendor, I immediately asked for some fried potatoes and it wasn’t until the vendor had already begun the process of preparing them that I asked for the price. When I did ask “How much?”, he answered with “100 Rupees”, which I knew to be a highly inflated amount created just for foreigners like me.''I replied with a “What? That’s not the normal price”, to which the vendor, without ever hesitating, smoothly stated, “Normal price sir, everyone gets same price”. And then my potatoes were ready and because I wanted to eat those eleven small pieces of potato, I just handed over a 100 Rupees note and walked away.''Okay, paying 100 Rupees, which equals about $2 USD, is not the end of the world of course. However, overpaying for things everyday is certainly not something that any of us wants to become a regular occurrence while traveling.''And as I walked back to my hotel last night, while munching on those potatoes, I realized that there is a very simple method, one that I had in fact used before, that would have made it very easy to avoid being ripped off, not only by this particular vendor, but by anyone I buy something from while overseas.''All I needed to do was''wait and watch''.''Yes, had I stood next to, or nearby, the potato vendor and simply waited thirty seconds or maybe one minute until a local person ordered some potatoes, I could have then approached the vendor and observed how much the local person paid. Had I done this, I would have quickly learned that the local price is 20 Rupees and then I would have simply handed that same amount to the vendor upon receiving my own potatoes.''But enough about potatoes. What if I was buying something else?''Well, this method works for just about anything. Even today I used this method when buying an egg sandwich from a street vendor, while buying fruit from a fruit stand and before sitting down for a shave at a small barber shop. And in each case I simply took note of how much a local paid and then I asked for what I wanted and paid the normal price myself, without ever having to utter the words ‘how much?’, a question that often invites others to try and get a little more money out of us travelers.''(I’ve mentioned trying to avoid asking this question in an earlier post about''how to not get ripped off by taxi drivers''around the world.)''Just to recap… All you have to do is wait a moment or two and then watch a local make the very same transaction that you want to make. Observe how much money exchanges hands and then go for it yourself, confidently paying the very same amount. It’s so simple, but so very effective, and it will absolutely help ensure that you don’t have to eat 100 Rupee potatoes during your own adventures around the planet.''What do you think? Do you use this method already? Does it make sense?''My very first Wandering Earl Tour – the''Welcome to India Tour''– came to an end last night. Our group had our last meal together, our last conversations and our last laughs and today, everyone heads off in separate directions after having spent the past 19 days in each others company.''For me, this tour was a tremendous experience and I really do feel that the entire adventure was a success. The feedback has been positive from those who participated and hopefully, they all had as rewarding a trip as they envisioned when they had originally signed up to spend three weeks in India wandering around with me.''It had always been my goal, ever since I started working on the itinerary several months ago, to offer the most diverse Indian experience possible in the time we had, an experience that would be ideal for first-time travelers to this immense country.''And after some picking and choosing, eliminating and replacing, I eventually came up with a final list of destinations and a route that connected them all. It’s impossible to see everything in India, regardless of how long you spend here, but this particular route seemed to match the goal of the tour the best.''So where did we go on this''Welcome to India Tour''?''Delhi''We began in Delhi, a chaotic city for sure, but one that is''full of interesting experiences'', including Akshardham Temple, the Lotus Temple, the streets and markets of Old Delhi, India’s largest mosque and some excellent dining opportunities. And we managed to organize an excellent rooftop dinner as well complete with live Indian classical music…''Amritsar''From Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin Station we hopped on the Golden Temple Mail Express train that would take us to the city of Amritsar on an 11 hour overnight journey that involved meeting quite a lot of friendly locals on board (as well as a few odd characters) and having a hard time sleeping due to the constant screaming of the chai vendors who walk up and down the train cars throughout the night trying to sell chai to sleeping passengers…''However, once in Amritsar, we visited''the magnificent Golden Temple'', the holiest temple of the Sikh religion, before taking a drive to the Indo/Pakistan border to watch the bizarre evening border ceremony that takes place every day…''McLeod Ganj''Our next stop was the Tibetan community, and home of the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan Government in Exile, called McLeod Ganj, a large village in the foothills of the Himalayas located some 2000 meters (6000 feet) above sea level. We spent a relaxing four days here, doing everything from visiting the peaceful Buddhist temples, exploring the mountains and nearby villages on a four hour hike, eating platefuls and bowlfuls of simple, yet delicious, Tibetan food items such as thentuk, thukpa and momos, taking a Tibetan cooking class and spending a morning at the beautiful Norbulingka Institute among other things…this town is addicting and even after four days many members of the group wished we were staying longer!''Rishikesh''Eventually, we pulled away from McLeod Ganj and took an overnight bus down the mountains and into the neighboring state of Uttarakhand, where we arrived in the town of Rishikesh early one morning. And after checking into our guesthouse in the quiet Laxman Jhula neighborhood located right along the holy Ganges River, we spent the next three days waking up to hypnotic music and chanting coming from the nearby ashrams, wandering around the temples, visiting the markets, eating very well (this was consistent throughout the tour!) and spending our evenings watching the puja ceremonies, one at the Parmarth Niketan Temple in Rishikesh and a larger ceremony at Har-ki-Pauri in the nearby holy town of Haridwar…''Agra''We left Rishikesh on November 13th, which also happened to be the main day of celebrations for the Diwali Festival, one of the most important festivals of the year. Our destination was Agra, some 8 hours away, and after a lunch stop in the village of Shahpur (which was the home village of Ajay, the guy who helped me organize certain aspects of this itinerary), we arrived at our hotel just before 7:00pm. Unfortunately, in terms of a Diwali celebration, there wasn’t much happening in the streets of Agra near our hotel apart from the frequent explosions of huge bomb-like firecrackers that were apparently designed for the sole purpose of blowing out people’s ear drums. And combine this with the fact that everyone was exhausted from the long day of driving, we just ended up having a quick dinner and then going straight to sleep.''The following day, the group went to see a Bollywood movie in the morning and to the Taj Mahal in the afternoon, however, both myself and Anil (my friend from''FoxNomad.com''who assisted me with this trip) did not participate. We were both''suffering from Delhi belly''and were unable to leave our room for about 36 hours.''Bundi''After two nights in Agra, we were off to the state of Rajasthan, and our first destination, after a 9 hour journey along some of the poorest roads we came across in India, was the magical town of Bundi. And just moments after arriving, I think everyone quickly forgot about the challenging, bumpy, noisy drive to get here as the sight of the massive palace on the hill, of the fortress high above and the pastel blue homes down below immediately put everyone in a good mood. For two days we soaked up the laid-back, super-friendly atmosphere of this town, exploring the impressive palace, watching the sunset from the fortress and conversing with all of the locals who were interested in having a chat. It’s no surprise that statements such as “this place is not like the rest of India” were heard quite frequently among the group.''Chittorgarh''On November 17th, we began our final journey together, a journey that took us from Bundi to the impressive city of Udaipur. And even though this trip took about 7 hours, we had a 2 hour break at the Chittorgarh Fort halfway, a fort that was built in the 7th century and is apparently the largest in India. Inside the massive grounds one can find a collection of palaces, temples, holy lakes and the striking Victory Tower…''Udaipur''And then we arrived in Udaipur in the evening and the exploration of our final destination was underway. Over the next two days, we would walk around the Lal Ghat and Jagdish Temple areas, across the foot bridge to the other side of Lake Pichola, we would eat at the famous Biriyani House and the even more famous Natraj Lodge and we would spend a late afternoon at the Monsoon Palace, located on top of a mountain some 5 kilometers out of town, with some amazing views of the surrounding countryside.''And of course, we also had a celebration while in Udaipur, a simple end-of-the-tour dinner party, an Indian meal and some drinks, on the rooftop of our hotel, overlooking the beautiful City Palace and the shining lake below.''Now I can’t speak for everyone else on the tour, but as we did eat that last meal and I looked around at everyone, listening to all the talking and laughing and storytelling, I certainly felt honored to have spent time with such a wonderful group of people on this first trip.''I was genuinely happy as the tour came to an end, not because everyone was leaving, but because I believe that this adventure was an overall success for all those who participated.''So, I now want to thank every single one of you who joined this first tour here in India. It was an absolute pleasure traveling with you and getting to know you as friends. And based on my experience over the years, it is almost certain that we shall run into each other again at some point down the road.''In the meantime, I now look forward with great excitement to the Wandering Earl Tours that I shall be offering next year. My tour to Mexico in March shall be announced within the week!''The journey from Rishikesh to the world famous city of Agra (home of the Taj Mahal) was quite lengthy, taking us almost twelve hours to complete. This was partly due to the distance we needed to cover (400 kilometers) and partly due to the many stops we made along the way, which included lunch in the village of Shahpur and a quick stop in Delhi in order to drop off the three members of our group who had signed up for the shorter version of the Wandering Earl Tour.''But I personally didn’t mind the journey. After all, when the reward for such an exhausting trip is a visit to the magical Taj Mahal the following day, I certainly had no right to complain.''And so, soon after our arrival in Agra two evenings ago, I went to sleep excited about what the morning would bring. And when that morning did arrive, I awoke at 9:00am ready to catch my first glimpse of the Taj Mahal. I walked outside my room and started to climb the steps that led to the rooftop of our hotel, hoping to get a decent morning view of this magnificent structure from up there.''And what a view I had…''That is right. I never made it to the rooftop. And I never made it to the Taj Mahal either. In fact, I never made it out of my room that day at all, instead alternating between short naps and frequent trips to my beloved bathroom, with plenty of moaning and nausea thrown into the mix as well.''I had been hit with a case of the Delhi belly, aka ‘severe stomach issues’, just as I began to walk up those steps. As soon as it happened I knew that it was my fault. I had eaten something during lunch the day before that I had a feeling would make me sick, but out of politeness towards our hosts, I ate as much as I could.''Well, the result wasn’t pretty and it wasn’t fun. I ended up spending thirty-two out of the thirty-six hours we were in Agra holed up in that hotel room, and probably half of that time sitting on the toilet cursing myself, among other things.''That’s India my friends. If you’re not careful, there can be consequences.''Luckily, I was all better after a day and a half (and after a few doses of Ciprofloxacin) but unfortunately, it was too late. I had missed the Taj Mahal this time around. There was no time for me to visit as we had to leave Agra early this morning for the full day journey to the Rajasthani town of Bundi.''So, while the rest of the group had a great time at the Taj, the only thing I’ll remember about our stay in Agra is that damn toilet and the significant amount of time I spent on it.''(The first photo is from an earlier visit to India when I did make it to the Taj without getting sick!)''Have you been to the Taj Mahal? Is it on your list of places you want to visit?''Why don’t more foreigners visit the city of Amritsar during their travels around India? This is a question that I have yet to understand as, in my opinion, this one city, which is located some 450 kilometers (270 miles) northwest of Delhi, close to the border with Pakistan, offers an experience that is difficult to match anywhere else in the country.''Once in Amritsar, just walk through the main entrance of the Golden Temple – the holiest temple for the Sikh religion – and try not to be blown away by the structure before you. And try not to be blown away by the beautiful mix of colors all around you as well, by the traditional music being played over the entire complex and by the happy and friendly Indians strolling along the marble walkway that surrounds the main temple, locals who are typically from the countryside and who have rarely, if ever, seen a foreigner.''These locals will ask to take photos with you, their children will shake your hand, conversations will be had and smiles will constantly be exchanged. You will feel like a celebrity and you won’t want the experience to come to an end.''Luckily, you can spend hours inside the Golden Temple without ever getting bored of the unique atmosphere, the nonstop interactions and the awe-inspiring golden shrine that sticks out into the middle of the man-made lake. You can even eat a free meal at the langar (pilgrimage dining hall) and you can also spend a night or two at one of the temple’s gurdwaras (pilgrim guesthouses).''The temple is open twenty-four hours per day and part of the highlight is seeing the complex in different shades of light and with different crowds inside, which range from thousands upon thousands of pilgrims filling up the interior to just a handful of people sitting around enjoying the peace and quiet in the late night and early morning hours.''Despite being a little out of the way when compared to other destinations in India, I don’t think I’ve ever heard anything but positive stories from travelers who do make the trip to Amritsar. And that is why I have visited this destination myself on almost all of my trips to India over the years and why I made sure to include this city on my current''Welcome to India''tour itinerary as well.''It’s also why I encourage you to make the trip to Amritsar and the Golden Temple during your own Indian adventure, whenever that trip may be!''Have you been to Amritsar? How was your experience? If you haven’t been, what do you think?''“''Really?''“''That one word is the most typical response I hear whenever I explain to a fellow traveler that I enjoy spending time in Delhi, India. And usually, such travelers throw in an “''I just don’t get it''” or “''I don’t see the appeal''” or “''Are you crazy?''” as well, finding it extremely difficult to comprehend how I could possibly like this city of thirteen million people.''I don’t know. I like Delhi. I’ve spent a great deal of time in this city over the years and it quickly became one of my favorite destinations in this country.''The Things I Do In Delhi''This is a city where I can wander through the chaotic lanes and alleys shooting off of''Chandni Chowk'', the never-ending market area in the heart of Old Delhi. It’s all about walking slow as I peer into shops selling everything that has ever been created on this planet, from wedding supplies to musical instruments to food, talking with street vendors, dodging the bicycle rickshaws and just soaking in the colorful and energetic atmosphere. Maps are not needed in these parts as one just needs to start walking and allow the adventure to unfold.''This city is also where I can duck into the''Sisganj Gurdwara'', a small Sikh Temple on Chandni Chowk. Enter the main gate, hand your shoes to the shoekeepers behind the counter, walk around to the entrance, take a seat at the back of the room and enjoy the soothing music, hypnotic praying and people-watching opportunities before you.''From here, I like to take a taxi or auto-rickshaw over to''Raj Ghat'', a most pleasant park area near the banks of the Yamuna River. This is the site of a memorial to Mahatma Gandhi and a simple walk around the premises, with a few moments of reflection in front of the eternal flame, offers a surprisingly calm experience in a city that is far more known for noise and chaos.''Luckily, this is not the only location in Delhi that offers such a peaceful experience. Jump on the metro in Rajiv Chowk, jump off the metro at Nehru Place, exit the front door of the station, turn left and walk for approximately fifteen minutes until you reach the main gate of the''Lotus Temple'', also known as the''Baha’i House of Worship''. Entrance is free and after a short meandering stroll through the gardens and a quick introduction to the Baha’i faith, given by one of the temple staff, you’ll be allowed to enter the main room/meditation/prayer hall where you can sit in complete silence for as long as you wish. In fact, you must be silent inside as no talking is allowed at all and as a result, this one room has to be the absolute quietest location in all of Delhi. It’s a wonderful, wonderful place to spend some time.''At around 4pm on any given day, hop on the metro once again and ride out to''Akshardham'', which is not only the name of the metro stop, but also the name of the 8-year old temple/cultural center that has quickly become one of the most impressive sights in Delhi and beyond. Expect long lines and a thorough security check (you cannot bring any bags, backpacks or any electronics inside whatsoever but they do have a secure cloakroom where you can leave your stuff for free) but once you’re inside the temple grounds, you’ll need at least a couple of hours to explore this magnificent sight. Why visit in the late afternoon? It allows you to experience the complex in both daylight and after sunset when the structure is fully lit up, something that will almost certainly leave you in complete awe.''Where Do I Eat In Delhi?''I’ll make this simple. Here’s a list of my favorite eating locations in Delhi.''Food Stall in Connaught Place''(M Block, Connaught Circle) – I don’t know the name but I do know that it’s located next to a fresh fruit juice stand on the outer road, among a cluster of food stalls near the old fire station. It’s painted blue and there is a man at a tiny table sitting in front. Just ask him for some food and he will ensure you get a huge plate of spiced beans and rice, with raita and vegetables, for only 40 Rupees (70 US cents). It’s delicious food and the stall is very popular with local businessmen working in the area.''Nizam’s''– The specialty is kathi kebab rolls, made of a think pan-fried bread rolled up and stuffed with any number of fillings, including egg, vegetables, chicken or mutton. I’ve been eating here ever since my first visit to Delhi back in 2001 and I go back every single time. It’s a welcoming place, always crowded and always satisfying. (Kathi kebabs range from 120 – 220 Rps each)''Vegetarian Restaurant''across from the New Delhi Train Station – there are dozens of restaurants in this area but if you enter the main lane, you’ll easily identify the restaurant in the photo below. It may look grubby but it’s been there forever, they cook every meal to order and it is consistently very tasty. They have dozens of North Indian dishes to choose from and after you finish your meal, don’t forget to have a sweet lassi from the lassi stand directly across the lane. (60 Rupees per dish)''Tadka''– It’s only been around for five years or so but this place, located in the Main Bazaar of Pahar Ganj, is about as ideal a restaurant as there is for first-time visitors to India. It’s clean, it’s friendly, the food is great and everything is prepared fresh. Try out their vegetarian thali (it comes with two veg curries, dhal, curd, bread and rice) or their Navratan Korma (one of the best I’ve had in all of India) and you’ll see why this place is often filled with travelers looking for an excellent and safe first meal or two.''Pandit Gaya Prasad Shiv Charan Paranthewala''– Located on Paranthe Wali Gali (‘the lane of parantha makers’) in the Chandi Chowk area of Old Delhi, this popular local eatery has apparently been around since 1872. You can expect a wait and once it’s your turn, you’ll have to squeeze together with other diners at one of the handful of tables. Order a parantha (pan-fried wheat bread) or two or three and you can choose to have them stuffed with cheese, peas or potatoes. You’ll also receive a couple of vegetarian curries, some chili sauce and a sweet banana sauce to dip those yummy paranthas straight into. Good stuff. (60 Rps per person)''Nirula’s''– Desert time! Now I’m not even sure if this place really serves good ice cream but when you want an evening escape from the Delhi heat and are in the mood for something sweet, head down to Nirula’s, located in the K Block of Connaught Place, right next to Sagar Ratna, a very good South Indian restaurant. Once inside, you’ll have a choice of all the typical ice cream setups (cones, sundaes, banana splits, as well as ice cream sodas, milkshakes and cakes). I often end my long days in Delhi with a Lime Fizz Ice Cream Soda and it never disappoints, nor does the laid-back atmosphere of this small hangout.''Where Do I Stay In Delhi?''There are many areas of Delhi to sleep in, but I always choose to book accommodation in Pahar Ganj, a somewhat chaotic market area directly across from the New Delhi Train Station. I personally enjoy the constant hustle and bustle (maybe not the constant noise so much), the availability of good budget hotels and the convenient location between Old and New Delhi.''Here’s where I typically stay…''Vansh Palace''– It’s cheap (400 Rupees per night), the rooms are large, if not somewhat rundown, you get a private bathroom and it’s generally quiet on this small lane. Ideal hotel for the budget-conscious as the room size is well above average for this city.''Raj’s Cozy Inn''– The room’s are smallish but this 11 room ‘inn’ is clean, offers hot water, decent beds and a friendly atmosphere, all for a reasonable price of 495 Rps (very small room) or 650 Rps (larger room).''Smyle Inn''– With two ‘wings’, rooms range from around 700 – 1050 Rupees per night. The rooms are quite decent and spacious (especially the more expensive rooms) and they come with hot water, with breakfast on the rooftop included as well. It’s a bit on the pricey side for what you get overall but it’s a reliable option nonetheless.''Hotel City Heights''– For those looking to splurge a little, for around $40 USD per night, you can get a proper hotel room in the heart of Pahar Ganj. The rooms are very large, with comfortable, proper mattresses, big bathrooms, hot water, sitting area and air-conditioning. It might not be the friendliest hotel in the city, but it’s certainly an excellent value, especially for first-time visitors.''Are you ready to give Delhi a try? If you stick to the above I’m certain you’ll have as rewarding an experience as I have each and every time I’m here. Even my group seemed to thoroughly enjoy this city, which is quite remarkable considering that, for almost all of them, it was their first two days being in this crazy country that is India.''So, don’t count this city out before you have a chance to really experience what it has to offer, to do Delhi the Wandering Earl way!''And for those who may be visiting India for the first time, it can be a good idea to use a local to help organize your airport pickup, accommodation and train tickets for the first week or so. It will certainly make your adjustment much easier. I have a personal contact –''Ajay, the owner of Truly India Travel''– who assisted me with the planning and reservations for my''Welcome to India Tour''. He’s as honest, kind and dedicated as they come and if you need anything in India, at the fairest prices imaginable, he’s your man. (Contact:''[email\xa0protected]''– tell him Earl sent you!)''Photo of Akshardham by''Swaminarayan Sanstha''Have you been to Delhi? How was your experience? For those who haven’t been, does it sound appealing to you?''When I first came up with the idea of offering a small group tour to India, one of the first things I decided was that every member of the group would receive a handful of quality ‘gifts’ at the start of the trip. Now I’m not talking about handing out balloons or buttons or coffee mugs. My goal was to seek out items that would be useful, not just for the tour, but for everyone’s future travels as well.''And so, the gang here in India, those ten bold souls who have decided to partake in this excursion, have now been armed with a few such items. As a result, off we shall all go, together, into the depths of India, into the cities, into the towns, into the mountains and into the deserts, fully prepared for the adventure ahead of us…''We shall all remain hydrated throughout the trip thanks to our Insulated Polar Bottles from''Polar Bottle''. Not only do these water bottles keep water cool, they keep water cool for a long time, even in the 85 F (30 C) heat of Delhi. They also weigh practically nothing and have a softer outer shell, making it easy to squeeze them into any extra space in your backpack.''And our path, throughout this excursion, shall always be lit, whether we are wandering through town in the dark of night, wandering around the darkness of an ancient palace or wandering around our hotel rooms trying to find the bathroom during an electricity outage. It is our compact, travel-friendly, solar-powered''Goal Zero Flashlights''that will ensure we have light at all times.''Oh the photos we shall take! Thanks to XShot, everyone on this tour will receive an''XShot Pocket camera extender''. I can’t wait to see all of the photos that this group takes over the next 19 days!''We shall each also have with us a versatile, reusable, lightweight shoulder bag from''Chico Bags''. For some the bag shall act as a day bag, for others an ideal place to keep their dirty laundry or as an eco-friendly shopping bag that can be used to carry anything and everything that is purchased during the trip without having to use plastic bags. I’ve used my bag for all three purposes so far and I’m sure I’ll find many more uses for it as well.''Speaking of backpacks…all of our packs will be secured and potential thieves shall be deterred with our strong''backpack locks from “The Club”''(yes, it’s the company famous for their car lock system) that we are using to lock our zippers shut. A simple backpack lock can make a huge difference and using such a lock is definitely worth the peace of mind when you’re in a country that involves so much bus and train travel as well as large crowds of people.''In addition, the group will enjoy internet connectivity throughout most of the trip thanks to the''mobile WiFi router''that TelecomSquare was so kind to provide for us. I simply turn the tiny device on and we’re good to go, whether at our hotel, on the train or bus or even while walking down the street. Why I haven’t carried one of these mobile WiFi routers with me before is beyond me!''Finally, I must apologize for not having responded to your comments and emails as quickly as usual over the past week or so. This tour through India is keeping me quite busy and I’ve unfortunately had a bit of a fever the past couple of days as well. But I will respond to everything as soon as I possibly can.''Have a great week!''*In exchange for a mention on the blog, the above companies kindly provided their products free of charge for the entire tour group. However, these are all products that I have personally used and that I fully believe in as I would never partner with any company that I do not trust myself.''It’s been only five days, five quick days, but already my love for incredible India has once again been re-confirmed. I wasn’t exactly sure how it would feel to be back in this intriguing nation this time around as my last visit was a somewhat distant three years ago and my life has changed a great deal since then.''Perhaps India would no longer excite me. Perhaps I would find the intensity and chaos to be too much for me these days. Perhaps I’d be better to just stick with the memories of my previous visits and not try to relive my experiences.''Those are the kind of thoughts that swirled around inside my head during the weeks leading up to my arrival, reaching the peak of their intensity mid-way through my flight to Delhi last week.''And then that flight landed and I stepped foot outside the airport where I immediately encountered that all-too-familiar sea of Indian faces waiting for arriving passengers, many holding signs, all jostling for space among the crowd, some wearing jeans, some in uniforms, others wearing a shalwar kamiz or the robe of a Buddhist monk, women wandering the area in their bright, multicolored saris, there were Sikhs and Hindus and Muslims and Tibetans and more, many were sipping cups of chai, and all of them were helping to provide a glimpse of things to come, of the brilliant adventure that awaits, for all those visitors walking out of the airport.''As I myself stood there for a moment in front of all those people, just minutes after my arrival, I took a deep breath and cracked a small smile. This first sight of India was all it took for me to realize that the bond between this country and I was still as strong as it ever has been.''Why I Love Incredible India…''Now that five days have passed, that feeling is even stronger. After all, in this short period of time, I have already been blessed by a holy man, encountered two massive elephants, not to mention cows, bulls, donkeys, monkeys and pigs wandering around the streets, found myself stuck in the middle of an impromptu festival procession, been hit in the leg by a rickshaw, interacted and enjoyed interesting conversations with dozens of locals, drank dozens of cups of chai with shop owners, hotel employees and other strangers I’ve met…''…accepted an invitation to someone’s home where I ate a supremely delicious home-cooked meal of dahl and mixed vegetables alongside a small group of Indians representing several regions of the country and several different religions as well, stuffed my face with food from my favorite roadside food stalls in Connaught Place, stepped in a huge pile of cow crap in the middle of the street, got that wonderful shave for 40 cents from the barber I’ve been to many times over the years, drank a yummy sweet lassi every day, witnessed a late-night wedding celebration in the middle of the lane near my hotel, ate fresh pomegranates and papayas, survived the crossing of several insanely busy roads (crosswalks nowhere in sight!), had a most pleasant exchange with a heavily armed soldier while at the airport, took a ride on the impressive Delhi metro and watched a parade involving traditional Indian music, chanting, fireworks and men in uniform riding around on white horses.''While some of the experiences mentioned above might seem positive and others may seem a bit on the unfortunate side of things, this is what India is all about for the traveler… non-stop exposure to a completely different way of life and to an environment that repeatedly shocks, surprises and confuses, and quite often, at the very same time, overjoys and changes the lives of foreign visitors.''And this is the India that I have loved for so many years, the India that has enticed me to return over and over again for so long, the India that, as it turns out, I still love so very much.''Thank You!''On a side note, I just wanted to give every one of you readers, as I like to do quite often, a huge thank you. Without the community that you helped create on this site, there is no possible way that WanderingEarl.com would have been named one of''TIME''magazine’s''Best Blogs of 2012''last week. So once again, I thank you.''And between that and being in incredible India with my group, this sure has proven to be one of the most memorable months of my blogging career.''Let’s hear your thoughts, good and bad, about India and please share any questions you may have about traveling to this country as well!''What a week. From Florida to Houston, back to Florida and up to New York City I went. And then I flew to India, where I am right now, sitting in my hotel room in Delhi, still in a state of disbelief about being back in this incredible country.''And in between all of the flying over the last seven days, in between my''visa run to Houston''and trying to get as much work done as possible, and in between the hundreds upon hundreds of emails, I somehow still managed to accomplish everything I set out to accomplish during my quick visit back to the US.''I spent a full morning at the beach in Florida, with my mom joining me…''before visiting with my grandmother and the always entertaining Leo, her long-time partner.''I then tried to buy a new shirt but couldn’t find anything that suited me (I decided against this one in the end).''And I sat down and organized all of the stuff I keep stored at my mother’s place.''Then, in a flash, that visit was over and I found myself walking out the door of the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi, where, immediately upon arrival in the city center, I ran around in such awe that you would have thought it was my first time here. I just couldn’t wait to…''Check into Raj’s Cozy Inn, my favorite budget hotel in Delhi…''Eat at my favorite restaurant in the city, the Hindi name of which I still don’t know…''Drink a pineapple shake from my favorite roadside shake stall…''Enjoy a wonderful shave from a barber I’ve used many times before…''Wander through the chaotic, yet atmospheric, Main Bazaar in Pahar Ganj…''And meet with Ajay, the amazing man who helped organize certain aspects of my upcoming Welcome to India tour…''Exhausted from all of that activity, I actually ended up falling asleep that first night just before 8pm, however, I was woken up at 10pm by the sound of loud drums, as one should expect to happen on any given night in this country. So I put on my clothes, went up to the roof top of the hotel, stuck my XShot out over the wall and captured a wedding celebration taking place in the lane below. And I must say that the sight of everyone dancing, of those drummers playing their music and of the smiles that this celebration brought to the faces of all those around, instantly made me realize that returning to India this year was definitely a wise decision…''(If you’re reading this post via email, please''click here''to view the video.)''In case you missed the previous two posts in this series –''The XShot: Why Every Traveler Should Carry One''&''XShot Photos & A Wacky Video From A Remote Lighthouse''– let me mention that all of the photos and the video above were taken with my trusty''XShot camera extender'', a piece of travel gear that has quickly become one of my favorite items that I carry with me on my adventures.''And my XShot has proven so useful that I honestly do believe, as I’ve stated before, that every traveler would benefit from owning one. For around $22 bucks you’ll suddenly have the ability to capture photos of yourself at all times while also being able to capture photos from angles and perspectives you never thought possible.''Thank you all for following along with this 3-month series and I hope those of you who already bought an XShot have been taking some interesting and unique photos as a result!''Not every traveler finds their experiences overseas to be rewarding and if you read enough travel blogs, you will come across posts and comments from people who were actually quite disappointed with the destinations they visited. Most of the disappointment stems from arriving in a town or city or even country that turns out to be far more touristy than anything they had imagined and as a result, they find themselves struggling to engage in authentic local interactions and local experiences, which are the type of experiences they had hoped for.''These travelers often claim to feel as if they are merely a tourist in a zoo when they arrive in such places, where the only option is to stare at locals as if they were on display and enter into interactions that exist only because of tourism. And so it is natural for some people to simply want to leave a particular region or country once they conclude that there is no way to experience anything real.''While I’ve heard people mention their disappointment with many countries around the world, one of the countries that seems to pop up more often than others in such conversations is India, the country I am flying to today, in one hour from now actually.''And this is what I sometimes read about India…''There are too many tourists. You can’t have a conversation with anyone without them trying to sell you something. Nothing is authentic.''Okay, are there crowds of travelers in India, especially in places such as Goa and McLeod Ganj and Varanasi and Udaipur? Yes, there is definitely no shortage of travelers in many regions of this country.''Does this eliminate all chance of having authentic travel experiences? In my opinion, not at all.''When we travel, the only person who decides where we go and what we do each day is us. We determine the destinations we visit, we choose the places we eat and the activities we participate in and we even choose the streets we walk down. Therefore, we also determine whether or not we end up as a tourist in a zoo or if we fill our days with the kind of local experiences we hope for.''And it’s not so difficult to make the right decisions. Even in McLeod Ganj, the small Indian town in the foothills of the Himalayas where the Dalai Lama lives, and a town that is full of foreigners almost year round, you can choose to eat in a local Tibetan restaurant instead of the German bakery or the Italian restaurant, both of which cater only to travelers. You can choose to mingle with the other travelers or you can choose to head down to the Buddhist temple and strike up a conversation with a Buddhist monk.''While it might still be disappointing to find yourself in a town that is so touristy, we must realize that we are not the only people who want to travel and the reason why so many of us flock to the same destinations is because those destinations have something to offer.''I remember the last time I was in India and I traveled to Agra with two friends in order to visit the Taj Mahal, which is India’s most visited sight. After spending a few hours at the monument, we decided to get away from all of the other travelers and so, without hesitation, we flagged down a bicycle rickshaw.  We then asked the driver to take us away from Taj Ganj, the main tourist area by the Taj Mahal, telling him to just cycle us to an area without any foreigners.''Ten minutes later we were in a random neighborhood, standing in front of a local cinema where a crowd of Indians were waiting in line to enter. We joined the crowd, went inside, bought three tickets for the next Hindi film being played and within moments, found ourselves trying to communicate with a large group of people who had never spent any time with foreigners in their entire life. We talked, we sat together in the cinema, we laughed, we watched the film, we chatted afterward while sipping chai and eating samosas. This was as local of an experience as it gets, even though we were in the most visited city in all of India.''And it took no effort at all. In fact, it’s so simple to get away from the ‘zoo’ that I’m confident there is no place on this planet where travelers would not be able to find such an opportunity.''Even when I lived in Playa del Carmen, Mexico, another major tourist and vacation destination, all it took was a short walk away from the beach for me to find myself in a local tostada eatery (like the one where I gave a demonstration on how to''stuff your face''properly) or in a cafe without any foreigners around or in a park full of local vendors selling local specialties and without a word of English being spoken.''There were even sections of the beach where I could grab a patch of white sand and spend the day among locals, without any beach bars, jet skis or beach vendors anywhere in sight.''Again, little effort required. It just took a few conscious decisions.''In addition, if we really feel that a particular destination is far too touristy to give us the kind of experiences we seek, nothing is stopping us from hopping on a bus or train and getting off at a random station, wandering into a random town, being the only foreigner around, and seeing where the adventure leads.''If we remember that it is our responsibility, not the responsibility of the destinations we visit, to create these positive experiences, then there is no reason why we should ever throw up our hands in disappointment and claim that a particular town, city or country does not offer authentic travel experiences.''Have you been to a destination where you feel it was impossible to have an authentic experience? What kind of experiences do you seek out or will you seek out when you’re overseas?''A few weeks ago, a reader of the site wrote an email asking me an interesting question. He asked me whether or not I owned anything besides what I carry around with me in my backpack. Am I a true minimalist attempting to live life with fewer than 100 possessions at all times or do I actually have an apartment or huge storage space somewhere that is overflowing with stuff?''First, let me describe what I do carry inside of my backpack. It’s basically a collection of some clothes (shorts, pants, shirts, underwear, socks), toiletries, sandals and shoes, laptop, Kindle,''Panasonic Lumix ZS20''(the perfect travel camera in my opinion), small bag of necessary chargers/wires for my devices, a travel towel, water bottle and a flashlight. Usually, the weight of my backpack hovers around 8-9 kgs (17.6 – 19.8 lbs), although, when I flew from Europe to the US last week, it only weighed 7 kgs (15.4 lbs) when I checked it in at the airport in Bucharest.''Now back to the question…does the above list consist of absolutely everything I own in life?''The answer is, “no”. I do own more than what I carry in my backpack.''While I did start traveling quite soon after graduating from university, before I had time to live in a house or apartment and collect such things as furniture and other normal household items, I have still acquired some stuff from my travels and have also held onto to certain things from my younger years. And the result is''three boxes'', all of which I keep securely stored in a closet at my mother’s house in the US.''Box #1''contains photographs from my baby years up through my childhood and all the way into my early, pre-digital camera travel days, making this one box that I’ll never get rid of.''Box #2'', which is actually a suitcase, not a box, is full of a random collection of clothes, old journals, a few books and items I’ve picked up during my adventures. These include a silver Tibetan thangka mandala painting, a Pakistani mountain blanket, several wall hangings, a Mexican hammock and an Indonesian sarong. This is the box that, if I do end up with an apartment or house of my own one day, I’ll quickly empty out in order to create my own ‘travel room’ where I can spend some time each day recalling some of the life-changing experiences I’ve had around the world!''Box #3''is the box that, every time I come back to the US for a visit, I debate whether or not to toss out. Inside of this box is folder upon folder full of old school papers, from elementary and high school report cards to kindergarten projects to university exam results, as well as old letters, several pairs of my baby shoes and a couple of basketball trophies from high school. Do I need this stuff? Nope. Is it somewhat fun to browse through my school projects every now and then, such as the very cool paper kite I made when I was in second grade? (Which I posted on my''Facebook Fan Page''a few days ago, a page that I highly recommend you ‘like’ if you haven’t done so already!) Absolutely, and that’s why I’ve yet to throw it all away and probably won’t throw any of it away for a while.''And that sums up every possession I have in life. There is no furniture, there is no car, no book collections, no plates and bowls, no television, no beach chairs, blankets or brooms, there’s no closet full of clothes, no toaster oven and not a single coaster or candle holder.''Everything I own fits into one backpack and three boxes, and I can’t imagine owning anything more at this point.''Of course, everyone’s situation is different and if you’re about to embark on some extensive travel yourself, you may want to store more than what I’ve put away in boxes, especially if you have to move out of a house or apartment before traveling. However, I will state that the less you do have in storage, the easier it is to wander around this world. Not only do you avoid having to pay monthly fees for a storage space (if you don’t have a family member or friend with a large empty corner of their basement), but you will enjoy a greater sense of freedom as well. It is mentally easier to entertain the idea of living or traveling overseas for a long period of time, and to then move around from place to place, if you don’t have to worry about what you’re going to do with box after box after box of stuff.''If you only have three boxes, there is no way for your possessions to stand between you and your travel goals.''What do you think about possessions? Do you have a lot of stuff stored? If you’re about to travel, do you plan to reduce your possessions before you leave?''This post is being written from gate A28 at the Dallas/Fort Worth Airport in Texas. And while it is true that only two days ago I traveled from Bucharest to Florida, a state which is a significant distance away from Texas, I had no choice but to head back to the airport again today.''The reason?''I had to travel to Houston in order to get an Indian visa for my upcoming trip to India, a trip which happens to start in only eight days from now.''Why did I have to travel all the way to Houston for my Indian visa?''Here’s the story…''Foolishly, over the past few months, I had assumed that the Indian Embassy in Bucharest, Romania would gladly issue me the standard 6-month multiple entry tourist visa that US citizens are able to obtain. However, when I finally went to the Embassy in Bucharest a mere three weeks ago, I was informed that I could only obtain a 3-month single entry visa. And because the validity of Indian visas begin the day your visa is issued (not the day you arrive in India), a 3-month visa would not have been sufficient for my trip.''Okay, no problem. After some quick research, I figured out that all I needed to do was apply for my Indian visa via overnight mail once I arrived back in the US. Too easy…except for the fact that, last week, after I randomly decided to call the visa outsourcing company that handles Indian visas in the US, I discovered that the visa processing time for applications sent via mail is 7-9 business days. And I was only going to be in Florida for 6 business days.''There just wasn’t enough time for me to get a visa…UNLESS…I dropped off my application in person. By dropping off the application in person, the processing time is reduced to only 1-3 business days.''While that also seems easy enough to do, the problem was that the only place I could apply in person was Houston, Texas because the Indian Consulate in Houston has jurisdiction over Florida, which is the state where I maintain an address.''And there you go. Two days after flying back from Europe, I woke up at 3:30am, took a 6:00am flight from Florida to Houston, arrived at 7:50am, jumped into a Super Shuttle van for the one hour ride to the visa office, waited an hour for my appointment, walked inside the office, handed over my paperwork, paid the fee and less than one minute after arriving, walked back out of the office, having officially applied for my visa. One more hour of waiting later and I was once again in a Super Shuttle van on my way back to Houston’s Bush International Airport where I boarded my flight to Dallas.''Now I’m in Dallas with a''two''four hour layover (my flight has been delayed) before catching a flight back to Florida where I shall arrive at 10:45pm.''So, let me break down the consequences of waiting until the last minute to apply for my Indian visa. The visa fee itself was $153 USD (in the end I opted for a 5-year visa instead of the 6-month visa) plus a $13 processing fee and a $24 charge to send my passport back to me using overnight mail. Add on my return flight from Florida to Houston and I paid a total of $553 USD. Tack on the $54 I paid for the round-trip Super Shuttle van service and I ended up paying $607 USD to get an Indian visa that should have cost me $153 bucks.''And interestingly enough, this visa screw up of mine occurred almost two exact years after I screwed up my''Syrian visa''. That was when I had assumed there was a Syrian Consulate in New York City when such a Consulate didn’t actually exist!''The lessons learned from these visa screw ups of mine?''Research''– It’s a very simple concept, I know, but if you don’t take the time to find out the visa rules, find out where you can apply, make phone calls, send emails and learn all of the details so that you are aware of your options, you could be in trouble (this applies to any country you may be visiting!).''Don’t wait until the last minute''– Absurdly simple once again, but it’s worth mentioning as you certainly don’t want to end up running around (or flying around like me) one week before your trip, especially when you already have your flights booked and can’t change your plans.''Sounds silly that I’m even mentioning these two lessons, right? However, keep in mind that even after thirteen years of travel and applying for dozens and dozens of visas, I apparently still have some things to learn myself. So hopefully this post will help us all avoid committing any visa screw ups in the future.''And here’s some resources to help you find out the visa requirements for every country in the world:''US citizens:''www.travel.state.gov''UK citizens:''www.fco.gov.uk''Canadian citizens:''Wikipedia Visa page''Australian citizens:''www.smartraveller.gov.au''New Zealand citizens:''Wikipedia Visa page''All others nationalities:''www.visahq.com''Any visa screw up stories to share? Or do you have any questions about obtaining visas?''Despite having promised myself dozens of times over the years to never book a flight, bus or train that required me to set my alarm for anything earlier than 6:00am (early morning is not my favorite time of day), I continue to fail miserably at this simple task.''So last night I tried to do something different before my early morning flight out of Bucharest. I didn’t sleep at all, instead choosing to remain awake until 3:45am, drinking glass after glass of vin fiert (boiled wine with pepper, orange slices and cinnamon) with my friends while talking about such topics as gall bladder cleanses, sales techniques and peacocks.''And then I showered, finished packing and hopped into a taxi at 4:30am, making my way to the Otopeni International Airport. Eighteen hours later, I arrived in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, feeling remarkably well-rested and energetic.''I remember almost nothing of the first leg of my journey, Lufthansa Flight 1423 from Bucharest to Frankfurt, Germany. I guess I boarded the plane at around 6:00am and I do recall exchanging a quick ‘Guten Morgen’ with the flight attendant who was greeting the passengers at the entrance to the aircraft. But after that, all I know is that I woke up when the plane hit the runaway in Frankfurt. In between, I can only assume that I did what I normally do while in such a deep sleep, which is drool all over the place. Neither my shirt nor chin were wet when I awoke but I had been asleep for so long that they probably had enough time to dry.''Still exhausted, I stumbled around the Frankfurt Airport for a couple of hours, quite surprised to find a severe lack of eating options, a mere 30 minutes of available free WiFi and terminal buildings with almost no seating at all. My hope of sitting down at a cafe and getting some work done for a couple of hours remained a mere hope as I was forced, instead, to buy a crappy sandwich and eat it while leaning up against a wall. (This airport was quite a disappointment for an airport that is Europe’s third busiest.)''As a result, I couldn’t wait for my ten and a half hour flight to Fort Lauderdale to begin, which is saying something considering that my flight was with Condor Airlines, an airline that does not suffer from a shortage of negative reviews online.''Eventually, I passed through the security check near the gate after giving a demonstration of how my''XShot camera extender''works to a security officer (he must have thought it looked like a small, yet dangerous, piece of weaponry). And after a short bus ride to the aircraft, which was parked away from the terminal building, I stepped foot onto the Boeing 767-300 that would take me across the Atlantic Ocean.''I then promptly sat down in my window seat, 31A, next to a friendly German guy, and of course, after we exchanged quick greetings, I immediately fell asleep once again.''However, when I awoke from this second nap of the day, I was a bit upset to learn that only one hour of the ten and a half hour flying time had passed, but at least there was a hot lunch sitting on my tray table, a lunch that looked far more impressive than I was expecting given those not-so-positive reviews I had read.''And yes, the lunch was quite decent and in comparison to most other airlines, it was actually well above average. (In fact, when compared to US-based airlines, this was an amazing meal!) Once the lunch ended, the many screens inside the plane began showing a movie (it was quite fitting that the first film was “''The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel''” since I’ll be in India next week), drinks were served, reading material was handed out and I was having a grand ol’ time on board.''Sure, the seats were a tad smaller than on other airlines but I can’t say it was uncomfortable at all. The staff on board were extremely friendly and helpful, snacks and two full meals were served during the flight, passengers could help themselves to drinks (non-alcoholic) at any time, the blankets were warm and the pillows comfy.''Apart from the time I was walking down the aisle to the bathroom in order to brush my teeth and ended up stepping on the bare foot of a man who was sound asleep in his seat, I’d say this flight was a complete success.''And I even got to fly over Happy Valley-Goose Bay, Canada for probably the twentieth time in my life (maybe I should visit this destination in person one of these days as I have a feeling it would be quite a ‘''middle of nowhere''‘ kind of place) and right over my home city of Boston as well, which is, at about 32,000 feet (9700 meters), about the closest I’ve come to actually being back there in about four years or so.''So that’s how it was to fly with''Condor Airlines'', an airline that is part of the Thomas Cook Group, and an airline that offers some intriguing long-distance routes around the world at fares that range from competitive to very cheap ($300 one way from Frankfurt to Fort Lauderdale). I certainly don’t have a single thing to complain about from this journey and I have no doubt I’ll be flying with them again at some point.''For now, I shall spend the next twelve days visiting family and friends here in the US before crossing the Atlantic Ocean one more time next Thursday, this time with Air India, on a direct flight from New York City to New Delhi.''Have you ever flown with Condor Airlines? Any other good airlines out there that many people don’t know about?''You want to travel, you save up some money, you buy your flight and off you go. And then, chances are, it all works out even better than you planned and you end up on the road for maybe a year or two years or even longer.''Once your initial funds were depleted, you simply found work overseas in order to save up some more money. You taught English in Asia, you picked fruit in Australia and you worked in a bar or hostel in a couple of locations in Europe.''You explored two dozen countries, you checked off many of the places on your personal ‘must-visit’ list, you met new friends all over the world and you never have even a single moment of regret about taking off on such a long-term travel adventure.''And then, one fine morning, perhaps while walking around lost in Tokyo, feeling ill in Guatemala or moments after losing your camera in Kiev, you suddenly decide that it’s time for your trip to come to an end. Standing there on that street corner, lying there in your hostel bed, waiting for your camera to magically reappear, all you can think about is getting on an airplane and going home.''It happens. And it happens to just about every long-term traveler at some point. Few people end up traveling for the rest of their lives as there will most likely come a time when travel no longer excites you as it once did. And while you will still enjoy your experiences overseas, you’re ready for a new direction, a more stable direction, a life that doesn’t involve sleeping in hostel dorm rooms, taking 20-hour bus journeys or having to live out of a backpack.''In fact, I know that a lot of people think about this scenario before they even start their adventures and I know that many people decide not to follow through with their travel dreams simply because they are afraid that when it all comes to an end they will return home lost, broke and without any options.''What If I Decide To Stop Traveling?''Readers often ask me about what will happen if/when I decide to stop traveling. They want to know what I would do if I found myself in the USA trying to return to a more traditional lifestyle. I always give the same answer, which is this:''“Right now, as I travel the world, I make sure that I am also creating something that will be useful to me even if I stop traveling one day. I am working hard to gain additional skills and knowledge and to ensure that my current streams of income are not reliant on my travels. This way, if I do return home at some point, my income won’t suddenly disappear and I’ll still be able to either find a job or create my own.”''And there’s no reason why every traveler can’t do the same.''Learn As Many Skills as You Can''Whenever you do work overseas (whether paid or volunteer), your aim should be to try and gain as many new skills as you can, skills that will help you land even more positions, both while traveling and back at home. So while it’s perfectly okay to fund your travels by working for six months, say in a cafe or a bar somewhere abroad, then spending that money on travel, then working again somewhere else and repeating this pattern over and over again, just make sure that you are benefiting from such work as much as possible.''For example, I have a friend who taught English in Thailand and during his free time he would give free conversational classes to Burmese refugees, something that allowed him to learn all about the struggles and needs of such people. Then, when my friend returned to the US after a couple of years, he was hired by an organization that helps refugees integrate into their new American community and he landed this job all because of his experience in Thailand.''Another friend of mine spent six months in India volunteering at an Ayurvedic health clinic where she also gained the skills necessary to become an Ayurvedic consultant. After receiving her certification she continued to travel around the world for another six months before returning home to France where she started offering Ayurvedic consultations, something that immediately gave her a job and an income despite having been away for over one year.''All it takes is determining what your true interests really are and then dedicating yourself to learning as much as possible. You could study massage or yoga, you could get your scuba diving certification and work as an instructor, you could gain solid experience teaching (or learning) languages, guiding tours or bartending, you could learn an instrument or polish your writing skills by creating content for local magazines and newsletters in the countries you visit or you could learn about business, health, construction, wildlife care and more by volunteering with organizations around the world.''You get the idea…learn, learn and learn some more as you travel and the more specific your focus, the better off you’ll be if/when your travels come to an end.''Create a Reliable Income''Another option is to try and create a source of income for yourself, one that, just as I’m trying to achieve, won’t disappear if you stop traveling. This does take a great deal of effort but if you don’t mind some hard work, there’s nothing stopping you from creating a website, blog or some other online project that will achieve this income goal. Having even $200 of monthly income (you don’t need to think on a grand scale at all) will certainly make a huge difference when you find yourself back at home and in need of some time to figure out how to re-join the real world.''If you can create such a business/project, you might even be able to expand upon it once your travels are over (and turn it into a full time job!) as you’ll have some extra free time to sit down and really concentrate on your ideas.''Save Some Money & Don’t Worry''Whatever you choose to do in order to ensure the transition to life after traveling is a smooth one, I do recommend saving some of the money you earn while on the road, no matter where you are in the world. As I mentioned in my earlier post about long-term travelers saving up for retirement, even if you put away a few dollars per week, you’ll create an emergency fund that can be quite useful, one that will provide a small cushion in the event that you do decide to go home at some point. And if you don’t decide to go home, well, there’s nothing wrong with having some savings that you can use whenever you might unexpectedly need more money later on in life.''But again, there is a high probability that a time will come when you will want to return home and end your travels, a time when you’ve had enough of the lifestyle and need a break, perhaps a very long break. However, that fact, and as terrifying as it might be to imagine yourself back at home, lost, broke and without any options, shouldn’t stop you from setting out into the world in the first place.''All it takes is some focus during your travels and an effort to learn new, specific skills or to gain some unique knowledge or to create a source of income that you can not only take with you all over the world, but that you can also take home and build upon, in order to ensure that your post-travel transition will be as seamless as possible.''Does it all make sense or do you still worry about what will happen when your travels come to an end?''I have made a decision. From now on, I will be spending more time in the middle of nowhere. Cities and towns have their benefits, and Bucharest has certainly''treated me well''this year, but something happened last weekend that made me realize how much I prefer to be somewhere remote, somewhere like the middle of nowhere.''During that weekend, a friend and I visited a section of the Carpathian Mountains located between the Romanian towns of Buzau and Brasov. We arrived by car and early Saturday morning we took off into the countryside, quickly finding ourselves having to navigate an endless collection of dirt roads, few of which existed on any map. As I drove, I turned left and I turned right whenever I had the urge, never knowing or caring where such a decision would lead.''We passed through and stopped at endless villages throughout the day, such isolated villages where life has apparently not changed much over the past one hundred or so years. Cars were rare, very rare, with horse- and bull-drawn carts the most common form of transport. Simple wooden homes appeared in the most surprising of places, small gardens of cabbage, of grape vines and of tomatoes sprang up from time to time and gaggles of geese and gangs of turkeys waddled around as if they ruled the land. The mountain scenery remained inspiring in every direction as we crossed narrow, rickety bridges, as we drove through narrow valleys, as we stopped for a rest or a quick chat with a local villager we happened to come across.''Perhaps it was that fresh air or those glorious mountains or the dirt roads or the infinite forests that led me to undergo such a transformation that day, or perhaps it was the quietness that surrounded me, that unbelievable stillness, or the refreshingly slow pace of life in the communities we came upon. Maybe it was the complete lack of advertisements, of shops, of restaurants, or the complete absence of just about every other possible link back to the life that I am more familiar with. Most likely, it was a combination of all of the above.''An outer shell crumbled that day, a shell around me that had contained the noise, the heavy air, the restless mind, the constant need to check my emails, the inner battles and the false satisfactions of a modern life, a life that is dictated by money, by status, by placing importance on things that really aren’t so important at all.''Out there in the middle of nowhere Romania, all I thought about was having more nature in my life, more peace and more quiet, more simplicity, more friendly people to wave to and more friendly people who will wave back at me. I wanted to continue buying fruit every day from a roadside fruit stand and I wanted to continue walking around on streets with no traffic in sight. I wanted to trade in my laptop for an axe and partake in some manual labor and I wanted to find a small house in a small village and call it my home.''Being in that remote region, to put it simply, just felt right. And not only did the calmness exist all around me, it was soon within me as well, leading me to experience an unforgettable level of relaxation that I wanted to hold onto for as long as possible.''Again, a shell crumbled that day. It crumbled as I bounced along those unmarked roads. It crumbled as I observed the changing colors of the leaves and it crumbled as I inhaled the sweet-scented ‘middle of nowhere’ air. It crumbled as I climbed a mountain behind the village of Ulmet in search of the mysterious Trovant rocks. It crumbled as I was staring out at Lake Siriu at sunset.''In fact, that shell crumbled a little more with every single blink of my eyes, and as a result, I’ve been contemplating running off, back into the middle of nowhere, ever since I returned to Bucharest. Okay, I’m sure I won’t disappear, but I certainly plan on spending more time in remote regions of the world during my future travels.''(This weekend in the countryside even gave me an idea for a new video series that I hope to start during my upcoming trip to India!)''Do you have any ‘middle of nowhere’ recommendations, either overseas or in your own country? Any amazing places to visit that allows one to be quite far from civilization?''With only 29 days left until the start of the very first''Wandering Earl Tour''– which for those who aren’t aware is taking place in India – I wanted to provide an update, not only about this first trip, but about next year’s tour schedule as well.''First, the upcoming''Welcome to India Tour 2012''is indeed sold out, with ten terrific participants ready to experience a wide range of destinations around North India during the month of November. The itinerary has been confirmed, the transportation arranged and the accommodation all booked and I personally cannot wait to meet this group of people and to begin our journey around India together!''In addition, my good friend/fellow nomad/fellow travel blogger, Anil from''FoxNomad.com'', has decided to join the India excursion as well, helping me to conduct the tour while also sharing his vast travel knowledge with the other participants. Not a bad bonus at all.''Partnership Announcement''In order for me to keep the cost of the tours I offer to an absolute minimum (where else can you get a 19-day tour of India for $875 USD?), I decided to look for a few select partners who were interested in supporting this project.''And I am happy to announce that''CheapOair.com''has become a key partner of the upcoming''Welcome to India Tour'', something that seemed like a great match for a tour that was created for budget travelers and a company that aims to offer the cheapest airfares possible.''CheapOair.com ever so kindly provided me with the flight tickets I needed to make this trip happen, which naturally helped me save money and as a result, keep the costs of the tour way down. And of course, this is an airfare search engine that I have used quite often over the years myself, as it just so happens that CheapOair.com tends to offer certain flight routes and inexpensive airfares that other search engines don’t seem to find. And any website that can do that is certainly a website I’m interested in partnering with!''The Next Wandering Earl Tour''It’s official, the next tour I’ll be offering will be…''“Wander Across Mexico”''–''March 11th – 24th, 2013''This tour will visit the states of Quintana Roo, Yucatan, Chiapas and Oaxaca, while including such destinations/activities as white sand beaches, snorkeling among sea turtles, a collection of popular and off-the-beaten-track Mayan pyramids, indigenous villages and towns, swimming in underground cave lakes, hikes to waterfalls, into rainforests and through canyons, mountaintop Aztec ruins, a diverse selection of culturally-rich cities and of course, day after day of incredible Mexican food, not to mention many ideal evenings spent with a beer (or fresh juice!) in hand, listening to the mariachi bands play their music in the central plaza of several towns. And that’s just a sample of what this tour will involve!''As for additional information such as the price and an actual detailed itinerary, stay tuned, as I will be posting more about this tour in the very near future.''However, if you want to put your name on the ‘early list’, please feel free to email me because, just like the''Welcome to India Tour'', this trip will be limited to a maximum of 10 participants.''While I haven’t finalized the other tours for 2013 quite yet, I am planning to offer trips to Turkey/Romania, Thailand and a second trip to India as well based on the requests that were made in the comments and in emails I’ve received. So, there shall be plenty of exciting destinations for next year!''And that’s the update for now…have a wonderful weekend wherever you may be…''Without a doubt, I thoroughly enjoyed my recent trip to Finland. However, I’ve been sitting here in front of my computer for a total of eight hours over the past two days trying to write more about that trip and the only thing I have is two pages of the most absurd gibberish and dribble I’ve ever put together.''Here’s an actual sample…''“''And so, after a good lunch in Turku, I sat on a bench near a nice river and sat there wondering how to find the other hidden things to make my stay even better.''”''What horrendous garbage!''While I have plenty to say about the time I spent in the small coastal town of Hanko, on the island of Kimito, in the old Finnish capital of Turku and in the inland city of Tampere, I am having great difficulty putting these experiences into coherent sentences and paragraphs. Heck, at this point, I don’t even know if I could put together a coherent two-word phrase.''Why am I finding it so challenging to write about Finland?''After exactly forty-two seconds of deep thought on the matter, I reached the conclusion that it all has to do with the fact that Finland lacks the must-see attractions, the ‘wow’ activities and the life-changing highlights that we often seek out when we choose a destination to visit.''It is infinitely harder to describe to you why I enjoyed my time in Finland so much when the list of experiences I had in that country looks so simple when written down.''And hence the gibberish.''But just because these activities look so simple, and possibly unexciting at first glance, doesn’t mean that they too cannot change ones life or at least help create a travel experience that stands out as something quite special.''I Have a Question For You''Do you think that, as travelers, we believe that a destination must have ‘something’ in order to make it a destination worth visiting? And by ‘something’ I mean a major sight or event or even just a short paragraph in your guidebook that tells you that such-and-such a destination is ‘definitely worth a 2-3 day visit’.''How else do we decide where to spend our time while traveling? We certainly don’t stop too often in the towns, cities and villages that don’t appear to offer much after we do some online research. But we must be careful if we do this, because there are destinations out there that will indeed change your life, or at least have a significant impact, even if they are rarely classified as ‘must-see’ by anyone else.''Such places include, among millions of others, Hanko and Turku and Tampere and Kimito Island. While you won’t find a two-page list of seemingly amazing highlights when reading about these destinations, if you dare to visit anyway, what you will be able to do is…''witness pristine nature, to spend an afternoon rowing a canoe around a stunning lake while surrounded by scenery that makes you realize just how beautiful this planet truly is''ride a bicycle everywhere you go, along forest paths and along quiet lakeside roads, all while exploring friendly, cozy communities that welcome you to their tiny weekend festival as if you had lived there all your life''stand on empty beaches as you inhale the therapeutic sea breeze and feel your head become infinitely clearer than it has been for a very long time''dine on such delicious local dishes, all prepared with the freshest of ingredients and served with the widest of smiles''finish the day with a trip to a smoke sauna in the woods where you chat with the locals in the 81.5 C heat and then join them outside for a quick swim in the 15 C water of the nearby lake''interact with some amazing people who live in a small island community that is so impressively dedicated to improving the lives of it’s residents as well as to offering such unique and memorable experiences to all visitors''purchase fresh fruit from a roadside stall right in front of the farm, where you simply take what you want and leave the money in a jar (not many places left in the world that work on the honor system!)''travel around an archipelago by ferry, talking with the captain throughout the journey as he gives you a first-hand account of life in this remote island region''stroll along beautiful rivers, wander through local markets and visit interesting museums that you wouldn’t ordinarily visit''find yourself invited to and genuinely welcomed at the opening of a new art exhibit even though you’re in jeans and a t-shirt and everyone else is in suits or evening gowns''meet an endless stream of locals who will go out of their way to ensure your visit to their hometown is as perfect as possible''I’m not sure what you think of the above activities. Maybe you find them to be interesting, maybe not. For me, these are the activities that contributed to the success of my trip to Finland, and even thinking about them right now makes me quite nostalgic (and the trip only finished two weeks ago!).''So, now that you see how I spent my time during that trip, I say, look beyond the ‘must-see highlights’ that we so often seek out. Go out into the world and visit countries, cities, towns, islands and villages that don’t get as much attention, that don’t have the huge write-ups telling you that you must see this destination before you die.''That’s how I ended up in Finland and that’s how I plan to organize many of my future trips as well.''*Before I go, I’d like to thank the following for making my time in Finland so memorable:''Pekka and Liisa from''Hiking Travel''(great people, great kayak tour in Tampere)''Michel from''E.A.T. Tampere Tours''(excellent biking/sauna excursion around Tampere)''Ville and his team at the incredible''Dream Hostel''in Tampere''The staff of''Laivahostel Borea''in Turku (located on an old cruise ship)''Hotel B8''in Hanko (an old police station turned into a hotel)''Alan’s Cafe''(as good as it gets – food, atmosphere, hospitality!)''Saija Huhtiniemi for showing me around Turku''Leena Immonen for the bicycle tour of Hanko''Joakim from''Sun Fun Ferry''(based out of Hanko)''Daniel from''Wilson Charter''(ferry company based out of Rosala)''Every single person I met on beautiful''Kimito Island''!''Do you only seek out destinations that offer must-see sights or attractions? Or do you look for places that are not necessarily ‘must-see’?''You’re a no good, life-wasting, rotten, monkey-loving, responsibility-avoiding, useless, bum. That’s right, if you choose to avoid the normal routine in life and replace it with travel, whether for a few months, a year or even a decade or more, you’re a bum, without exception.''When we voice our desire to travel, it is unfortunately common to be met with such lines, something that I’ve been reminded of lately after receiving six emails in the past three days from readers who are dealing with such a situation right now.''As soon as they informed their family and friends of their decision to choose a path in life that truly excites them, a path that involves travel, they immediately were told that such a decision is simply not acceptable, such a decision is a waste of time and extremely childish. They were told to stop daydreaming and to start thinking about the real world, just like everyone else.''Maybe you’ve heard similar words from those around you every time you talk about your travel goals. Maybe you haven’t heard talk as intense as the lines above, but it’s likely that at least a handful of people have stared at you blankly, laughed off your dreams as nonsense or demanded that you ‘snap out of this phase’.''And every time we are met with such negativity, that all-encompassing, blissful excitement we feel whenever we close our eyes and think about our upcoming adventures around the world, suddenly disappears, vanishes in an instant…ZAP! Then, with head down, and a hint of tears in our eyes, we spend the next few days confused, frustrated and no longer certain that travel is such a good idea after all.''Let me tell you this. If you close your eyes right now and think of travel, and a smile forms on your face and you feel a surge of positive energy spread throughout your body, then travel is definitely a good idea for you.''Don’t let others dictate your life or influence what you know in your heart is the right decision. I know it’s not easy to ignore such negative reactions, but you must push forward.''Boy Was I Naive!''When I first started traveling and I made the decision back in 2000 to turn my 3-month trip into a more''permanent adventure'', one of the first things I did was to naturally inform my family and friends. However, at the time, I was definitely quite naïve as I had expected everyone to congratulate me on such a wonderful idea (even though I had almost no money and no plan at all), to offer their full support, to wish me the best with the path I now chose.''Of course, that didn’t happen at all. Instead, I found myself listening to people tell me that I’m wasting my life, that I didn’t go to university in order to roam around the world doing nothing. There were heated arguments, angry exchanges and more confusion than I have ever experienced at any other point in my life. Many a night I would stay awake, questioning whether or not I was making the right decision to remain overseas and not return home to get a normal job. I was feeling so lost that on several occasions, I was completely on the verge of packing up my backpack, giving up on my goals and booking a flight home.''But then, I would step outside in the morning and proceed to have yet another rewarding travel day, the kind of day so full of positive interactions and lessons, amazing food and amazing people, so full of  new sights and sounds and moments that I never dreamed I would experience, that I again became convinced that a life of travel was indeed the right decision for me.''Eventually, after so many of these kind of days, I chose to ignore forever all of the people who told me that I was wasting my life. Sure enough, once I took this big step, my confusion and frustration soon turned to confidence, a confidence that began to increase with every passing day. And while I still had no idea what lay ahead, the fact that my decision to continue my travels felt infinitely better than any other decision I’d ever made, was more than enough to convince me that I would find a way to succeed.''Does This All Sound Familiar?''If you’re in a similar situation, feeling lost at the lack of support your travel goals have received from those around you, just know that you are not alone. It’s common for those around us, especially those who care about us, to worry about the decisions we make, most often when our decisions are so different from theirs.''People will tell you that you’re just confused or that your goals are impossible and that you need to come back to reality. They’ll tell you to stop being selfish, to stop daydreaming and to get a regular job because that’s what people do.''But again, if you know deep down that you must travel, just as I knew it, then you need to go forth and travel, regardless of what others think. You won’t be wasting your life, you won’t be avoiding responsibility. You’ll be achieving your goals, living a life without regrets and in the end, giving yourself an opportunity to create an actual, sustainable lifestyle that revolves around your truest interests.''That’s certainly not being a bum. That’s being smart, that’s being courageous, that’s making the absolute most out of your short time on this planet.''How did others react to your travel plans? If you haven’t told anyone yet, are you nervous about how they might react?''Welcome to the second post of my “XShot Series”, a series that involves the display of photos and videos that I have captured with my new favorite piece of travel gear, my''XShot camera extender''. As you might have read in the''first installment of this series'', I use my XShot everywhere I go, both to take photos of myself and friends and to take advantage of the unique angles it allows for, and almost every time I pull it out of my backpack, several people, both travelers and locals alike, come over to watch how it works.''And whenever someone does ask me about it, all I do is give them a quick, simple response – “''Just get one!''”''Video: All Alone at a Remote Lighthouse''Everything below is from my recent trip to Latvia, Estonia and Finland and I’m going to start with''a video that I filmed during my stay at the Bengtskar Lighthouse''in the Gulf of Finland, a video that actually shows what happens to the mind when you’re in such an isolated location. And without my XShot, creating such a video would not have been possible at all…enjoy!''(If you’re reading this post via email, please''click here''to watch the video.)''XShot Photos: Latvia, Estonia & Finland''Stick your camera outside your hotel window and capture a different view of the street. (Riga, Latvia)''Your panoramic city views just got better because you can be in them…just try to avoid being in the shade! (Riga, Latvia)''Rise above the crowd at a local festival you happen to discover during your wanderings. (Pispala, Finland)''Take a photo of your hostel room, a photo that you would not be able to take without an XShot. (Helsinki, Finland)''Want a unique shot of a street performer and the crowd watching him? It’s a done deal! (Helsinki, Finland)''Another city, another Cathedral viewing platform…but the XShot gives you a completely different photograph. (Tallinn, Estonia)''When you meet up with an old friend, you’ll now have unique photos to help keep the memories fresh. (Tallinn, Estonia)''Show everyone back home that you are capable of rowing a canoe with the best of them. (Tampere, Finland)''Enjoy dressing up as a Viking every now and then as well? Sure you do, and it’s nothing to be ashamed of. (Rosala, Finland)''Stick your camera through an opening in the wall of an old match factory…who knows what you’ll find below? (Tampere, Finland)''When meeting new friends, you’ll have new angles to remember them by, even the ones who don’t smile. (Tampere, Finland)''Spending the night at a remote lighthouse? Don’t forget to look down as you climb the stairwell to the top! (Bengtskar Lighthouse, Finland)''Pretty darn cool, right? And it’s all thanks to my XShot.''All I can say now is, “Just get one!”''Versions available:''Pocket XShot''and''XShot 2.0''*This post is sponsored by''XShot LLC''. I approached them about working together because I really believe their products are quite useful and since I only recommend items that I use and love myself, I felt that this partnership was a natural match.''After recently spending three days in Helsinki, Finland, and luckily discovering that a visit here doesn’t have to be as prohibitively expensive as I once imagined it to be, I thought I would take you on a tour of Helsinki right here on the blog.  First, I must admit that this is not exactly a city that immediately appears to offer a great deal for travelers. You do have to work a little harder here to uncover the activities and experiences that will ensure each day is a rewarding one.''But there’s certainly nothing wrong with a little extra work and hopefully, after the excursion we’re about to embark on, you’ll agree that Finland’s capital city is a city worth visiting.''So, let’s begin this tour of Helsinki, or Helsingfors as it is called in Swedish (Finnish and Swedish are Finland’s two official languages)….''A Place to Stay''You’ll need a place to stay, and if it were me, I would definitely check into the''Erottajanpuisto Hostel'', located right on Uudenmaankatu in the center of the city, where dorm rooms cost 27 Euros (it’s a normal price for Helsinki) and private rooms start at 54 Euros. It’s a comfortable, classic hostel that offers great value and a more-than-ideal location, which is a combination that is as attractive as it gets for budget travelers.''Töölö, Cinnamon Buns & 600 Pipes''Once you throw down''your backpack''or rolling suitcase or whatever you choose to travel with, it’s time to head outside and start walking along Annankatu towards the Töölö neighborhood and the''Sibelius Park''. It will take you around forty-five minutes or so and you’ll probably get lost, but that’s alright. Feel free to ask anyone on the street for directions as almost everyone speaks English quite well.''The park itself is an ordinary park, but its main, and quite popular, attraction is the''Sibelius Monument'', a monument dedicated to composer Jean Sibelius. To me, this monument, consisting of more than 600 pipes, looked like a bunch of uninspiring pipes and not much else, however, I most certainly enjoyed sitting on a park bench watching busload after busload of tourists gather around the thing, nodding their heads in approval and snapping dozens of photos as if they had waited their entire life to see this monument with their own eyes.''Once you’ve taken your photos of other people taking photos of the pipes, stand up and continue across the park, heading towards the water about 200 meters away. Cross the street, walk onto the foot path and turn left, which will leave you facing a small red shack with the word “Cafe” painted on the side. Go there. It’s called the''Regatta Cafe''. Order a coffee and a freshly baked cinnamon bun, an order that will set you back a very reasonable 4 Euros, and then take a seat at one of the small wooden tables outside, right on the water. Of course, you should only visit the''Regatta Cafe''if you actually like freshly baked cinnamon buns. However, if you don’t enjoy the miracle that is a freshly baked cinnamon bun, I’m not so sure I want you as a reader of this site.''From the''Regatta Cafe'', it’s time for a long hike, one that takes you across the rest of Töölö and over to the''Hakasalmenpuisto Par''k, where you’ll encounter plenty of foot and bike paths surrounding the Töölönlahti Lake. Walk either clockwise or counter-clockwise around the lake, the choice is yours, until you reach the foot bridge on the other side.''Kallio – My Favorite Neighborhood''Walk across the bridge, which takes you over the train tracks leading out of the city, and just like that you’re in the Kallio area, a neighborhood classified as “enjoyably groovy and hip”, by, well, me, a conclusion I was surprised to actually reach considering that I am neither groovy nor hip.''Now prepare yourself. Tighten your shoelaces, re-buckle your belt, crack your neck and gargle some salt water. This neighborhood is quite full of things to do and you’re going to be busy for the next few hours.''Feel free to tackle the following in any order you wish…''Eat lunch in the 100-year old''Hakaniemi Market Hall'', with a collection of food stalls on the first floor serving up inexpensive, yummy Finnish meals and treats to a hungry lunch-time crowd.''Wander through the open-air flea market in the small''Karhupuisto Park''(Bear Park) or if that’s not operating during your visit, head over to the''Valtteri Flea Market'', the biggest year-round flea market in the city. Apparently, the quality of goods at Finnish flea markets, and Helsinki in particular, is significantly better than what you might expect from the typical Calven Klain shirts and Raye Ban sunglasses found in most flea markets.''Walk north along Broholmsgatan, the longest street in the center of Helsinki (it’s not very long) until you reach the strange piece of artwork in the middle of the road with the Kallio church behind it.''Pull out this''map of Helsinki''and choose among second-hand and vintage shops, cozy pubs and cafes, historic warehouses, local design shops and a coffee roastery for the next stage of your wanderings.''Finally, when you’ve had enough of Kallio and its surroundings, just walk over the Pitkäsilta Bridge back towards the heart of the city center…''Historical Buildings & Hidden Courtyards''Keep walking south and you’ll soon end up in''Senate Square'', where you’ll find a large, open space surrounded by the Government Palace, National Library, main building of Helsinki University and the huge white Helsinki Cathedral, all built during the early- to mid-19th century.''Then, and this step is only for those who work online and find themselves twitching uncontrollably because they haven’t checked Twitter or their email for a few hours, you can walk into any of the dozen or so Wi-fi-connected cafes around the Senate Square. Order a drink, sit down at a table, fire up the laptop (which you’ve been carrying around with you all day just in case you couldn’t handle being disconnected for an entire twelve hours) and spend an hour or two working, or more likely, pretending to work while you mess around online.''Okay, whether your take a work break or not, by now it should be around mid-afternoon and it’s probably a little late to try catching a ferry to the''Suomenlinna Sea Fortress'', located on a series of islands just fifteen minutes by boat from the harbor down the road. The fortress is absolutely worth a visit and I’ll certainly write about it in the near future but we’re tired right now and we don’t have much time today, so let’s visit the fortress tomorrow instead.''For now, let us proceed along the street known as''Snellmaninkatu'', but as you do, please make sure you keep your head up and your eyes open wide. Hidden behind the buildings, inside of the mini-courtyards and empty basements, you’ll often find a variety of events taking place such as markets, music performances, art exhibitions and more. You never know what you’ll discover and while you might not walk into random courtyards at home, it’s perfectly acceptable, and even encouraged, to do so in this area of Helsinki.''Market Square & Expensive Blueberries''And at the end of this street, once your courtyard explorations are finished, you’ll run straight into the''Market Square'', a dense group of booths and stalls selling fruits, handicrafts, baked goods and hot meals that is located right on the water by the ferry port. This is where you’ll want to walk around shaking your head in disbelief, and quite possibly suffer from a very real case of shock, as you notice the exorbitant price of fruit in this country (4 Euros/kg of bananas!). This is also where you’ll debate whether or not you should buy a hand-painted bird sculpture for 75 Euros.''Once you’ve either spent all your money or regained consciousness, you may head west along the Esplanade, walking through the well-manicured''Esplanade Park''that sits in the middle of this wide avenue. You’ll pass cafes, restaurants and hotels all the way until you reach the intersection with Erottajankatu, which is only a couple of blocks away from your hostel and marks the end of this excursion.''Time To Eat & Sleep''Of course, if you’re hungry, then it would be a wise idea to walk over to''Fafa’s Falafel''at this point, where you can pick up a fresh, tasty falafel sandwich – think falafel, goat cheese and pesto! – for about 8 Euros. Fafa’s is only one block away from the hostel but even if it was 200 blocks away, I would still recommend it!''Then, with belly full, and your eyes most likely having a difficult time staying open, it’s time to crawl back to the Erottajanpuisto Hostel, where you’ll be welcomed by the friendly staff and a comfortable bed.''And be sure to rest because tomorrow you’re off to the Suomenlinna Sea Fortress, not to mention a whole bunch of museums and botanical gardens as well as taking a bicycle trip along the coast!''Tired? Me too. Have you visited or do you want to visit Helsinki and the rest of Finland? Any questions about the city?''Having just woken up from a night’s sleep on my rock bed inside the cave where I am now staying, a remote cave far, far away from any civilization, I think I’ll head outside for a walk. Of course, since I woke up alone, as I always do, I’ll just wander down to the river by myself, sit down on the grassy riverbank, toss small stones into the cool water and become lost in my thoughts.''Chances are I won’t even speak today, but that’s alright, because I’m used to it. Rarely do I meet or talk to anyone during my wanderings, no matter where I am. The truth is, a life of travel requires me to accept an isolated, lonely existence, and nothing else.''Sure, it would be nice to have a companion, a partner, a girlfriend, someone to share my wanderings and my life with. But again, that’s just not possible with this kind of lifestyle. When you travel the world non-stop, there is simply no room for personal relationships, no room for love. My backpack is the only partner I can have, and the only partner I need.''Wait, wait, wait…hold on a minute. I must apologize.''You know, I am constantly asked how I can possibly live such a lifestyle, one that gives me zero chance of having a relationship with someone else. I think I’ve heard this question so many times that I started to believe it myself as I began writing this post.''It seems that when many people hear that I’ve been traveling for thirteen years, they quickly assume that I must be some sort of wandering monk or maybe just some kind of weirdo who walks around alone, barely speaking, rarely interacting with other people and absolutely never having any type of relationship or gettin’ any lovin’ at all. They think I must be a hermit.''Well, surprise! I’ve actually had a few long-term relationships over the years (more than 1 year in length) and I’ve had some shorter relationships as well. I’m meeting new people all of the time, and yes, I do talk to and socialize with them, just as non-nomadic people talk to and socialize with each other. Also, as is the case with everyone else on the planet, I never know where such interactions may lead. Sometimes, ‘something’ happens. Some of the people I meet become friends, others become girlfriends and with some, we might exchange a smooch or two and then carry on with our own lives. And maybe one day, someone I meet will become a lifelong partner. It’s certainly possible and I’m open to the idea.''Not very hermit-like of me, I know.''As you may have noticed, though, the one thing I don’t talk much about on this blog is this very subject, my personal relationships. I’m more than happy to talk about''my armpit shaving''and introduce you to''my rubber ducky'', but I do prefer to keep at least one aspect of my life all to myself. Again, this doesn’t mean that I’m a lonely, lover-less traveler, at least not all the time.''So Many People To Meet!''If you’re worried that following your travel goals will force you to give up any chance whatsoever of finding a boyfriend, girlfriend, husband or wife, my advice is to stop worrying. In fact, you should be quite excited because your travels will allow you to meet new people all over this great planet, people you otherwise would have never encountered. And you never know if the next person you’ll meet in some faraway, or even nearby, land will be the snuggle bunny or sexy sweet thang you’ve been waiting for.''My theory is that I have a higher chance of finding someone I can truly connect with if I am doing something that I truly love in life. Following my goals puts me into situations where I am able to meet like-minded people all the time, such as other travelers and locals interested in meeting foreigners, something that would be much more difficult to do if I was living in one particular town or city back in the USA.''Can Such a Relationship Last?''This is another common question – how is it possible to maintain a relationship while traveling?''If you do find someone that you connect with and want to spend more time with, you just have to examine your situation. If both of you have a desire to travel, then off you go into the world together. If your new partner is not able to travel or doesn’t want to travel, it’s decision time. You simply have to determine what is more important to you – spending time with this new person or carrying on with your journey. It might not be an easy decision to make, but ultimately, you will find the answer if you search deep enough.''As an example, maybe you travel to South America for three months and during your third week you meet the man or woman of your dreams in Buenos Aires. What to do? You could always postpone your travels, especially if you’re flexible and don’t''organize too much in advance''. You could stick around Buenos Aires for some time and see where the relationship leads. Maybe it will work out. Maybe it won’t. If it doesn’t, you move on and continue traveling. If it does, you stay with your partner and create new plans together.''And besides, if you do find someone who you really think is a perfect match for you, then chances are your entire mindset will change (which happens often in life anyway). You’ll reevaluate your goals and make changes to your life accordingly. You might not want to travel so much anymore if that means losing your new honey, baby, sweetie, darling, angel eyes, pumpkin, stud, pooh bear, cupcake, buttercup, sugar lips, booberry, dumpling, daddy mack or love muffin.''Even I, despite being so completely addicted to travel, would change my lifestyle if I found the perfect love muffin.''What’s your opinion? Do you think travel makes it harder to find a partner?''While Riga, Latvia, as you might have read last week, was a most''pleasant city to visit'', it would seem only natural that my stay in Tallinn, Estonia would be described similarly. After all, the main focus of the city center is the Old Town, yet another collection of cobblestone streets and pastel colored buildings.''However, I shall not use the word ‘pleasant’ to describe my time in Tallinn – a tiny capital city of only 450,000, located in a tiny country of only 1.5 million people – because despite its miniscule size, this city managed to not only keep me extremely busy throughout my stay, it managed to keep me intrigued and excited, and always wanting to see and do more, as well.''And even though I was only in Tallinn for three days and three nights, the fact that I was barely in my hotel room at all made my stay seem significantly longer and my visit significantly more rewarding than such a short stay usually allows.''I did have one particular advantage though. A good Estonian friend of mine, whom I met while''working on board a cruise ship''(she was a photographer on the ship), happens to live in Tallinn. So each day she just led me all over the city to places she felt that I, a foreign visitor, would enjoy the most and then, when she had to go to work, she gave me her personal recommendations of what I should do on my own.''No Shortage Of Things To Do In Tallinn''During my stay, I visited a variety of museums such as the''Estonia History Museum'', the''Museum of Occupations''(very informative exhibits about Estonia’s history under Soviet and German occupation) and the''Kiek in de Kok Museum''(located in an artillery tower), each with their own unique style but each offering such an interesting and interactive experience that I not only learned a great deal, but actually remembered what I learned once I stepped foot back outside. To put it simply, these are museums that are well worth visiting even if you don’t normally enjoy museums.''Another great activity involved climbing the spire of St. Olav’s Cathedral, up the several hundred steps to the viewing platform that naturally offered unbeatable views of the Old Town below…''Of course, all of that climbing builds an appetite, and when I mentioned to my friend that I was hungry, she immediately took me to''Kompressor Pancake House'', one of her favorite restaurants. Inside this simple restaurant one will find a large menu consisting of a couple dozen types of pancakes, both salty and sweet. Oh my what amazing pancakes! Not only are they huge in size and absolutely delicious in taste, they are also cheap – very cheap for Tallinn – at around 3 – 4 Euros each, making them ideal for any visitor.''Once full, I went back outside and roamed the Old Town, with, as I mentioned above, it’s typical Old Town maze of cobblestone streets, pastel buildings, churches, medieval towers and city walls. However, despite initial appearances, this Old Town is not so typical. It has such a lively, positive energy that is often missing from such historical areas, and that energy even remains when the rain is falling and the wind is blowing on a cold autumn day. Whether I was walking along Vene or Pikk Streets or down random lanes and alleys or around Toompea Hill, there was an extra bounce in my step as I was constantly looking forward to what and who I would encounter around every corner.''Of course, once the rain and wind and cold became too much, my friend would take me into one of Tallinn’s cafes, such as the''Kerhwieder Cafe''near the main Raekoja Square, with it’s homemade chai and cozy rooms to sit down and warm yourself up in.''There was also the''Must Puudel''(the Black Poodle) which quickly became one of my favorite cafes, not just in Tallinn, but on the planet. It might have had something to do with its superb, homemade hot chocolate and fresh pies and cakes, but the atmosphere also played a role, from the laid-back warmth of the living room area to the peacefulness of the garden out back. If you go to Tallinn, go to the Black Poodle, eat there, drink there, relax there…and don’t be shy either. It’s an ideal place to meet local Estonians who often come here to hang out in the afternoons and evenings.''After coffee and cake, my friend would usually take me around town some more, along the old city walls, down to the harbor, over to the Kadriorg neighborhood to have a look at the wooden houses, through Freedom Square and into some of Tallinn’s unique and local design shops, of which there are many.''Other places we visited that I can highly recommend include''St. Patrick’s Bar & Restaurant''which serves creative, delicious and inexpensive cuisine (the meal I ate there was the best I had in Tallinn), and the very relaxed, friendly and cheap Levist Valjas, a local bar near St. Olav’s Cathedral, with no sign outside at all, only a red light above the door that does not entice passersby to enter (which is probably on purpose). But you should enter anyway!''Apart from that, just walk down every street in the Old Town, pop into every museum you come across, find all of the city gates, head down to the ferry port to watch the dozens of ships coming and going, get lost as usual, go to the spa for a sauna and swim and at night, you should of course party with the locals (there is no shortage of bars and clubs to choose from).''And then, before you know it, you’ll have to pull yourself away from this city in order to head off to your next destination. However, I’m quite certain that you’ll have as difficult of a time saying goodbye to Tallinn as I did just last week.''Tip For Tallinn:''Visitors can purchase a “''Tallinn Card''” which basically gives you free admission to museums and other sights while also entitling you to discounts at cafes, restaurants and some shops. A 24 hour card costs 24 Euros and if you visit four or five places in one day, this card is an excellent value.''Have you been to Tallinn? Any interest in visiting this small city and country?''For the most part, the type of accommodation I mention on this site is usually hostels, which would make sense considering that over the years, this is exactly the kind of budget accommodation that I have preferred.''However, that does not mean that it is the only type of accommodation I use and these days, I actually find myself using hostels less and less. Don’t get me wrong though. I think hostels are an absolutely ideal option and without them, a significant portion of the travelers out there in the world simply would not have been able to afford their lengthy adventures, myself included.''It’s hard to beat the cheap bed in a social setting that such hostels can offer.''With that said, at some point during your travels there will undoubtedly be a moment, or several moments, when you really wish you were staying somewhere else, maybe at a hotel. You start to crave a large room just for you (or just for you and your friend/travel companion). You want a private bathroom. You want to step away from all of the interacting with other travelers for a while.''And a hotel accomplishes all of this, except for the fact that they are typically more expensive than a hostel, which is not an insignificant factor when you’re traveling on a budget. So, unwilling to spend so much money, our dreams of a hotel room all to ourselves often remain just that, dreams.''You Can Afford a Hotel Room''When I first started traveling, I remember meeting experienced travelers who would always tell me that it’s a good idea to splurge on a nice hotel room every now and then in order to maintain my sanity. However, I never did that, instead choosing to stay in hostels everywhere I went for years on end. I just didn’t want to spend money that I didn’t need to spend and always preferred to keep that extra cash and use it for something more important to me.''It was not until about five years ago when I realized that staying at a good hotel did not actually require me to splurge at all and that, many times, it would cost just a few more dollars than I was spending for a dorm room at a hostel. And while this is not the case all over the world, it is true for many countries, even some surprising ones.''On my current trip around the Baltic region of Europe, for example, I have so far visited two countries, Latvia and Estonia, and in each, I ended up staying at a hotel.''Now these were not the fanciest of hotels by any means, but they were not run-down, bug-infested establishments either. In each case I had a nice spacious room, my own bathroom, a large buffet breakfast included, views of the city from my windows and a mattress that made it remarkably easy to sleep well at night.''And I received all of this for what I would consider very reasonable and non-bank breaking prices. In Riga, Latvia, I stayed at the wonderful 3-star''Hanza Hotel''for 40 Euros per night and in Tallinn, Estonia, at the convenient''City Hotel Portus''which offers rooms for 29 Euros per night.''The other thing to consider is that, while I was traveling alone in these two countries, if you’re traveling with someone else and you split that cost, it really is just a fraction more expensive than a hostel. In Riga, the average price for a dorm bed in the five most highly rated hostels on''Hostelbookers.com''is 14 Euros per person per night. That’s 28 Euros for two people, a mere 12 Euros cheaper than a well-appointed, proper hotel room.''So, because hotels are much more affordable than I once thought, do I now stay in hotels all the time? Not at all, and in fact, I’m quite looking forward to the hostels I’m about to stay at during my visit to Finland. (I’m actually writing this post from the M/S Star, the''Silja Lines ferry''that is taking me from Tallinn, Estonia to Helsinki, Finland this morning.)''I do still prefer the hostel atmosphere much of the time and if I don’t feel the need for my own hotel room, I figure that I might as well save a few dollars each night.''The only difference is that now that I’ve traveled for quite some time, I do agree with all of those experienced travelers I met during my younger years. An occasional splurge is indeed important for a traveler’s sanity. It does help reduce the risk of getting burnt out by the constant moving around from hostel dorm room to hostel dorm room when you sometimes just need a break and want your own space.''And when a splurge doesn’t actually require you to empty your bank account and proves to be just a little more expensive than you’re used to spending for accommodation each night, there’s no reason at all to avoid the occasional therapeutic stay at a nice hotel.''I certainly wish I had realized this myself when I first started traveling.''Do you “splurge” every now and then? Have you considered staying at hotels on your travels?''Only one word enters my head when I think of the time I just spent in Riga, Latvia. And that word is ‘pleasant’. I’ve tried, but that’s the only word I can use to describe it, so much so that originally, this post was just going to say “Riga is pleasant” and nothing more.''Of course, my inability to describe this Baltic city more thoroughly might have something to do with the fact that I only spent an embarrassingly short two nights and two and a half days in Riga. More time is obviously needed in order to get a proper feel for a particular destination.''But alas, I shall write about the experiences I did have in those short 60 hours, simple experiences that once again, led me to reach the profound conclusion that Riga, Latvia is….pleasant.''To The Old Town We Go…''During my first full day in the city, I walked out of my hotel (''Hanza Hotel''– highly recommended 3-star hotel that can be as little as $20 per person!) and headed west along Pragas Iela, which led me straight into the medium-sized Central Tirgus (Central Market). As one would expect from pretty much any market on the planet, the stalls were full of fruits, vegetables, clothing, meat, fish and baked goods. I bought two peaches, enjoyed the pleasant aroma of freshly baked pastries and then moved on, pushing my way through a crowd gathered around two medics trying to lift up what appeared to be a very inebriated homeless man lying in the middle of the road.''After crossing over the Daugava River and passing the International Bus Terminal, I popped down into an underground passageway and then, after choosing the wrong exit the first time around, finally popped back up on the other side of the intersection, right on the edge of the Old Town.''A few steps later and I was standing among the colorful collection of restored historical buildings, which happens to contain the largest collection of German Art Nouveau architecture on the planet, a fact that, when read carefully, is quite a pleasant fact indeed. (Riga had a large German population until the Nazis arrived and sent them back to Germany.)''So the first thing I did once in the Old Town was to trip on the rough cobblestone street, not once and not twice, but three times in a span of about thirty seconds, simply because I was looking up at the buildings and not watching where I put my feet.''Once that bout of clumsiness was over and I figured out how to walk again, I proceeded to spend several hours in this part of the city, just walking, turning left and turning right, choosing random streets and lanes and just seeing where it would all lead me.''I came upon the St. Peter’s Cathedral, where I took the elevator up to the observation deck for some mighty pleasant views of the city, and I found Town Square, Cathedral Square and the Riga Castle. I went into the Museum of the Occupation of Latvia and the House of Blackheads and I visited the Swedish Gate and The Three Brothers, the oldest homes in Riga. For three and a half hours I roamed.''Not having a map was a great idea as getting lost in the Old Town is probably the best thing a traveler can do. It’s probably the only way to find such places as the Ligitas Gardumi cafe, located down a tiny lane (as wide as my wingspan) that appeared to be completely empty and uninteresting. But when I entered the door of the cafe, I was greeted by a cozy place in a most pleasant setting, where I ate the most pleasant mushroom quiche I have ever eaten.''After this midday quiche break, I continued my wandering, walking along the northern edge of the Old Town, eventually coming across the Freedom Monument and its surrounding parks, right near the Powder Tower and the intersection where I sat down on a stoop without looking down first and ended up sitting in some fresh bird poop.''And that’s the moment when I decided to return to my hotel room for a rest.''Beyond the Old Town''In the evening, I ventured back outside again, fully intent on walking the 1.5 kilometers to the Lido Recreation Center, a complex in the opposite direction of the Old Town that houses one of Riga’s most popular restaurants, a restaurant that everyone I know who has any connection at all with Riga had recommended I visit. And since the restaurant is located on somewhat of a highway/major road, I figured that I would take the back streets to get there.''As you might imagine, taking the back streets is often a great option, however, I soon discovered that it is sometimes not such a great option if you don’t know the area and have never been on those back streets before. After walking for twenty minutes, I found myself in an unpleasant neighborhood, one with plenty of broken windows in the dilapidated Communist-era buildings, plenty of homeless men following me around and more than enough groups of rough-looking teenage boys drinking beer and staring at me.''Eventually, after trying to find a way out of this area, I ended up cornered by some tram tracks, a dark tunnel, a graffiti-filled wall and another suspicious group of teenagers, and I had no choice but to give up the idea of eating at the Lido Restaurant.''Oh well, so it goes.''Turning around, I looked for the massive spire of St. Peter’s Cathedral far off in the distance and started walking towards it, never before so happy to be going to church. I didn’t actually make it to the Cathedral though as I decided to turn onto Krisjana Barona Street and visit the neighborhoods to the north of the Old Town instead.''And this proved to be a solid decision as I met two nice university students in one of the parks who offered to quickly show me around the Art Nouveau Quarter, a neighborhood along Elizabetes and Alberta Streets that is home to several interesting buildings created by an architect named''Mikhail Eisenstein''. The two students showed me the pleasant area, we chatted for a while and then they recommended a local restaurant where I could get a nice, sorry, pleasant, dinner.''That was it. After saying goodbye to my ‘tour guides’, I went to the restaurant they recommended and I sat down for a simple local meal. And as I sipped my beer, okay, my pleasant beer, waiting for my food to arrive, one thing was certain…''The city of Riga was pleasant once again.''Does Riga sound like the kind of place you’d like to visit?''Oops. I forgot to publish a post yesterday. I wanted to write about my travel plans for the rest of the year but Monday came and went and between getting ready for my next set of travels and actually flying to my first destination, I apparently didn’t have any time to sit down and write something.''So, here we go, here are my travel plans for the next few months, one day late.''Right now, I’m writing to you from Riga, Latvia where I’ll be spending another day before taking the bus to Tallinn, Estonia for a three-day visit. From Estonia, I’ll hop onto a''Silja Line ferry''that will take me to Finland, where I’ll visit Helsinki, Hanko, Turku and Tampere.''Not only that but one of those nights will be spent sleeping in an old lighthouse keeper’s room at the ridiculously unique''Bengtskar Lighthouse'', which is located on a small rocky island in the Gulf of Finland, eighteen kilometers off the coast. Will this be the highlight of my trip? It certainly has potential, especially considering that the lighthouse has a sauna as well!''On September 17th, I’ll fly back to Bucharest where I’ll spend another month before flying to the USA to visit my family for about eight days. Then, towards the end of October I shall fly to Delhi in order to  meet the wonderful group of travelers who are taking part in my very first''Wandering Earl Tour''.''Once the tour is over, my plan is to remain in India for a few more weeks. I hope to participate in another 10-day''Vipassana meditation retreat''and also visit some parts of the country that I have yet to experience.''And that should take me to the end of the year…at which point, my plans end. I have no idea what I’ll be doing for New Year’s and as for next year, I’m still working on which parts of the world I’ll visit.''However, one thing is certain. Due to all of the requests I’ve been receiving,''I will definitely be offering more small group tours next year'', so if you’re interested, please stay tuned. Once the destinations and dates are finalized, I shall announce it all right here on the blog of course.''Actually, maybe you can help. So far I’m thinking that the next tour I’ll offer (around February/March) will be to either Thailand, Turkey, Mexico/Guatemala or another trip to India. If one of those options calls out to you, please let me know in the comments as that will give me a better idea of which destination I should choose next!''Thank you as always and on Thursday I’ll publish a post about my time spent here in Riga, which has basically involved getting lost in the Old City and eating a lot of cake.''Any preferences for my next tour? Please leave your thoughts below, not only about destinations, but also, which months work best for you if you’re interested.''You may or may not have heard of the country of Moldova. It’s a tiny country, only 34,000 square kilometers and with only three and a half million inhabitants, located in Eastern Europe, to the northeast of Romania.''But, that’s not the question right now. The question is – have you heard of''Transnistria''?''Transnistria is a Moldovan breakaway territory, located between Ukraine and the Dniester River in eastern Moldova, a territory that declared itself an independent state back in 1990, and has basically continued to operate as such despite not being recognized by any other country. The territory of Transnistria has it’s own President, it’s own Parliament and even it’s own currency, Transnistrian rubles. It has its own flag, it’s own license plates and all visitors to the region must pass through a heavily secured border, complete with an immigration and customs inspection.''And while fighting did take place between pro-Moldovan and Russian-backed pro-Transnistrian troops during the''War of Transnistria''in the early 1990s, things have been quite quiet ever since mid-1992. That is when a ceasefire was called which established a joint force of Russian, Moldovan and Transnistrian troops to control the region’s security, and the agreement has so far held up.''My Visit to Transnistria''Last week, while in Chisinau, the capital of Moldova, I decided to visit Transnistria because, well, there is no way I would turn down an opportunity to visit a breakaway region, wherever I may be in the world. So, early one morning I walked down to the bus station with two other travelers I had met and within five minutes, we found ourselves sitting in a minibus, on our way to Tiraspol, the Transnistrian capital.''After filling out a form at the border, presenting it to the Transnistrian immigration official and then answering a few questions (how long will you stay, what’s your father’s name, why do you want to visit the region), I returned to the minibus and settled into my seat. There would be another forty-five minutes until we reached Tiraspol and I was eager to catch my first glimpse of this interesting destination that so few people visit.''And of course, as one would naturally expect from a breakaway region of Eastern Europe, my first glimpse involved a massive ferriss wheel, located behind some houses in the first community that we drove through.''During the rest of the drive to Tiraspol, I noticed massive Communist-style power plants, dilapidated, decades-old buses, a brand new football stadium (apparently the Tiraspol team is quite well known and good), a road block manned by a bored Russian soldier, the ruins of what appeared to be an old fortress, crumbling apartment buildings and homes, well-manicured gardens, well-maintained train tracks and more 1970s Ladas and Volgas (Russian cars) than I’ve ever seen before.''And it was generally the same contrast once we arrived in the capital. After being dropped off in front of the train station, the three of us proceeded to spend our time roaming around the town, without any idea of what to do or where to go. However, Tiraspol is very small (only 160,000 people) and we were able to walk up and down every major and somewhat major street in just a couple of hours.''The one thing I also noticed from the moment we crossed the border was that Transnistria is an exceptionally quiet place. I know there are only half a million or so inhabitants in the entire territory, but walking around Tiraspol felt quite eerie at times, with not so many vehicles and not so many people in the street at all.''During our wanderings, everything we came across gave us an interesting, but still very general, view of life in these parts. We passed simple shops, many parks, buildings in major need of repair and a sprinkling of brand-new modern buildings that were usually selling items such as farm machinery or furniture. We would also walk by the occasional soldier and the occasional policeman, but, contrary to what we had heard from other travelers, not one of them ever approached us asking for a bribe. In fact, even though few foreigners make it to Tiraspol, nobody in town really seemed to pay any attention to us at all, and we definitely stood out.''Lunch Time in Tiraspol''When we became hungry, we looked all over but couldn’t find a single place to eat. And so, I stopped a young guy, with long hair tied back in a ponytail, on a street corner and asked him if he spoke English. “Of course” he said and so I asked him if there was a cafe or restaurant nearby.''He told us about one restaurant a couple of blocks away and then, just as I was thanking him for his assistance, he pulled out a color brochure from the plastic bag he was carrying. Just like that he asked me if I would like to buy some art, showing me several photos of paintings from an apparently well-known Moldovan artist. Now I couldn’t tell if he was actually the artist or if he was working for the artist or what the deal was, but he insisted several times that I call the phone number on the back of the brochure in order to place my order.''I thanked him again, shook his hand, and off we went for lunch.''Lunch turned out to be excellent, although it did take the three of us about twenty minutes to place our order. The menu was only in Russian, the one waitress and the one chef only spoke Russian and we had no idea what was on the menu as a result. Eventually, after much laughter, a few slaps of the forehead and a great deal of hand gesturing, we somehow managed to understand that there was a chicken soup and a chicken and potato dish available. So we all quickly ordered these two items, unwilling to spend another twenty minutes deciphering more of the menu’s offerings.''This actually proved to be the situation most of the day as the local population consists of approximately 30% Russians, 30% Ukrainians and 30% Moldovans, so most of the people we met spoke Russian, making it very difficult to communicate. At least my limited Romanian language skills comes in handy when talking with those who speak Moldovan but with Russian, I’m lost.''Of course, language is not the only way to communicate and throughout the day there were plenty of smiles and handshakes exchanged. But I would have been very interested to dive into actual conversation with those who live in this territory in order to learn a little more about life in Transnistria, something I simply was not able to do.''Final Impressions From My Visit''Parts of the town, and its outskirts, seemed quite gloomy while other parts seemed a bit more cheerful. There was a good amount of construction and road-building taking place where it was common to find ancient trucks being used alongside sparkling, brand-new bulldozers. One moment you get the sense that Transnistria is much poorer than the rest of Moldova (which is the poorest country in Europe) and the next minute, you see all of the road construction, and the high quality of the roads being created, and you think the opposite. Similarly, one minute you think you’re in 2012 and then you turn a corner and you would swear you just went back in time 20 or 30 years.''And while the people I did interact with were polite, their faces generally remained expressionless most of the time, almost as if the entire city was a movie set and everyone on the streets was an ‘extra’ in some film.''Transnistria certainly didn’t feel dangerous, even though many travelers seem to be afraid to visit. While it might be a breakaway territory, so much time has passed since it did break away that a certain way of life has definitely been established, and people just go about their business as they do anywhere else on the planet. And with so few soldiers around, at least in Tiraspol, the chances of more fighting taking place any time soon seems quite slim.''As a result, while there really isn’t much to do in Tiraspol, I still think it’s a fascinating place to spend a day for any traveler who visits Moldova. Will such a visit give you a full understanding of the current situation in the breakaway territory? Not really, and in all honesty, I left Transnistria that evening only slightly more educated about the situation than when I had arrived.''But hey, it’s a breakaway territory nonetheless and how many times do you get an opportunity to visit such a region!''(Map of Transnistria by''Serhio'')''Have you been to this region? Have you heard of it? Would you travel there?''It’s so simple, yet it’s such a brilliant idea. And it’s something that is useful for every single traveler who takes photos during their adventures around the world. It’s actually useful for any human being who takes photos of anything, anywhere, at any time.''It’s the XShot camera extender, something that I’ve now been using religiously for the past two months after first seeing a friend of mine using one earlier this year. And now, I can’t imagine traveling without my XShot (I have the''Pocket XShot''version) as it instantly adds an entirely new dimension to my photography.''I’m not a great photographer at all, but that’s irrelevant when using this thing as no effort is needed to take photos from angles and perspectives that otherwise would be impossible. Just attach your camera, set the self-timer and extend the arm, and then say goodbye to your normal collection of standard shots as you begin to pile up photos that are so very different than any you’ve taken before.''In addition, the XShot takes up practically no space at all in your backpack or suitcase and it weighs almost nothing, which helps make it even more addicting to use.''Introducing The “XShot Series”''It’s because of my addiction that I decided to start a monthly series here on the blog in order to display some of the photos and videos that I’ve been taking with my XShot camera extender. Each post in the series will focus on a different region of the world and the first post, right here below, includes shots taken during my recent trip through the Balkans.''I have a feeling you’ll quickly agree that this is not only one of the coolest travel accessories out there, but it’s also an accessory that every traveler should carry…''With the XShot, you can reach over the umbrellas at the beach (Ulcinj, Montenegro)''Or just reach over the entire beach (Miami Beach, Ulcinj, Montenegro)''Or photograph yourself relaxing on the sand, while confirming that one nipple is indeed higher than the other (Ulcinj, Montenegro)''You can stick your camera through a small hole in a fortress wall & take a shot that nobody else can take (Ulcinj, Montenegro)''And then have someone else stick your camera through a small hole in a fortress wall for a shot of you flying (Ulcinj, Montenegro)''Climb a mountain, extend your camera over the cliff edge and capture the beautiful old town below (Kotor, Montenegro)''And why not grab a photo of you and a friend stuffing your face with yummy pizza (Kotor, Montenegro)''Or perhaps an overhead photo of you and your friends enjoying an evening out on the town (Kotor, Montenegro)''Wherever you may be, just stick the camera right up to the ceiling and snap away (Belgrade, Serbia)''Upon discovering that the ancient Roman amphitheater is closed, reach above the fence and take a great photo anyway (Durress, Albania)''Crossing a bridge? Extend the arm and make an everyday scene look much more unique (Berat, Albania)''Hold your camera out over the castle wall and see what you find below (Ohrid, Macedonia)''Or stick your camera outside the cable car for a better view of the city…just watch out, it’s probably not allowed! (Skopje, Macedonia)''When a random family you meet suddenly invites you to a baptism, you’ll get the best shots of the celebration (Skopje, Macedonia)''Or just take a photo of yourself while writing this blog post at a cafe in Eastern Europe (Bucharest, Romania)''VIDEO: An Afternoon With My XShot''The other day I took my XShot out and decided to demonstrate exactly how it works with a short video. You won’t believe how fun it is to use this thing!''In an attempt to give you an idea of what a day in the life of a permanent nomad can be like, I figured I would pick a random date from this month and tell you exactly what happened during that particular day.''I’ll just close my eyes right now and say the first number that comes into my head….''Hmm…the number I thought of was 1,249,393, and at least on planet Earth, August doesn’t have that many days. Let me change tactics. Forget about a random number, I’m just going to write about my first day in Moldova instead, which was this past Monday.''After all, it’s still a random travel day…''The Day Begins''My first day in Moldova, which happened to be the 20th of August, began when my overnight bus from Bucharest arrived in the capital city, Chisinau, at around 6:00am. And since I had never been to Chisinau before, or to Moldova for that matter, I did what came naturally. For some reason that involved hopping out of my bus seat, running up to the front of the bus and asking the driver to drop me off on the side of a road instead of waiting until we reached the bus station. I didn’t recognize the road of course but I just had a feeling that the corner of Strada Stefan cel Mare and Strada Vasile Alecsandri, would be the perfect place to start my Moldovan adventure.''And so, with the street practically empty, and no clue which way to turn, I started walking, enjoying the soft early morning light and trying not to look too lost.''After a couple of blocks, I found a security officer in front of a government building and I asked him for directions to Strada Pushkin, a main street that I knew was close to my hostel. However, because I knew that my hostel would not have a bed ready at such an early hour, I decided to take a seat on a bench inside of Cathedral Park instead, right in front of the Cathedral for which the park is named, and with a nice view of the Great Assembly Square across the street.''Half-asleep, I managed to sit on that bench for an hour, nodding off a couple of times in between unsuccessful attempts to try and balance a small tree branch on my head. And once the time hit 7:30am, I picked up my backpack and wandered down the road to my hostel, which turned out to be located in a transformed apartment on the first floor of an old Communist apartment block.''I checked into the hostel and threw down my stuff, but the owner quickly made it clear that a bed wouldn’t be ready until the 1pm check-in time and so, despite my increasing exhaustion, I went back outside and walked around the city some more.''A Very Long Morning''For three hours I walked along Pushkin Street, along Bucharest Street and around the Valea Morilor Lake, passing monuments and massive buildings as I crisscrossed the city center. I even wandered over to the Central Market as well but unfortunately, during these few hours, I wasn’t fully present at all as my body was in desperate need of  some sleep after the sleepless night on the bus. And just as I finished with the market, I started to get a headache too, which made me even more interested in getting to sleep as soon as I possibly could.''Returning to the hostel at 11am, the girl working there would still not give me a bed, even though everyone was awake and there were plenty of empty beds. She told me that the owner gets very upset if she allows people to get a bed before 1pm. So, with my head pounding, and my head also shaking in disbelief, I just fell back into a chair in the common room and quickly fell asleep.''Then, miraculously, at 12.30pm, the girl at the hostel woke me up and informed me that I could now go to a room, which is exactly what I did and I ended up sleeping for three straight hours. Hoping that this would cure me of my headache, I was more than disappointed to find that my headache had worsened by the time I woke up and even after a cool shower, it still didn’t improve.''But despite the pain, I got dressed and forced myself to go back outside, this time on a mission to find a Pharmacy, a mission that luckily, only took me ten minutes to complete. And not only did  I purchase some medicine, but I also had a nice twenty minute conversation with the Pharmacist who was very curious as to why I had chosen to visit her country.''The Day Improves''After taking two pills, I continued down the street and upon reaching the next corner, I noticed a cafe on the other side of the road. It was called''Tucano Coffee''and I decided to go inside, where I ordered a mint mocha latte and took a seat in the air-conditioned room. And then I just stared into space for about an hour, sipping my coffee and waiting for the headache to disappear.''Eventually, I was back to normal and with stomach growling, I set off to find a restaurant that my friend Anil (''FoxNomad.com'') had recommended from his visit to Chisinau a few months ago. A short walk through the very pleasant Stefan cel Mare Central Park, and a few minutes along Stefan cel Mare Street and there I was, sitting at a table inside of''La Placinte'', reading through the extensive menu of traditional Moldovan cuisine.''Not soon enough, the food began to arrive…first the mixed salad, then the chicken soup, then the eggplant dip with bread and finally, the clatitie cu pui si ciuperci, which happens to be a pancake stuffed with chicken and mushrooms and which also happens to be one of the best Eastern European culinary creations I’ve found so far.''More than delighted with the dishes I chose, I ate, I drank a beer and I smiled with joy at turning my exhaustion- and headache-filled morning and afternoon into a most wonderful evening and a solid start to my Moldova visit.''After my meal, and after a quick chat with the waitress who also wanted to know why I had decided to spend time in Chisinau, I walked back to the hostel, a walk which involved an encounter with an elderly man carrying an old wooden fishing rod who stopped me on the street and asked me something in Russian. When I told him, in Moldovan (which is very similar to the Romanian language), that I didn’t speak Russian, he started apologizing in English, repeating “Sorry, excuse me” over and over again. And then he just walked away.''The Night Begins''At 8:30pm I arrived at the hostel again, but only thirty minutes later I was heading back out one more time. I had started talking with a Belgian and a Slovenian guy in the common room (luckily, most of the travelers in the hostel were''not on their laptops'') and the three of us decided to go have some beers. Off we went to a German beer garden where we had a few pints of local Moldovan beer and we then walked over to a club that was located underground.''However, the club was empty on this Monday night and even though the Belgian guy had some local friends that showed up – a group of four people that included a Romanian hip-hop artist who spoke English as if he was straight from an American rap video – I preferred to be above ground in the fresh air and so I soon left.''And after one final wander around the city center, just to enjoy the quiet evening atmosphere for a few more minutes, I returned to the hostel, where I spoke with the staff member on duty for fifteen minutes before climbing into bed at 1am.''That was how I spent my first day in Chisinau, Moldova.''How does the above sound to you? Keep in mind, this is not every day, just a random day!''I can tell you very quickly how many times during my travels I’ve had an incident overseas that required real medical attention. Three times. In thirteen years.''The first time was when I fell into the moat that surrounds the Old City of Chiang Mai, Thailand. I had been celebrating the Thai New Year (Songkran) when I somehow lost my balance and ended up in the dirty water below. The problem was that during my rescue, which involved a chain of people reaching over the moat wall to pull me back out, I scraped my toes against some rocks and lost the toe nail on my big toe in the process. Off to the hospital I went where I spent two hours being fixed up by a team of doctors.''The second incident was when I got a stomach illness in India. After spending an hour walking around the Golden Temple in Amritsar in the mid-day heat, a kind, elderly man noticed how much I was sweating and offered me a cup of water which he had filled up from a nearby public tap. Not wanting to be rude, I drank the water, and then I proceeded to spend the next three days on the toilet, unable to sleep, eat or venture outside due to my condition. Eventually, the manager of the hotel where I was staying took me to the local doctor who gave me some medication to take and two days later, I started feeling better.''My third injury/illness occurred while jogging around the outside track on one of the cruise ships I worked on. It was night time and I couldn’t see the ground very well, and I happened to step right onto a broken wine glass. The stem of the glass pierced my shoe and shot right into my foot. With blood filling up my sneaker, I hobbled inside and down to the medical center on board the ship where I received two stitches and a legitimate excuse to take some time off work.''Apart from that, I also cut up my body quite badly while volcano boarding in Nicaragua, but I didn’t see a doctor in the end. All I needed was a pair of tweezers to remove the shards of volcanic rock from my skin and some ointments to heal the wounds.''So, if I’ve only had a few non-serious injuries and one non-serious illness during so many years of travel, do I think it’s necessary to have travel insurance?''What if I told you that the hospital bill after my injury in Thailand came to a mere $5.00 USD and that the doctor visit and medication in India only cost me $4.00 USD? If medical care is that cheap in many parts of the world, is travel insurance really worth it?''My answer is ‘yes’. Actually, my answer is more like ‘ABSOLUTELY!’.''Even though the chances of something serious happening while traveling are quite low and even though medical care in many parts of the world is very inexpensive for travelers, having no insurance is a major risk. Anything can happen at any time…you never know and you certainly don’t want to end up in a foreign hospital with $100,000 worth of bills simply because you thought insurance was a waste of money.''What I’ve Used For Travel Insurance''Over the past 13 years, this is how I’ve dealt with travel/health insurance:''Travel Insurance''– Up until three years ago, whenever I was traveling, I made sure that I had travel insurance. In my earlier years I would buy insurance through''STA Travel''and then I switched to''WorldNomads.com''later on. Such a plan typically cost me $50 – $60 per month, it was easy to set-up and even though I never had to use the insurance, it always seemed like a good deal to me.''Employer-Provided Health Insurance''– When I''worked on board cruise ships'', the cruise lines I worked for provided health insurance for all crew members. So every time I signed up for another contract on board a ship (I did 11 contracts in total), I was fully covered and did not have to pay for extra travel insurance.''One-Year Mistake''– A couple of years ago, for some unknown reason, I simply decided to stop paying for travel insurance. And while nothing serious happened to me during this period of time, I still realize that this was a mistake and a risk I don’t want to take again.''Independent Health Insurance''– Starting last year, I decided to pay for a comprehensive independent health insurance plan in the US instead of paying for travel insurance all the time. With this US-based insurance, which costs me about $100 USD per month, 100% of my major medical costs are covered in the US once I reach my low deductible, and any doctor’s appointments, medications and tests I might need cost me almost nothing. And 50% of all medical costs incurred overseas are covered under my plan as well.''Combination of Insurance''– Whenever I am traveling to a country and/or region where I know that medical expenses can be high for visitors (Western Europe, Australia, etc.), I also take out travel insurance these days so that 100% of my medical costs in those regions would be taken care of in the event of an injury or illness. Such a plan usually costs me around $60 USD per month.''As you can see, apart from that one-year lapse of judgment, I’ve made sure that I am covered through some type of health insurance wherever I am in the world. And this is despite the fact that I’ve only spent a ridiculously low total of around $9 USD in 13 years on medical expenses for injuries and illnesses sustained during my adventures overseas.''All I know is that the last thing I want to worry about is having to dish out thousands and thousands of dollars in the event that something serious does happen to me and I suddenly need some major medical attention while in a foreign country. Again, the chances of that happening are of course quite small, but I’ll still gladly pay $100 or even $160 per month in order to eliminate that worry altogether.''How do you handle your own travel insurance? Do you have any tips or any questions?''Call me on a Saturday morning and tell me to pack a small bag, to hurry up and jump on the metro, to ride that metro to the end of the line and to then stand on the side of the road and wait to be picked up and I’ll start to ask some questions. Then inform me that, after being picked up, the plan is to squeeze into an overstuffed car and have my body forcibly bent into unnatural positions because of several huge backpacks, sleeping bags, boxes of camping equipment, a telescope and endless piles of other stuff, and I’m quite certain that I’ll politely decline your invitation.''And yes, I’ll still decline even if you then explain that we would ride for three and a half hours in that car, heading to a small town on the Black Sea coast, where we would arrive, grab something quick to eat and then proceed to party all night long at bars and clubs on an overcrowded beach before collapsing onto the sand sometime after sunrise for an hour or two nap.''Then tell me that the following day, after waking up from that nap, all covered in sand, we’ll go for a swim in the freezing cold water of the sea and then we’ll eat a meal at a chaotic restaurant that takes two hours to be served, and I’ll say, ‘that’s not for me’.''Finish your offer by explaining that, after the above meal, it will be time for me to return to Bucharest, and that I will have to sit in a non-air-conditioned, fully packed mini-bus in the 40C (104F) heat for four hours in order to do so, with a constant stream of sweat pouring off my face preventing me from catching up on some much needed rest, all while you sit in your air-conditioned car, driving home in a different direction, and I won’t even give you a polite ‘No thank you’ as I abruptly hang up the phone and firmly pass on your offer to join this trip.''Yet, when this very situation occurred last Saturday, and my friend called me up and told me everything above, for some inexplicable reason, I instantly said ‘yes’. Shocked was I as I ran around the apartment trying to decide what to throw in my small bag before hopping onto the metro and meeting my friends on the side of a random road. These friends had spent a week camping in the countryside of Romania (a trip I could not make because I was''in the Balkans'') and were passing by the outskirts of Bucharest on their way to Vama Veche, a popular summer hang-out on the Black Sea coast.''And what makes my decision to partake in this coastal jaunt so surprising is that I’m not much of a party person, especially when the party lasts all night. If I manage to stay awake past 2am these days I consider that a major accomplishment. I’m also not much of a dancer, especially when the dancing is supposed to go on until after sunrise. Five minutes of dancing per month seems to be the perfect amount for me.''However, after surviving the drive to Vama Veche, there was I, enjoying an atmosphere that was far different than what I had imagined. This was no rowdy beach party. It was a laid-back, welcoming scene, with friendly vibes all around, laughter, smiles, live Romanian rock music on the beach, people of all ages and lifestyles mingling together and pints of beer being served in the streets for only $1.50 each.''After sitting among thousands of people listening to the free live concerts for a while, which included both well-known and lesser-known Romanian bands, my friends and I all wandered over to the largest beach club just before midnight, where an excellent mix of music greeted us, as did another densely-packed crowd of people. With nothing else to do but dance, I slowly broke into the only dance I know how to do, a dance that can only be labeled as ‘extremely embarrassing for all those around me’. And that’s the dance I kept on doing, not for one hour, not for a few hours, but all night long.''Only when the dark sky began to lighten did we start to feel a little tired and only when a wonderful rendition of Ravel’s “Bolero” came on the sound system, just moments before the sun began to rise over the Black Sea, did we finally plop down onto the sand and take a break.''And there we sat, just staring out over the water as the sun floated higher into the sky, staring until our eyes could stay open no longer. Moving to a quieter stretch of beach, we simply laid down on the sand and fell asleep to the low-volume music still being played at some of the bars and the faint chatter of those party-goers who still remained awake.''When the sun eventually became too hot, which was only an hour after I went to sleep, my short rest came to an end and I decided to go for a swim in the Black Sea, wading into water that was far colder than I would usually dare to enter. But this time around, such a swim seemed like a natural part of the Vama Veche experience and I did not want to miss out on any aspect of this random weekend away.''My friends and I spent the rest of the morning walking up and down the main street in town – a narrow street lined with restaurants, shaworma stalls, pancake stands, bars and shops – we enjoyed a fresh fruit juice from a cafe and we ate an early lunch at a well-known Hungarian restaurant. We then went back to the beach, which had completely filled up again by now, where we relaxed under some shade, swam some more and nodded off every now and then.''A few hours later, it was time to leave and, with hair disheveled and barely able to keep my eyes open, I boarded that sauna of a mini-bus where I indeed sat, with sweat dripping all over me, staring out the window with nothing else to do, for four straight hours back to Bucharest.''Just like that I was back in my apartment, sitting at the very same desk where I was sitting when my friends called me the day before. However, I could now say that I had experienced Vama Veche, a place and a party that I had been hearing about for months, and that absolutely lived up to its reputation. It is also a place that I certainly will be visiting again before this summer is over.''Have you been to Vama Veche? Are you a summer beach party kind of person? Have you experienced such a party elsewhere in the world?''According to official Romanian immigration law, citizens of most countries are allowed to visit and stay in Romania for no more than 90 days in any 180 day period of time. So once you’ve spent 90 days in this country, you must then remain outside the country for 90 days before being able to return.''However, as of yesterday, I’ve now spent over 140 days in Romania since the end of December 2011, coming and going as I please. And I haven’t broken any laws whatsoever. It’s all been 100% legal and it’s all thanks to this…''Yes, several months ago I obtained temporary residency in Romania. Now I am able to stay, and to come and go, as much as I want for up to one year. And at the end of the year, I can renew my residency as well.''How did I manage to get this temporary residency in a European country?''Did I get a job in Romania? Nope.''Am I studying here? No.''Am I in the Peace Corps or working for some other volunteer organization? No I am not.''Am I marrying a local woman? Nope. Not yet anyway.''So again, how did I, an ordinary traveler, manage to obtain residency in a country where I don’t have any connections, where I don’t speak the language and where I am not working, studying or volunteering?''The answer lies in my favorite word – creativity.''It All Started as a Joke''While eating dinner with a Romanian friend back in March, we started to joke about my sudden addiction to this country. At one point, she mentioned that I should just get residency considering how much I like to be here and we shared a good laugh at that suggestion.''However, the next day, I started to think about what she said. I realized that if I had residency here, I wouldn’t have to worry about visas at all and I could actually have an official base in Europe. That possibility was more than enough to convince me to head down to the main immigration office in Bucharest right away.''After waiting in line for thirty minutes, I was given a piece of paper that explained the seven categories of temporary residency visas and I was told by the clerk behind the counter that if I can fit into one of those categories, I can apply.''But since I didn’t have a job offer or a volunteer stint lined up and I wasn’t about to enroll in a local university course, and I didn’t have any family living in Romania and I wasn’t claiming to be a refugee,  the only category left was category #7 – “Other”.''At first that seemed a bit disappointing but I soon realized that “Other” is actually a great category. It could be anything. All I needed to do was find a reasonably realistic reason to remain in this country and I could apply under the “Other” category.''The Visa Process''The following two weeks were interesting. It all began when my mom, out of nowhere, happened to email me one day upon discovering that a great-great-grandfather of mine was actually born in Romania. My mom even forwarded me the early 20th century US census sheet she found online that proved this fact.''What timing! Let me tell you…I was mighty excited at this discovery and, with the census sheet in hand, I practically ran over to the immigration office.''Unfortunately, once there, the woman behind the counter laughed at me when I told her I was a travel blogger who wanted to stay in Romania for more than 90 days in order to travel around the country, tracking down my family roots and writing about it on my blog. She told me that wasn’t going to work. But before I walked away, she also suggested that I set up an audience with the head of immigration to discuss my situation.''The following day, there I sat in a large, sparse room across the table from two senior immigration officials. Well, they too laughed at me when I told them about finding my family roots and writing about the journey on my site, even though I mentioned several times that I would be promoting Romania as a result.''They also said that wasn’t a good enough reason but, instead of telling me to leave, the immigration officials asked me some questions and after discussing among themselves for a few minutes, they gave me a possible solution. They told me that I could find an organization to partner with, an organization that would be willing to sponsor me in exchange for me writing about them on my blog. If I could do this, I could actually obtain residency in a European country.''Shaking their hands several times, I left the room and immediately started contacting everyone I knew in Romania. This was actually only three people, so I had to kindly ask these three people to please contact everyone they knew as well in order to try and find an organization that would be open to a partnership.''Amazingly, a few days later, a friend of a friend informed me that he knew of someone from his hometown who works with a local NGO aimed at promoting sustainable tourism in Romania. And just like that, after a couple of conversations, I agreed to help spread the message of this NGO and to promote their projects online in exchange for a sponsorship.''We created and signed a contract and back to the immigration office I went, where I handed over my folder containing the residency application form, a health certificate (which I got in 10 minutes at a local clinic here), the receipt for the residency visa fee and a couple of other forms I needed to fill out. Then the woman took my photo and simply told me to come back in thirty days.''Thirty days later I walked into the immigration office once again and a few minutes later I walked back out with an official Temporary Residency Card in hand. Success!''And now I can stay in this beautiful country for as much as I want for one year. I’m a temporary resident of Romania, a country that offers an excellent standard of living at a very attractive cost, with friendly people all around, wonderful food, mountains, the Black Sea coast and endless other regions to explore, high quality wi-fi (helps with work!) and a location that is perfect for exploring Eastern Europe, while being able to fly anywhere in the world from nearby Istanbul. I decided to''live in Bucharest''and I couldn’t be happier.''Is It Really Possible?''I know you might be thinking that it was easier for me to get the residency visa because I have this blog. However, I could have done the exact same thing above without a blog, creating a partnership in which I would write articles about the NGO and submit them to online publications or I could have offered to assist with their social media efforts. I could have found any local company or organization and tried to use my skills/knowledge/interests to work out a mutually beneficial partnership.''Of course, if you do have a website or any kind of online presence at all, you can certainly use that to your advantage. And in the end, if you do work online in any capacity your chances of obtaining residency will be higher as it shows that not only do you have sufficient income to support yourself but you won’t be taking away local jobs.''Either way, it all comes down to creativity. Think outside the box and the possibilities are endless.''Here’s a few things to keep in mind as well…''If you find a country where you want to stay/live beyond the usual tourist visa restrictions, the first thing you should always do is go down to the immigration office and learn the rules. Find out the steps you need to apply for a residency visa, what categories are available and exactly what is required for each category. Asking these questions in person is far better than trying to interpret information on a website.''Then start brainstorming until you figure out a way for you to enter into a partnership with someone or some company or organization. If there is an “Other” category available, that very well could be your best bet as it will be much more difficult to obtain residency in categories that require employment or volunteer contracts or proof of university enrollment.''Finally, try to make an appointment to speak with the immigration officials before you apply for residency, even if this is not routine in whatever country you’re seeking residency in. Explain that you have a unique situation that doesn’t fit into the normal categories and before you apply and pay the application fee, you want to ask some questions. Then, during your appointment, be sure to mention that with your situation you’ll just be spending money in the local economy without taking jobs and without relying on government benefits or assistance. And don’t be afraid to ask for suggestions. If anyone knows what is required for you to obtain residency, it’s going to be the immigration officers, so try and get them to give you as much information as possible. You never know, they might be willing to help you out and give you some ideas, just as the officials were willing to do for me here in Romania.''The bottom line is that if you wish to have a foreign base without having to worry about the validity of tourist visas all the time, residency is the way to go. Of course, the above is not going to work every time or everywhere and it might not even work the majority of the time either, but if it does work, and you establish temporary residency somewhere, life as a long-term traveler certainly becomes so much easier.''Do you have residency or have you thought about obtaining residency in a foreign country? Have you tried to get residency? Any tips to share?''Young, naïve, frightened and desperately trying to look brave, I walked out of Bangkok’s Don Muang Airport at midnight, my first time in Asia, my first time backpacking, my first time in such a foreign place. And apart from my flight to Thailand, I had chosen not to do any travel planning at all. So, there I stood, my courage starting to fade, wondering how I was going to find a hotel and why I hadn’t booked a room in advance.''I eventually found the official taxi stand, hopped into a taxi and, because I had no specific hotel or guesthouse address to give to the driver, told him to take me to Khao San Road, an area I had only heard about from a friend of a friend a week before I left home.''Once there, I stepped out into the street, wandered around for a few minutes, found a cheap hotel and paid for a room. Just like that the mystery of where I would sleep came to an end.''And as I started to nod off that night, I remember thinking, “Wow, that was easy.” I had flown around the planet, on my own, without a clue how to travel, and yet I survived. Not only did I survive, I managed to make it into this crazy city and find a hotel without any effort whatsoever. Suddenly, traveling seemed much easier than I had ever imagined, and upon making that realization, I relaxed and the fear disappeared.''To the Beaches of Cambodia''Two weeks later, after having celebrated the Millennium at Angkor Wat in Cambodia, my plan was to spend a few days in the Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh before heading to Vietnam. But when I arrived in Phnom Penh, a British fellow I met convinced me to take a detour to Sihanoukville, Kampot and Kep, three Cambodian towns I had never heard of. Why not, I figured, and so I joined him and we ended up spending ten days hopping around from beach town to beach town, enjoying what was back then a very local Cambodian experience. We ate fresh fish, hiked through rainforests, rented motorbikes, visited random villages and met so many amazing people.''And while on the beach one day, I thought back to the moment I had arrived in Bangkok when I wished that I had planned my trip more thoroughly. Now I just chuckled to myself, happy as can be on a beach I just learned about and fully aware that such thorough travel planning would have been a major mistake…''From the Middle East to Thailand''When I traveled through the Middle East a year and a half ago, I had a vague idea that I would spend a couple of weeks in Syria, a week in Lebanon, a week in Iraqi Kurdistan and then some time in Turkey. However, I didn’t dare book anything or make any concrete plans. And sure enough, upon arrival in the Syrian city of Aleppo, I found myself wanting to stay for a while. So I decided to stay for three weeks. I then traveled around the rest of''Syria'', followed by a couple of weeks in Lebanon, and then I returned to Aleppo where I spent another twenty days. From there I finally''traveled to Iraqi Kurdistan'', where, on my tenth and final day in that region, the snow started falling in the city of Dohuk and I suddenly had the urge to be in a warm climate. I turned on my laptop and immediately booked a one-way ticket to Thailand, deciding to skip out on Turkey this time around.''The next day I was on a flight to Bangkok, a destination on the other side of the world from where I originally thought I would end up. Imagine if I had already organized my trip to Turkey in advance. I’m sure it would have been a rewarding experience but I’m quite happy that I had the flexibility to follow my sudden desire to be elsewhere.''Extending My Stay in Romania''When I first visited Romania last year as part of my''Eurail adventure'', I found myself not wanting to leave, even though I had originally planned to visit Bulgaria as well. And since I hadn’t actually made any reservations or paid for anything in Bulgaria ahead of time, I was able to''stay in Romania''for as long as I felt like staying. Once again, nothing was stopping me from doing exactly what I wanted to do at that moment.''Flexibility, Flexibility, Flexibility!''Maybe you see what I’m getting at here. As tempting as it may be, you really don’t need to plan the details of your trip.''Had I already booked accommodation throughout Vietnam or had I booked transportation around Turkey or a flight out of Bulgaria, I would not have had the flexibility to change course and to ultimately end up with the experiences that most appealed to me at the time.''I can’t tell you how often my travels have changed. Actually, I can tell you. Every single time! Yes, every time I’ve gone anywhere my itinerary ends up looking nothing at all like the itinerary I imagined prior to my arrival.''Before we are actually present in a destination, there really is no way at all for us to know what will happen. The possibilities are endless. Sometimes we think we’ll love a place but when we actually show up we want to leave after one day. We might learn about new towns and cities and villages that we never knew about before and now we want to visit those places. We’ll meet new people all along the way, people we’ll want to spend time with, people we might want to tag along with to a region that we never thought about visiting. We might enjoy a particular destination so much that we want to stay for a month or we might discover a super-cheap airfare deal to a neighboring country and suddenly find ourselves wanting to go there straight away.''And when you do find yourself in such situations, you certainly want to be in a position where you can say ‘let’s go!’ and head off in that new direction, without any obstacles preventing you from changing course and enjoying these new experiences.''I know that it can be a bit scary having nothing, or very little, planned ahead of time before you embark on an extended journey. But in all my years of travel, I have never been without a place to sleep, never been without something to eat, never been stuck on the side of the road wishing that I had organized my trip in advance. What I have been is overjoyed time and time again at the fact that I’ve been able to alter my plans on a whim, to go places I never thought about going, to team up with new friends and to allow my travels to unfold on their own.''Do you agree that traveling is much easier than many people think? Do you plan much or do you prefer to go with the flow? If you’re about to travel, how much travel planning are you doing?''The most popular post on this blog has been “''How I Can Afford My Life of Constant Travel''”, a post I wrote back in April 2011. The idea of that post was to offer better insight into exactly how I’ve earned my money over the years, approximately how much I’ve spent while traveling and basically, how I’ve managed to maintain this traveling lifestyle for so long.''That way, you can understand what is really involved with achieving a goal of long-term travel.''And now that 16 months have passed since I wrote that post, I think it’s time for an update. After all, I’ve still continued traveling and earning money since last April, and I still receive plenty of emails from readers wanting to know where that money comes from.''Believe me, I often sit here wondering how this all happened myself. It nearly brings me to tears (of joy!) to think that I’ve managed to travel for so long without having had to sell a body part or participate in any medical experiments. It’s crazy.''And the most important thing to realize is that such a lifestyle is absolutely possible for you as well. Seriously, it’s possible. And proving that point is the main goal of this blog. What I try to make clear is that there are an infinite number of diverse opportunities out there for you to take advantage of. Not only are there opportunities to travel cheaply by doing such things as cleaning a hostel in exchange for a free night’s stay or picking fruit on a farm in Australia or finding under-the-table work at a bar or cafe…''There are also opportunities to create your own work, to earn a very decent income, to save money for the future and to live and travel in relative comfort, all while overseas. Traveling long-term doesn’t have to involve scraping up little bits of money everywhere you go, doing jobs that are less than desirable and sleeping in the absolute cheapest accommodations you can find.''Whatever kind of lifestyle you want, there’s no reason why travel can’t be a part of it.''The Timeline''(Starting from April 2011 – for my earlier Timeline, see “''How I Can Afford My Life of Constant Travel''”.)''April 2011''Lived in Playa del Carmen, Mexico, working on the blog and other websites (such as''GoKurdistan.com'')''Launched my “''How to Work on Cruise Ships''” eBook''Reached $2500 in monthly online income through eBook sales as well as my experiments with affiliate marketing''July 2011''Decided to leave Mexico and return to the US to visit family for a couple of weeks''Unsure of what to do/where to go next I hung out with friends in NYC for a few weeks, spending almost $250 per week despite staying at my friends’ apartment''Started accepting very small amounts of advertising on WanderingEarl.com in order to increase my monthly income by around $400''September 2011''Agreed to partner with Eurail.com for their “Blog Trail” project which allowed me to travel around Europe by train for two months for free, courtesy of''Eurail.com''Took a flight to Zurich, Switzerland in order to begin the two-month train journey''Traveled to Austria,''Slovenia'', Croatia,''Bosnia & Herzegovina'', Serbia and''Romania''Was earning around $2000 per month online (due to the fact I had little time to work while traveling) and I spent approximately $900 per month on expenses during this trip''December 2011''Spent two weeks in Istanbul''Returned to the US for five days''Went to''South Africa''for two weeks as part of an all-expenses paid “Social Media Blogger Tour” organized by the South Africa Tourism Board''Took a flight from South Africa to Bucharest, Romania where I decided to spend some time working on more online projects''February 2012''Paid $250 USD per month for a room in an apartment in Bucharest''Total cost of living in Bucharest was about $650 USD per month''While in the midst of a''terrible Eastern European winter'', I began work on a new eBook, “How to Live a Life of Travel”''Sales of my other eBooks decreased drastically for some reason, leading to only $1200 in monthly income for 3 months''April 2012''Returned to the US in order to catch a flight to Fiji where I was to participate in a Bloggers Press Trip''The Fiji trip was canceled at the last minute due to a cyclone so I ended up visiting family and friends in the US for 3 weeks, spending over $1200 during that time''Flew to Istanbul with a friend from home, stayed for one week and spent $400''Took the bus back to Bucharest''May 2012''Traveled to''Bratislava, Slovakia''for four days to visit friends (cheap flight from Bucharest to Vienna – close to Bratislava – for only $100 USD return)''Returned to Bucharest, Romania''June 2012''I finally completed my “''How to Live a Life of Travel''” eBook''Sales of most of my eBooks suddenly increased once again and I began earning around $4000 per month from all of my online work (eBooks, affiliate marketing, small amount of advertising, freelance writing, consulting, etc.)''July 2012''Took an 8-day vacation from blogging and work by going to the beach town of Ulcinj, Montenegro''Traveled around''Montenegro'',''Albania''and''Macedonia''for four weeks, spending approximately $800 USD during that month to cover all expenses''After the vacation I announced the launch of''Wandering Earl Tours''with my first tour taking place in India in November''The first tour sold out in 2 days with a waiting list of over 20 people''August 2012''Returned to Romania where I’ll remain for one month working on two new projects''Future plans…''September 2012''Will visit Estonia and Finland for two weeks''October 2012''Will fly to India for final preparations of the India tour I’m organizing''Plan to stay in India for 1.5 months after the tour for some meditation and visiting some regions I have yet to visit''January 2013''I’ll start offering small group tours every couple of months to different parts of the world''Then, who knows?''And there you have it. That’s how I’ve been living, working and traveling since April 2011.''It’s funny because when I first started traveling, I certainly never would have imagined that I would end up as a travel blogger and that my blog would allow me to continue traveling around the planet. That’s the beauty of this lifestyle though…you never know where it will lead.''And that is why, if travel is your goal, I strongly recommend putting all of your energy into taking the first step and finding a way to start traveling. Once you do that, every dream and every goal that you may think is impossible right now will suddenly appear so much more achievable and when that happens, you are able to start living the life you really want.''Have you found a way to travel long-term? Or maybe your goal is long-term travel but you’re not sure how to make it happen? Share your stories and ask any questions below!''While my last post was all about the people you meet while traveling, I also want to make it clear that I do enjoy visiting the sights of a particular destination as well. Popular attractions are popular for a reason and so I often do try to seek them out in the hopes of discovering something interesting, educational or just plain fun.''Such sights naturally include museums, castles, waterfalls, historical buildings, mountains offering panoramic views, religious sites, parks, monuments or any number of endless possibilities.''And just like any tourist, I wander around, I take my photos, I say to myself ‘this is nice’ and then I move on to the next place.''My theory is that even though spending time visiting such mainstream attractions may not sound appealing at first, doing so can sometimes lead to the most unexpected of rewards.''For example, what may appear to be just a simple Clock Tower in Albania, one that is highlighted on the map you received when you checked into your hostel, could end up giving you the most memorable experience of your day or perhaps of your entire journey.''Yes, a Clock Tower, such as the one that caught my attention while I was walking around Tirana, Albania. It didn’t appear to be anything special but I had in fact seen it highlighted on my map and so I figured, what the heck, I’ll go take some quick photos before going to the museum across the square.''The Clock Tower in Albania''As I stood in front of this Clock Tower in Albania, snapping some shots while scratching my head as I repeatedly failed to fit the entire thing into the frame, a small door opened from the building to my right. An even smaller man, about seventy years old, well-dressed and smiling widely, came outside and walked straight up to me.''Immediately, he began looking up and pointing to the Clock Tower but it took my heat-affected, half-melted brain (that’s my excuse anyway as it was a hot day) about thirty seconds to understand that he was asking me if I wanted to go to the top.''Why not?''So, this man unlocked the wooden door at the base, motioned for me to enter and then he just turned around and went back inside the building from where he came. Taking one last look at street-level Tirana, I then ducked my head (which was surprising as I normally end up banging my head every time I walk through a low entry-way), entered the tower and began the climb.''And as I climbed the hundred or so creaky metal stairs to the top, and the simple fact that I had a 200-year old Albanian Clock Tower all to myself sank in, I suddenly found myself to be more than delighted.''I began to sense that this was going to be a memorable experience, more memorable than I would have ever imagined. Sure, it’s just a Clock Tower, but my travels have taught me that ‘just a Clock Tower in Albania’ can sometimes prove to be so much more.''On Top of the World''Once at the top, I walked out onto the narrow balcony that surrounded the clock itself, strolled around until I found the perfect view of the city and I stopped. And that very spot is where I would spend the following one and a half hours. There are times when I don’t have the patience to sit on an idyllic white sand beach for one and a half hours, but up there in that tower, hovering over Tirana, Albania, spying on life below and taking in the views, the sounds and the smells of this intriguing city, I didn’t want to leave.''I took photos from every angle, I watched the people go about their business, I observed the buses and cars and the mountains and the clouds and the trees. I listened to the wind and I listened to the city. I tasted the air, I felt the heat and I watched the birds.''And then I leaned on the balcony railing, stared off into the distance and began thinking about my life, about where I’ve been, where I’m headed and how I feel about it all.''It was as if I had been picked up off the ground and sent high into the sky from where I could float above the world, from where I could see that world, and my place in it, from an entirely fresh perspective. Here I was in such a foreign city, on the balcony of a simple Clock Tower, having the kind of calming, clarity-producing meditative experience that I had not had in a long time.''And from this clarity I made some decisions about my life, I found some answers to questions that had been bothering me for a while and I uncovered a spark of motivation that had been lost.''I did not want to leave this balcony at all. I wanted to see what would happen next, to see where this transformation would lead. I already knew that the person I was when I entered would be left behind and when it came time to leave the tower, I would be a refreshed, inspired and even more focused version of my old self. That realization put a smile on my face and sent intense chills throughout my body.''And the only reason I didn’t stay up there longer than one and a half hours was because the dark rain clouds eventually began to approach and I took that as a sign, a sign that, well, it was going to start raining hard.''So, reluctantly, I took one last look out over Tirana, enjoyed one last deep breath from the top of the world and I took my newly cleared mind and climbed back down the stairs to the bottom.''The man who had unlocked the Clock Tower door was nowhere to be found, so, unable to thank him for unknowingly providing me with one of the most memorable experiences I would have on my Balkan trip, all I could do was walk back to the Skanderbeg Square and into the National History Museum, just as the first drop of rain began to fall.''You never know what you’ll find when traveling and so I encourage you to visit everything you can, to walk down every street and every lane, to enter random buildings and to go take photos of every monument you pass. And of course, don’t forget to climb every Clock Tower.''Have you ever had an unexpectedly wonderful experience while visiting something that at first seemed ordinary?''My current trip around the Balkan region of Europe is coming to an end. Right now I’m in Skopje, Macedonia but tomorrow I shall take the bus to Sofia, Bulgaria where I’ll spend a night or two before hopping on a bus back to Bucharest.''While I wasn’t able to see everything I wanted on this trip, I did manage to see a decent amount as I traveled from Montenegro to Albania and then to Macedonia. I spent time at the beach, climbed fortresses high above''fairy tale-esque towns'', wandered around interesting cities, relaxed at picturesque lakes, hiked through canyons and soaked up the atmosphere of ancient villages, among many other things.''So as you might imagine, I am certainly satisfied with how this trip turned out. In fact, I am absolutely thrilled with how this journey turned out.''And yet, despite the places I’ve seen and the activities I’ve participated in over the past month, it was something else that made this trip such a complete success for me, something that, time and time again, has proven to be far more important and rewarding to me than any other aspect of travel.''It’s the people.''When I sit down and think of my time in Montenegro, Albania and Macedonia, I can guarantee you that the people I met in those countries will always be the first thing that enters my mind. And I shall always be smiling when I think of them.''Even right now, when I think of my time in Ulcinj, Montenegro, I think of Mr. and Mrs. Redzepagic, the sweet and generous owners of the''amazing apartment''that I rented in that town. When I think of my time in Tirana or in Berat, Albania, I think of the people I came across every day, from the staff at the''Theranda Hotel''to the clocktower watchman to the locals I met at restaurants, on buses and in the streets.''And finally, it will now be impossible for me to ever think of Macedonia without remembering the Manojlovski family, a family that began as friends of a friend, and after welcoming me into their home and community for five days, quickly became good friends of mine.''It was this family who picked me up from the bus station in Skopje, cooked for me incredible amounts of local food, shared with me their home-made wines and rakia, took me all over the city, to museums, to cafes, to the old Turkish quarter, to restaurants, to monuments and more, providing me with a personal tour that I simply could never have experienced on my own.''And it didn’t stop there. My wonderful hosts took me to the top of a local mountain, brought me to a lake and beautiful canyon situated outside Skopje and they even invited, practically insisted, that I tag along with them to the baptism ceremony for their friends’ one-year old son which was to take place inside of an impressively preserved 12th century church.''So I joined them.''Then, immediately upon arrival at this church, everyone I met was so very kind, welcoming me, a complete stranger, as if my presence was expected. In fact, right in the middle of the ceremony itself, the father of the son being baptized was reprimanded by his mother and other guests and was told to be quiet because he started talking to me, asking me questions and just trying to make sure I was comfortable and enjoying myself.''Once the ceremony was over, the group of about fifty people then went into a nearby restaurant, with tables situated next to large open windows that offered perfect views of Skopje down below. And here is where I experienced a Macedonian feast, which had more to do with the conversation, the laughter, the jokes being told, the stories shared and the constant displays of friendship than it did with the endless plates of food and the endless glassfuls of beer and local brandy.''For four hours we all sat there together having such a great time and when the restaurant closed and we all finally had to leave, I absolutely felt as if I had just spent a night with a group of friends I had known for a very long time.''This is why I travel. It is all about the people. It always has been and it always will be. And if I didn’t have such rewarding interactions in most of the places I visit on the planet, I’d certainly have stopped traveling a long, long time ago.''Any experiences to share about meeting new people while traveling? Or is there another aspect of travel that is more important for you?''Have you ever been to a destination that instantly makes you feel like a kid? I’m not talking about Disney World or any place like that. I’m talking about a city or town that, as soon as you arrived, made you completely giddy and eager to explore every single corner possible.''A place that left you wide-eyed and in awe, practically skipping around and always with a smile on your face?''Maybe it’s a location that seems very much like a fairy tale and without any effort at all, you feel as if you have been inserted straight into the magical story.''For example, maybe you stumble across an ancient fortified village nestled into the end of a long, narrow bay, a bay completely surrounded by towering mountains stretching far off into the distance, straight out to the sea.''You must enter this village through an arched gateway in the wall and once inside, you are in a labyrinth of dozens upon dozens of cobblestone lanes, each one winding through the village in different directions and many barely wide enough for two people to pass. Beautiful stone buildings line these lanes, and each building is hundreds of years old, helping to create the kind of spectacular setting that up until this point you had thought possible only in books.''As you wander the lanes you hear the church bells ringing and you watch the people gather in the plazas that appear out of nowhere, hidden among this maze of a village in places that you won’t be able to find more than once.''You get lost often as you roam around and every time you reach a dead end or a lane where you had previously been, you simply turn around and start exploring in a different direction.''While inside this village, you cannot at any time see anything beyond the village walls. The world outside no longer exists as you are pulled farther and farther into the alluring atmosphere of the unique, too-good-to-be-true destination.''Once the sun sets, and the afternoon heat disappears, you then head to the back of the village where you begin an evening hike to the fortress located at the top of the mountain. The fortress is also within the walls of the village, as the walls climb impossibly high up the mountain, in such a difficult pattern that leaves you wondering how human beings could have built such a structure.''And as you climb, a steep climb indeed, you cannot help but look out over the brilliant bay every few minutes, and each time that you do, you are completely struck by a sight so surreal.''It is the combination of such natural beauty all around you and such a mesmerizingly beautiful village below that makes you feel like that ecstatic kid without a care in the world. And it also ensures that you will continue to feel like such a kid for as long as you choose to stay.''That was how I felt in Kotor, the town in northern Montenegro that I visited on this trip (all the photos above are from there) and a town that simply needs to be experienced.''Have you been to Kotor, Montenegro or any other destination that seemed like a fairy tale and made you feel like a kid again?''The time has come to announce my new''Wandering Earl Tours''project!''The overall idea is to offer something that does not resemble a typical group tour. These tours will be informal, small group excursions with a strong focus on independent travel.''We won’t be using private buses and we won’t be sleeping in four- or five-star hotels. We’ll be going local. We’ll use public transportation, we’ll stay in good budget hotels and guesthouses. We’ll eat at some of the best food stalls and local eateries around and we’ll visit places that aren’t always written about in guidebooks.''The core focus of a''Wandering Earl Tour''will always be on gaining a first-hand education, interacting with local people and of course, visiting as many fascinating locations as possible.''And the most rewarding part is that our small group will share the entire experience together, supporting each other as we not only discover an interesting destination, but as we discover the confidence to push ourselves beyond our usual comfort zones.''So, I’m happy to announce the first''Wandering Earl Tour''which will take place this coming''November''…''The''“Welcome to India”''Tour!''As I mention on this blog, in terms of accommodation, I typically stay in hostels, guesthouses or budget hotels when I’m traveling. And those options have worked quite well for me over the years, which is exactly why, when I decided to spend my week-long vacation in Ulcinj, Montenegro, I started looking for guesthouses and budget hotels as I normally do.''There were some decent budget options, all of which cost around $15 or $20 per person, but for some reason I had trouble making a decision. And so, I spent even more time on the internet, hoping that the perfect place for my friend and I to stay during this vacation (I don’t always''travel alone''!) would suddenly pop up onto my screen.''And that’s basically what happened…''At one point, I remembered all of the buzz that’s going around these days about using online short-term apartment rental services when traveling. I had actually visited a couple of these websites before when I was planning trips earlier this year to Vienna, Budapest and Istanbul, but the apartments always seemed too expensive so I never booked anything.''Assuming that I would find the exact same situation with Ulcinj (if I could find any apartments at all for such a small destination), I had a look at''airbnb.com''just in case.''Surprise!''This is exactly what happened….''– within 2 minutes I found the perfect apartment''– within 3 minutes I had made a booking request''– within 10 minutes I received confirmation of my booking''And what did I end up with?''A one bedroom apartment with two beds, a full kitchen and a terrace overlooking the town and the Adriatic Sea for a price of 30 Euros ($37 USD) per night. Not only that, but I ended up staying in an apartment owned by the sweetest, kindest, most generous couple I have come across in a long, long time.''From the moment we arrived, they invited us into their home, fed us endless slices of some kind of local corn bread, filled our glasses full of fruit juice and water, insisted we throw back a few shots of the local alcohol known as Raki and brought out a large plate of grapes, fresh figs and peaches for us to eat.''And that was before we even checked in.''Unmatched Hospitality''From then on, every single day during our seven-day stay, either Mrs. or Mr. Redzepagic would inevitably come knocking on our door and hand us yet another plateful of fruit or some freshly baked bread with cheese or a bagful of tomatoes or some more juice. Sometimes they would just come to say hello and check to make sure that we were still enjoying ourselves.''However, the owners only spoke Montenegrin and German (and a handful of Italian words) and not a single word of English. And between my friend and I, we knew about ten words of German which were so embarrassingly basic that I won’t even mention them here.''Yet despite this language problem, whenever we would encounter Mr. or Mrs. Redzepagic, we would always end up in the most pleasant and hilarious twenty-minute conversation, with all those involved constantly laughing and smiling and having a great time. We would all combine every possible language we knew in order to try and communicate and it was common for us to use two or three languages in the same sentence.''I can’t tell you how many times I would say something as absurd as…''“Schlafen dobrou! Today vamos baden.”''Translation: Slept good. Today we go swimming.''Languages used: German Montenegrin! English Spanish German.''In the beginning we struggled but between us nodding along in a convincing manner and the owners speaking as slowly as they possibly could, we managed to survive.''Although, at one point, I asked Mr. Redzepagic if he had any friends in the town of Kotor (the next destination I planned to visit) that had apartments for rent. He quickly answered in a mix of Montenegrin and German and I interpreted his reply as “Yes, give me your dates and I will call my friend.” So, the next day I wrote down the dates I would be in Kotor and handed them to him. He looked at the piece of paper, said “Gut, gut!” (Good, good!) and then handed it back to me. And that was it. Nothing about any friends in Kotor or any apartments for rent.''But regardless, I loved every minute of the interactions we had with this couple and by the end of the week, I actually began to pick up some German, at least enough to turn my fake nods into real nods of understanding. And while we’ll never actually know how successful we were with the communication, I assume it was a good sign that every conversation ended with a handshake or hug and even more smiles.''Either way, this experience was certainly proof that rewarding interactions with locals are still very possible even if you don’t speak the same language!''Did I Mention The View?''Back to the apartment…''I know that I have indeed already displayed a photo of the view we had from the terrace but I’m going to show another one here! Sorry, but the view was just that spectacular…''Combine such a view with having your own private space, private bathroom, full kitchen and every possible amenity of a comfortable apartment and this accommodation option starts to sound remarkably appealing.''When Renting A Short-Term Apartment Makes Sense''I always thought that renting a short-term apartment made sense for big cities and very popular travel destinations. However, it seems that the best apartment deals on a site such as airbnb.com are actually to be had in the smaller, out-of-the-way destinations. In the major cities, the apartments are usually far more expensive than any other budget accommodation options but in an off-the-beaten track location, the prices will naturally be much more affordable as the overall cost of living is usually much lower.''And these are typically the type of destinations where you might want to be a little more comfortable or where there might not even be any hostels or guesthouses around. So if you plan to stay in such a location for a few days or more, it’s hard to beat having your own apartment, especially when, in many cases, the cost is the same as, or even less than, the cost of a hostel if you’re two or more people.''Again, we paid 30 Euros ($36 USD) per night for the apartment in Ulcinj, Montenegro. That’s about $18 USD per person, an amount that most would agree is money well spent for such a place.''As a result, I’m now hooked. Whenever I’m looking for accommodation in off-the-beaten-path destinations in the future, I’ll certainly be adding short-term apartment rentals to the list of options I’ll research.''Have you ever used a short-term apartment rental website? Would you consider using one during your travels?''When I decided to start my trip to the Balkans with a ten day vacation from the blog, I began searching for an ideal beach town in Montenegro where I could do nothing but relax. At the time, I admittedly knew very little about Montenegro and as I did some research, I found it quite difficult to determine which of the many towns along its coast would make for the perfect destination.''After considering Herceg Novi, Budva, Petrovac, Bar and Sutomore, I finally chose the one location that I had trouble finding any information about at all. So, I booked an apartment in the town of Ulcinj, located just 40kms from the border with Albania, in a region of the country that seemed to receive far fewer visitors than the towns farther to the north.''Then, upon arrival in Montenegro last week, and with no real knowledge of what to expect, I hopped on a bus from the capital city of Podgorica and just hoped for the best.''And oh how lucky was I!''Not only was this town exactly what I was looking for – small, picturesque, laid-back, full of beaches – my vacation in Ulcinj turned out to be far better than anything I could have ever expected.''The Town Of Ulcinj''It’s a small town for sure, with one wide avenue of supermarkets, simple shops, restaurants and a market that suddenly turns into a small road as it curves toward the coast and straight through a narrow valley that leads down to the main beach and the historical fortified Stari Grad (Old City).''You can enter the gates of the tiny Old City via a short climb, either by road or steps, allowing you to explore it’s cobblestone streets and medieval buildings while taking in the view provided by it’s interesting location atop a piece of land that juts out from the coast into the Adriatic Sea.''Back down below the Old City, the main tourist strip behind the beach has the normal collection of pizzerias, shops selling towels and swimsuits and dozens of ice cream stands. But at the same time, the scale of this tourist strip was so small in comparison to what you might expect when you think of a tourist town that it was able to maintain it’s relaxed, local atmosphere. This was not an overwhelming tourist scene at all and was instead, quite pleasant to walk around.''Apart from these areas, the rest of town was situated on the sides and tops of several large hills that dotted the coastline, which not only made for some impressive scenery, but acted as the most ideal location for many of the residential neighborhoods. In fact, the apartment I rented was located at the top of one of these hills, something that allowed me to enjoy this evening view every day…''The Beaches of Ulcinj''The main beach was simple and incredibly overcrowded. The view of the Old City from the sand was wonderful, but the water was quite dirty, as was the beach itself, littered with empty Coca-Cola bottles and bags of junk food carelessly tossed away by beach-goers. I’m actually not too sure I’d ever been on such a crowded, dirty beach before and after one afternoon squeezed in between so many other people and trying not step on garbage, I decided to try a different beach the next day.''The 13km stretch of beach known as Veliko Plaza is about a 10-minute drive outside of the center of Ulcinj and this is where you will find private beach clubs, all of which have names such as “Copacabana” and “Miami Beach” and charge about 6 Euros for two beach chairs and an umbrella. I chose Miami Beach and with a restaurant and bathroom facilities on the premises, as well as a dozen staff members constantly cleaning the beach, this was a major improvement from the day before. And even though this beach probably had the same number of people as the main beach in town, it was so well-organized that it didn’t feel nearly as crowded.''I ended up at Miami Beach two days in a row, and while I was prepared to return to Miami Beach for a third day, I had noticed another small beach near the Old City during a short walk I took one evening. This beach was hidden at the bottom of a hill and despite being a rocky beach without any sand at all, it seemed so appealing simply because there were so few people there and the water was so clean and clear.''Sure enough, Liman Beach turned out to be my favorite of them all and had I found it on the first day of my vacation in Ulcinj, I probably would have gone here every single day. Tiny, with cheap umbrellas for rent, such beautiful water (which also seemed much warmer than the water at every other beach), a convenient snack/drink bar and excellent views of the Old City, this was my kind of beach.''And during the two days I spent on Liman Beach, swimming around and laying in the sun, I finally reached that point of relaxation that I had hoped this vacation would bring me.''The People of Ulcinj''The local population of 11,000 residents, of which 70% are Albanians, are quite laid-back and friendly, just as one would expect from those who live in a beach community. And despite having a mix of religions, ranging from the majority Muslims to Orthodox to Catholic to the three Buddhists who live in town, everyone lived in harmony according to the locals I spoke with.''In addition, crime is apparently non-existent here and it’s one of those destinations where you could ask anyone in the street for assistance and basically be guaranteed of a helpful, generous response.''As for the other tourists in town, they were made up mostly of Bosnians, Serbians and Kosovans, as Ulcinj is clearly a tourist destination for those from other Balkan countries. And while English is spoken by most of the people working in the tourism industry, I almost never heard it being used considering that the overwhelming majority of tourists here could communicate in either Albanian or Montenegrin, the two languages most widely used in Ulcinj.''And that was perfectly fine with me. All I wanted was to find a place where I could quiet my mind, get a tan, eat some good food and talk to some nice people.''That’s what I did during my vacation in Ulcinj and I loved it. And in case you can’t tell from the simplicity of this post, I am currently about as relaxed as I have ever been at any time during the past three years, which is exactly why, the next time I decide to find a quiet beach community to spend a month or so living in, Ulcinj will definitely be on my final list of options.''Does Ulcinj sound like your kind of place? Are there any other quiet, non-traditional vacation destinations you’ve discovered or want to visit?''As of this very moment, I’m taking a break. It won’t be a terribly long break, maybe 7 or 10 days at most, but during this period of time I will not be putting any posts up on the site and I’ll be responding to emails at a much slower pace than normal.''This will actually be the first break I’ve really taken since this blog became a major part of my life. Barely a day goes by without me being on the internet, working long hours to take care of everything that needs to be taken care of with this blog. And surely everyone deserves a vacation every now and then, even bloggers, right?''Just a few hours ago I arrived in Belgrade after taking the overnight train (pictured above) from Bucharest to Timisoara, Romania, followed by a delayed shuttle bus ride into Serbia. Tomorrow I shall arrive in Montenegro, where I plan to plop myself down on a beach for a week or so, something I haven’t done in a long time either. I won’t be disappearing, just resting and following my own advice about''the need to disconnect from technology''as often as we can.''I shall be back to writing two posts per week as normal by around July 12th or July 16th and I do hope you’ll stick around as a reader despite this mini-vacation of mine.''Also, when my vacation does come to an end, I shall be ready to announce the dates, itinerary and all of the details for my upcoming''India Tour''that I’ll be organizing and leading in November.''I’ve never been as excited about any project I’ve worked on as I am about this one and I truly can’t wait to experience India with all of you who may be interested!''And that’s it for now…time to continue my journey to the beach.''Have a great week!''Earl''When I first began researching how I was going to get from Bucharest to Ulcinj, Montenegro, the first destination of my upcoming trip to the Balkans, I started off by checking airfares. I figured that flying there would just be the easiest method and considering that the distance is a lengthy, but reasonable, 850 kms / 470 miles between the two places, how expensive could the airfare be?''Well, the answer turned out to be ‘very expensive’. My initial airfare searches gave me fares of around $500 USD one way. And all I needed was a one-way ticket because my return route would be overland, with stops in Albania, Macedonia, Kosovo, Serbia and Bulgaria along the way.''And not only were the flight options $500 or more, they all involved one or two stops and total durations ranging from 10 to 23 hours.''It was time to look for a Plan B.''Plan B – Alternative Airports''After a quick look at a map of the region, I discovered that there were several other airports I could fly into that would leave me somewhat close to my final destination along the coast of Montenengro. And so I searched for airfares from Bucharest to Tivat, Montenegro, from Bucharest to Tirana, Albania and from Bucharest to Dubrovnik, Croatia.''No luck. The lowest fare was $454 to Tirana but involved an 11-hour layover in Istanbul.''Bear with me. You’ll soon see where this is headed.''Plan C – Round-trip Tickets''Knowing that sometimes a round-trip ticket can actually be cheaper than a one-way ticket, I then searched for such tickets on all the routes above. But I couldn’t find anything cheaper in this particular case.''Plan D – Bus/Train Combination''Thinking that it was perhaps time to abandon my hope of flying to Montenegro, I began looking at the bus and train options available to me. There seemed to be two that were somewhat reasonable.''The first option was to take a train from Bucharest to Belgrade, Serbia followed by an overnight, 13-hour bus or train ride to the capital of Montenegro. The total cost would be about $125 USD and take a total of 33 hours.''Unfortunately, however, I soon learned that the train from Bucharest to Belgrade is no longer in operation, the route having been canceled just two weeks ago.''The second option was to take a bus from Bucharest across the Bulgarian border to the Bulgarian town of Rousse. From there, buses depart somewhat regularly for Sofia, making the trip in about 5.5 hours. Once in Sofia, there is an afternoon minibus to the town of Nis, Serbia, a journey of about 3 hours, allowing you to connect to another minibus that covers the journey from Nis to Podgorica, Montenegro in about 13 hours. The total cost for this option would be about $120 USD and take a total of approximately 25 hours as long as you have smooth connections.''This second option actually looked quite good to me but that excitement quickly disappeared upon learning that there would be no smooth connections as the bus schedules for each segment did not match up too well. In the end, it would take closer to 38 hours to complete the journey.''At this point, I had no idea what to do and so I stopped doing research altogether for a couple of days. If I had looked at one more online flight search engine, Bulgarian bus website or Romanian train timetable, I was going to throw my''rubber duck''out the window.''But once I calmed down a bit, and those two days without research passed, I suddenly realized that I had less than a week to figure this stuff out.''Plan E – Get Lucky!''Just for the fun of it, I decided to search for airfare one last time, hoping that some random airline would be offering some ridiculously low fare for the exact route, date and time I was looking for. However, for some reason, I accidentally entered “Belgrade” into the search engine as my “From” airport and not Bucharest. It was just a mistake and I didn’t notice it until the airfares started popping up.''And as they did pop up, I quickly realized that this silly little typing error was about to be the best silly little typing error I’ve made in a long time.''Right there before me on my laptop screen was a flight from Belgrade to Podgorica, Montenegro on Montenegro Airlines for a mere $75 USD. Instead of a 13-hour bus ride, I could enjoy a 40-minute flight for just $35 more than the bus ticket. Interesting.''After another few minutes of research I then discovered that a private company offers daily minibus shuttle service between Timisoara, Romania and Belgrade, Serbia, picking you up and dropping you offer wherever you want in each location.''And then I found an overnight train from Bucharest to Timisoara that would arrive in Timisoara in time to catch that shuttle bus to Belgrade. Perfect.''The only downside of this plan is that I would arrive in Belgrade at around 12pm on July 5th and my flight wouldn’t be until the morning of the 6th. But if spending almost a full day and a full night in Belgrade is a downside, count me in!''View''Bucharest, Romania to Ulcinj, Montenegro''in a larger map''So, in the end, my journey will be as follows…''Overnight train from Bucharest to Timisoara, Romania (9 hours, $35 USD)''Minibus from Timisoara to Belgrade, Serbia (2.5 hours, $25 USD)''Overnight in Belgrade – hooray! (hostel, $15 USD)''Morning flight from Belgrade to Podgorica, Montenegro (40 minutes, $75 USD)''1.5 hour bus from Podgorica to Ulcinj (1.5 hours, $7 USD)''And while this journey will take me around 35 hours to complete, it involves the comfort of a sleeper car on an overnight train, almost one full day plus one night in a hostel in Belgrade, and then a short, inexpensive hop of a flight to Montenegro.''Also, I’ll only end up spending around $180 USD for this trip, which is far less than the the 15-hour, $500 flights I originally found and just a little more money than the other bus options that would have taken me even longer.''Done deal.''Get Creative!''So what’s the point of this post? Get creative when planning your travels! This is how you can save a great deal of money while finding the best options for your journey.''Look for flights to alternative airports, look for round-trip tickets even if you only need a one-way. Break up your trip into segments and search for two separate one-way tickets (in my case, Bucharest to Belgrade and Belgrade to Podgorica). Look for bus/train/plane/shuttle bus combinations. Find out which budget or regional airlines fly the routes you’re looking for. Search their websites directly. Change your dates around. Don’t be afraid to spend the night somewhere mid-journey as it gives you a chance to rest and visit another destination.''I’m often asked how I can afford to travel all over the place so much. Flights must be expensive, right? The above description of how I planned my upcoming Balkan trip is my answer. It doesn’t have to be expensive at all if you are willing to get creative!''Any other travel planning tips to share that have worked for you? Any questions about travel planning? Leave your comments below!''Yesterday I received the following email from a close Australian friend of mine…''“So I’ve just arrived at Broome Backpackers [a hostel in Broome, Australia], staying four nights in an 8-bed mixed dorm room. It’s 9pm and there have been five of us in the room for the past hour. The other four have been on their laptops or mobile phones. Nobody has spoken. At all. Not one word.''I’ve been sitting here reading a book the entire time and now I just had to write you an email as I cast my mind back to our travels through India, Thailand and beyond several years ago, to a time when travelers actually conversed with each other.”''I tapped my left foot on the ground, slowly, then quickly, then slowly again. I raised my hands to head level and clapped with the beat (or at least I tried to). I yelled out ‘Wooohoooo!’ every time the crowd of 10,000 people around me yelled out ‘Wooohoooo!’.''In between songs, when the lead singer spoke a few words into the microphone, I waited for the crowd’s reaction and followed suit. Sometimes we cheered, other times we screamed and sometimes we applauded politely.''When the crowd swayed from side to side during a slower song, I swayed from side to side too. And when a faster song was played, I did my best to throw my hands in the air and bob up and down just like everyone else.''And during the times when I had no idea what to do, I just continued tapping my left foot, nodding my head and occasionally saying, ‘Yeeeeaaah!’, at a volume level that nobody could even hear.''So there you go. If you ever find yourself at a huge music concert in a foreign land, listening to a popular band sing their songs in a language that you don’t understand at all, you now know what to do. It’s quite simple really.''I don’t think anyone around me had any idea that I wasn’t a lifelong fan of the Romanian rock band on the stage, a band called “''Iris''”, a band whose 35 year anniversary concert I was attending.''Tap, clap, yell, sway. Tap, clap, yell, sway. ‘Wooohoooo!’''The Role Of Music In My Life''Anyway, despite not knowing whether Iris was singing about freedom, love, where to buy a laptop at discount prices or recipes for a nice Thai curry, I must say that I had such a good time at this concert.''I’ve always been a fan of music in general and I listen to it all the time. Even right now as I write this I am listening to music. If I’m at my laptop, music is on. If I’m on a bus, train or plane, music accompanies me. If I’m walking around, taking a stroll through a park, I’ll often do so while listening to music as well.''And because I’ve always been traveling, I’ve developed a taste for a wide variety of musical genres from around the world. There really isn’t much that I won’t listen to.''I also enjoy live music, although, due to my nomadic lifestyle, I don’t often have a chance to attend many concerts. My live musical experiences are generally limited to listening to lesser-known local bands play the night away in bars or pubs or cafes around the world, in cities such as Melbourne or Istanbul or Chiang Mai or New York. Beyond that I rarely know about larger concerts taking place in the countries I visit or my travel plans don’t match up with certain musical events that I would be interested in attending.''That’s just one of the downsides of moving around so much.''However, after attending this “Iris 35 Ani” concert (Iris’ 35th Anniversary) on Friday night in Bucharest, an outdoor concert that took place in Piata Constitutiei, a major square directly in front of the impressive''Palace of the Parliament'', I’m quite motivated to try and attend more concerts every year from now on.''And I don’t care what language the music is in or even if I’ve ever heard of the band.''Songs Are Much More Than Just Words & Music''The thing is, I realized, as I was swaying and tapping the other night, that even though the words of a song are indeed important, I am also attracted to the atmosphere that music can create.''At the Iris concert, as I looked around me at the 10,000 others in attendance, I could see the connections that everyone had to each of the songs. I could see the happiness, the sadness, the memories, the pain, the dreams, the stories, the challenges, the victories, the hope and the joy in their faces every time a new song was played.''There was laughter and there were tears, there were moments of reflection and bursts of inspiration, everywhere around me. People were hugging, holding hands, exchanging high-fives and giving each other looks that said, “Remember when we first heard this song?” or “This song always makes me feel like I can do anything in life!”.''And even though I obviously did not have similar connections to these songs and this music, I could not help but feel entirely caught up in this energy, in the overwhelming intensity, in the personal bonds between every member of the audience and this band that has been making an impact on so many lives for the past 35 years.''I loved this concert. I didn’t want it to end. I could have tapped my rhythm-less feet, struggled to clap my hands in unison with everyone else and swayed my body as only a terrible dancer can do, for the entire night if the band would have kept on playing. The atmosphere was just that addicting.''After all, this is the kind of stuff I always remember most from my travels. It is these experiences in which, even if only for a few hours, I am not merely present in some location, but I am completely engulfed by such a spectacular force that causes every part of me to become infinitely more alive than usual.''The power of music as they say. And thanks to my evening at the Iris concert, it turns out that you don’t even need to understand the words or have any clue what the band is singing about in order to experience that power to its fullest.''Does music play a role in your life?''Now that I’ve finalized my travel plans for the next month or so, I wanted to announce the destinations I’ll be visiting. And what better way to do so than from the bathtub…''**(If you’re reading this post via email, please''click here''to watch the video.)**''Summary of the video:''Me singing Bon Jovi with my rubber duck.''A mention of the destinations I’ll be visiting in July – Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Albania, Kosovo.''Asking if any of you live in these locations, and if so, maybe we can meet up.''Wondering if anyone has any recommendations of places to visit?''Brief argument with my rubber duck.''Announcement of a new video and photo series on the blog that will start during my July travels.''Finish shampooing my hair.''Have a great weekend everyone!''Living in Bucharest has been quite a''positive experience''so far. But I’m still a traveler and I can only sit still for so long. As a result, it should be no surprise that I try to take advantage of as many opportunities as I can to escape the city and visit other destinations in this remarkably diverse country.''So when Cezar, a fellow travel blogger from''ImperatorTravel.com''(who is from Romania), invited me to join him on an excursion yesterday, I had my day pack ready to go in a matter of minutes.''With not a single mountain, hill or even mound visible from anywhere in Bucharest itself, I was quite happy that our destination was Sinaia, a small town in the Prahova Valley that I had heard about endless times before but that I had yet to reach.''And had I known that a mountain escape such as the one I ended up having yesterday could be accomplished with just an easy one and a half hour train ride, I would have traveled to Sinaia a long time ago. For some reason I never realized how close this interesting town was to the capital.''Peles Castle: Very, Very Cool''Ever since I first arrived in Romania, locals that I have met have continuously told me that Peles Castle in the town of Sinaia (which was named after Sinai, Egypt by the way) is far more impressive than Bran Castle, the castle that most visitors, due to crafty marketing by the tourism board, believe to be the ex-home of Vlad the Impaler (Dracula) but which, in reality, has only very loose connections to Mr. Impaler.''Regardless, it is so very true that immediately upon first glimpse of Peles Castle, I was able to confirm that my Romanian friends were indeed correct. Peles is instantly spectacular.''Located at the end of a beautiful forest path, and set atop a hill amid the mountains, this castle was founded by King Carol I, the guy who was in charge when Romania gained its independence in 1877.''He was also the guy that decided to approve a plan for this castle that involved creating a massive chalet-type structure that had one-hundred and sixty rooms inside, everything from bedrooms to theaters, concert halls, weapons rooms, libraries, offices, card rooms, shisha lounges, apartments, bathrooms, rooms to hang out in after you take a bath, painting rooms, tea rooms, children’s play rooms, meeting rooms, breakfast rooms and formal dining rooms.''And that’s the basic part. The unique part is that every single one of those rooms, as well as the hallways and foyers, were decorated in a completely different style or theme, drawing from influences such as Turkish, Venetian, Florentine, French, and Moorish, among others.''So whenever you walk through a doorway or turn a corner, you have absolutely no idea what you’ll encounter. It’s an architecture and design fantasy-land with ornate wooden spiral staircases, interior balconies, massive decorated mirrors, odd statues, doors hidden inside of cupboards, a room shaped like an upside down boat, changing colors everywhere, a stain-glass roof that can be opened up during the summer and more.''Without a doubt this was the most bizarre castle (apparently it’s actually a palace and not a castle) I’ve seen anywhere during my travels. And I found it to be well worth the 2-hours I spent inside.''Unfortunately, this is not a cheap castle to visit and after paying the 70 lei ($23 USD) entrance fee, I opted not to pay the extra $12 USD to take photos of the interior. But one look at the exterior and you can get the idea that this is not a normal castle.''Pelisor Castle: Much More Normal''Right down the path from Peles Castle happens to be another castle, the Art Nouveau-style Pelisor (Little Peles), which, even though it is significantly smaller in size and much less extravagant than Peles, still makes for an interesting stop.''Unlike it’s giant and strange neighbor, in Pelisor you can actually imagine the past inhabitants (which included a young King Ferdinand and a Queen Marie) living there, wandering the hallways and eating their meals in the simply decorated dining rooms. Cezar said it best when he turned to me yesterday and noted, “This place feels more like a home.”''Indeed it does and it makes for a unique contrast to Peles Castle.''This is Pelisor Castle…''Sinaia Monastery''Next up was the monastery, a place where you can visit two Byzantine-style churches, one from 1846 and the other dating back to 1695, the older one still with many of its original paintings on the exterior. Apart from the churches, you can also take a rest and just enjoy the quiet atmosphere in the small courtyards located in the middle of the monastery itself.''To The Top Of The Mountain''And from the monastery, you can descend back into the town center where you can grab a gogosi cu branza (cheese doughnut) or a strudel cu mere (apple strudel) from one of the local bakeries before heading over to the Telegondola. Built in the 1970s, these gondolas will take you straight up to an elevation of 2000 meters where you’ll disembark to views of the Prahova Valley below. As you glance at the forest-covered mountains and the small towns that dot the landscape, you’ll find that this is one view that is difficult to turn your eyes away from.''Luckily, there are two or three open-air cafes atop the mountain where you can have a seat, sip a drink and stare out over the region known as Transylvania.''From the top of the mountain you can either hike back down via a well-marked trail or take one of the two gondola options towards the bottom. We went for the newer gondola this time, one that landed us in the middle of the forest, still a decent distance above Sinaia.''From here it’s a peaceful hour-long walk into town along winding, empty roads, with only the occasional “Beware of Bears!” signs posted along the route to snap you out of your care-free, happy state. And as long as you don’t encounter any bears (if you do spot a bear, just play dead), your day shall conclude with those lungfuls of fresh mountain air spreading its therapeutic qualities throughout your body. Yes, it was that wonderful of a walk.''So there you go…''Two castles. One monastery. Two gondolas. One mountain top. One strudel. One cozy town. Several forest walks. One-thousands lungfuls of fresh mountain air. No bear encounters.''One mighty fine day in Sinaia, Romania.''Have you been to Sinaia? Or do you have a place you love to visit in order to get away from city life or life in the town you live in?''A few days ago, as I was combing through my own''Facebook fan page'', something I do from time to time because I somehow tend to miss a few of the messages that readers leave on the page, I noticed a message that I had in fact not noticed before.''It was a very upbeat note, full of genuine curiosity and it also included a question. This reader wanted to know, “''Why travel so much?''” She just couldn’t understand why someone would be so attracted to travel and why someone would not want to live a simple, stable, more traditional life in one place.''While this might seem like a silly question to some of you, it’s important to realize that, as many of our high school teachers liked to say, ‘there is no such thing as a silly question’. For some people, the thought of travel is just not as exciting as it is to others. Some people don’t dream of faraway lands or have any desire to visit countries and cultures that are different from their own.''And that’s fine of course. I certainly don’t expect everyone on the planet to want the same things out of life and however anyone chooses to live, as long as they’re happy with that choice, I’m happy for them.''With that said, I naturally wanted to provide an answer to this reader’s question and so I quickly left a response on Facebook with a few lines about travel giving me an opportunity to see the world with my own eyes. Short and basic.''But over the next couple of days, I kept thinking about her question, over and over again. It’s not so much that I started to wonder why on earth I do travel so much, but instead, I began to wonder how I could even begin to explain the core reasons of why I’ve decided to live this traveling lifestyle for so long.''I guess I could talk about the beautiful islands, the mysterious cities, the unique cultures, the spectacular natural wonders and of course the people from all walks of life that have had a major impact on me over the years.''Those are all perfectly good reasons. But at the same time, they don’t seem sufficient.''My Answer''It was while I was eating a bowl of pasta last night that I suddenly thought of a more suitable response. And it all has to do with a recent experience, a very simple experience, that essentially defines my desire to travel so much.''Two weeks ago, as I wrote about already, I went on a four-day''trip to Bratislava, Slovakia''. The purpose of this trip was to spend some time with three of my friends.''So, after flying from Bucharest to Vienna (the Vienna airport is only 40 minutes from Bratislava) there we were, the four of us – two Romanians, one Kazakh and one American – spending time together in Slovakia. We ate at local Slovakian restaurants, we drank Moldovan wines and Czech beers, we spent an evening searching for nebulas, star clusters and distant galaxies in an empty field just across the Hungarian border, we went to the cinema one afternoon and watched a film about India. We spoke about my friend’s desire to live in France, about all of our travels to Istanbul, about my time''working on board cruise ships''and about whether or not we should all participate in the Mongol Rally (a car ‘race’ from Prague to Mongolia) next year.''And during that same trip, I also had a Skype call with a friend of mine from Australia, I made plans with another friend from the US to meet up in Montenegro in July and I received an email from an Italian friend of mine whom I hadn’t heard from in over a year and who just moved to Brazil, as one does.''This is exactly why I travel so much.''My life has become a combination of destinations, interactions, concepts, opportunities, friendships, challenges and realities that were once so very foreign or unknown to me. After twelve years of travel, the entire world now feels like my home. And it’s the resulting diversity of experiences and people in my life that ultimately lead to an increased appreciation of all that I encounter during my adventures.''While that Moldovan wine I drank in Bratislava might not have been the best wine I’ve ever tried, I fully appreciated and enjoyed the experience of drinking something I would never have tasted had I never traveled, while sitting in a backyard overlooking a city that I would never have known anything about, talking about plans I would never have believed to be possible and surrounded by good people I would never have met.''And the fact that this is how I feel when in such situations provides all the motivation I need to continue living this lifestyle.''*Again, I’m not saying that everyone should want to live this lifestyle…not at all. I’m just answering the question that was asked, hopefully showing why this lifestyle is so appealing to me.''I wonder, why do you travel? Or, if you’re not traveling yet, why do you want to travel in the first place?''The other day, I met up with fellow travelers/bloggers''Johnny''and''Ian'', who happened to be passing through Bucharest. I had met Johnny in 2010 while in''Beirut''and so this was a great opportunity to catch up with him and learn more about his recent travels along the Trans-Siberian Railway and all over Northern and Eastern Europe.''As we sat at an outdoor cafe in the old city center discussing a variety of topics, at one point, both Johnny and Ian mentioned that upon first impression, the people of Bucharest seemed so very friendly.''I quickly nodded in agreement because that has been my experience as well during the five months I’ve spent on and off in this city. However, even though I have without a doubt encountered an endless string of overly friendly, kind and generous people in this city, and in Romania in general, you won’t hear me claiming this country to be the friendliest on the planet.''But fear not dear''Romania''. It has nothing to do with you at all.''When it comes to the question “What is the friendliest country on the planet?”, I truly believe that there is only one suitable answer –''every country is the friendliest country on the planet''.''Yes, I’m talking about you Nicaragua and Bangladesh and Indonesia and Slovakia and''Mexico''and France and''South Africa''and Kuwait, and every other country in between.''How is this possible?''In my travel experience, I’ve learned that the friendliness of a country has far more to do with my own attitude than any other factor. If I cross the border into Croatia, for example, and I walk around the streets of Split with my head down, treating everyone I come across as either a potential scam artist, thief or even just a source of information, chances are I won’t have the most rewarding interactions.''However, if I walk around with my head up, not caring that I’m the silly tourist, always open and interested in meeting new people and remembering at all times that everyone I meet is a fellow human being, while shaking plenty of hands, asking questions and trying to use the few words of Croatian that I’ve hopefully picked up, then I have no doubt that Croatia will seem like one supremely friendly nation.''And the same formula works for every country you visit. It’s worked for me at least, in 76 countries so far.''It is common, and quite understandable, for us travelers to be on guard at all times, to constantly worry about our safety and to lack a general trust of those we meet during our adventures. And when this happens, we tend to shy away from interacting with those around us and as a result, everyone seems much less friendly, simply because we aren’t open to meeting as many people.''But a good way to change our mentality is to imagine ourselves sitting on the steps in front of our own house or apartment building back home. There we are, just relaxing outside when suddenly, from around the corner comes a backpack-carrying traveler who clearly appears to be lost.''Some of you might immediately hop up and offer this traveler a hand. However, others might not say a word and just stare at this nervous person, wondering what on earth they are doing on your street.''But if that traveler walked up to you, smiled widely and asked if you could point him or her in the right direction, I’d imagine that most of you would offer a helping hand and make sure that this traveler ended up where they needed to go.''Just think about the difference in this person’s experience. As a result of talking to us, smiling and asking a question, when they go back to their hostel later that night, they will speak of the friendly people they encountered, the people who helped them when lost.''Well, it’s the same when we’re on the road as well. We need to put in an effort to interact and connect with the people who live in the destinations we visit. We can’t walk around with a suspicious eye, tightly grasping our backpack in fear of our stuff being stolen, assuming that everyone is out to get us. And we can’t expect every person in every nation to walk up to us, the strange foreigner, with open arms, to give us a huge hug and a flower lei and treat us to a royal feast just because we’ve chosen to visit their country.''Of course, there’s still no guarantee that a smile, a hand shake or a splattering of highly mangled local words will lead to ideal travel experiences, but so far, in my travels, I have rarely been disappointed. India and Australia, Italy and Iceland, Jordan and Turkey, Barbados and Kiribati…they’ve all been equally friendly to me.''So, forget about the question of “which is the friendliest country in the world?” Instead, just remember that wherever we travel, we, the traveler, hold the key to unlocking the friendliness of the people around us.''With this attitude, I’m quite confident that you, too, will always feel as if you are in the friendliest country on the planet.''Do you believe there’s a ‘friendliest country in the world’ or do you also think that every country can fit that description?''When people ask me why I blog, I always give the same reason. I simply state that I want to help others understand that a life of travel, which basically means having travel play a significant role in your life, is so much more possible than most people ever imagine.''And I am constantly reminding myself of that mission every time I write a post, reply to my emails and use social media.''So whenever I receive a message from someone who was inspired by my blog and who started traveling as a result of reading my posts, I can’t explain how wonderful that makes me feel. It also makes me feel even better when such a  person explains that the decision to start traveling was the best decision they had ever made. And luckily, almost everyone I hear from says that very thing!''And because my goal is to prove that a life of travel is quite realistic, I am always trying to think of new ways to spread my message to even more people.''That’s why, for the past five months, I’ve been working quite hard on a project that I’ve been wanting to put together for a while, a project that I sincerely hope will convince even more people that giving up on your travel goals should not be an option.''Well, after four straight nights of almost no sleep, as I put the finishing touches on this project, I am so very happy to announce the launch of the…''“How to Live a Life of Travel” eGuide''Knowing that I’d be spending a decent amount of time in Romania, I loaded up my backpack with more clothes than usual when I recently paid a visit to my family back in the US. Normally, the weight of my backpack remains a relatively constant 8 or 9 kilograms (18 – 20 lbs) but as I crossed the Atlantic Ocean this time, I was carrying 15 kilograms (33 lbs), a weight that I can’t remember carrying around in a long time.''Why all the extra clothes?''I simply figured that being based in Romania, and taking short side trips to various countries around Eastern Europe, would require me to have a completely different wardrobe than usual, one that was more flexible and more suitable for spending a longer period of time in one location. Maybe I would have to dress up for some occasion or just want to wear a different pair of shorts from the one pair I normally carry. Or maybe I would want an extra pair of shoes to choose from each day.''One pair of jeans, one pair of shorts and four shirts no more!''I opened my brand new''Kelty Redwing 50''when I was in Florida and stuffed that thing full of, well, clothes. Two pairs of jeans, one pair of dress pants, two pairs of shorts and a total of twelve, yes, twelve, shirts (3 long-sleeve, 9 short-sleeve), not to mention six pairs of socks, seven pairs of boxers, a pair of sweat pants (no idea why!), a pair of shoes, a pair of running sneakers and a pair of sandals. I even took two belts and two swimming shorts with me as well.''Do I Need All Of These Clothes?''I haven’t even taken half of my clothes out of my backpack and I’ve already been back in Romania for six weeks. And during that time, not one single person has commented or ridiculed me. Nobody has told me I’m a dirty traveler who should be ashamed of wearing only a few shirts, one pair of shorts and one pair of jeans.  As a result, I’ve found no reason at all to use more clothes than what I’ve been using, which, incidentally, is the same amount of clothes I typically travel with.''It’s not as if I wear one shirt nineteen times before cleaning it. My clothes are always clean. And one button down shirt has been sufficient for those times I’ve needed to dress up a bit. It’s also the middle of summer so I haven’t pulled out any of my long-sleeve shirts and shockingly, I’ve been wearing the same one belt every day.''Quite easily I could have left about 60% of the clothes I now have with me behind in the US and I doubt there would have been even a single moment when I would have wished I had more items.''Why People Carry So Much Stuff''Packing light is something I always stress but as you can see, even experienced travelers can still fall victim to the lure of carrying around too much. It just goes to show how difficult it can be to convince yourself that you don’t need 15 kgs of clothes for an overseas trip, no matter how long you’ll be gone for. It seems so much easier to just take some extra items with you, you know, ‘just in case’.''Speaking of ‘just in case’, throughout my years of travel, I’ve met a lot of travelers who travel with large overstuffed backpacks. And whenever the topic of traveling light comes up in conversation, I always hear the exact same two reasons as to why a person is carrying around so much stuff as they bounce around the world.''First, it’s because they ‘might’ need one of the items in their backpack at some point during their travels. As I said above, ‘just in case’.''Second, they thought it would be difficult to do laundry while away.''When it comes to ‘maybe’ needing something, my theory is that if you don’t have it, you won’t need it. And if for some reason you do need it, well, you can almost always buy it while overseas. And if you can’t buy it, then you don’t really need it.''That extra t-shirt, you know, the one you received as a birthday gift from your best friend that says “I’m a Fanitoba of Manitoba!” and that you think you could maybe use when you’re hanging out on the beach in Asia…leave it at home. That pair of thick wool socks you want to take just in case you decide to climb Mount Everest at the last minute…leave them behind as well and I bet you won’t even notice their absence.''And that will be the case with everything you decide not to take with you. Just stick to the basics, a pair of pants, a pair of shorts, a small, varied collection of shirts and fewer socks and underwear than you need at home, and a few extra items to match the destination/climate you’re headed to and you’ll have more than enough to survive your travels.''That might sound daunting at first, but don’t worry, you won’t end up walking around in dirty, stinky clothes that you’ve had to wear for twelve days straight without being able to wash them.''How do I know that won’t happen?''That’s because it’s actually very easy to wash your clothes while traveling, even if you’re constantly on the go. You can often wash your clothes in the sink or in the shower of your hostel/hotel and in many countries, especially in Asia, you’ll find a bucket in your hotel room bathroom (even in budget hotels), the sole purpose of which is to be used to wash your clothes. And you don’t need to carry around a large bottle or box of laundry detergent. Just step outside, walk to the closest corner shop and buy a small packet or two of detergent, something that can cost as little as 20 US cents in some countries.''That’s all it takes. Spend fifteen minutes washing your clothes yourself, hang them on a clothesline in your room overnight and in the morning, you have a fresh wardrobe. (And as''Andrew Caldwell''reminded me in a recent email while he was traveling around India, there’s no need to buy some expensive clothesline from a travel gear store at home when you can buy a perfectly effective one from a local shop overseas for mere pennies.)''Finally, for those of you who can’t imagine themselves doing their laundry in the shower or sink, there’s still no reason to pack an excessive amount of clothes. You can always pay someone else to do your laundry instead. Hostels and budget hotels often offer laundry services for a reasonable fee and if not, chances are that there is a laundry shop or two somewhere in town. You’ll typically pay by the kilogram and it’s quite common to get your laundry back the same day (if you bring it in the morning).''Of course, there may be times when you go to pick up your laundry, and as happened to me in Istanbul once, your ‘clean’ clothes are returned to you all bunched up in a messy ball, smelling like cigarettes and actually full of cigarette ash. But that doesn’t happen often, and good, cheap laundry services are generally available in every corner of the world.''Does A Lighter Backpack Really Make a Difference?''Oh, it does. When you’re out there in the heat wandering through the streets of some unknown town or city, completely lost while trying to find a hostel or hotel, drenched in sweat and with the frustration building, you’ll be quite happy that you’re at least not having to lug around 15 kgs worth of stuff.''When you’re constantly bouncing around from train to train or bus to bus or train to bus to taxi to tuk-tuk as you try to reach a particular destination, having a backpack that weighs only 8 kg makes the adventure much more enjoyable as you won’t be dreading every time you have to put that backpack on your back. If it’s light, picking it up and moving around is a breeze and you’ll be quite thankful as you watch your fellow travelers struggle with their massive, heavy packs.''Besides, a smaller, lighter backpack can also be used as a carry-on while flying, you can take it onto the bus instead of having to put it in the luggage compartment underneath or on the roof where you can’t keep an eye on it and you’ll just be able to move around so much more freely wherever you go.''Combine that with the fact that you won’t miss those extra shirts and shoes and shorts and pants and socks and underwear and scarfs and hats and jackets that you didn’t end up taking with you and traveling light should seem to be an even wiser choice.''I know that I’ll be leaving most of my clothes behind myself next time around and happily returning to my old ways of carrying no more than 9 kgs of stuff.''How do you pack when you travel? Do you travel light?''Last week I spent four days in Bratislava, Slovakia. It’s a small capital city, very small, in fact, with a population of only 450,000 or so. It’s the kind of city that always feels like a town, with a relaxed atmosphere and a lack of things such as heavy city noise, maniacal traffic or crowded streets.''Take a stroll along the Danube River, head through Hviezdoslav Square and into the nicely renovated Old City – where you’ll find a collection of interesting baroque palaces, Gothic Cathedrals, medieval towers and welcoming plazas – and walk up through the narrow medieval lanes that lead to the imposing Bratislava Castle, and you’ll enjoy yourself. It’s just all so very pleasant, everywhere you go.''Bratislava, Slovakia is almost entirely walkable, it’s attractive and it has an interesting history, good food (garlic soup and chicken with peaches are my favorites!), dirt cheap and excellent beer, as well as plenty of parks, forests and lakes nearby. It’s also only 60 kilometers from Vienna, 60 kilometers from the border with the Czech Republic and just a short 20 minute drive from Hungary. Not a bad location at all.''In fact, as I sat in the quiet backyard of my friends’ house each night during my brief stay, sipping wine and looking out over the Danube River, with the Bratislava Castle as well as Austria and Hungary in the distance, I found myself taking a strong liking to this place. I don’t think I could live here for too long as it may be too quiet for me, but a country town feel with access to everything you could need from a city sure makes for an appealing destination to spend some time in.''A Quick Tale About Slovakian Face Wash''On a side note, I can’t tell you all how happy I was to find myself able to read and understand a decent amount of the Slovak language during my stay. This was due to a relationship I had several years ago with a girl from the Czech Republic when one of my side hobbies was trying to see if I could pronounce words such as zmrzlina and spolubydlící in less than 29 minutes.''And since the Czech and Slovak languages are very similar, this proved quite useful during this recent visit to Bratislava.''Simple things such as ordering food in restaurants, reading signs around the city and differentiating between the face wash and shampoo in my friends’ shower, were made so much easier as a result.''Actually, I might have messed up with the face wash. In fact, I know I did.''You see, on my first morning in Bratislava, as I prepared to shower, I spent a few minutes staring at the nine bottles of soaps and shampoos on the shelf inside the bathroom. And because I wasn’t wearing my contact lenses or glasses at the time, I had to take each bottle off the shelf, put it close to my eyes and try to decipher the purpose of the liquid inside.''I easily found the shampoo (šampón). I easily found the body wash (sprchový gél). And then, I found a nice small bottle of Nivea face wash as well.''I used the shampoo. I used the body wash. And then, I gave my face a thorough cleansing with the face wash.''The next morning I did the same and on my third and final morning as well. And on that final morning, after I dried myself off and put in my contact lenses, I decided to write down the name of the face wash I had been using as it seemed to be quite a good one to me.''So I grabbed the bottle off the shelf and began reading.''Well, wouldn’t you know it. Now that I could see more clearly, I realized that I had previously failed to notice a few things, important things mind you. I had assumed it was face wash after trying to decipher some of the Czech/Slovak words on the bottle. However, I had failed to read the words “Wash Lotion” that were written in English. Not only that, it was actually written “Intimate Wash Lotion”.''Further, not only was the ‘face wash’ called “Intimo”, but under that very word were two more words that I had severely misread before I had taken that first shower.''What I believed said “Dermatologically Tested” actually said “Gynaecologically Tested”. And the worst part was that this was written in English as well. Oops.''Very different meanings there, although there’s no denying that my face did feel quite smooth. Anyway, as a result, from now on, I’m quite sure that I will always put my contact lenses in my eyes before I step foot into any shower.''On a brighter note, due to this little incident, I’ll shall certainly never forget my trip to Bratislava. I shall also look forward to visiting my friends there again and exploring more of the countryside next time around. Of course, if I want my friends to actually invite me again, I should probably send my friend a new bottle of “Intimo” considering how much of her current bottle I used on my face.''Have you been to Bratislava, Slovakia? Is it a place you’d be interested in visiting? Any face wash recommendations?''A couple of months ago, a friend of mine asked me to recommend a guesthouse in Istanbul for her mother, an adventurous soul at the age of 70, who was heading to Turkey to do some traveling. I recommended one of my favorite places and that was that.''But, then, a few days ago, this very same friend forwarded me an email that she had just received from her mother. Her mother was now in the midst of her trip and the email was sent to all of her children in order to update them on her adventures.''My friend wanted me to see how much her mother was enjoying Istanbul and so I naturally had a read through the message. Well, once I finished reading, I couldn’t think of anything else but to share that email here.''So, here it is (it’s copied exactly as it was sent):''“so how many miles do you suppose i have walked today having left the hotel at 9am returning only for an hour to stretch out and wait for the ibu [ibuprofen] to work…and now just returning at 8:40pm? i should have brought a pedometer on this trip. i bet i put in over 10 miles today…maybe way moreç''after bypassing the aya sofia sophia whatever (ayasofya just looked it up on my little istanbul map) due to long line this morning, i found no line at 4. amazing place. but first things first. out the door at 9 and went first to the blue mosque again as this time i had my head covering (wearing two different pieces of tiedye at once) and could go all the way in. these architectural wonders take my breath away. so then i bypassed the line at aya and went on to find the grand bazaar…and it was…both huge and bizarre. and i did NOT buy a kilm….sort of not anyhow. i did buy a kilm bag to be my new carry on as now i will begin to check the aging eagle creek bag. should have seen me getting the eagle creek bag into the overhead in amman coming hereç''almost didn,t make it! balanced it on my head to then shove it up there. i need to go a little lighter for the next flights as i,ve been picking up a few things here and there and things are getting tight…and the next flight is to bordeaux and no one will be meeting me…i just have to find the shuttle to the airport hotel to FIND MY TRAVEL BUDDIES who will get there at two different times and earlier than i. and i sit in the madrid airport many hours during the day waiting for the flight to bordeaux. hard to believe that the time for france has nearly ARRIVED!!!!!''anyhow, kilm bag…carpet bag…it,s wonderful. kept circling through the bazaar walking walking walking and it is really big. and of course i got turned around and came out a different way i went in and ended up walking forever in places where there were no tourists or at least not manyçççççonly other lost ones, i thınkç that damn ö button is where the period is supposed to beö see?''and you know, i think all of you kids would really like istanbul. there,s something here for everyone…and it,s friendly and really manageable…the language sounds so cool…and tonight i had the best calamari i think i,ve ever had!''so anyhowö i finally found my way back to the hotel so that i could lie down for about 40 minutes and see if ibu would help my back feel betterç. it did so off went the energizer bunny once again this time to the underground cisterns and then back down to the ferries and i hopped one for the asian side…and had the wherewithall to remember to note the name of the place i was supposed to come BACK toç. brilliant. so on the asian side i had the best calamari, and perhqaps (rememberö there,s no mouse with this laptop computer and the keyboard isn,t as user friendly lalalalala) the best sauteed fresh veggies i,ve ever had…and a great cold beerç''oh and i forgot to say that while i was stretched out for 40 minutes it suddenly started pouring and thundering…very exciting…it just started again this minute…and so it was GOOD that i was in my room where i could grab my good rain jacket that i got when i was in nepalö or chına or wherever…a northface knockoff…but nice and light and rainproof for as long as i need it. since the rain was threatenıngö (maybe the ö is where the comma is supposed to be…) i went to the indoor activity of ayasofya which was amazingç lots of photosç (so the ö ıs where the comma is supposed to be and the ç is where the perıod is supposed to beç) (i know that is important to you)ç''so walk walk walk it,s been another incredibly wonderful day. my lower back aches and low neck aches7burns. and i,m stupidly tired. and you know what? there,s a jacuzzi in my tub. see ya allç have to rest up for my last full day here tomorrow…and that should include topkapi [palace].''love to all''me that energizer bunny”''Due to the increasingly heavy workload I’m facing as a result of the growing number of new projects I’m working on, I’ve decided to hire some help in the form of a “''Nomadic Affairs Assistant''” (aka Project Assistant).''And as my goal is to find someone who is already familiar with my blog, what better way to advertise the position than right here on the blog itself?''First, I do want to mention that hiring a Project Assistant won’t change anything around here. I’m not looking for someone to write my posts or to handle my social media or to answer my personal emails. Those aspects of this blog will always remain 100% my responsibility.''What I am looking for is someone with''…''previous or current experience in PR/Marketing (or currently studying)''strong writing skills (for business emails, not posts)''excellent research and organizational skills''positive outlook and ability to connect well with others''some travel experience''ability to train elephants''In order to help me''…''explore the feasibility of new project ideas & help get them started''contact various people/organizations about possible collaboration''with random admin tasks that might arise from time to time''train elephants''In exchange for the above work, which I expect to take 2-3 hours per week, I’m offering''$125 USD per month''. Also, there will be plenty of opportunities to earn good bonuses (as in more money), especially for someone with strong networking skills.''If you might be interested, even if you’ve never trained an elephant, just''send me an email''explaining why you’d make a good candidate. I’ll then forward you more details, I’ll answer any questions you may have and we’ll go from there.''(If I don’t reply right away, it’s because I’m going to Slovakia this weekend and won’t be online much, but I’ll definitely reply to all emails as soon as I can.)''And I hope to choose someone for this position within the next couple of weeks.''Until then, I look forward to receiving your emails and I wish you all a wonderful weekend!''***DUE TO THE LARGE NUMBER OF EMAILS RECEIVED IN RESPONSE TO THIS JOB OPENING, I AM UNFORTUNATELY NO LONGER ACCEPTING FURTHER INQUIRIES OR ‘APPLICATIONS’***''While it is true that I tend to speak positively about almost every destination I visit, there’s a simple explanation  for that. My views about a particular city, or even country, have little to do with the tourist attractions that may or may not exist or about the number of chances to take stunning photos that I may have during my stay.''Instead, I formulate my opinions based upon my interactions with local people, my wanderings around random, everyday neighborhoods and my keen interest in trying to ‘feel’ a destination as opposed to simply seeing it.''And when travel is approached in this manner, it is, quite frankly, difficult not to enjoy every single destination that one visits. One no longer needs to be ‘wowed’ by a castle or impressed by a museum. One only needs to wake up and walk outside, treating every moment as a potential, and interesting, learning opportunity, in order to fully appreciate your surroundings and have a most rewarding travel experience.''So it goes for me these days as I live in Bucharest, Romania.''I’ve been living in Bucharest on and off now for about five months. I’ll tell you, the city is not an overly pretty one and it definitely lacks a ‘wow factor’ to impress foreign visitors. There’s a lot of gray, there’s no shortage of neglected buildings, communist-style apartment blocks and unattractive graffiti, and at first, it can appear as an overall gloomy place, which is why most travelers rarely stick around for more than two or three days.''But I feel quite lucky that I decided to stick around myself as the longer I live in Bucharest, the more I discover a city that deserves to be noticed by more people.''The problem is that most of Bucharest’s charm and appeal lies hidden, tucked far away into corners of the city that the overwhelming majority of travelers will undoubtedly never find. Most visitors seem to spend their time hanging around the pleasant, yet very small, Old City (Lipscani), but this area represents the tiniest fraction of what this city actually has to offer.''You need some time to discover the rest. You need to make connections with local Romanians who will guide you in the right direction and you need to explore every street and lane with the understanding that quite often, one must search behind the dark gray facade in order to find the cafes, jazz clubs, galleries and exhibition halls, parks, restaurants, independent cinemas and more that give this city an entirely different energy and identity.''For example, you can easily find an overpriced restaurant in the Old City, but just wait until you discover places such as Clubul Taranalui, a wonderful open-air eatery attached to the interesting''Museum of the Romanian Peasant''at Piata Victoriei, where the below feast of traditional Romanian food and local wine costs a mere $10 USD per person…''Cafes are plentiful (that’s a huge understatement) in the Old City as well given the strong cafe culture, but what about the unique and infinitely more atmospheric gathering establishments in the neighborhoods that you would never visit unless a local Romanian told you to. That’s how I found the splendid''Reader’s Cafe''in Dorobanti, the very cool''Ceai La Metoc''in Cartierul Armenesc and the very laid-back''Serendipity Cafe''in Gradina Icoanei, all of which are some of my favorite hangouts in Bucharest.''Throw in the theaters and concert halls, an excellent and varied local cuisine, diverse nightlife and a long list of warm weather events, and I was hooked.''Of course, I am perfectly aware that all of these things can be found in just about every city on the planet, but that’s not the point. The reason I love to live in Bucharest is not because it has parks, cafes and art galleries. It’s because I’ve discovered so many appealing places which have given me a more complete picture of this city, places that I would never have found and enjoyed had I stayed for just a few days and moved on, never to return again.''Besides, Bucharest is also an extremely affordable destination and it’s shockingly easy to meet people here and to have a social life, even if you don’t know anyone when you arrive. It’s quite conveniently located as well, with not only the rest of Romania to explore, but other countries such as Moldova, Ukraine, Hungary, Serbia and''Bulgaria''just one border crossing away. And a short flight to''Istanbul''(55 minutes) connects you with the rest of the world.''All I know is that Bucharest is quite an ideal place for me to spend some time, especially considering that, after ten years or so of bouncing around the planet non-stop, this other side of travel, the more in-depth connection with a destination, its culture and its people, is exactly what I now crave.''Conclusion''It would be foolish of me not to recognize the fact that many locals here might disagree with some of my thoughts. I’ve met many who have a long list of complaints about this city and who are quite interested in ‘getting out of here’ and moving elsewhere in Europe or to countries on other continents.''So I must emphasize that this post is from the point of view of a foreigner, from someone who loves to travel and learn about other cultures and who also happens to work online, something that gives me the freedom to spend my days exploring and enjoying as much as possible.''But with that said, that’s exactly the point of view I wanted to provide here because I think that travelers who are searching for a destination to live or spend an extended period of time in, would be wise to add Bucharest to their list of options. If you stick around instead of passing through quickly, this city is almost guaranteed to surprise you in ways that you could never imagine when you first arrive.''Any thoughts on Bucharest or even the experiences offered by such slow, less-exciting forms of travel?''Coffee? You’ll see.''So, your flight lands. You walk off the plane and proceed to the Immigration lines. You receive your entry stamp in your passport. You collect your luggage from the luggage carousel and you walk through the Customs area without any issues.''And then you step out into the arrivals hall of the airport, ready to begin your adventure in a new land.''At this point, you may already have your transportation organized and somebody or some service is picking you up. Others might have spent a little time before their trip researching the best methods to get from the airport into the city on their own and some people won’t have done any research whatsoever.''If you’re the kind of person (as I am myself) who prefers to do only some very basic research or even no research at all before you arrive, I offer you the following suggestion of…''How you should spend your first 20 minutes in a new country''.''You should''take a break immediately upon arrival''. This is an idea that I briefly mentioned on this site over 18 months ago, one that I learned from fellow traveler John Bardos over at''JetSetCitizen.com''(lots of useful information on this site for anyone looking to become location independent).''Taking a break is so simple, it makes so much sense, yet almost nobody does it.''Once you collect your luggage and proceed through the Customs inspection, head straight to an airport cafe, plop down in a seat and drink a coffee or tea or anything else you might desire. (If there’s no cafe, just sit down on one of the benches in the arrivals hall.)''As travelers, we tend to be taken advantage of most when we are tired, disoriented and unfamiliar with our surroundings, which is exactly the state we’re in right after landing in a new destination. So why not relax for 20 minutes instead of immediately trying to figure out how to get into the city? Enjoying such a rest allows you to take a few deep breaths, observe your surroundings and to clear your head before stepping out into the unknown.''You can also ask the staff at the cafe for reliable information about transportation and you can read the signs around the airport from your table without looking completely lost. Then, when you feel ready, you can calmly and confidently (you won’t be so overwhelmed anymore) head off into the city. And by this point, the unofficial taxi and shuttle bus representatives will have left you alone and you most likely won’t be bothered by anyone.''Also, if you’re two or more people traveling together, one person can wander around the airport learning the best way to get into the city while the other waits in the cafe so that you don’t have to stand around with your backpacks, exhausted and frustrated, trying to read signs and trying to understand where you need to go.''PERSONAL EXPERIENCE''Taking such a break has helped me out several times, including…''Upon arrival in Istanbul during my first visit, a simple rest in a cafe at Ataturk Airport allowed me to figure out how to navigate the metro and tram system that would take me into the city center after a 17 hour trip from the US. Before I had my coffee, I found myself fending off several people offering a variety of taxi and shuttle bus services at prices that seemed much too high.''When I flew into Bucharest’s Otopeni airport, taking a seat on a row of benches in the arrivals hall (I couldn’t find a cafe) for twenty minutes helped me discover that the ‘official’ taxis in front of the airport charge 3.50 lei per kilometer ($1.15 USD) but if you walk one minute down the exit ramp you can hail a taxi that charges the standard Bucharest taxi rate of 1.39 lei per kilometer.''And when a friend of mine flew to Vietnam last week, he told me about how he took a seat at a cafe in the airport and how it saved him from getting ripped off by a taxi driver, something that had happened to just about every other traveler he met at the hostel where he was staying in Ho Chi Minh City. Simply by asking the waitress at the cafe for advice, he learned that he could catch a local bus outside the airport that would take him straight into the neighborhood he wanted for less than $1.00.''All it took was twenty minutes of relaxation upon arrival.''TWO MORE AIRPORT TIPS''The following can make things even more hassle-free…''Find another traveler in the airport''. Whenever I fly into a country for the first time – and I actually begin this process while on the plane itself – the first thing I do is to look around for other backpackers. If I don’t notice any on the airplane, I look around the immigration area of the airport, the luggage carousels and the customs area to see if anyone else looks like a traveler in need of a ‘buddy’.''If I do locate a fellow traveler, I strike up a conversation and ask them if they want to head into the city together. After all, backpackers usually tend to stay in the same area of a city, whichever area has the most budget accommodation options, so why not team up?  Dealing with the initial challenges of facing a foreign language, foreign culture and simple lack of local street smarts in a strange land is much less intimidating when you’re with another clueless person.''The word ‘Official’ doesn’t actually mean ‘Official’ in many countries''. In many airports, you’ll immediately notice booths and signs in the arrivals area advertising ‘Official Taxis’ and there will be people yelling out ‘Official this’ and ‘Official that’ in an attempt to convince you to use their services. But don’t be fooled, in some airports it seems that anyone is allowed to use this word, even those involved in the most unofficial of operations.''In fact, this is also true with the word ‘Government’ in some airports as well. Signs for ‘Official government taxis’ may lead you to an unlicensed guy with a car parked a mile down the road who will proceed to rip you off and just maybe, as happened to me in Bangladesh,''kidnap you for a couple of days''. So, this is where taking a break really pays off…it gives you time to find out exactly where the official ‘Official’ taxis or other transportation are located.''At the end of the day, you don’t have to plan every detail of your trip ahead of time and that’s not even something that I would recommend. But you certainly don’t want to arrive in Bangkok or Delhi or Buenos Aires or Cairo, overflowing with excitement about your upcoming travels, only to have all of that positive energy immediately sucked straight out by a negative experience as soon as you land.''And if the difference between a frustrating, upsetting initial experience and a much smoother, enjoyable one lies simply in a cup of coffee and sitting in a chair for twenty minutes, I imagine you’d agree that this is an idea worth following!''Any other arrival advice to share? Do you usually plan your transportation ahead of time or do you just figure it out once you get to your destination?''There seems to be a general belief that anyone who decides to travel extensively or to give up the traditional 9-5 lifestyle in favor of a life that focuses on the achievement of one’s goals, is at least in some small way acting in an irresponsible manner.''After all, such a person is trading the stability and safety of a normal routine in order to head off into the wild unknown where others believe they won’t have access to health insurance, they won’t be able to start a family and they certainly won’t be saving money for their future.''I hear about this last one all the time. In fact, here’s a common question that I am asked: “Isn’t it irresponsible of you to just travel around without saving up for retirement?”''And my answer is simple. “Yes, such a thing is very, very irresponsible. But long-term travelers prepare for retirement. Who said that I’m not saving up for my future?”''I may be living a non-traditional lifestyle but I’m not an anti-society rebel out to prove that I can survive in this world by doing the complete opposite of what everyone living back at home feels is important in life. Living a life of travel does not mean I just run around the world all nilly-willy, earning and spending, earning and spending, living dollar to dollar and not worrying about what might happen, always content in the belief that ‘everything will fall into place’.''I actually have a plan. I save money just like anyone else and I certainly do prepare for the future. I think about ‘retirement’ or a time when I may no longer want to travel and I realize that if that happens, I will need some savings in order to make the transition to a new lifestyle or to live out the rest of my days.''It’s just common sense to me and something that I’ve always taken into account, even when I was earning little money while teaching English in Thailand back in 2000. And anyone who does decide to follow their own unique path in life should keep their future in mind as well.''Even if you put away $20 per month, it makes a huge difference and will prevent you from finding yourself completely stuck at some point in life, left with no money at all and, as a result, fewer options to turn things around.''So, go forth I say, chase after and achieve those goals, live that life that excites you more than any other, but use some general common sense too. Think about your future, at least a little bit. This way you’ll have a useful cushion to fall back on if times get tough or to be used during those later years when work is no longer a priority.''Do you save for the future?''Standing at the reception desk of the shabby, low-budget Al-Shabaa Hotel in the Gemmayze neighborhood of Beirut, there was little I could do when the hotel owner informed me that the single room I had booked was no longer available. He apologized several times as he explained that due to the Eid al-Adha holiday, the city was overflowing with travelers and as a result, he was forced to turn all of his hotel rooms into dorm rooms in order to accommodate as many people as possible.''My options were to stay in a dorm room with three other people or to sleep on a thin mattress on the roof of the building, where twenty other travelers had already set up their ‘beds’. Considering that there were also people sleeping in the hallways and even two people sharing a narrow bench inside the kitchen, I happily agreed to take a bed in the dorm.''And so my stay in Beirut, Lebanon began…''For the first two nights, I shared the room with the same three people, two British travelers and a Jordanian driver who was driving a French couple (who was staying at a much nicer hotel) around the Middle East for a few weeks.''All was well in that room. Everyone got along just fine and in the evenings, after we had each spent the day doing our own thing (which in my case was exploring a neighborhood or two of this''fascinating city''), we would all walk over to Gouraud Street and eat dinner together.''THE DAY I MET ‘DAVE’''My third day in Beirut started off just like the previous two. I woke up at 9:30am (everyone else in the room had already gone out by this time), I went into the hallway and waited in line for a shower and I then returned to my room to get dressed.''But when I returned to my room this time, I noticed that a new guy had apparently checked into the hotel while I was in the bathroom. He was a normal-looking fellow, possibly from a Middle Eastern country, with a thin beard and shiny brown shoes. He was sitting in a chair in the middle of the room with his feet up on the metal frame of the bed that the Jordanian driver had vacated earlier that morning. His small backpack leaned up against the wall at the foot of that bed and he had placed a packet of cigarettes on the pillow.''And while this new traveler did seem to give off a friendly vibe, I couldn’t help but notice that he appeared to be waiting for me when I had walked into the room.''After shaking hands and sharing pleasantries, ‘Dave’ told me that he was from a small town in Texas, something that wasn’t too surprising once I heard his strong Texan accent. He then continued to tell me more about himself as I started putting on my clothes…''This was his first trip abroad. He was planning to travel around the world indefinitely and Lebanon was his first stop (odd choice of a first destination I thought). I asked him if he had family in Lebanon and he said he did not. He told me that he was nervous about his trip, that he only spoke English, that his family didn’t approve of him leaving the US for such a long period of time and that he never wanted to return to his hometown again.''And then he informed me that he really wanted to visit Iran.''He asked me if I had ever visited Iran and I said ‘no’. (I have not.)''THE STRANGE QUESTIONS BEGIN''As I finished getting dressed, Dave invited me to tell my own story but, as I was eager to start exploring Beirut again, I just gave him a brief, one-minute version. However, this proved to be less than sufficient as suddenly, Dave was asking me an endless stream of questions.''Have you been to Indonesia? Have you been to Bangladesh? Have you been to the United Arab Emirates? Have you been to Syria? Have you been to Pakistan? Have you been to Afghanistan?''My answer to all of those questions was ‘yes’ of course, and once he finished, I was somewhat confused. It was as if he already knew that I had spent time in these countries.''He then asked my why I have not been to Iran. I told him it is almost impossible for a US citizen to get an independent tourist visa from the Iranian government. He pressed me further, asking if I knew of any way to get around the Iranian visa rules or if I knew of any Iranian Embassy or Consulate where it might be easier to obtain a visa. I simply informed him that I had once heard about an Iranian Consulate in the far eastern region of Turkey that apparently sometimes issued independent travel visas to US citizens.''He continued asking me, over and over again, if I planned to try and visit Iran in the near future. He then began asking if I planned to return to Indonesia, Bangladesh, UAE, Pakistan, Syria or Afghanistan. Starting to feel uncomfortable, I replied with a quick, “I don’t know.”''At this point, I was all dressed and ready to go outside and when I informed Dave that I was leaving, he practically demanded that he tag along. Not sure how to handle this situation, I reluctantly agreed and out of the hotel we went, walking off in the direction of the Hamra neighborhood.''DRUG SMUGGLING & FLUENT ARABIC''Unfortunately, Dave didn’t let up with his questions and this time, he seemed very interested in how I earned an income. Thinking that I could easily brush this one aside, I just said, ‘I work on board cruise ships’.''It didn’t work. For the next fifteen minutes Dave tried quite hard to find out whether or not crew members on board cruise ships ever participate in illegal activities such as smuggling drugs between ports. Many times he tried to pry some information from me with such statements as, “Come on, surely you’ve seen some illegal stuff on board ships.”''All I said was, “I don’t transport drugs and I have no idea what others do”. And this is when I finally reached the conclusion that there was no way Dave was just another ordinary traveler.''He then changed the subject and starting asking me if I had any contacts in Dubai, anyone who could help him with some business ideas he had. He told me he needed to find someone who knew how to ‘get things done’, whatever that meant. When I said I knew of nobody that could help him, he asked if I had any contacts in Kuwait or Bahrain or Saudi Arabia, at which point I shook my head and stopped talking altogether.''As we reached Bliss Street a short while later, Dave suddenly stopped in front of a small shop, told me he was going to buy a bottle of water and asked me if I wanted a bottle of water as well. I said ‘no’ and continued walking.''But after taking another ten steps or so, I realized that I was indeed feeling a bit dehydrated and so I turned around and entered the shop as well. And that’s when I saw and heard ‘Dave’ speaking with the man behind the counter in fluent Arabic, despite having told me earlier that the only language he spoke was English  and that he had never been to the Middle East before.''I immediately backed out of the shop and walked to the next corner, but within a minute, Dave had caught up to me. And this is when I told him that now was the time to part ways because I wanted to check my email at an internet cafe. But, not surprisingly, he replied by stating that he would like to check his emails as well.''MORE SUSPICIOUS BEHAVIOR''Five minutes later we were inside of a large, dark internet cafe and thankfully, the woman at the desk assigned us to two computers that were on opposite ends of the room. I sat down and opened my inbox and I spent the following forty-five minutes replying to emails without paying any attention whatsoever to Dave.''After I had cleared through most of my inbox, I then did what I do a few times every day…I went to crack my neck. However, when I turned my head to the right just before giving it a good solid crack, out of the corner of my eye I noticed another person not too far away. I quickly turned around and sure enough, there was Dave, sitting in a swivel chair only four feet behind me, staring straight over my shoulder at my computer screen.''And that was enough for me.''I logged off the computer, paid the woman behind the counter and told Dave that I was going to meet a friend. I then shook his hand, as if to emphasize the fact that this time I was indeed going without him.''Dave finally accepted our parting of ways, although, he still asked me if I wanted to meet him back at the hotel in the evening so that we could grab some food together. I said, “We’ll see” and I walked off, heading straight up some unknown street to meet a friend I didn’t even have, looking back over my shoulder every few seconds, wondering if I was still being followed around Beirut.''THE FINAL TWIST''So, such a story might seem strange but perhaps the details have yet to convince you that I was actually being tracked or spied on by some type of secret service agent. Maybe Dave was just some weird character in the end.''But what about this…''When I returned to the hotel in the evening and I walked into my dorm room, ‘Dave’ was nowhere to be found. His bag was gone, his bed was occupied by someone else and nobody in the room claimed to have seen him.''And then, when I asked the owner of the hotel about this bearded traveler from Texas, he also told me that he had absolutely no idea who I was talking about and that nobody fitting the description had checked into the hotel that day.''So what do you think? Was I followed by a secret agent or just a strange traveler?''Let me begin by thanking everyone who participated in the''travel poll''over the past week. There were over 500 voters as well as a few dozen comments in which many of you offered your own suggestions of other countries and regions that you would be excited about visiting in the near future.''As for the results…''Starting with the question of “''Which continents interest you more than others?''”, the clear winner was Asia as it received a vote from 49% of those who took the poll. The second and third place positions were almost equal, with only one vote separating Europe (2nd place) and South America (3rd place). Africa came in next, receiving a vote from 23% of participants and then Australia and North America filled up the last two spots, somewhat far behind the others.''As for the second question – “''Which country/region do you want to visit the most?''” – India easily took first place by receiving a nod from 34% of voters. In all honestly, I was more than excited to see India receive the most votes. India certainly is a destination where I would love to organize an informal tour given the 2+ years I’ve already spent traveling/living in that country. It is also a destination that I truly believe''every traveler should try to visit''but at the same time, I understand that the challenges of India often keep people away. So, what better way to get into the groove of this fascinating land than by joining a small, informal group!''After India, I was definitely surprised to see Argentina take the second spot as I rarely receive any questions about this country from readers. However, it only narrowly beat out Thailand by just one vote. And while Thailand came in third place in the end, it only narrowly beat out Australia/New Zealand by one vote as well. So the difference between second and fourth place was a mere 2 votes.''To see Australia/New Zealand so high on the list despite coming in fourth place in the first question was something I didn’t expect, although I certainly agree that Australia/New Zealand is a region well worth exploring.''And then came Nepal, which was another surprise to me (but a welcome one of course). I just wasn’t sure if Nepal would appeal to travelers/potential travelers considering the typically greater allure of its massive, and more popular, neighbor India. After Nepal, and rounding out the countries that received at least 20% of the votes, came''South Africa''and Turkey, two countries that have quickly risen to the top of my own list of favorite destinations on the planet.''While the remaining countries, such as Indonesia, Czech Republic, Romania,''Mexico'',''Slovenia''(I’m going to work on bringing more attention to this wonderful country) and last-placed Guatemala, filled up the bottom half of the results, I was happy to see that every country at least received a respectable number of votes.''There were also some great suggestions left in the comments, including Colombia, Oman, Iran, Egypt, Vietnam, Philippines, Mongolia, Belgium, Greenland and London for the Summer Olympics. Just reading that list makes me want to pick up right now and head to the regions I’ve yet to explore…so many places to see in this world!''So, what’s next?''Within the next few weeks I will write a post with more details about my informal tour project. Right now I can say that the focus of this project will be on small groups (no more than 8 people), unique off-the-beaten-path experiences, building confidence in one’s ability to travel independently and of course, having such a blast doing it all that you’ll want to continue traveling for a long, long time!''The idea is also to ensure that these tours are accessible to as many people as possible by having them offered at a cost that is more than reasonable. I’m not looking to turn this into a million-dollar tour company. I just want to continue doing what I love most and to help others do the same, and that will never change.''Where did I get this idea?''I am often contacted by readers who ask if they can travel with me or if I have an ‘apprentice’ program that will teach them the ropes of long-term travel. After receiving a few dozen of such emails over the last year, I started thinking that maybe I should take this idea and run with it. I did some brainstorming, talked about the concept with some of my closest friends in the travel world and suddenly, the informal tour idea was born.''And I must say that it feels wonderful to think about the possibility of meeting many of you in person should you be interested in participating in one of these ‘''tours''‘''unique first-hand travel experiences''.''Stay tuned for more information and thank you again everyone for taking the poll…''In my next post, I will tell a story about a crazy incident that took place while I was in Beirut in 2010. It is a story that I have been debating whether or not to write about for many months (you’ll soon see why) and now I’ve decided to just write it.''The goal of this post is simple.''If you could travel anywhere in the world, let’s say during the upcoming summer, I want to know where it is you would choose to visit.''As I’ve hinted in a previous post a couple of months ago, I’m working on organizing some informal ‘tours’ in which I will take a small group of people around a particular country. The idea is to not only explore the destination, but more importantly, to offer a hands-on introduction to independent travel. By the time the experience comes to an end, you’ll be fully confident and prepared to create your own life of travel and to hopefully sustain it for as long as you wish.''There will be more details about this project to come soon but for now, I just want to know''which part of the world you want to explore most''! This will help give me a better idea of where I should organize my first couple of tours.''Below you’ll find a very short poll (only two questions!) and I hope you’ll take a few seconds to participate. Even if my tour idea is not for you, please vote anyway. I think that feedback from as many people as possible will still be useful and interesting.''[poll id=”5″][poll id=”6″]''*The above are destinations that I’ve both been to and that I think would be ideal for such a hands-on experience. This is why I have not listed every country I’ve visited over the years. If you have other suggestions, please let me know in the comments.''For some reason, this morning, just seconds after waking up, I started thinking about an elderly Indian man. But this was not just any elderly Indian man, he was the owner of a small hotel, the simplest hotel you’ve ever seen, in the tiny Ladakhi village of Mulbekh, located some three days north of Delhi by car or bus, and at an altitude of 3500 meters, way up in the heart of the Himalayas.''It’s embarrassing to admit but I don’t know this man’s name despite having spent two nights at his hotel some years ago. And while I certainly don’t remember the names of all the hotel and guesthouse owners I’ve met over the years, my stay at this particular hotel was a particularly memorable one…''When I hopped off the bus in Mulbekh, it did not take long at all for me to learn that this 5500-person village had only two accommodation options.''Glancing to my left, I noticed what appeared to be a brand new three-level hotel, conveniently situated across the street from the Chamba Statue, a 1300-year old Buddha image carved out of the rock face, which happened to be the main attraction in the village. There were a few cars in front of the hotel as well as ten or so Indian tourists sitting in the restaurant next to the lobby.''Glancing to my right, I saw a crumbling and faded green and red building with a hand-painted sign above the door that read, “Namchung Hotel & Restaurant”. There was an old man – yes, the old man I thought about this morning – sitting on a plastic chair in front of a tiny shop that appeared to be part of the ‘hotel’.''Without hesitation I turned to the right and walked up to the old man, who turned out to not only be the owner of this simplest hotel I’ve ever seen, restaurant and shop, but the only employee as well.''He spoke no English. I spoke only a few words of Hindi and zero words of the other languages that could be heard in this remote mountain region. But we managed to communicate nonetheless.''And before long, this man led me around the back of the building and to my room. It was actually the only room available, not because there were other guests, but because this hotel only had one room. The floor was made of dirt, the bed was made of rope. There was no electricity, only candles. There was also no lock on the door but I had a feeling this was the kind of village where I didn’t have to worry about my belongings.''Excited to be spending two nights here, I threw down my backpack, returned to the front of the building and ordered a chai, which the old man naturally prepared himself. And then we sat there drinking tea together, staring out over the beautiful Himalayas as we communicated through gestures and broken Hindi.''NOT YOUR NORMAL HOTEL''After drinking two cups of chai, I asked the man where I could relieve myself, something I had to act out in order for him to understand. He simply led me to a small patch of grass behind the building, a patch of grass that was in plain view to the residents of at least twenty homes in the village. That grass was the toilet, no matter what kind of business you needed to take care of.''When I asked the owner where I could wash my hands, he went into the kitchen and returned with a glass of water. He then proceeded to slowly pour the water into my hands as I rubbed them together.''And when I inquired about taking a shower, a question to which I could not wait to hear the answer, he quickly pulled out a piece of paper and drew me a map. From what I gathered, I had to cross the street, walk down a small path, turn right onto another path, turn left onto yet another and after a while I would reach the Wakha River. So that’s what I did and sure enough, thirty minutes later I found myself bathing in its icy waters, and loving every second of it.''Returning to the hotel after my ‘shower’, I asked the kind man, who always answered my questions with a smile on his face, where I could find some food. He simply motioned for me to sit on a wooden box in front of his small shop and then he disappeared inside.''When he returned twenty minutes later, he handed me a metal plate with some rice and a few spoonfuls of what appeared to be potatoes in some kind of sauce. Whatever it was, I wolfed it down quite quickly, and while this was no award-winning meal, it was definitely edible, which was a good thing considering that he would cook me the exact same meal the next day for breakfast, lunch and dinner.''And so my two days and two nights passed at the Namchung Hotel. In between bathing in the river and eating rice and potatoes, I also wandered around the village, played football with some Tibetan children and took a couple of short hikes into the mountains. Every evening though, I would sit right back on that wooden box in front of the hotel, right next to the owner, and we would watch the sunset, drink chai and try our best to communicate.''I’m not sure I’ve ever enjoyed a hotel stay as much as I enjoyed this one. Maybe that’s because apart from a room and some food, I also received my most memorable lesson in simplicity. I didn’t need a carpeted floor or even a sink. I didn’t need a toilet or a shower or electricity or a 10-page menu to order from. I also didn’t need nightlife or shops or a cinema or internet.''I found happiness in just being, in witnessing the Himalayan mountains, in breathing in the freshest of air, in the colors of the houses, in the smiles of the locals and of course, in getting to know another wonderful human being whom I never would have met had I not started traveling.''Could I have lived in Mulbekh forever? Nope. But I’ll certainly never forget my stay at the one-room, dirt-floored Namchung Hotel and the life-changing lesson that stay taught me.''Unfortunately, I don’t have more photos of this simplest hotel in the world. My photos of this region were part of a large batch that I accidentally deleted a couple of years ago and the above were the only ones that were saved.''Four-hour workweeks, two-hour workweeks, zero-hour workweeks…that’s what it’s all about, right?''After a little research, anyone looking to break out of the traditional path in life, especially those of you who want to do some traveling, will undoubtedly discover an abundance of websites and people declaring that a life involving just a few hours of work per week, or even no work at all, is just around the corner and oh-so-easy to obtain.''Now that’s fine and all, despite it being complete nonsense, but I have a question.''What’s wrong with work?''I like to work. And while I would prefer not to spend 50+ hours per week in front of my laptop, as I generally do these days, I certainly don’t find the idea of a 4- or 3- or 0-hour workweek any more attractive. What’s wrong with a 40-hour workweek?''Work gives me a purpose, it gives me structure and it ensures that I am constantly using my brain. Also, work leads to new opportunities through the connections I make, helping me meet an endless number of amazing people and to have an endless number of amazing experiences that I otherwise would have missed out on.''Besides, if we choose our work wisely, work allows us to create and build and to actually observe the results of our efforts. And it feels mighty good to create something and to see it through until the end.''In my case, I genuinely enjoy spending time working on this blog, watching it grow and of course, having a chance to interact with all of you. I also enjoy creating other websites and''travel-related eBooks''and then witnessing how the months and months of hard work I put into each of these projects ends up benefiting other people in some way, shape or form.''Don’t worry, I’m not going to bamboozle you into thinking that I only work for the love of work. I won’t hesitate to admit that I get quite excited about earning money through my efforts as well, money which allows me to continue living this nomadic lifestyle. Money does play a role. We all need it to travel and that’s just an undeniable fact.''But my point is that I don’t mind working hard to earn my money. I’m not bothered by a long, 40-hour workweek at all. Instead, I accept it and welcome it as an integral part of my lifestyle.''And I’ve always tried to stress on this website that without the long workweeks I’ve been putting in over the years, whether teaching English, working on board cruise ships or working online, I simply wouldn’t have been able to travel this world of ours for so long.''As lovely as it would be, immigration officers stationed at the border of every country unfortunately do not hand every traveler $1000 upon arrival. You need to earn your money, and in order to earn it, you need to work. The good news is that if you have a healthy mindset, work doesn’t have to be such a negative thing.''And in all honesty, what would you do if you didn’t have to work? I sure have no idea what I’d do. The immediate answer would be to travel more but that’s really a silly answer as I travel quite a lot already. I just don’t know. I’m quite sure I would feel somewhat lost and even bored if I didn’t have to sit down at my computer every day and continue building and creating, finding solutions to problems and working on new ideas.''Again, I want to work. I enjoy work. And I don’t really understand the anti-work movement at all.''Instead of wasting time trying to chase after that unobtainable goal of 4- or 2-hour workweeks, I recommend spending time trying to find a type of work that interests and excites you, some kind of project or occupation that you are motivated to sit down and spend 20, 30 or yes, even 40, hours per week working on.''And once you do find something that you actually enjoy, then you can take the necessary steps to transform that work into something you can do while traveling and/or living overseas.''That’s how you turn travel into an actual lifestyle and I urge you not to be fooled by those who claim otherwise.''Any thoughts on a 40-hour workweek? Does the idea of working a few hours per week appeal to you? Or are you perfectly happy to work hard for your money as well?''As excited as I am when I first step foot into a country I’ve never visited before, I must not deny the fact that there is also a part of me that, these days, just wants to travel to countries that I’ve already been to, countries that I can’t get out of my mind because of the life-changing experiences I had during my first, or in some cases, second visit.''But it’s not always easy to do that because human beings love competition and when it comes to traveling, the most common competition (even if it’s not a formal one) tends to revolve around the ‘country count’, the overall number of countries that a traveler has visited. This number is brought up in many a conversation while on the road and of course, the higher the number, the more impressive a particular traveler appears (or thinks they appear).''After all, how can you call yourself a traveler if you’re not on a mission to see every country in the world before you die? Right?''Wrong. So very wrong.''I don’t now about you but I’m not on that mission at all. I personally don’t care if I visit every country in the world and I’m certainly not about to bounce around every continent, spending a day or two in most of the places I visit, just to say I’ve been there and to check each place off of a list.''That’s just not my travel style or goal. If that happens to be your goal, I have no problem with it at all of course and I certainly wish you success with your journey. I’m sure you’re going to have some amazing experiences wherever you go. It’s just not for me.''I’d much rather spend significant (or at least a decent amount of) time in fewer countries and even return to some of my favorite countries over and over again. To me, the benefit of travel has nothing to do with the number of different stamps in my passport, and if that means my final country count does not reach the official United Nations number of 193, or that I’ve visited fewer countries than someone who has been on the road for less time than me, then so be it.''As I was sitting on the subway in New York City the other day, traveling from the Upper West Side all the way over to Clinton Hill in Brooklyn, I noticed an advertisement on the subway wall. The ad was for the country of Iceland and there was a beautiful photograph of the Blue Lagoon. Looking at this photograph immediately brought back memories of my own visit to Iceland several years ago and it made me realize that I definitely want to visit this country again one day.''That got me thinking even more and before I knew it, there I was on the subway, wedged in between a guy who I swear might have been Samuel L. Jackson and another guy in red suspenders who seemed quite content licking stamps and placing them onto his pants, creating a mental list of some other countries I’ve already been to and that I’d really be interested in traveling to again.''The countries that came to mind are…''South Africa''– Back in December, I was simply blown away by this country and less than twenty-four hours after my arrival, I had already promised myself that I would return soon. And I intend to keep that promise as there is still an abundance of cities, wine regions, wildlife reserves, townships, adventure activities, natural wonders, and more left for me to experience.''Mexico''– Another country that one could travel around for a long, long time without ever getting bored. It’s as diverse a destination as there is on this planet and despite having spent almost two years there already, I’ve barely touched the surface.''Fiji''– When I was 19 years old I visited Fiji while on my way to study abroad in Australia and I had such a wonderful time. This is why I was super-excited to return this week on the press trip I had been invited on. Unfortunately, that press trip was canceled but now I’m even more determined to return to Fiji as soon as I can.''Slovenia''– It’s no secret that this is one of my favorite countries on the planet and despite it’s small size, I absolutely plan on returning for several more visits, at least!''India''– All I can say about India is that I will never get tired of traveling to this country. And if I decided to spend the rest of my traveling years only wandering around India and nowhere else, I’d still be a very happy man.''Most likely, I will indeed visit these countries again, as well as several others that I’ve already spent time in. After all, I’ve already been to India nine times over the years, Thailand eight times,''Australia''five times, Turkey five times, Italy four times and I’ve been back and forth to''Romania''three times in the past five months, and on and on.''Had I wanted to, I probably could have seen every country in the world by now, but again, that’s just not my travel style. Spending more time in less countries has worked perfectly for me and brought me infinite rewards in terms of the connections I’ve made and the education I’ve gained. And I see no reason to change at this point.''What are your thoughts? Do you want to see every country in the world? Or do you prefer to spend more time in fewer countries as well?''Let me start with this. It appears that my upcoming Fiji trip is no longer happening. Unfortunately, this South Pacific nation has been hit with some severe flooding over the past week due to a series of storms, including a cyclone, that passed over the area. As a result, the country is not in any condition to host a group of travel bloggers as they deal with much more pressing matters.''Actually, the press trip hasn’t been canceled. It’s just been re-scheduled but because of some other commitments I have back in Europe, there’s a good chance I won’t be able to participate with the new dates.''So to begin with, I want to send my positive thoughts to Fiji and to wish its people a quick recovery from these floods. Hopefully this situation will be over with as soon as possible and normal life on the islands will resume. I’ll certainly be keeping Fiji at the top of my list of potential destinations and hope to make it there at some point in the near future.''BACKPACK THERAPY''Of course, upon hearing the news that the Fiji trip would not be going ahead as scheduled, and despite the reason being perfectly understandable, I still felt quite bummed out as I had traveled all the way to the US specifically for this trip. However, there is one thing that always cheers a traveler up and after a few minutes of moping around my friend’s apartment, I immediately decided to partake in this therapeutic activity myself. It was time to buy some travel gear!''More specifically, I decided to buy a new backpack, which, admittedly, is something I would have had to do anyway given the decaying condition of my current backpack. But once the Fiji trip was called off, this mission suddenly took on a sense of urgency, transforming itself from something I needed to get done eventually into a vital session of healing.''My trusty Kelty Redwing 2900, that backpack that has traveled with me all over this planet for the past twelve years, finally reached the end of its career. But twelve years is a long time for a backpack to be in use, especially when you consider that my backpack is my life and it is constantly by my side, whether I’m backpacking in Asia, working on board cruise ships, living in Mexico, traveling around the Middle East or whatever I happen to be doing.''In fact, this backpack served me so well that it absolutely deserves to spend the rest of its days relaxing on a beautiful beach in Hawaii. It’s actually going to spend the rest of its days sitting on the top shelf of a closet, but at least it’s warm in there and you can hear the water passing through the pipes.''THE SEARCH BEGINS''My search for a new backpack started off with a trip to Paragon Sports, a well-known sporting goods/outdoor shop in Union Square here in New York City. I spent about an hour inside, unzipping, re-zipping, inspecting, stuffing, un-stuffing and trying on as many different backpacks as possible. I’m a bit picky though, and so by the time I left the store, my list of possible winners consisted of only two backpacks.''After Paragon Sports, I returned to my friend’s apartment, sat down at my laptop and conducted some more research. I studied the benefits of traditional backpacks versus duffel fusion packs versus backpacks with wheels. I contemplated long and hard about sizes, styles and yes, even colors. And my eyes read over hundreds of user reviews for every backpack I came across.''It was a painful experience indeed but sure enough, about three and a half hours into this research, I eventually had that moment of genius that I had been waiting for my entire life.''MY SHINING MOMENT''I suddenly realized that if my Kelty Redwing 2900 had treated me so well, and the newer version of the same backpack received such extremely high ratings on every website I checked, and this newer version also made my short list when I was in Paragon Sports, then I should naturally purchase this new version, the Kelty Redwing 50.''Feeling ever so proud at having reached such a brilliant conclusion, I then did what came naturally. For some reason, this involved turning off my laptop and walking down the street to Bagel World, where I devoured a super-soft pumpernickel bagel piled high with chicken salad, tomatoes and extra pickles, and in the process, seemed to completely forget about backpacks altogether.''When I returned to the apartment after my meal, I did some work, played around with my friend’s bongo drums, juggled for a bit, cut my toenails and then, well, took a nap. Only after I woke up from this delightful rest a couple of hours later did I sit back down in front of my computer and continue my backpack shopping, feeling the need to check the internet one more time before making a decision.''(My guess is that I was actually feeling very sad about having to say goodbye to my old backpack and I had trouble pulling the trigger on a new one as a result.)''THE END OF AN ERA''Finally, at 5:52pm, and with a hint of a tear in my eye, I logged onto Amazon.com and made my purchase, having indeed chosen the….''Kelty Redwing 50 Internal Frame Pack (Charcoal color)''So, why did I choose to stick with the Kelty Redwing series?''Durability''– These packs can easily handle the rigors of constant world travel as proven by my Redwing 2900 which remained strong for over 4400 days of travel, through 76 countries, on 100+ flights and despite being slashed open with a knife at the hands of Austrian customs officials.''Organization''– Still by far the best zipper/compartment system I’ve seen. As one of the only backpacks on the market that offers panel-loading, once you unzip the main compartment, you have access to everything as if it were a proper suitcase. I don’t like top-loading backpacks where you have to stuff everything inside and then remove all of your possessions just to find a pair of socks at the bottom.''Size''– The capacity of my old backpack was 2900 cubic inches / 47 liters and while Kelty doesn’t make that size anymore, I went with the 3100 cubic inches / 50 liter version this time around. This is still small enough to take as a carry-on when flying, yet has more than enough space to carry everything that a long-term traveler could possibly need.''Simplicity''– If there’s one thing I don’t understand, it’s a backpack with dozens of very random compartments, dozens of straps with purposes that are impossible to figure out and hundreds of inexplicable zippers all over the place. The Kelty Redwing series ignores that trend completely, offering backpacks that are straightforward and simple and thus, in my opinion, the most intelligently designed of them all.''Price''– At''$84 on Amazon.com''it’s an absolute bargain.''And for those very reasons, I am excited to fly back to Europe in a couple of weeks with my new Kelty Redwing 50 by my side, or better yet, on my back.''Before I end, I must also say that moments after I purchased my new backpack, I sat down next to my old Kelty Redwing 2900, massaged its shoulder straps and whispered a few words of gratitude. I then tried my best to express to it the importance of our friendship before I lifted the backpack ever so gently and placed it inside of that closet. It was a tough moment, but I shall have only wonderful memories of the time we spent together during this most remarkable era of my nomadic travels.''Any thoughts on backpacks? Do you have a particular favorite? Or if you’re in the market for a new backpack, any questions?''In a somewhat hazy state of mind this morning, I began to write this post. My haziness is a result of flying from Istanbul to New York City yesterday, a 10-hour flight that, despite being as comfortable as possible for a 10-hour flight, has left me quite exhausted.''Anyway, I shall push forward with this post because, as I fell in and out of sleep during that lengthy flight yesterday, I couldn’t stop thinking about Bulgaria. And I decided that I must write a post about this interesting country nestled at the bottom of Southeastern Europe.''More specifically, I wanted to write about how, after my recent visit to Veliko Tarnovo, a small town in the center of the country, I became convinced that Bulgaria is possibly the best value destination on the planet.''It’s certainly at the top of my list at least.''During the five nights/six days that I stayed in Bulgaria, I spent a total of $210 USD. That’s about $35 USD per day, including all accommodation, food, activities, transportation and any other expenses I encountered.''And while there are plenty of countries where you could spend a lot less money per day, let’s take a quick look at what that $210 got me in the end…''I spent two nights at a very nice boutique hotel in the center of Veliko Tarnovo’s Old City, with a perfect view of the Yantra River from my room and a huge breakfast included in the price, followed by three nights at the highly-rated''Hostel Mostel'', where dorm rooms cost $12/night and include breakfast, a light dinner and evening beer.''I ate all of my other meals at the most popular local restaurants in the city (the restaurant''Shtastliveca''was so good I ate there four times), paid the entrance fee for the Tsarevets Castle, had coffee and cake most afternoons at Cafe Stratilat, took taxis across the city, made some random purchases in a few shops and even went out to the pub at night a couple of times.''Basically, I didn’t hold back at all in terms of spending money. And every time I handed over some cash, I couldn’t believe what I was receiving in return. This was especially true when it came to meals as Bulgarian food surprised me with it’s endless variety of fresh salads and wonderful Balkan-style main dishes that could be enjoyed for just a few dollars.''In addition, the fact that the Bulgarian people are extremely warm and welcoming towards foreigners just increases its attractiveness as a best value destination (speaking of attractiveness, Bulgarians have to be some of the most attractive people on the planet!). Everywhere I went I found it so remarkably easy to strike up a conversation with locals, whether it was the waitress at the restaurant, a taxi driver, the staff inside of a shop or strangers I encountered while wandering the streets.''And this was only a tiny part of the country I visited. Still left to be explored is Sofia, Plovdiv, Pleven, Varna, Burgas and many other towns, which can be found scattered among the mountains, national parks, historical sights and the Black Sea coastline that make up this country.''Luckily, I’ll be headed back to the region once my current''month of hectic traveling''is over and I’ll therefore have a chance to explore more of Bulgaria soon enough.''WHAT COUNTRY IS THE BEST VALUE DESTINATION?''Of course, as I mentioned before, this is not the only country on the planet that offers such good value for your money. Bulgaria just happens to be near the top of my list (maybe even at the very top) after my recent experiences.''So, in order to help each other out, I thought it would be useful for all of us to share the country/region that we each think offers a great value for travelers.''Please share your thoughts in the comments below and let’s see what we end up with!''I’m actually quite curious myself as I’m always looking for new places to visit and I’m confident you’ll have a few good ideas…''During my stay in Istanbul over the past five days, it occurred to me that taking a stroll along the city’s popular Istiklal Street is something that never gets old.''This three-kilometer long, pedestrian-only avenue on the European side of the city acts as the heart of the shopping/entertainment/nightlife district of Beyoglu, with an endless variety of both local and international stores, bookshops, cafes, restaurants,''meyhane'', food stalls, chestnut vendors, bakeries, bars, clubs, shisha cafes, tea houses and so much more lining both the street itself as well as the dozens of tiny lanes that branch off on both sides.''And the other night, as I found myself in Taksim Square, which lies at one end of Istiklal Street in Istanbul, I thought that you might be interested in joining me for a walk through this area…''(''Warning: This is actually more of a sprint than a walk!'')''*For those reading this post as an email, you’ll need to''click here''and visit my site to view the video. It’s not possible to embed the videos in the email unfortunately.''Have you been to Istiklal Street in Istanbul? Have you been to Istanbul in general? Is it on your list of places to visit?''Anyone who has spent even a short amount of time traveling would certainly be familiar with the ‘travel date’. This is when we actively seek out another traveler to spend time with despite knowing that we will end up having the exact same conversation, one that revolves around a very typical set of questions, that we’ve had thousands of times before.''However, it is important to point out that there are some key differences between the ‘travel date’ and normal dating.''First, instead of love, travelers are often just looking for someone to hang out with for the day. Second, instead of having the luxury of sifting through thousands and thousands of online profiles hoping to find a good match, we travelers must use a different method to find our companions. We must sit in the hostel lounge, pretending to read a book, as we scan the room out of the corner of our eye, looking for someone that appears interesting and with whom we think we could handle an afternoon of sightseeing or a quick meal.''While there are certainly plenty of days when we travelers are perfectly fine with being on our own, it would be foolish not to admit that there are even more days when we prefer the company of others. Visiting the famous fortress in town or going down to the beach is often a much better experience when we have someone there to talk to and so we spend some time scoping out our fellow travelers in the hostel, eavesdropping on their conversations, just waiting for the right moment when we can suddenly interrupt and say, “Oh, you were in Indonesia last year as well? Sumatra was also my favorite island!”''Maybe we are welcomed into the conversation, maybe we are politely ignored. But if we are welcomed in, it feels great. The other person is interested in hanging out as well! It must be how my friends feel when they actually receive a response from someone they contacted through an online dating site.''From this point on, things usually become much easier. All we have to do now is wait for the other person to say something like, “I was going to walk over to the castle today” or “I heard about a cool pub in town” and then we can respond with, “Me too!”. And just like that, we have a ‘date’.''Of course, these are not dates in the traditional sense. But as you head out the door of the hostel a few minutes later, and those typical traveler questions begin to be asked, it certainly feels like a date nonetheless.''HUNGRY & DESPERATE IN BULGARIA''Usually, we have many travelers to choose from when we’re looking for someone to spend the day with, but there is always a chance that we end up somewhere that doesn’t offer us much of a choice, such as when it’s the low tourist season and there are only a few other people staying at the hostel. I imagine that such a situation would be similar to living in a town of 1,000 people in the middle of nowhere. When you’re really in the mood for some companionship, you just have to shrug your shoulders and accept whomever happens to be around.''And last week, this is exactly what happened to me during my stay at the Hostel Mostel in Veliko Tarnovo, Bulgaria. On my first night, there were only two people staying at the hostel, myself and a German fellow. The next morning, the German took off in his car to go to a football match in a nearby town, leaving me all alone (the nerve of him!).''So I sat down in the hostel lounge, turned on my laptop and decided to respond to some emails. After about an hour, and just as I started to feel hungry, the door to the hostel suddenly opened, and in walked another traveler. Out of the corner of my eye, I watched as this guy checked in, put his backpack in the dorm room and then seemed to ask the hostel staff where he could find a good restaurant for lunch.''Upon hearing the word ‘lunch’, I turned off my laptop, jumped out of my seat and made my move, probably looking more desperate for a friend to eat with than I would have liked. I practically sprinted over to this guy, informing him that coincidentally, I, too, was hungry and about to go eat. So I asked him if he wanted to eat together.''Well, that’s pretty much how I ended up on a ‘travel date’ with Kaji, a 22-year old Japanese graduate student who spoke no more than twenty words of English. In fact, his English was so limited that I don’t even think he knew what I was saying when I invited him to join me for lunch.''He was probably scared of me, the strange guy who started babbling nonsense to him three minutes after he walked into the hostel. I wouldn’t be surprised if he followed me only out of fear.''But even so, the ‘date’ did seem to start off quite decently. Sitting on the terrace at the Ego Restaurant in the center of Veliko Tarnovo, eating pizza and drinking mugs of Zagorka beer, we eventually managed to communicate enough to ask and answer the usual questions – Where are you traveling? How long have you been traveling? What is your favorite country?''Unfortunately though, as soon as these were out of the way and we moved on to the next level of questions, we really started struggling.''Kaji asked me if I like music. I replied, “Yes.”''I asked him if he smoked cigarettes (no idea why this question came to mind). He said, “Yes.” Then he said, “No.” Then he said, “Yes” again.''Kaji asked me what I do for work. I said, “Blog computer stuff.”''I asked Kaji what he was studying. He said, “Chemistry.”''Kaji pointed out that I had spilled some pizza sauce on my shirt.''Ten minutes passed in silence.''I asked Kaji if he had any brothers or sisters. He didn’t say anything, not understanding my question.''Ten more minutes passed in silence.''Kaji told me he liked my titanium money clip.''I told Kaji that I love eating Okonomiyaki.''Kaji went to the restroom.''I tried to think of more questions.''On and on we went like this for about an hour and a half, with the conversation never really flowing too smoothly. It was still a pleasant afternoon in the end as Kaji was a really nice guy and I was certainly happy to not be eating alone, but once we finished our food and we paid the bill, as is often the case with real dating, it was obvious that our relationship was not going to continue beyond this one meal.''We simply shook hands, thanked each other for the company and went off in opposite directions, two travelers wandering the streets alone once again, each hoping the next ‘travel date’ they have out there in the world will prove to be more successful.''Are you familiar with the above type of traveler interaction? Have you had any awkward ‘travel dates’?''Here I am, sitting on a pile of comfy floor pillows in the common area of a hostel in the small Bulgarian town of Veliko Tarnovo. I’ve been here for several days now and the town certainly lives up to it’s reputation as a place that most travelers find difficult to leave. But alas, I must pull myself away from this beautiful town along the Yantra River as I’m taking the overnight bus to Istanbul at 9pm this very evening. The time has come for me to move on to the next exciting stage of my crazy''six-week itinerary''.''However, as excited as I am about my upcoming travels, I am also excited these days about a few other projects that have recently been launched by some wonderful other bloggers. And I’m confident that you’ll find these projects to be quite interesting as well.''So, here’s some cool stuff that’s now out there for you to take advantage of…''Everything Everywhere Travel Photography App''First up is a new iPhone app that was created by Gary Arndt. If you’re not familiar with Gary, he happens to be the man behind one of the most popular travel blogs on the planet,''Everything-Everywhere.com''. His site has an abundance of interesting posts from his own life of travel which has so far taken him to over 100 countries. And Gary also takes some amazing photos during his global wanderings, the kind of photos that make you want to pack your bag and immediately book a flight to some foreign land.''Gary’s new app,''Everything Everywhere Travel Photography'', simply takes it all to the next level. This app is perfect for anyone who loves to daydream about faraway places and to look at stunning photographs from around the world, all of which Gary took himself, in order to get ideas for their own travels. I played around with this app myself and I must say, it’s quite addicting. Every photo I viewed simply increased my desire to discover even more of this planet! And Gary adds new photos every day, ensuring that you never run out of travel inspiration.''Info:''You can learn more about the app on''Everything-Everywhere.com''or''download the app''from the iTunes store.''Unanchor.com – Less Research. More Travel.''Imagine you’re heading to Istanbul and you’re not really interested in following the well-beaten path around the city that you find in every guidebook. You’re looking for something different and you want some local recommendations. Enter''Unanchor.com'', a great concept created by Jason Demant that allows people to submit and upload suggested self-guided tour itineraries for cities around the world. So whether you’re traveling to Istanbul or Bangkok or Prague (or anywhere else), you’ll be able to find a unique itinerary that was created either by a local resident or by someone who has spent a great deal of time in that city. For many destinations you’ll even find itineraries geared towards specific interests, and while each itinerary does cost some money, the cost is very minimal, usually less than $10 USD.''During my last trip to Istanbul I used''this itinerary''. It certainly included most of the main sights but it also led to more local experiences, and I loved following the advice of someone who clearly knows this city in and out. These itineraries really are a cool way to explore as all you need to do is follow the suggestions and enjoy the adventure.''Info:''All of the itineraries can be found at''Unanchor.com''Grassroots Volunteering''Last summer, during a trip to Florida to visit my family, I was lucky enough to meet up with one of my favorite people in the blogging community, Shannon O’Donnell from''ALittleAdrift.com''. And as we dined on some southern food in a small local diner, she told me about her plans for the near future. First of all, those plans included spending six months exploring Southeast Asia with her 11-year old niece, which seems to have been quite a success for both of them. However, her plans also involved creating a website that would act as a massive database of free and low-cost volunteer opportunities around the world as well as local businesses that work hard to benefit their own communities. This way, whether you are interested in volunteer work or supporting local businesses during your travels, you would have a central website to guide you in the right direction.''Well, that project has now been launched and for anyone looking to do some volunteer work and support local communities around the world, this is absolutely where you should start your search. The site is very user-friendly and listings can be found in over 18 countries so far, with the database continuing to expand all the time.''Info:''GrassrootsVolunteering.org''– connecting travelers with local causes and communities''If any of the above sound interesting to you, I really hope you’ll give them a try as all of the people I’ve mentioned are also very dedicated to helping others achieve their own travel goals.''And in case you were wondering, this is not paid advertising at all and I receive no money for mentioning these things. I genuinely wanted to help promote these websites/app because I believe in their usefulness and value. In fact, I have interacted with, either in person or online, Gary, Shannon and Jason and I’ve also personally used Gary’s app, Shannon’s website and Jason’s itineraries.''Let me know what you think about these projects! And I shall write again from Istanbul…''At first, the restaurant looked normal enough. It was somewhat small, with only 8 tables or so, but it was comfortable and seemed to have a cozy atmosphere. The only problem was that I had no idea what kind of restaurant I was sitting in.''My friend had invited me out for dinner the night I arrived back in Bucharest a couple of weeks ago but she refused to tell me where we were going or what kind of food we would be eating. It was to be a complete surprise.''And so, after a short taxi ride to a quiet residential neighborhood, my friend led me to a long, unmarked gray building, which we entered through an ordinary looking door. Immediately, a friendly waitress brought us over to a table by the window and we sat down.''My friend and I each ordered a hot tea and we began to catch up. Of course, with this being a surprise meal and my friend offering no hints whatsoever, my eyes did wander around the room from time to time, trying to find some kind of clue about what I was about to experience.''After a few minutes, I began to realize that the name of this restaurant was nowhere to be found inside (and I had not seen the sign outside either as my friend blocked it from my view) and even the decorations in the room gave no indication about the theme or cuisine to be served.''We continued to drink our tea and talk for a while, and it wasn’t until fifteen minutes had passed that things began to seem strange. First of all, it occurred to me that we never received any menus apart from the drink list and that nobody at any of the other tables were reading menus either. Then, a male waiter suddenly appeared from a random door, approached our table, asked if he could take our jackets to the cloak room and then requested that we turn off our mobile phones.''And then he left…leaving me confused while my friend just sat there and laughed.''The male waiter soon returned, but this time he confused me even more because he was wearing a massive night vision apparatus on his head. Yes, you read that correctly. With a big smile on his face, he asked both of us to join him over in a darker area of the room where he proceeded to give us each a plastic apron, the use of which he highly recommended. So naturally, I put the apron on.''Then he instructed my friend to place her hands on his shoulders and me to place my hands on her shoulders. And off we went, around a corner and towards another room, which had been hidden from our view. It’s a good thing we were all holding on to each other because as soon as we entered this new room, we encountered complete and impenetrable darkness.''Stumbling through this darkness, we started taking left turns and right turns, following this lunatic with the night vision gear to wherever it was he was taking us. For all I knew he was leading us into an ambush where we would be attacked by a crazed army of night-vision junkies who would stab us with their swords, toy with our brains and leave us alone in this dark room until we bled to death.''Although, as we continued walking, I did hear some voices around us, and even some laughter, all of which proved to be somewhat comforting at the time. By the time the waiter had led us across the room, still in complete darkness, and literally placed each of us into a seat at what felt like a table, I started to relax. However, I did have some odd thoughts running through my head, such as…''Will I have to get naked? Will there be torture involved with this meal? Why am I friends with this person?''But once I felt the top of the table and realized that there were plates and forks and knives in front of me, I finally stopped wondering if I would be killed by a machete-wielding waiter while in the midst of taking off my pants.''“Are we really eating in such darkness?” I asked my friend. She didn’t answer me, so I asked the question again. This time she apologized because she had been nodding ‘yes’ without realizing that I couldn’t see her. We hadn’t even begun to eat and we were already running into issues.''THE BLIND RESTAURANT''This was all a part of my introduction to the concept known as “The Blind Restaurant”, which I think is one of the coolest restaurant ideas I’ve come across. It’s actually not about being in the dark. It’s about being completely blind. At no point could we see anything at all, not while eating our salads, not during the main course and not during dessert.''With the sense of sight completely removed, one faces a dining and social experience that is completely free of visual judgments. The concept might sound quite basic, but in practice, it’s much more intriguing than you would imagine and, for one and a half hours, I thoroughly enjoyed the unique sensation of relying on my other senses.''Sure, I spilled some wine as a result of not being able to see. I might have dropped some pasta onto my lap as well and even miscalculated the location of my mouth once or twice, resulting in pasta sauce and ice cream finding their way into my nostrils, but I don’t think I’ve ever laughed as much during a meal as I did that night.''And at one point, I even thought about taking off my shirt and placing tomato slices (I think they were tomato slices) on my chest, knowing that nobody in this place could see a thing. Luckily, I remembered the guy with the night-vision gear just before I unbuttoned my shirt and I decided to keep my clothes on in the end.''As for the food, it was quite good as well. Here’s a photo of the salad…''And a photo of the main dish…''While we’re at it, here’s a photo of the interior of the dining room…''Not a bad looking place, right?''Once we finished the dessert, we simply had to raise our hands and wait for the waiter with the night-vision gear to collect us from our table and lead us out of the darkness. After returning to the world of light, we were then invited to once again take a seat in what turned out to be the ‘waiting lounge’ where we could finish our bottle of wine.''We sat there for thirty minutes chatting with the waitstaff about the restaurant’s concept while learning that there are other similar restaurants throughout Europe and in the US.''I personally love the idea of a “Blind Restaurant” as I really enjoy participating in activities that are a bit out of the ordinary or that involve doing things we simply don’t ever think about doing. Spending time and eating in such complete darkness definitely fits into that category.''And as you can see, there is no torture involved. But I am willing to bet that self-mutilation, in the form of having your face pierced in several locations by your misguided fork, is an all-too-common occurrence.''The Blind Restaurant''– Bucharest, Romania''Website:''https://www.blindrestaurant.ro/''Have you been to such a restaurant before?''One minute I think I’m staying in Bucharest for a couple of months in order to finish some projects I’m working on and the next minute I have seven flight reservations made, two of which will take me over the Atlantic Ocean and another two that will take me almost all the way across the Pacific Ocean as well.''And the fun begins this coming Friday, when I will pack my bag and hop onto a bus that will take me to the border with Bulgaria.''I’ll then be on the move, constantly, for about six weeks in total, after which I shall end up back in Bucharest, where I’ll probably seek out the most comfortable bed in the city and sleep for a solid nine or ten days straight.''Here’s my travel plan for the next month and a half…''Bucharest to Veliko Tarnovo, Bulgaria (5 hours by bus)''7 days in Veliko Tarnovo''Overnight bus to Istanbul (8 hours)''5 days in Istanbul''March 28 – Flight to NYC (11 hours)''5 days in NYC''Bus to Boston (4 hours)''3 days in Boston''Bus to NYC (4 hours)''2 days in NYC''April 8 – Flight to Los Angeles, then to Fiji (25 hours total)''9 days in Fiji''April 17 – Flight to Los Angeles, then to NYC (22 hours total)''3 days in NYC''April 21 – Flight to Istanbul (10 hours)''1 day in Istanbul''April 23 – Flight to Bucharest (1 hour)''So, that’s a total of around…''27,000+ miles of travel (43,450 kms)''54 hours of flights''21 hours of bus rides''16 hours worth of layovers''…all in just 39 days.''It’s tiring simply to look at those numbers but of course, I’m very much looking forward to the adventures that await, especially Fiji. It’s been 14 years since I’ve been to this South Pacific nation and this time around I’ll be traveling with Matt from''ExpertVagabond.com'', Ryan from''PauseTheMoment.com''and JD from''EarthXplorer.com'', on a press trip offered by Tourism Fiji.''As for press trips, this will be my second one (''South Africa''was my first) and I do want to say that I debated back and forth with myself for quite a while before deciding that it would be okay for me to accept such a trip every now and then.''The reality is, these days, blogging is a full-time job and combined with my other online projects, I’m currently working 40-50 hours per week on my laptop. And so I consider these press trips to be a bonus for my efforts, and they just so happen to provide me with an opportunity to experience and learn about certain countries without having to spend much money. It’s basically a perk that I’ve decided to accept on occasion after twelve years of working mighty hard to maintain this lifestyle and more recently, to maintain this blog.''And besides, just because these are sponsored trips, nothing that I write on this site will ever be influenced by any other person or organization. I’ll always talk honestly about my experiences, no matter where I am or how I got there. That’s a guarantee.''On another note, will anyone happen to be in Veliko Tarnovo (long shot I know!), Istanbul, NYC or Fiji over the next month or so? I’d love to meet any of you, whether it’s for beers, coffee, a jam session (with me on the air guitar), karaoke, the best falafel sandwich in town or anything else. Do let me know!''What’s the most you’ve traveled in any given month? Any crazy itineraries that had you bouncing all over the place in a short period of time? Any recommendations for Bulgaria, Istanbul or Fiji?''Before I actually started traveling, I remember spending a great deal of my time daydreaming about being a traveler. Entire afternoons would pass by, especially during my university years, where I did nothing but try to envision myself exploring every region of the world. Whether it was Latin America, Asia, Europe, the Middle East, Australia, the South Pacific, Caribbean or Africa, just the thought of being there was more than enough to put a huge smile on my face.''But I would always try and go beyond simply ‘being there’. I wanted to imagine myself participating in specific activities, meeting specific people and experiencing actual life-changing moments.''It’s funny because right now, I can easily picture myself during a typical day at university, sitting in the library trying to study for exams. I might read a few pages of my economics book and do my best to stay focused, but most likely I would quickly lose my concentration instead. Closing my book, I would lean back in my chair and take a few deep breaths, and within a few seconds be transported to a land so far away, a land where…''I’d be able to drive along a windy coastal road, passing through small, quiet towns and alongside endless stretches of pristine beach. Maybe there would be a penguin nesting area to visit and perhaps some wild baboons might wander down from the hills, jump on my vehicle and come along for the ride…''Or maybe I’d daydream about a land where I could just hop into a''microlight plane''and soar high above a surreal landscape of sugar estates and farmland before soaring even higher over the deep blue ocean.''Sometimes I would whisk myself away to a region of the world where mountains so green made me feel as if I’d wandered straight into the most fantastic of fairy tales. While in this region I might go on a wine-tasting tour, stopping at the most well-known of wineries, those with names such as''Vrede & Lust''and''Delaire Graff''. At these wineries I would taste endless varieties of Shiraz and Pinot Grigio and Chardonnay while nibbling on the freshest and most creative of dishes, all of which were crafted from delicious locally-produced ingredients.''For a moment, I might actually snap out of all this daydreaming and suddenly remember that my economics exam was only one day away. But usually that wasn’t even enough to stop me and I would quickly close my eyes once again and continue with my journey.''This time around I might find myself climbing to the top of a mountain for stunning views of a city that is absolutely one of the most beautiful on the planet or maybe hiking my way through an impressive and wildly mysterious''cave system''deep underground.''I would then imagine myself eating the most divine of meals, perhaps some Indian-influenced cuisine unlike any other I had ever tasted. And when it came to sleeping, I would imagine myself spending my nights in a variety of places, from atmospheric hostels to unique budget hotels (such as''Delicious Hotel'') to jungle-like lodges (such as''Umlilo Lodge'') and maybe even a a luxury hotel on the beach (''The Views Hotel''works for me!) every now and then.''And during the evenings, maybe I would join some others travelers and participate in something incredibly unique such as a''Sea Turtle Safari''where we could watch massive, 1,500 lb (700 kg) leatherback turtles laying their eggs in the sand.''Of course, everywhere I went during these daydreams, I was always meeting interesting and kind people, from shopkeepers to strangers on the street to other travelers to''enthusiastic tour guides''. Some of these people I would interact with for just a few minutes and others for a few hours or even a few days or more. I dreamed of being invited to stay in people’s homes and of spending time with locals who would take me on a''brilliant tour of their country''while opening my eyes to a culture and land I knew very little about.''Eventually, however, my ‘trip’ would always come to an end and my approaching exam would finally find it’s way back to the top of my priorities. Sitting up straight, I would re-open my economics book and start reading where I left off several hours before. But even as I studied, a little part of my brain would still remain fixated on the wonders of travel, on the mountains, wildlife, wineries, beaches, jungle lodges, adventure activities, interesting people and the endless stream of once-in-a-lifetime experiences.''And I always hoped that one day I would have an opportunity to transform those daydreams into reality.''Well, fast forward to three months ago…''It was the final day of my adventure in''South Africa''and as I sat in the van that was driving me to the airport, staring out the window at a countryside I once never thought I’d see with my own eyes, I realized that so many of the things I used to daydream about had come true in this one country.''Everything mentioned above is from that trip back in December. And that is why I’m fully confident that, no matter what your own travel dreams may be, you will also be able to turn many of them into reality with a visit to the diverse, extraordinary land that is South Africa.''Anyone else spend long hours daydreaming of travel? Where do you wander to and what do you envision yourself doing?''Last night I was sitting here in my room in Bucharest at 12.45am. I was exhausted from not being able to sleep the night before due to a severe headache. But despite the exhaustion, despite the headache, I turned on my laptop. I really wanted to try and reply to a few of the emails in my inbox, emails that had piled up quickly over the past few days, before I went to sleep.''However, before I started with the emails, I decided to open up Tweetdeck and send a few tweets out on Twitter because I hadn’t paid much attention to Twitter as of late. I did this for about ten minutes before going back to my email inbox once again where, somehow, another four emails had arrived in that short period of time. I felt my arms tense up for a moment upon realizing that I had received 74 blog- and work-related emails over the previous 24 hours.''After a big yawn, I attempted to answer the oldest message, but as I started replying, I suddenly began to think of all the work I currently have on my to-do list. As I mentioned in a recent post, I am quite''inspired these days''to accomplish many of the goals I’ve set for myself, yet I still find myself a little overwhelmed from time to time.''If a day goes by without me spending a good chunk of it working on my projects, I quickly fall behind. And last night, as the emails continued to pile up, as another day passed without me finding time to work on my new eBook, as my to-do list grew, as I neglected Twitter and Facebook for yet another day, I simply felt frustrated. So, I just stared at my computer screen, unable to do anything except shake my head in disbelief at the sheer amount of work I had ahead of me.''I then went into the kitchen, sat down and drank some orange juice. I washed the dishes. I folded two shirts and then unfolded them and then folded them again. And by the time I felt ready to sit down one more time and try to answer a few emails so that I could finally go to sleep comforted by an inbox that was down to a reasonable level, it was already 2am.''Thinking to myself, “I must go to sleep by 2.30am”, and with sleepy, half-closed eyes, I opened the next email and typed out a reply. And then I opened another…but before I could even finish reading it, I heard that all too familiar ‘bling’ sound coming from my Facebook page that I had accidentally left open. Someone wanted to chat with me and I swear to you, I was just not in the mood.''For a few seconds, as I let the increasing frustration of not being able to get anything done sink in, I thought about closing my Facebook page without even checking who had sent the message. But then, as if I needed to see who I should blame for interrupting my work, I decided that I should at least find out who it was.''NOT WHAT I EXPECTED''After angrily switching over to Facebook, right then and there, at 2.10am, as I was about to hit a low point and thoughts of tossing my laptop into a river began to resurface, I saw a message from a Syrian friend of mine whom I had met during my''travels to Syria''at the end of 2010.''He just wanted to say hello.''Naturally, I responded to his message and given the''current situation in Syria'', in which the government is attacking and killing its own people, I asked him how he was doing.''His response was short yet powerful. In fact, as I read his words, the entire frustration that I had felt up until that point instantly disappeared. My friend told me, “''We are all just sitting here wondering when we are going to die''”.''Here I am complaining about emails and Twitter and my friend is worrying about being killed by bombs that he informed me were “falling every day” in Aleppo, the city where he lives. And knowing how peaceful and beautiful and full of warm, friendly people this city was when I visited, enough so to keep me there for five weeks, it is simply heart-breaking to think of what’s happening right now.''My friend and I ended up chatting for about 45 minutes but to be honest, the entire time I felt quite embarrassed. After all, how can I respond to his question of “So, how are you?” while I’m sitting in an apartment in Bucharest, working online and trying to decide if I can squeeze in another short trip to Istanbul in the near future…and he is dealing with such a terrifying situation.''We continued to exchange messages, but they were quite basic given my friend’s fear of discussing any specifics. However, one thing was certain…by the time we finally did say goodbye and I proceeded to log off Facebook, I was without a doubt a different person than the one who was exhausted and upset at 2.30am. When I went to check my inbox again, and I discovered that another 8 emails had arrived while I was chatting with my friend, I no longer cared…at all.''Big deal. They’re emails. Unfinished eBook? Big deal. I’ll finish it eventually. Neglecting Twitter? Big deal. Life goes on.''All I could think about was my friend, sitting in his home in Syria, with nothing to do but listen to the bombs and wonder if today will be his last day of life.''If you’re reading this, chances are that you’re in a much better situation in life than my friend and countless other Syrians as well. And that is something we should all remember. We should remember that fact the next time we get frustrated with our own daily happenings or the next time we get upset about something as stupid as our overflowing inboxes.''I know I’ll remember that from now on. And I will also remember to spend a great deal of time each day thinking about those who really do have something to worry about.''It is my sincere hope that you will join me in taking a moment to realize how lucky we are and that the hiccups and obstacles we face in our lives are often just plain silly in comparison to what some of our other fellow human beings are facing.''It’s not often that I find myself standing in the middle of a room full of women’s lingerie, so when I wandered into a Victoria’s Secret store during my quick stay in New York City last week, I wasn’t at my most comfortable. I tried my best to walk around as if I knew what I was doing, as if I’d been inside that store dozens of times before, but I think my inexperience instantly became obvious the moment I bumped right into a scantily-clad mannequin and accidentally knocked off the Christmas hat that ‘she’ was wearing on her head.''The issue was that, ordinarily, a visit to a women’s undergarment shop, let alone one that offers such an impressively large variety of racy items, is not a part of my normal routine whenever I am back in the US. It’s much more common for me to make stops at electronics stores and bookshops.''However, even though I am more likely to purchase a portable hard drive than a sexy thong, it is important to note that whatever shopping I do partake in during my trips home, I am almost never shopping for myself.''What happens is that every single time I am about to fly back to the States, I suddenly begin receiving ‘requests’. At first, these requests come from friends, friends from whatever destination I will be visiting after my stay in the US is over.''For example, when I left Bucharest at the beginning of February for a two-week trip to Florida and New York, I knew that I would be flying back to Bucharest by the end of the month. So, one of my good Romanian friends asked if I could pick up a Kurt Vonnegut book for her that she had not been able to find in Romania. Sure thing. That’s an easy one.''But somehow, every time, the word quickly spreads and before I know it, I’m receiving requests from friends of friends, cousins of friends, friends of cousins of friends and people whom I never even knew existed before they decided to ask if I could bring them back an iPod and a special kind of chopping board (only if they have it in purple!).''And so it goes…no matter where I’ve traveled over the years, the requests have always poured in from near and far and I’ve always ended up spending a day or two wandering the streets, usually of New York City, shopping for…''laptops, cameras, t-shirts, shoes, belts, socks, jackets, hats, luggage, toys, bed linen, candles, oreo cookies, dvd players, passport holders, pyjamas, memory cards, magazines, travel towels, inflatable swimming pools, beer mugs, baked beans, tripods, board games, dolls and body lotion from Bath & Body Works.''I can understand. Many items are simply not available in other parts of the world and not only that, if they are available, they are often much more expensive than they are in the US. This is why, over the years, I’ve been more than happy to do some shopping during my trips home and bring back whatever has been requested by my friends, and some strangers, overseas.''And that’s exactly how I ended up in Victoria’s Secret just three days ago…''A friend of a friend of a friend in Romania, who had heard that I was going to New York City, kindly asked if I could buy her a pair of red Victoria’s Secret boots. ‘Why not?’, I thought. I’m always up for a new adventure and so, while in the Big Apple, through the doors of this famous lingerie retailer I went.''However, after two minutes of not being able to locate the boot section, I quickly found myself feeling a little flustered and quite trapped within this intense maze of lace panties and bright pink “Very Sexy” push-up bras. Everywhere I looked I saw more panties, but no boots. At one point, not sure where to go, I quickly turned a corner and that’s when I bumped into the mannequin, knocking off her hat and having to quickly grab her bare thighs in order to ensure that she didn’t fall over as well. Naturally, this created quite a commotion and everyone in the store immediately looked over at me.''Then, a saleswoman approached, I asked her where I could find the boots, she told me that the boots were only available on their website and I turned around and bolted out of there.''This was not my most successful of shopping missions at all. And it even made me question whether or not I want to continue with this part-time career as a personal shopper. Do I deserve to go through such embarrassment when all I’m trying to do is help a nice girl in Romania be able to wear a pair of sexy, fiery red, high-heel canvas boots?''Well, it should come as no surprise that, later that afternoon, when I received an email from another friend of a friend in Romania, asking if I could bring him back some kind of special white samurai sword that costs $150 USD less in the US than in Europe, I responded to his request in a way that I had never done before.''I said, ‘no’.''Do you receive similar shopping requests when you’re about to visit your home country? Or have you ever been the one doing the requesting?''As I sit here right now on my flight from Florida to New York City, and my quick two-week visit to the US approaches its end, I can’t help but notice that I’m feeling more inspired than I have felt in a long time. And I’m fully confident that when I return to Bucharest next week, that inspiration will only increase even more.''I’ve realized that over the past month and a half, instead of just thinking about what I want to accomplish, and then procrastinating forever, I’ve been taking concrete steps and working hard to achieve the goals I’ve set for myself these days. And it feels wonderful. My efforts are not only paying off but they are motivating me to create even more goals and getting me excited to work even harder to achieve those as well.''What are some of these goals that I’m finally focused on?''That new eBook I’ve wanted to write for a while? I’m writing it! And it’s coming along better than I ever imagined. I won’t go into any details right now but I’m hoping this eBook will help make it possible for anyone interested in travel to take that step and be able to travel as much as they wish.''That idea I’ve had about showing other travelers around some of my favorite countries? I’m setting it up!''And there’s two other major projects that I’m also working on (not just thinking about), projects that are becoming more of a reality with each passing day.''Even just writing about what I’m working on gets me even more pumped up to continue!''But alas, the point of this post is not to dwell on what I’m working on right now. In fact, that’s enough about me. It’s your turn!''I want this post to be a place where anyone can come at any time and receive an intense dose of inspiration. And the only way to make that happen is to hear from each of you. Let’s share our goals and how we’re trying to achieve them. Our own experiences just might be able to provide the extra inspiration that someone else needs in order to make the changes they’ve been wanting to make in life.''So,''what are you trying to achieve right now and what steps are you taking?''Are you trying to find a way to travel? What challenges are you facing? Have you found ways to overcome those obstacles?''Or, if you’ve lost your motivation, what went wrong and how can we get it back?''Again, I’m inspired right now. And I really want you to be as equally inspired as well because every single day is an opportunity and we just can’t afford to waste them. So let’s make this happen and help each other out!''In previous posts, I’ve already written about the hippopotamuses and about the crocodiles that I ‘''ran into''‘ during my visit to South Africa back in December, and I’ve already posted photos of the zebras and the''penguins of Boulder’s Beach''as well. Now they’re all nice animals and everything but there were also quite a few other creatures that played a large role in keeping my mouth wide open in complete awe every single time I jumped onto a safari vehicle and entered the bush.''In fact, the most memorable experience I had during a safari was on the last day of the trip, early in the morning, as we drove around the impressive''Phinda Game Reserve''. We were on a mission to find lions, although us passengers merely had to sit back and try not to nod off (it was 6am after all) while our safari guide and wildlife tracker did all the work.''And a lion, a massive male lion, they did find.''Okay, so I saw a lion. That’s cool. The lion actually walked right past our vehicle, just a few meters away, and even though I thought I saw the lion give me an evil stare for a moment, I was able to quickly laugh off that moment of fear once the lion moved on.''Our guide then started up the vehicle, but instead of heading off to look for more wildlife, he decided to circle around and get ahead of the same lion so that we could catch one more glimpse of this cat.''And sure enough, the lion approached once again, this time walking only three meters away from me as I was in the back row of our open-air vehicle, right up against the side closest to the lion’s path.''Now I’m not usually paranoid, but I was quite certain that the lion paused for a moment while right next to me, turned his head slightly and stared me straight in the eyes yet again. For a brief second I entertained the thought that it was only my tricky imagination, but when the lion finally passed, the rest of the group in the vehicle confirmed that the beast did indeed stare me down.''With an increased heart rate and an abnormal amount of early morning sweating, I tried to return to a normal breathing pattern as our vehicle pulled away.''But alas, our driver wanted us to have one final view of this lion and so he drove ahead of the creature one more time and waited for the lion to approach.''This time, I moved a little closer towards the safety zone that was the middle of the bench and I sat still, as still as possible, merely glancing at the lion out of the corner of my eyes as he strolled up less than two meters away from me. And I kid you not when I say that he clearly was not impressed with my attempt to avoid his gaze. One more time he stopped and tried to look into my eyes and from what I could tell, he also made a face that indicated he would love to bite off my head for breakfast.''He didn’t look up at anyone else. He wanted me and only me. And as flattering as that may sound, when you remember that he may have wanted me for a meal, the word ‘flattering’ really loses its meaning.''Here’s the video proof from the first time the lion passed by…''Luckily, the lion soon wandered into an area of thick trees and even though our driver tried his best to follow him, we eventually lost his trail, which I certainly had no complaints about.''Then, only a few minutes later, as we bounced along the dirt road that crossed the seemingly infinite prairie, we encountered an animal of a different sort, a family of warthogs. And upon sight of these silly things, I immediately started to feel better. Believe me, if you need to find a way to calm down after nearly being eaten by a lion, a group of hand-sized baby warthogs darting ever so adorably all over the place will do the trick.''Of course, I still continued to''look over my shoulder''stand up and use binoculars''every few''minutes''seconds''for the following''hour''three hours''or so, just in case that lion decided that a male human head, or arm, or maybe leg, would make for an ideal breakfast in the end.''THE ‘OTHER’ ANIMALS OF SOUTH AFRICA''While everyone wants to see a lion while on safari in Africa, there is naturally no shortage of other wildlife roaming around the game reserves that are equally as impressive when seen up close. And since this post focuses on my own safari experience, I thought I’d share a few photos of some other animals that we encountered at remarkably close distances…''Those are some of the animals that await you in South Africa!''If you were going on a safari, which animal would you be most excited about seeing in the wild?''For the past six weeks, I’ve been in Bucharest, Romania, trying my very best to survive what, even for Eastern European standards, has turned out to be a cruel Eastern European winter. Snow and ice have been piled high, covering every inch of ground for quite a while now, and the temperature has consistently hovered around the -10 to -22C (14 to -4 F) mark.''About ten days ago, after meeting a friend in the city center, I actually had to walk back to the apartment where I’m staying in the middle of a blizzard. The taxis either refused to take me because of the road conditions or they wanted to charge me a ridiculous price and so, I just ended up walking instead.''I walked, for well over one hour, in the thick snow and icy rain, slipping, sliding and almost falling every few meters, with wind blowing in my face, icicles forming inside my nostrils, my eyes nearly frozen shut and my shoes offering as much warmth and protection as would a layer of tissues. As my nose dripped, head ached and my body weakened, every second became more challenging than the last to the point where I could no longer take actual steps and was moving forward through the use of tiny, barely-pick-my-feet-off-the-ground shuffles instead.''When I entered my friend’s apartment, I nearly collapsed, and had to force myself to stumble into the bathroom for a hot bath so that my body could thaw and just maybe not give up and die. I then downed a couple of cups of tea, put on my warmest of clothes, took a preventative flu medicine (didn’t want to''get sick again'') and laid down to rest.''Somehow, I survived, but I certainly learned a lesson that day. It was time to find a way to dress appropriately for this insane winter weather.''And after a little experimentation, I might have found the answer…''This video was inspired by a video post created by fellow traveler Niall Doherty over at “''Disrupting the Rabblement''” where he shows exactly what he’s carrying in his backpack during his current 4-year adventure. Be warned though, there is some nudity involved.''Any tips to share on how to stay warm during a brutal winter? I’d be most appreciative of any advice you could offer!''The quick answer to this question – do you need a university degree to travel? – is of course a big fat ‘no’. It’s not as if you’ll be asked for your university diploma when entering a new country and you certainly won’t need to show proof of extended study in order to check into a hostel or hotel.''But what I really want to talk about is the role that a university degree can play when it comes to living a life that involves long-term, and in many cases, indefinite, travel.''It’s a common dilemma. Should I go to university or should I start traveling right away? Then some university students spend long hours wondering if they should just drop out and chase after their travel goals without graduating. When the road calls, the call is powerful and it’s only natural that it often lures people away from three or four (or five) more years of formal education.''First of all, by no means do I think having a university degree to travel is vital. I’m a firm believer that any determined individual can transform travel into a lifestyle, regardless of their educational background, work history or skills that one would use to make their resume/CV look more impressive.''However, I will also state that having a university degree does indeed make life much easier for those interested in embarking on an indefinite trip and trying to earn money around the world.''The truth is that in many cases it doesn’t matter at all what you study at university or even how well you perform. The important part is just having that extra level of education.''How is this important?''Many organizations and companies out there in the world that you might decide you want to work with often won’t consider hiring or working with people who do not have a university degree.''Let’s look at teaching English, or any other language for that matter, overseas. If you were to show up in Thailand or Turkey looking to earn money by teaching English, you would naturally begin applying to language schools and other educational institutions that hire such teachers.''And while many of these language schools won’t require you to be a certified teacher or even have a certification in TEFL or TESOL (Teaching English as a Second Language), they will usually require you to have a university degree before they can hire you. They often don’t really care what the degree is in, but they just want to know that you have one.''Simply put, having that degree gives a potential employer, client or organization an additional level of confidence in you.''Both you and I know that a diploma doesn’t automatically prove you’re a mature, responsible and hard-working individual but that doesn’t change the fact that a degree does make a difference for those interested in finding such work as teaching languages, working at resorts, becoming a tour guide/escort for a tour operator, working on board cruise ships or even working with an NGO (non-governmental organization), among many others.''A FEW REAL LIFE EXAMPLES''In my own life, having my university degree certainly helped me rise up to the position of Tour Manager in just a couple of months when I''worked on board cruise ships''myself. If I didn’t have a degree I might not have been hired in the first place and even if I was hired, I certainly would not have been given a chance to become a department head.''And even when I had to return to the US during my earlier years of travel in order to find work and refill my bank account for a couple of months, I would not have been able to work as a''substitute teacher at a high school''in Boston (and save up a good amount of money) without my degree.''A good friend of mine went to Australia on a working holiday visa and because of his degree was able to land a well-paid job with a company in downtown Sydney, earning five times the amount that many others on a working holiday visa earn when working in a bar or picking fruit.''Of course, money is not always the goal (and I’m not saying it should be), so this might not matter to many travelers. But money may matter to some and one’s earning potential may be a factor in whether or not a person decides to attend university before setting off on their travels or try to combine the two by studying abroad (where living expenses may be cheaper, you may not have to pay additional tuition and you can take advantage of such things as inexpensive student flights.)''So, to sum it all up…''Having a university degree to travel is absolutely not vital, and I’ve met plenty of people out there without university degrees who have turned travel into the lifestyle they always dreamed of. Dedication, a willingness to be creative and keeping an open-mind are far more important than a degree or any particular knowledge or skill set. If you can manage that, you can achieve anything.''But again, that one piece of paper, that university degree, can help quite a lot and there is no denying that, when combined with those qualities above, it will allow you to take advantage of even more opportunities that you may discover while traveling this wonderful world of ours.''What do you think? What have been your experiences traveling long-term with or without a degree? Perhaps you’re currently debating the value of university…do you have any questions that weren’t answered above?''As most of you have probably noticed, I’ve never put up a guest post on this site. I’m quite picky about the content of the blog which is why I have always preferred to write it all myself.''However, the following post is indeed written by someone else. It is written by fellow blogger, master of productivity and most importantly, my friend…Fabian Kruse of''FriendlyAnarchist.com''. Recently, Fabian has taught me a great deal about being productive while traveling and as a result, I wanted to give him a platform to share his ideas with you as well.''For the past week I’ve been battling the flu as well as the idea that I’m currently in the midst of experiencing my first real winter in over ten years. Even as I type this post there is an actual blizzard taking place outside, yes, a blizzard.''Bucharest is covered in snow, my nose is clogged and I’m stuck inside because I don’t own any boots.''This is the life of a traveler.''Of course, it is my choice to be in the middle of Eastern Europe during the middle of winter. I take full responsibility and I don’t regret for even a second this decision. I’m here because I want to be and if I do make it out of this winter alive, then I’ll add this experience to the list of the most incredible feats I’ve achieved in my decade plus on the road.''As for the flu, it certainly sucks being sick while away from home. Luckily for me it sucks a bit less since I don’t have a home to be away from. I don’t find myself spending hours alone in my room dreaming of my comfortable bed, of eating my favorite foods or of being taken care of and tucked into that bed by my wife.''It does so happen that I have some friends here in Bucharest and I’m actually staying with one of them. And her efforts to feed me endless bowls of chicken soup, platefuls of chocolate crepes and the occasional shot of homemade elderberry liquor have certainly helped make this the most bearable bout of the flu I’ve ever had to deal with.''And when I walked right into a wall in the middle of the night while in a state of complete delirium it was admittedly nice having someone direct me back to my bed.''But what if you are on your own, stuck in a blizzard or monsoon rains in the midst of your travels, completely sick as a dog and without a single person to comfort you? This definitely is a part of travel and it’s not exactly the most enjoyable part as you might imagine.''Over the years there’s been a couple of times when I’ve been sick and all alone in some random destination, times when I would stare out the window and wonder if I would ever feel better again or if achieving my travel goals was actually worth the suffering I was experiencing at that moment.''In general, I would deal with my sickness by rolling around in bed moaning in agony, shuffling outside once a day to grab the quickest food possible and trying to think how long it would take for someone to notice that I had died in my little hotel room.''But again, here in Bucharest I’ve been spoiled this time around. However, as I ate yet another bowl of delicious chicken soup, received yet another neck massage and downed another shot of elderberry liquor this afternoon, I did start to imagine what I would have done if my friend was not around.''What if I was on my own and terribly ill, stuck in some faraway town, unable to speak the language, wanting to do nothing but curl up and vanish from the Earth?''Any advice? What have you done when you’ve been sick on the road and found yourself dreaming of home? How do you think you would survive such a situation?''Forget about the wildlife. Forget about the wines and the mesmerizing coastline. You might as well forget about the  diverse cuisine and the''adventure activities''for a moment as well.''This post is going to highlight another aspect of South Africa, an aspect that probably had more of an impact on me than any of the others during my recent visit.''I’m talking about the''ENERGY''baby!''Before I arrived in South Africa, I had heard from several travelers that as soon as one arrives in the country, you can instantly ‘feel’ Africa. You can feel the vibe, feel the life, feel that energy.''And I felt it alright.''However, it wasn’t until our wonderful''Durban tour operator''picked us up one evening and drove us over to the strikingly impressive Moses Madiba Football Stadium that I came to fully appreciate the unique, powerful and without a doubt, addicting, positive energy of South Africa.''Somehow, our South Africa Tourism host managed to secure us tickets to a football match between the Orlando Pirates and  the Bidvest Wits, which was quite a feat considering that this match happened to be the Finals of the Telkom Charity Cup.''But the thing is, as soon as we walked through the entrance of the stadium, slithered our way through the crowds and found some seats just a few rows from the field, I realized that the game itself didn’t really matter.''It might as well have been a team of Smurfs playing against a team of balloon animals, as the highlight of the evening involved not what was taking place on the field, but what was taking place in the stands. I hardly noticed the actual football match as I was immediately swooped up in the extraordinary energy created by the 50,000+ people in attendance.''What I witnessed was a massive party, with a football match taking place in the background. Everyone danced wildly, blew into their vuvuzelas, waved their flags, shook their bodies, jumped in the air, swayed together, sang together, clapped their hands (to the rhythm of the music in the stadium not to the play on the field)…without taking a rest for the entire first half. And the fact that every single person in that stadium had such a huge smile on their face just made the already festive atmosphere a heck of a lot more festive.''Here’s a video taken by our''SA Tourism''host during the game that shows what I’m talking about…''Of course, once the first half came to an end, I relaxed a little in my seat, sipped my beer and prepared for a twenty-minute break in the action. But, silly me, little did I know that half-time was going to be even crazier (and I mean that in the best possible way) and more spirited than when there were actually players on the field competing for a championship.''The party did not just continue, but incredibly, it somehow managed to grow in intensity as soon as the players were in the locker rooms.''At one point, I started thinking about sporting events back in the US where stadiums must put on quite an elaborate half-time show in order to keep the crowd from falling asleep. But here in South Africa, the half-time show consisted of eight people sitting on a flag in the middle of the field. Basically, there was no half-time show at all.''Instead, there was a person up in the sound booth who cranked up the hypnotic music even louder until the entire stadium was dancing, shaking and jumping around more than ever.''And this went on for the entire twenty minutes of half-time. It was simply an amazing thing to watch. There were no fights, no arguments, no rude or curse-laced chanting. There was dancing and hugging and laughing.''I don’t think there’s a single human being on this planet who, after spending time in a South African football stadium, would not be in the happiest, most joyful and absurdly giddy mood imaginable. It’s just not possible to sit in that stadium and successfully deflect the energy swirling everywhere around you.''And why would you want to do that anyway? The world needs more places where 50,000 people gather to celebrate life. That’s essentially what was taking place. It was one massive celebration based on the understanding that we are all in control of our own happiness.''Why sit around and watch a sporting event in near silence, perhaps occasionally letting out a cheer or two, when you can stand up, shake your body, twist and shout, bond with those around you and guarantee that you all have one insanely memorable, entertaining and enjoyable experience!''So, as the ‘life party’ continued throughout the second half of this football match, as the rain came down, the beers were sipped, photos were taken, high-fives were exchanged and new friends were made, I could not help but feel overwhelmingly overjoyed, not only about being in South Africa and experiencing the ‘vibe’, but simply about being alive.''And that’s about''as rewarding a travel experience as it gets''.''*For''Durban''accommodation options, we recommend checking AccommoDirect.com''Have you ever been to a place with such energy or experienced anything like this?''You want to travel. You make a vague plan. Maybe you’ll fly to Thailand or maybe to Mexico, but either way, you’re leaving in six months time. You start saving money, you start doing research every single night and your level of excitement grows with each passing hour.''Of course, as this will be your first ‘real’ travel experience, you’re a bit afraid to travel on your own and naturally prefer to travel with other people. So you start asking your friends to join you on your epic adventure. As you show them photos you found online of white sand beaches on a Thai island and of the Mayan ruins of Chichen-Itza, you are more than confident that you will have a travel partner or two in no time at all.''But interestingly enough, the first friend you ask, perhaps your closest friend, turns you down. And so you move on to the next friend, but they too, tell you that they have no desire to join you at all. The third friend, the fourth friend and even that guy that you don’t really like but whose company you think you could stand for a few months in Southeast Asia, all say no as well.''Suddenly, you are faced with the idea of embarking on a journey to faraway and very foreign lands all alone. You start to doubt whether or not you are up for the challenge, whether or not you have the courage necessary to survive as a solo traveler.''Maybe you decide to postpone your trip for another six months, hoping that one of your friends will change their mind and decide to tag along. Maybe you decide to forget about your trip altogether, fully convinced that you can only travel so far away from home with a friend or travel companion by your side.''You still desperately want to travel, so much so that you still spend many a night awake in bed researching random destinations, reading every travel article you can find and browsing through travel blog after travel blog. But now you try to accept the fact that what you read and see online is as close as you’ll come to actually traveling yourself.''AFRAID TO TRAVEL ON YOUR OWN? DON’T GIVE UP!''Perhaps, during your online dreaming, you stumble upon my travel blog and you decide to stick around long enough to read a couple of posts. Maybe you find yourself reading this very post and you can relate to that process of giving up on your travel goals simply because you don’t want to travel alone. And in all honesty, if that is the case, then I’m quite happy that you are reading this post right now.''Here’s my advice to you.''You may be on your own when you board that flight to Bangkok or Mexico City, but believe me, once you arrive, you’ll NEVER actually be alone.''That’s how travel works so don’t be afraid to travel on your own. Unless you stare at the ground and never talk to anyone, you’re going to meet people when you travel, lots and lots of people from all over the world who will be interested in meeting and hanging out with you. In fact, meeting new people is probably one of the easiest things to do when traveling because you have an instant connection with every other traveler. All travelers are strangers in a foreign land and as a result, we often would love an opportunity to travel with a new friend.''Maybe you’ll meet someone at the hostel or guesthouse where you’re staying or at a cafe, in a shop, on a bus or just in the street. Maybe you’ll end up wandering around a city for an afternoon with this person and then parting ways. And the next day, you’ll probably meet someone else to share new experiences with as well. Perhaps you’ll meet someone and decide to travel together for a couple of days or even a couple of weeks. Maybe your plans match up so well that you team up for a month or more.''The point is, you’ll meet plenty of people in just about every single corner of the world, even if you’re the most shy, introverted person on the planet.''MY FIRST SOLO TRIP''When I left for Southeast Asia back in 1999, I did so all alone. Sure, I asked every single one of my friends to join me, just as most of us would do, but they all said no. However, after a long, hard internal debate, I made the decision to visit Asia anyway, with no travel companion. And this decision proved to be the most important decision I have ever made.''I won’t lie to you. When I boarded that flight from Los Angeles to Bangkok, I was shaking. I was so scared of the uncertainty that awaited me that I could barely even think and as a result, I couldn’t help but realize that this was the most terrifying experience of my life.''In fact, several years later, when I was given ten seconds notice one day that I would have to give a forty-five minute presentation to 1000 people on a cruise ship, the fear I felt at that moment was NOTHING in comparison to how I felt on that flight to Thailand.''But of course, despite the fear, as I soared high over the Pacific Ocean, high over Taiwan and eventually into Southeast Asia, I knew that there was no turning back.''AND THEN MY FLIGHT LANDED…''…and I passed through immigration and customs at the Bangkok Airport and I even managed to make it from the airport into the city center without any problems despite the fact that it was after midnight. I spent the night in a budget hotel room and then, during my first stroll around the streets of Bangkok the very next morning, I met a British traveler at a cafe. We started talking and sure enough, we both had planned to travel overland to Cambodia in order to celebrate the Millennium at Angkor Wat.''That was it. Just like that I had a travel partner, less than nine hours after I had arrived in Bangkok. And we got along so well that we ended up traveling together for almost two months.''Will that happen to you when you embark on your adventure? There’s no guarantee of course. But again, if you look up, smile and start conversations with those around you, the chances of you actually being alone are quite small (unless you want to be alone).''And before long, you’ll understand why I answer every single email that asks me what it’s like to always travel alone with the very same response. I simply say, “''I may be a solo traveler but I’m never really on my own.''”''So, with that now said, I urge you to not let the fear of traveling by yourself stop you from achieving your travel goals. It would be such a shame to let that happen, especially when that fear will disappear shortly after you arrive at your first destination.''Have you experienced this fear? Are you afraid to travel on your own? Have you reconsidered your travel plans when your friends didn’t want to join you? Do you agree that meeting people is quite easy while on the road?''Have you ever had an experience that you were so excited about before it began, but then, once you found yourself in the middle of that experience, you started to wonder if it was such a good idea after all?''That’s exactly what I went through at one point during my visit to South Africa. And it all had to do with an early morning kayak ride.''Ordinarily, I am more than happy to participate in a leisurely kayak experience and never have I felt my life threatened in any way whatsoever while paddling around any body of water. But, when I found myself paddling a kayak around the St. Lucia Estuary in South Africa, that all changed, and it changed quite quickly.''Fish don’t scare me, but what does scare me is the sight of an 8-inch shark fin rising out of the water only 2 meters from my kayak, just seconds after leaving the shore, especially when there was never any mention of sharks during the orientation we received before getting into the water.''And when I pointed out to our guide that I saw what appeared to be a shark fin, only then did he inform us that this estuary is, in fact, home to three different kinds of sharks. Great news.''However, after keeping my eye on the middle of the estuary for about five minutes and not seeing any more fins, I finally began to relax and enjoy the paddling. But of course, when the main aim of your kayak trip is to spot hippos and crocodiles in the wild, any moments of relaxation are not going to last very long at all.''The first crocodile we spotted was resting on the bank of the water, but once our three kayaks were only 8 meters or so away, it quickly entered the water and began to swim off. I started to breathe again, right until the son-of-a-witch turned around, popped it’s two eyes out of the water and just stared at me. Yes, me.''Then, as my kayaking partner Rachelle (from''TheTravelBite.com'') and I frantically tried to catch up to the rest of the group (we were in the kayak at the back), the crocodile would dip down into the murky water and ten seconds later, re-appear in a new location, still following me, still staring me down and still making me somewhat nervous.''Crocodiles eat people. And being in the wild with them, busting through their habitat in three large kayaks suddenly seemed like quite a questionable idea. It continued to seem like a questionable idea for the next fifteen minutes as that massive crocodile swam behind me, once even popping up directly to my right, only 3 meters away.''To be honest, the only thing that could take my attention away from the thought of being eaten by a crocodile, was the thought of being snapped in half by a hippopotamus.''So, when we spotted a 2000 kg hippo grazing on the side of the estuary and then suddenly head towards the water, break into a jog (apparently hippos can run at a speed of 44 kms/hr) and continue jogging in the direction of our kayaks, I really began preparing for a most unfortunate end to my life.''Luckily, the hippo ran right into the water where he, too, proceeded to stick only his eyes above the surface, watching us quite closely, just as the crocodile was doing from the other direction.''Now you might think that the ideal thing to do at this point in order to calm down and regain one’s composure would be to take a break from kayaking, a short rest if you will. We took a break alright, paddling across the estuary to a quiet spot along the shore where we parked the kayaks and stepped onto dry land. But this ‘quiet spot’ turned out to be an area where hippos enter and exit the water in order to eat.''And if there’s one thing I learned about hippos during my time in South Africa, it’s that these beasts do not appreciate it when anything or anyone is standing in their path as they roam the banks of an estuary. So what did we do? We hung around this area for about ten minutes.''In the end, we were not attacked of course, but when we climbed back into the kayaks, we were then taken to an area of thick marshes, narrow channels and mangrove forests, all places that could easily hide a hungry crocodile or hippopotamus.''It was not a comfortable ride as I tried to pay close attention to my surroundings, as if my spotting a crocodile swimming towards me would in any way prevent it from biting off my arm.''In all honesty, this was the scariest activity I have ever participated in. Scarier than sky-diving, scarier than swimming with whale-sharks, scarier than''volcano boarding''in Nicaragua, scarier than traveling to''Pakistan''or Afghanistan.''But, at the same time, just as is the case with all of those above experiences, kayaking with crocodiles, hippopotamuses and sharks is something I would do again without hesitation. It’s also something that I would recommend to every individual who travels to this part of the world. Just face the fear, feel the terror of being surrounded, in the wild, by such amazing creatures.''After all, this is perhaps one of the most unique opportunities in South Africa to get so very close to these animals. It’s impossible to describe the feeling properly so you’ll just have to experience it for yourself.''And just think of the photos you’ll take!''Our kayak tour in South Africa was operated by''St. Lucia Kayak Safaris'', which I would recommend to anyone looking for adventure and interesting knowledge about the area and wildlife you encounter.''Now that the below live travel chat has finished, you can still check out the entire conversation over at''FoxNomad.com''. It was an excellent chat session, with many interesting travel-related questions and answers submitted by many readers and visitors. If you’re looking for some useful ideas as to how you can travel long-term as well, be sure to check it out (the conversation is in the comments section of the link above).''And thank you to everyone who participated!''This is a little bit on the last-minute side of things but I wanted to let you all know about, and to invite you all to, an interesting live travel chat that is taking place tomorrow. Anil from''FoxNomad.com''hosts a monthly live chat where anyone and everyone is invited to ask questions and participate in the discussion that will take place in the comments section on his site.''The year that was 2011 was an odd one for me. There was certainly no shortage of traveling as I bounced around from Australia to Southeast Asia to Mexico to Eastern Europe to Turkey, back to the USA, to South Africa, and now, back to Romania over the past 12 months. But even with all of those interesting adventures, as the year reaches it’s end, I still find myself just a little bit confused as to the direction I’m actually heading in life.''In reality, I’m not too surprised by this confusion considering that the year 2011 presented one giant wollop of a challenge, the kind of challenge in which one thing after another seemed to go wrong or not work out as I had expected. This year saw a great deal of changed plans, some of which completely took me by surprise, as well as long-lasting periods of uncertainty, more than a handful of troubling moments and a higher than normal amount of utter confusion.''Hooray for all that.''And so, needless to say, as a result of this somewhat bizarre and difficult year, I’m ready for the New Year to begin. Perhaps on January 1st I will finally be able to clear my head and find some answers to some common questions, questions that I have been asking myself quite often as of late, questions such as ‘what’s the point of what I’m doing?’ and ‘what am I trying to accomplish?’.''WHY WAIT UNTIL NEXT YEAR?''Of course, it would help to get a little head start and use the last couple of days of 2011 wisely. I guess there’s no point in waiting until after the New Year to begin figuring things out. And that’s why I think I’ll just go ahead with an idea that I thought of a few minutes ago, an idea that might prove to be beneficial and maybe even therapeutic.''I’m going to jot down all of the random thoughts that are currently mosh-pitting through my head in the hope that seeing such a list in front of me might help me sort through the muck and discover some answers.''I’m not overly confident that this will work, and I’m a bit nervous that the nonsense inside my head may scare a few of you away, but I’m willing to give it a try nonetheless.''Fifteen Minute Break…''Okay, I’ve now spent the past fifteen minutes contemplating my life and writing down every thought that entered my head. And here’s those very thoughts…''What on earth am I doing with my life? (A common one, I know.)''I really do enjoy eating soft cheese.''No matter what happens, I still feel most at peace when I think about packing one small backpack with a few possessions and just walking around the world, a thought that has been in my head for the past ten years.''Winter weather is not nearly as terrible as I once thought (it’s freezing in Bucharest now but miraculously I’m surviving.)''I want to be on television.''I’m starting to think that my musician friend who told me I could be a good singer if I took a few lessons was lying to me.''We should all be laughing at most of the things we get upset about.''As always, I would love to spend less time in front of my laptop.''I really hope that nobody ever greets me at an airport with kazoos.''I want to learn how to be an''Wildlife Tracker''in South Africa.''Socotra Island is a must-visit for 2012.''Gladys Knight has a lovely voice.''I really don’t care too much about the main sights the world has to offer, preferring much more to go anywhere and meet new people.''I miss my afro.''Did I mention wanting to walk around the world?''Shaving my armpits''is excellent, but why am I plucking my eyebrows as well?''When am I going to finally sit down and learn how to play the banjo?''I would love to show other people around India.''As I get older, good water pressure in the shower and comfortable pillows are becoming much more important to me.''Really, what am I trying to achieve with the blog and the traveling? What are my true goals with this lifestyle?''I miss''Mitch Hedberg''.''How do I help encourage more people to find a way to start traveling?''I think it’s time for a one month silent meditation retreat.''What happened to my goal of being a stand up comedian?''It’s a good thing that Italian guy who wanted to''cut my head off with a machete''on board a cruise ship never managed to get the machete or hunting knives he bought while in port on board the ship.''Sometimes, the way we humans spend our lives seems absurd and useless to me.''How can I use the knowledge I’ve learned over the years in a way that benefits as many people as possible?''I really need to update my music collection.''Istanbul might be my new favorite city on the planet.''I’m most content when laughing, being around close friends or meeting good people I never would have met had I never traveled.''Well, there you go. And truthfully, now that I’ve read over that list a few times myself, I’ve unfortunately been left shaking my head, feeling even more confused than before. I even started feeling a little sad that my head is full of such stuff. Why am I thinking of Mitch Hedberg, soft cheese and my afro from 10 years ago at a time like this? I need some direction. 2012 is only a few days away. Oh my.''But wait. Wait just a minute. What about all of you? Surely most of you will be entering 2012 in a state of some confusion as well. Isn’t it natural around this time of year for all of us to question what we’re doing in life and what we truly want to achieve during our time on this planet?''Surely I can’t be alone.''So, maybe all of us need to spend the next few days wisely. Perhaps we should all stop procrastinating, we should all put down the tweezers and stop plucking our eyebrows for a moment or two.''Then, we should start thinking seriously about what we want out of life. Let us all create a list of our most important goals and then read that list over and over again until we realize that life is far too short to just plod along for yet another year without trying to achieve them.''I’m in. Who’s coming with me?''Alright! I’ll just assume that most of you raised your hand and, as a result, I now feel a little better knowing that we’re all in this together. We’re all a little confused (right?), but at the same time, we’re all determined to find our way in 2012 and to make sure that the next time we ask ourselves, ‘What am I trying to accomplish?’, we have an answer and a plan to make it happen.''This post did its job after all.''Have a wonderful New Year’s everyone! Enjoy your celebrations, please be safe and whatever you do, I’d appreciate it if you could refrain from using kazoos.''Some travelers do it, many don’t and in my opinion, every traveler should. I’m talking about paying a visit to a South African township.''Created during the Apartheid era, these communities, typically located on the outskirts of towns and cities, were designed to house the ‘non-whites’ who were living in what were then designated as ‘white-only’ parts of the country. Of course, these individuals were forcibly removed from their homes and  placed into these segregated townships, most of which suffered from a severe lack of basic services.''Today, millions of people live in these townships as a result and there is apparently still some forced relocation taking place as the government tries to move people out of the shanty towns that still exist.  And while some townships have fared well and even include a growing middle-class, the majority are still suffering from poor infrastructure and problems with education, among other issues such as gang violence.''Based upon that very brief description, I wouldn’t be surprised if your initial reaction would be to avoid visiting one of these communities during a visit to South Africa. Instead, you may prefer, as many travelers do, to visit a ‘cultural village’ which is a village created specifically for tourists in order to display the traditional cultures and customs of the people who have inhabited this region for, well, a very long time. The most well-known of such groups would be the Zulus.''But during our trip, we skipped the cultural villages. After all, a cultural village is similar to a museum, and while there’s nothing wrong with visiting a museum, it doesn’t offer an opportunity to see what life is like today, right now, for so many South Africans.''And even though this reality might be difficult for many travelers to see, that’s part of the learning experience.''However, I must admit to myself that this was not exactly how I felt at first when, during our visit to the eastern part of South Africa, we spent an afternoon visiting a Zulu township located in the heart of KwaZulu-Natal province.''NOT  A GOOD START''When our vehicle turned off the main road and onto a dusty, dirt street a few kilometers outside of the town of St. Lucia, I immediately felt terribly uncomfortable. We had entered Khula township and I could not help but feel like such a tourist, as if I were here to gawk as an outsider and take a few photos of people that look different from me. I fidgeted in my seat, nodded awkwardly to the locals walking by and spent several minutes with my head down, fully aware that our small group stuck out only as a group of tourists know how to do.''It all seemed so wrong and so I just braced myself for what I assumed would be a most difficult afternoon.''A short distance down the road, our driver, a local Zulu from this very township, stopped the vehicle in front of a simple building. It turned out that this was a community centre that feeds and clothes dozens of orphans from the area, but I still couldn’t stop myself from hesitating for a few moments before joining the others who had entered the gate that led to a small courtyard.''But when I did enter the gate, and the dozens of energetic children came running up to all of us, shaking our hands and wanting to talk with us, I suddenly began to realize that this was not some tourist attraction after all, but a slice of reality that I really did need to see for myself.''The children were incredibly welcoming and so full of life, and they appeared so genuinely excited by our presence. I couldn’t help but smile as they piled on top of me, every child wanting to get into every photo that was being taken. In fact, the children were the ones insisting that the photos be taken, and they were also taking many of the photos themselves, politely asking for our cameras and for a quick lesson on how to use them, and then stepping back and snapping away.''Naturally, with all of the chatting, laughing and photo taking, our twenty minute stop passed quickly and when we finally pulled ourselves away from the courtyard, and I stepped back out of the gate, I had a completely different perspective about visiting a township. I now felt comfortable with the idea of interacting with everyone around me as these children helped break down that imaginary and unfortunate barrier that is sometimes created between visitors and locals all over the world.''After this experience, and as we continued to drive through the dusty streets, I found that my awkward nods had turned into waves and ‘sawubonas’, both of which were returned to me by everyone we encountered. And this was especially the case when we arrived, without warning, at the home of our driver, where we were greeted by his family, who had collectively cooked up a feast for our group.''We were invited into the home and we all sat down in the modest dining room where we ate fresh curries, salads and delicious beans in condensed milk. Keep in mind, this was not a house designed to accommodate tour groups, this was someone’s actual home, and everyone, from the family to the neighbors, seemed so interested and sincere in their desire to show us a slice of their lives.''We were able to ask questions and see with our own eyes how the people of these communities lived and interacted with each other. And despite the poverty, not a single person in our group, and not a single person we came across, had anything but a smile on their face.''MY CHANCE TO BE A WARRIOR''Upon completing our lunch, our group went for a short walk until we reached an area that was indeed set up for visitors, or at least the few visitors that trickle into Khula township. We took our seats on some logs scattered around and we joined the handful of local residents who came out of their homes to watch the performance as well.''What we watched was a group of ten orphaned boys give a display of traditional Zulu warrior dances. These boys actually spend most of their time, every day, practicing and performing these dances in order to help ensure that certain aspects of their culture did not disappear with the passing of time.''And not only did we get a chance to see this traditional dance in action, a couple of us were even invited (or maybe forced) to participate as well.''Matt (''ExpertVagabond.com'') and I suddenly found ourselves lined up with the Zulu boys in front of the small crowd, and we were instructed to simply follow along with the dancing as best we could. I was able to handle this part but it all went downhill as soon as we had to display our own individual versions of a Zulu warrior dance.''Let’s just say that I’m not much of a dancer, especially when it comes to pre-battle displays of aggression, but I gave it a try anyway…''Quite horrendous I know. You should have seen the faces of the local women who were watching. If they were drinking milk at the time, it certainly would have come out of their noses.''A WORTHWHILE EXPERIENCE''What I’m really trying to say with this post is that I do recommend a visit to a township when you’re in South Africa. While it may seem like a touristy and possibly uncomfortable thing to do at first, there are plenty of townships, such as Khula, that rarely see foreigners and are more than welcoming towards visitors.''And as a result, you have an opportunity to not only observe how millions of South Africans currently live, but you have a chance to interact with and learn from the local residents as well.''As you know, my travels are all about human connections and to be able to shake a hand and share a laugh with a Zulu woman or man with whom I would never have come into contact with had I never traveled, is just another life highlight for me, and another educational experience that I will never forget.''So, if you don’t treat the township as a tourist attraction, it simply won’t be one. Don’t feel uncomfortable. Just extend your hand and converse with the people around you. And then, you too will soon discover that such a visit just may be the most challenging, eye-opening and memorable experience of your trip to South Africa.''Our group’s visit to Khula township was arranged through''Mandy Heritage Tours & Safaris'', a reputable tour operator that knows how to provide unique cultural experiences for visitors to the St. Lucia region.''This short video below is my attempt to show you the reality of life as a backpacker or a long-term traveler. However, please be warned. If you’ve been thinking about long-term travel yourself, you may be disturbed by what you see. To put it simply, life as a nomad is not as easy as one may think.''Now that you’ve watched the short video, please allow me to state that, in reality, I am of course very appreciative of the opportunities I’ve had to travel over the years, and especially for my recent''trip to South Africa''.''And hopefully you can understand that the only thing I did to reach this point of constant travel was to pack up my stuff and fly to Bangkok back in 1999 with a small amount of money in my pocket. That’s why I always encourage anyone interested in life as a backpacker to simply do whatever it takes to find a way to get started. Once you get out on the road, you never know where the path will lead and one day you just may find yourself on an unbelievable trip to South Africa as well.''I also want to mention again that the above video was shot in my beautiful room at''The Marine Hermanus''in the coastal town of Hermanus, South Africa, where Hamish and his wonderful team showered our small group with such unforgettable hospitality. Our stay here was simply perfect, and I wouldn’t hesitate for a second to recommend this establishment to anyone interested in treating themselves during their visit to South Africa.''Also, for anyone who has never eaten the dessert known as''Cape Malva Pudding'', please do so at the restaurant inside of The Marine if you’re ever in the area. Really, just eat it. And the next time I see you, I’ll gladly accept your hug of appreciation for the recommendation!''Finally, I’d like to point out that the video itself was shot by Matt from''ExpertVagabond.com''and I owe him a huge thank you for filming my nonsense!''Any thoughts about life as a backpacker? Anyone eaten Malva Pudding before? Any comments about the video (as I’m thinking of adding more to the site)?''Please take a moment, close your eyes and repeat the words “South Africa” three or four times. The goal of this short exercise is to see exactly what pops into your head upon hearing the name of this country because, after all, everybody has their own idea of what a trip to South Africa would entail.''Then, once you have a handful of ideas of what you think South Africa is like, kindly gather almost all of those ideas, wander over to the nearest trash bin and toss them inside.''You see, I’m willing to bet that your view of South Africa is so utterly different from reality that if you travel here and find that I’m the one who is in fact wrong, I’ll personally cook up a braai in your backyard and send you over some of the best springbok biltong along with a case of Castle Lager.''How can I be so sure? Well, even after 12 years of travel, I still came to this country myself a couple of weeks ago with a few strongly held ideas of my own, ideas that I was certain would prove to be true. Yet, I was indeed so very wrong.''It turns out that South Africa has surprised me, not once or even twice, but several times, every single day of my trip. In the end, this will perhaps rank up there as the destination with the widest gap between what I assumed to be true about a country and what turned out to be the actual situation once I arrived.''Before I made my way here, I simply thought a trip to South Africa involved an encounter with significant crime everywhere you go, shockingly expensive safaris, maybe a little natural beauty and some cities that I would be afraid to walk around, even at noon. That was the idea I had.''Of course, just like any country on the planet South Africa has its issues and there are always places in every city that are best avoided, but the truth is, that is not something that I have spent even one minute thinking about. And if you were to visit, you too would spend all of your time having a safe and intensely rewarding experience that will simply amaze and impress you with every new activity, sight and interaction.''My current trip has taken me from Capetown to Franchhoek to Hermanus to the Garden Route to Durban and to St. Lucia so far, and I have really encountered nothing but undeniably genuine hospitality in every location.''In fact, far from having to constantly worry about my safety, the biggest thing I’ve had to worry about are the hippopotamuses that wander around the town of St. Lucia at night, looking for grass to eat. Yes, every night there are actually 2500 kg hippos grazing in front of the hotel where I’m staying and this has now become so normal, that I didn’t even go outside to look at them last night because I was too busy cutting my toenails in my room.''The point is, traveling to South Africa is not what you think.''Instead of wandering around in fear the entire time, you’ll instead be enjoying absolutely beautiful and vibrant cities,''encounters with penguins'', baboons and ostriches, wine regions that will blow you away in terms of the scenery as well as the quality of the wines, lush jungle-filled mountains that lead straight up to a coast lined with some of the highest quality beaches in the world, a diversity of cultures that creates a wildly unique and energetic atmosphere, opportunities for adventure everywhere you go, a cuisine that is guaranteed to suit your tastes (especially those who love a little Indian-influence in their food) and, perhaps most surprisingly, game reserves that are full of zebras, giraffes, rhinoceros, hippos, hyenas, wildebeest and more, that a traveler can visit for less than $50 USD per day.''I don’t know about you but I always thought safaris were out of reach for the average traveler who wasn’t interested in paying for a giant splurge. But that simply isn’t true, at all. (We did a full day game drive in the iSimangaliso Game Reserve that cost only 395 Rand, including lunch.)''And so, if an extensive game safari is within reach for even the most budget of travelers, then the entire idea of traveling to South Africa should not only seem infinitely more appealing, but suddenly, much more accessible as well.''I’ve really been sitting here the past two weeks thinking about why I’ve never traveled to this country before. Sadly, however, I know perfectly well why this has been the case. And it all comes back to the idea I had that traveling to South Africa would be extremely difficult, expensive and quite dangerous.''Now I feel a bit silly that I once thought all of that because, again, I am honestly thrilled to report that my assumptions could not have been farther from the truth. As a result, I will be recommending this country as a destination as often as possible, especially to any person whose goal it is to experience first-hand the best of what this world, and the people and animals who inhabit it, have to offer.''I’d be interested to hear your thoughts about what you think South Africa is like and whether this post matches or contradicts those thoughts?''It is only natural to expect some sort of animal encounter when one visits the vast continent that is Africa. And even though I prefer to travel without too many expectations these days, I would be telling a fib if I were to claim that I was not at all excited about seeing the animals that inhabit this region.''Images of cheetahs, elephants and giraffes, of lions and antelopes and zebras, of leopards and hippopotamuses, flashed before me during the 15 hour flight from New York City to Johannesburg a few days ago. And of course, I also thought of…penguins. Penguins?''Maybe I am telling a slight fib after all. The idea of observing some African penguins was admittedly not an idea that I spent much time dwelling on before the trip. At first, when I noticed that penguin spotting was on the itinerary, I believe I thought to myself, ‘Penguins in Africa? Sounds nice.’ And then I returned to thinking about lions and giraffes.''WILD AFRICAN PENGUINS''On the second day of my stay in South Africa, our small group of bloggers left our hotel and headed east with our guide Shaheed, traveling along the brilliantly stunning coastline that stretches out towards the Cape of Good Hope. Our main destination was Boulder’s Beach, an area that is home to dozens of African penguins living in the wild.''And little did I know that this one experience would completely alter my view of these adorable black and white seabirds. Less than 2.8 seconds after we pulled into the small beachfront car park, spending time with penguins no longer sounded just ‘nice’. Instead, observing African penguins actually waddle around, sit on their eggs, bellow out their donkey sounds (umm, penguin sounds I guess) and cuddle with each other on the beach and in the bushes, was infinitely more fascinating to me than I ever would have imagined.''We spent a good hour or so walking along the coastline, because, it turns out that watching penguins in the wild does not get old at all. You might think that once you’ve seen one penguin pop out of the ocean, waddle up a small sand dune and then playfully peck his wife’s buttocks a few times, you don’t need to see any more.''But again, I wanted to see more. ‘Keep pecking!’ I would shout. Actually, I did not shout anything, but that’s what I was thinking as it all seemed surreal to be so close to these birds.''I really became a penguin addict.''In fact, I became so addicted to penguins that I went ahead and adopted one.''MY PENGUIN ADOPTION TALE''The day after our visit to Boulder’s Beach, our group began the morning with a visit to a place called''SANCCOB'', or the South African Foundation for the Conservation of Coastal Birds. This centre is THE place for injured or displaced seabirds to be taken, not only in Capetown, but in all of Africa and even the Southern Hemisphere.''The work they do here, whether it be nursing sick penguins back to health in order to release them back into the wild, responding to oil spills and coordinating the efforts to save the affected wildlife or caring for seabirds that are simply too frail or injured to survive on their own, is more than impressive.''You can’t help but respect not only the organization, but the passionate staff and team of international volunteers who keep this centre operating year round. And that is why, after being given a thorough tour of the premises, which included some time hanging out with their resident rockhopper penguin (which is not native to Africa and which somehow popped up on the South African coast one day), I had only one thing on my mind.''Adoption.''So, let me now introduce you to my penguin. His name is Elephant, and yes, I named him myself.''Unfortunately, however, adopting a penguin is not quite the same as adopting a child. With penguins, you do not get to take them home with you, which is probably a good thing considering that I don’t have an actual ‘home’. I’m sure many people try, probably by attempting to place their penguin in their jacket pocket and sneaking out the back door, but it really is not recommended, nor wise.''As adorable as your adopted penguin may be, trust me when I say that your penguin is much better off in the capable hands of the SANCCOB staff than at your home in New York City or Berlin or Melbourne or wherever it is you may live. Once your penguin is brought back to full health at the rehabilitation centre, it will then be released back into the wild, where it truly belongs.''I know what you’re thinking. ‘The penguins in the Jim Carrey film''Mr. Popper’s Penguins''looked happy to be living in a big city apartment,’ but remember, that’s just the movies and in real life, penguins do not like to hang out inside of your freezer or in the toilet bowl and they aren’t as fond of visits to the park as one might think. (And don’t worry, I only watched that movie on a flight due to boredom.)''Anyway, even though I couldn’t take Elephant home with me, I can’t stop looking at his photo and thinking about him as I continue to travel around the rest of South Africa. And at this point, it really is difficult to believe that I began this trip barely excited about hanging out with some penguins and now I’ve gone ahead and introduced one into my family.''That’s South Africa for you. An endless stream of surprises….''If you want to adopt a penguin, which you can do for yourself or as a gift, you can do so from the''SANCCOB website''. And if, or WHEN, you visit Capetown, this is one destination that should be on your list. You can take a tour, learn a great deal about penguins and you can also volunteer at the rehabilitation centre if you want to get even more involved!''Okay, some trips may be classified as a trip of several lifetimes, but, at the bare minimum, every single trip we take should be considered a trip of a lifetime. All it takes is a constant reminder that, even if our idea of travel is a yearly visit to Uncle Jim’s house on the other side of the country, backpacking around the world for one year or booking an all inclusive holiday, we should appreciate every moment of every trip. We are so very fortunate to be in a position to travel and we should never forget this fact.''After all, any time that we leave our home town, we instantly give ourselves an opportunity to learn and to enjoy life in ways that we have never before experienced. There are always unfamiliar and fascinating places to explore, new things to see and interesting people to meet. And if we believe that behind every new experience lies an endless stream of eye-opening and life-changing possibilities, the benefits of travel multiply to the point where every trip does indeed become a trip of a lifetime.''We don’t need ancient temples or 7,000 meter peaks or hippopotamuses for this to happen (although, the hippos certainly do help). All we need is the right mindset to magically transform our travels, any travels, whether it is indeed to Uncle Jim’s for the holidays or a 6-month trip to India or a week in Italy or a long weekend at a resort an hour away from home, into a trip that we will not only never forget, but into a trip that teaches us something valuable about the world and about ourselves.''And of course, when we welcome the opportunities that accompany any form of travel, instead of thinking even for one second that any of our travels are somehow less significant than other adventures, we are bound to have one spectacular, ridiculously amazing time, no matter what part of the world we may be visiting.''So, the point I’m trying to make is that a ‘trip of a lifetime’ absolutely does exist. But they are not exactly a once in a lifetime kind of event. Every single time we travel, we each hold the key to whether or not our experiences equal just another vacation, or involve a much more significant and rewarding journey.''And when we force ourselves to remember just how fortunate we truly are to be able to travel, it really does become quite easy for every adventure we take to become an adventure that simply feels too unbelievable to be real.''As usual, my next set of travel plans have all come together at the last minute. Actually, in this case, it didn’t come together at the last minute, but at the very last minute. I will travel to South Africa on Saturday.''Let me just recap the past couple of weeks. After my Eurail trip came to an end, I traveled to Istanbul in order to meet up with some friends for about ten days. I then flew for 22 hours in order to get back to the US just in time for Thanksgiving. I arrived the night before (November 23rd), spent the holiday with my family and then immediately began working on my future travel plans.''And now, I’m flying out to South Africa on Saturday, this Saturday, in two days time.''While these South Africa plans have been in the works for a couple of months now, I was not able to fully confirm my schedule until yesterday due to some other projects that I’m currently working on. But now it’s a go and lions I shall hopefully see.''So, what’s this South African trip all about?''I feel remarkably fortunate to have this opportunity because my trip is actually organized by the''South African Tourism Board''. Along with several other bloggers –''Jessica Spiegel''(''@bootsnall''),''Rachelle Lucas''(''@travelblggr''),''JD Andrews''(''@earthxplorer'') &''Matthew Karsten''(''@expertvagabond'') – I’ve been invited to visit this country in order to get acquainted with what this land has to offer. And believe me, this would have to be one insanely magnificent trip to convince me to fly 20+ hours to Johannesburg just 9 days after flying 22 hours from Istanbul to the US.''While this trip will be much shorter than my recent stay in Europe, the two weeks that I will spend in South Africa is going to full of activities, all of which my brain still can’t believe I’ll actually be participating in.''What kind of activities?''I do want to keep this post under 5000 words so I’ll just list a handful of what’s on the itinerary…actually, you know what, I don’t feel like listing the activities below. I feel like telling you myself. So, here it goes…''So there you have it. And the truth is, I’m looking forward to not only experiencing South Africa for myself, but to sharing the journey with you as well because, after this recent European trip, with all of the comments and emails that came in from everyone, I realized once again that this site is nothing without all of you.''And so, I hope that you will now follow along with me as I travel to South Africa and continue to share with me your suggestions and advice and to always feel comfortable in asking me any questions about anywhere I’ve been.''I’m really loving the interaction that’s been taking place here and I absolutely feel that, while it might be me who is getting on the plane Saturday, in truth, we’re all going to South Africa together…''When I went to reserve my seat on what would be my tenth and final train journey of my recent European Eurail Adventure, the woman behind the ticket counter seemed quite confused when I requested a seat on what was labeled as a “Personnel Train”. Over and over again she asked me to verify my choice, pointing at the computer screen and repeating, “Personnel Train? Personnel Train? You want the Personnel Train?” until I had said “yes” at least a dozen times.''Twenty minutes later, as I stood on the train platform waiting for this mysterious ‘Personnel Train’ to arrive, I began wondering if I was about to board a train full of cows and donkeys, or maybe a circus train full of clowns and bearded women, for my ride from Targoviste back to Bucharest.''However, the train that eventually rolled alongside the track was unfortunately not a circus train nor was it involved in any type of farm animal transport. The train actually appeared to be the same as the train that I had taken to Targoviste the day before.''In the end, I really have no idea what the ticket woman was so shocked about as my final train journey turned out to be as comfortable and pleasant as all of the other''train journeys in Romania''and every other country I visited over the previous two months. And even better, the sun set during this trip, lighting up the entire Romanian horizon in one of those spectacular displays of orange, red, pink and purple that force us to stop for a moment and just appreciate being alive.''Once the sun had disappeared, I spent the rest of my time on the train just staring off into the distance, completely lost in thought as I replayed in my mind the previous nine train journeys that I had taken during this trip.''TWO MONTHS IN EUROPE''The time passed quickly as I recalled my long ride through the''Swiss and Austrian Alps''way back at the end of September as well as my trip from''Vienna to Ljubljana, Slovenia'', a country I had never been to before. I remembered my conversations about Pow-Wow Lip Scrub on the train from''Ljubljana to Zagreb, Croatia'', a train ride that brought me not only to the''Museum of Broken Relationships'', but closer to my next destination, Bosnia & Herzegovina, another country I had wanted to visit for quite some time.''From Bosnia & Herzegovina, I had quickly made my way across Serbia before entering Romania, where I began my stay with a full-day train journey from''Timisoara to Bucharest''. A few days later, I headed north, exploring Transylvania as I traveled by train from''Bucharest to Brasov''and eventually, from''Brasov to Sighisoara''and from''Sighisoara to Sibiu''. And then, I made that decision to turn around and return to Bucharest, where, apart from the two-day trip to the town of''Targoviste'', I decided to stay put for my final 8 days of this most memorable European adventure.''After replaying the entire journey, it was only natural that by the time this final train ride reached the Gara de Nord train station in Bucharest, I found it quite difficult to leave the car I was sitting in. I was actually the last person off the train as I spent a couple of minutes just enjoying the silence on board and trying to ensure that the memories from my recent travels would stay forever embedded in my mind.''Eventually, I did stand up though, and I collected my backpack and jumped down onto the train platform. And just like that, my two months of European train travel came to an end.''MANY THANKS TO GIVE''I certainly wish to thank the fantastic team over at''Eurail.com''for providing me with such an opportunity to not only explore some more of Europe, but to experience, for the first time during my 12 years of travel, the extensive and efficient train systems on this continent. Having that Eurail Pass in hand certainly made train travel incredibly easy in every country I visited as usually, all I needed to do was show up at the station, check-in at the ticket counter to receive a seat number and board the train. I did not experience a single problem along the way and I can’t imagine traveling across Europe as I did without one of these convenient passes.''I also want to thank all of you, my readers, not only for following along with the journey itself, but for offering your valuable input, recommendations and comments along the way, all of which I read, listened to and took into account wherever I happened to be traveling. Heck, there were even quite a few of you who offered me a place to stay during this trip and even more who I managed to meet up with for a meal or a drink…and for those interactions I am most appreciative.''And while there are still a few more posts about Europe that I plan to write over the coming month or so, if you ever have any travel questions about any of the places I visited on this trip, just let me know. I’m always more than happy to help out as best I can!''While this was my own adventure and my posts are written based upon my own personal experiences, I must make a note that''Eurail.com''had provided my Eurail Pass for this trip as part of their Blogger Project for 2011.''***The post that was previously on this page has regretfully been pulled. I received several comments and emails from readers of the article who expressed their anger with what I had written. To that, I would like to state that the information contained in the original post was not my own opinion but came directly from locals (of every ethnicity) who I spoke with during my stay in Mostar.''Also, I am always open to receiving comments of all types, even those that contain the harshest criticism, however, what I do not tolerate on this site is profanity, direct insults and threatening remarks towards either myself or my readers. So in order to put an end to the nasty comments that have been coming in today, I have decided to turn this post off.''If some of the information in the original post was inaccurate, I certainly do apologize, but again, it was not my intention to cause any offense, as the information written was based upon what I learned directly from people who call this city home.''Perhaps once I have some time to sit down and review all of the comment and emails I will be able to recreate the post in a more detailed manner.''Even though I spent my final week of this Eurail trip in Bucharest, I did manage to get away from the city for one of those days in order to visit a random destination that had been recommended to me by a local Romanian. I had told her that I wanted to visit a town where no tourists go at all, but one that would still make for a pleasant day trip.''And that’s why I ended up visiting Targoviste, an old Wallachian capital that was built in the 12th century during the Second Bulgarian Empire.''After a quick taxi ride to the Gara de Nord train station in Bucharest, a quick stop at the reservations counter to show my''Eurail Pass''and receive a seat assignment on the train and a quick stop at a bakery inside the station to purchase a couple of sandwiches for lunch, I strolled over to Track #8, found the Accelerated 1793 and took my seat on another''Romanian train''.''This train was clearly brand new, but had more of a commuter train set-up, with seats facing different directions as well as being placed along the side of the car, instead of the usual six-seat compartment set-up found on the long-distance trains. Of course, this made perfect sense as the train did stop at every single station along the way, as a commuter train would, even picking up people from stations that consisted of nothing more than a bench on the side of the tracks.''As usual, I sat back, turned on my music and, feeling ever so fortunate to have been on this incredible trip in the first place, stared out the window in perfect contentment as I soaked up another slice of the Romanian countryside.''But, the true highlight of this train ride was when the man across the aisle from me produced his ticket and handed it to the ticket collector. The man had clearly scratched off the date on the ticket and the collector was not impressed at all. An argument ensued which lasted for several minutes until the old man pulled out a 10 lei note (approximately $3 USD) and tried to stuff it into the hand of the ticket collector. At first, the ticket collector, aware that I was watching the scene, refused the bribe and brushed the old man’s arm away, but suddenly, he pointed to an empty row of seats, a row that no other passengers had a clear view of, and told the man to sit there.''And then the ticket collector continued checking the tickets of the other passengers in the car. Once he completed his rounds, he returned to the old man, sat down next to him, and out of the corner of my nosy eye, I watched him sneakily take the 10 lei note, get up and walk away.''Bribery. I knew this wasn’t as efficient a train system as in Switzerland or''Austria'', but I still wasn’t expecting it in Romania. Apparently, however, that’s how things happen from time to time, even in this country.''Not too long after that excitement, the train pulled into the Targoviste Station, a station that took me by surprise because of the one hundred people or so that hurriedly boarded the train as I was disembarking. For such a small town, this was one busy, lively station. Although, the busyness only lasted for about thirty seconds and once the train departed, the station then became eerily empty.''As for Targoviste itself, it was also quite empty, proving to be a very sleepy town in the end. But there were a handful of interesting ruins from it’s days as a capital city, the central plaza was quite a pleasant place to do some people-watching and, most importantly, the local pubs did indeed keep their beer extraordinarily cold.''Having traveled the world for the past twelve years or so, there are a handful of conclusions that I have made about myself, about life in general and about the people I’ve met on this planet of ours. One of those conclusions that I strongly believe to be true is that, despite the messed up state of the world, despite the wars and the fighting and all of the crime we hear about out there, human beings are inherently good.''This is exactly why, about an hour after waking up this morning here in Istanbul, when I suddenly discovered that my small black day pack was not in my guesthouse room, my day pack where I keep my camera, my passport and a few other important documents, I honestly found no reason to panic at all.''After another quick search around the room, I knew it was definitely missing and so I just leaned up against a wall, scratched my head and tried to remember where I might have left it. There were really only two options. I could have left it in the indoor rooftop terrace of the guesthouse after having a few drinks with some friends the night before or I might have left it at the shisha cafe a few blocks away, right next door to the Blue Mosque, where a few of us spent a couple of hours puffing on shisha and sipping tea.''It only took a quick check with the manager of the guesthouse to discover that I had not left my backpack on the rooftop terrace and so, knowing exactly where I must have left my backpack, camera, passport and documents, I took a slow stroll around the corner, up a few streets and back to the shisha cafe.''At no time whatsoever was I nervous that my possessions might be gone for good. I had not even a second’s worth of horror or a second’s worth of anger.''After all, this was not the first time I had left this very same backpack behind during this European trip of mine. I had also left my backpack behind at a restaurant in the Old City of Bucharest, at a bar in another corner of Bucharest, at a cafe in Brasov, at a bakery in Sarajevo and at a restaurant in the countryside of Slovenia. Yes, it certainly has become a habit.''Yet despite my somewhat disturbing, and admittedly remarkable, ability to somehow walk away from a table without remembering to grab my backpack, every time I realized that it was gone, I simply returned to where I had left it and asked the staff if they had seen my pack. And sure enough, on every single occasion, my bag was there, being held for me, whether 15 minutes had passed or an hour had passed or even five hours had passed.''So this morning, when I finally arrived back at the shisha bar next to the Blue Mosque, some 16 hours after I had left last night, I calmly asked the first staff member I ran into if they happened to have seen my backpack. This man immediately yelled over to another staff member who then waved at me to follow him. A door to a closet was opened and there sat my backpack on the bottom shelf, with everything still inside. After showering the staff member with several rounds of thank you’s and tessekur ederim’s, off I wandered, back to my guesthouse.''People are good my friends. People are damn good.''I’m sure there are many of you who can provide stories that might show the opposite side of humanity, but I’m sticking with my conclusion. The world is not that nasty, evil place that we sometimes think it is, or that our parents warn us about when we tell them we’re going off to do some traveling. The world is instead full of people who are not interested in taking our stuff, who are not interested in pulling a scam, who are not interested in cheating travelers in every way they can.''Sure, these things happen, but the more we believe that this is the true nature of our fellow human beings, the more distant we become and the more stressful life becomes while traveling under that umbrella of negativity.''Over the past decade, I’ve learned that applying general common sense is more than sufficient to help me avoid the ‘bad people’ out there without tainting my view of the world. As a result, I am able to maintain my faith in people overall and to appreciate every positive interaction and situation that comes my way.''I’m also able to avoid freaking out when I discover that my backpack and camera are suddenly missing, as I know full well that the overwhelming majority of people, people working at coffee bars, restaurants, bakeries, shisha cafes and every other place I might leave my backpack, have no desire at all to steal my stuff.''And as far as this current trip is concerned, I’m five for five. Backpack lost five times, backpack retrieved five times.''Hooray for people!''Do you have any similar stories? Or maybe you feel differently about people in general? Please do share!''After having made the sudden decision to return to Bucharest and not continue further into Transylvania, my next step was to walk over to the train station and book a seat on a train. I had several options to get from Sibiu to the capital but most of them took over 8 hours and arrived at the most inconvenient of times. So after spending ten minutes reviewing my options with the ticket woman behind the counter, whose frustration at my inability to choose a departure time grew exponentially by the second, I chose the third fastest train of the day, only because it was the only direct train that arrived at a decent hour.''The next afternoon, at 2:45pm, I sat down in a window seat on that train, having made it on board only one minute before the train left.  This was not because I arrived at the station late (I actually arrived 45 minutes early) but because I didn’t realize that the two small train cars sitting on Track #3 was actually my train. Apart from the train number on the side of the locomotive being completely different than the train number on my ticket, I assumed that it would be a much bigger train, especially considering that my reservation was for a seat in Wagon #7 and there were only two wagons, #3 and #4.''But, as usual, I figured it out in the end, this time thanks to a short, gray-moustached train station staff member who blew his cigarette smoke directly into my face while literally pushing me in the back towards Wagon #3. At the time, I just thought he was giving me a free back massage that must have been included with my ticket but I quickly realized that he was making sure I was on board the train before it departed. Thank you sir.''Once I was comfortably seated and my backpack was in the overheard luggage rack, I then did what I assume most people do when they first board a train. I smelled my shirt, realized that it stunk and then proceeded to change it right there in the car while putting on an extra dose of deodarant.''Then, with my body odor under control, I sat back and bid farewell to Sibiu, not only feeling quite lucky that I had not missed the train, but feeling quite lucky at having chosen this particular departure. The scenery on this route turned out to be quite different than my previous''Romanian train''journeys, and only a few minutes out of Sibiu, I had a wide-open view of the Southern Carpathian Mountains, snow-covered and super-impressive, providing the most ideal backdrop to the handful of villages we passed, villages that lay scattered around the most perfect forests, with their beautiful fall colors offering me one mesmerizing view after another. As a result, I had a difficult time doing anything but observing what passed by my window.''And that was a good thing considering that there was nobody else to talk to on the train as my car was once again basically empty, with never more than five people inside, even after pulling into what appeared to be several somewhat major stations. For me, this was more than ideal as I admittedly was slightly nervous about my random decision to return to Bucharest. Being able to sit there on that train, in such a quiet atmosphere, helped calm me down and ease my fears of facing the unknown.''As a result, when the train arrived into Bucarest’s Gara de Nord Station at 9:15pm, and I proceeded to walk down the long platform and into the main terminal building, I felt ready to continue following my inner voice that had led me to this capital city for a second visit. I also realized, just as I stood there under the main screen that listed all of the train arrivals and departures for the day, that this latest train journey of this''Eurail''trip had once again helped confirm that train travel is now, without a doubt, my preferred method of travel.''*Here’s a short, simple video I took while staring out the window of the train. It just shows how calming the journey proved to be…''When I crossed the border from Serbia, my initial plan was to spend about ten days in Romania before continuing on into Bulgaria, where I hoped to spend the final week or so of my''Eurail Adventure''. However, three weeks later, I still had yet to leave Romania. My experiences from Transylvania to Bucharest made me want to skip Bulgaria altogether, which is what I decided to do.''The natural conclusion from this decision would be that I found it extremely difficult to leave Romania, a conclusion that would be quite true, although, for reasons that you might not expect. Romania certainly appealed to me, but not in the way that most countries appeal to most travelers.''In reality, I’d have great trouble talking excitedly about the actual towns I visited, the sights I saw and the activities I participated in during my stay in this country. I could talk a little about the food and the interesting history as well, but again, that’s not really what stood out for me either during my time here.''When you look at my itinerary, from Transylvania to Bucharest, which included visits to Timisoara, Bucharest, Brasov, Bran, Sighisoara, Sibiu and Targoviste, I spent time in a couple of popular travel destinations and a couple of less popular places. It goes without saying that I missed out on many places along the way, many amazing places I’m sure, but that’s just how things go. You can’t see everything and it is far more important to be happy about what you did see and experience than upset about what you didn’t.''So why did I find it so hard to leave Romania? Here’s my attempt to explain why by looking at a couple of the destinations I visited.''BUCHAREST''Before my arrival in Romania’s capital city, I generally had heard an endless stream of negative remarks about this place, from both locals and travelers alike. Most people told me that a couple of days would be more than sufficient and I would even hear things such as ‘we’re not so proud of Bucharest’ from Romanians themselves.''And so, I stayed just three quick days, spending my time walking around the small, but pleasant Old City, visiting the Parliament Building (which claims to be the second largest building in the world), eating in a handful of classic Romanian eateries, wandering down as many random streets and into as many random neighborhoods as possible, socializing in the evenings and even meeting a couple of wonderful readers of this blog.''However, I will admit that Bucharest didn’t stick out as my favorite city on the planet and I saw no real reason to stick around much longer than the three days. And so I boarded a''train to Brasov'', ready for a taste of Transylvania.''BRASOV, TRANSYLVANIA''Just as I was told ahead of time that Bucharest was not the best of destinations, I was also informed by the same people that the city of Brasov would be a highlight of my trip. And yes, I would say that proved to be somewhat true, but mostly due to the people I met once there. Of course, it was quite a unique experience to spend a few days roaming around the town itself, soaking up the atmosphere in the Piata Sfatului (central plaza) with it’s impressive Council Building and the nearby Gothic-style “Black Church”, exploring both the Romanian and Hungarian sections of town, hiking from the White Tower to the Ecaterina Gate and even up to the top of Tampa Mountain for the swell views of the city and surrounding countryside.''Also, apart from the ‘nice’ town of Brasov itself, the owners of the guesthouse I stayed in also helped make this an interesting stop on my trip. The owners, an Estonian/Romanian couple who, interestingly enough, met each other while working on board cruise ships, had a refreshing way of making sure that their guests were well taken care of.''One night we were invited into the “Time Machine”, a room in the basement of their house where they insisted that we all get to know each other by talking whatever “bullsh*t” came to mind while sharing bottle after bottle of homemade palinka and wines. The very next night, we were invited to join the owners in the Finnish sauna they had in their backyard. At 9:00pm, as the temperature outside dipped below freezing, I wandered into the cold wearing only my swimsuit, and then spent the next two hours alternating between sessions inside the sauna, drinking beer outside in the cold and, on occasion, jumping into the swimming pool and its 7C (40F) water, which, surprisingly, felt quite wonderful.''Anyway, the point is, my time in Brasov was fun but simple. Some walking, some eating, some saunaing. Great place, but again, not enough to make me want to stay in Romania longer than planned.''BRAN CASTLE (Dracula’s Castle)''Bran Castle is often referred to as the home of Bram Stoker’s Dracula and it is located about an hour away from Brasov. The character of Dracula is actually believed to be based upon Vlad the Impaler, a Romanian Prince that ruled the region of Wallachia between 1456 and 1472 and who was well-known for his campaigns against the Ottoman Empire and naturally, for his cruelty in the form of impaling those he didn’t take too kindly to.''However, despite the fact that Vlad the Impaler had only loose associations with Bran Castle, and never actually lived there, this castle was designated as Dracula’s Castle nonetheless, most likely to draw more visitors.''Well, it was a castle. A nice castle. A super-crowded castle, probably because I was there on a Saturday.  In the end, given it’s close proximity to Brasov, it was well worth the day trip to Bran, but once again, this castle was in no way the reason I ended up finding it so hard to leave Romania.''And neither were my next two destinations, Sighisoara (the medieval town where I was almost eaten by dogs while in a''cemetary on Halloween night'') and Sibiu, the pleasant town where I''took a break''from being a traveler.''Those places were quite nice as well, but I’ve spent a great deal of time in ‘nice’ places over the past 12 years and so they didn’t really make such a powerful impression on me either.''But….''BUCHAREST, THE SECOND VISIT''After spending ten days overall in Transylvania, I suddenly made a decision that surprised even myself. Instead of continuing to head north to the town of Cluj, a town that was highly recommended by every traveler I know who has visited this country, I decided to just turn around and head straight back to Bucharest.''I knew it would be a gamble, to return to a city that initially failed to fully grab my attention, especially when there were so many other places in Romania that I could visit. But I’m a firm believer that we should always follow our heart, and my heart was telling me to get on a train and head back to Bucharest.''Well, thank you heart. Not only did I have the most memorable week of my European trip during this second stay in Bucharest, but I found myself to be the happiest I have been in quite a few months.''Immediately upon my arrival this second time around, the entire city seemed absolutely perfect. The Communist-era buildings, the dark streets, the construction sites, the decades-old tram cars, the waterless fountains, the florists on the sidewalks, the insanity of the taxi drivers, the simple bakeries and cafes, the statues of men on horses, the fresh juice stands in the parks, the crowded metro and even the fishermen on the Dambovita River….they all put a smile on my face like no other.''Is there an explanation for such an attraction to a city that seems to have such a negative reputation?''Of course there is, but I’m going to save the details for a future post. All I can say now is that my happiness had nothing to do with the random neighborhoods I walked around, the restaurants I ate in, the markets I visited or the museums I explored. It all had to do with something completely different, something that made my final week of this incredible Eurail Adventure, an adventure that has taken me across seven fascinating countries, the most memorable week of them all.''You never know how travel will work out in the end. You may travel across the globe to a destination you can’t wait to explore, only to discover that the connection you hoped for never happens. Or, as was the case for me in Romania, you may decide to stay in one country for much longer than you had ever imagined and for reasons that don’t always seem to make sense.''And the beautiful part is that everyone’s experiences are completely different and not everyone will like or dislike the same places. This is exactly why one person may have no desire to spend more than one day in Bucharest while not only can I see myself returning to this city very soon, but I can’t stop smiling when I think of the time I spent there.''Any experiences to share of a time you loved a random destination for your own personal reasons?''Saying goodbye to the town of Sighisoara was not so easy. Despite barely surviving my wander around a graveyard on''Halloween night'', this is the kind of town that really appeals to me. It’s small, it’s peaceful, laid-back and as far as medieval, fortified towns are concerned, Sighisoara is as perfectly preserved (and renovated) as they come.''What more does a traveler need than a hilltop citadel, complete with Clock Tower, pastel colored homes and 500 year old cellars that produce award-winning local tuica (plum alcohol similar to palinka)?''But even with such an ideal setting, there are always new adventures ahead and so the traveler must pack up his or her bag eventually and move on. So that is what I did, with my next destination being the town of Sibiu.''And, opting to travel by train of course, I was quite happy to learn that this would actually be my shortest train ride so far, with only a mere two hours and twenty minutes needed to cover the 97 kilometer distance between Sighisoara and Sibiu. I know, I know, 140 minutes to cover 97 kilometers? As crazy as it may sound, that’s actually quite the norm for''trains in Romania''.''With that said, and despite the average speed barely exceeding 40 kilometers per hour (24 mph) on many routes, there are still some great benefits to train travel in this country. The main benefit is that there really aren’t many buses here and so quite often, the train is your only option. So if you want to get around Romania, use of the train system will most likely be required.''But hey, just because a train is slow doesn’t mean that you won’t enjoy the experience.''And when I boarded the train to Sibiu, I literally threw my hands up in celebration because this local train was not only spotless but it was almost completely empty as well, with only two other people, a mother and her baby, in the same car. Don’t get me wrong, I’m a somewhat social individual but due to the reasons that I talked about in my last post, I wasn’t feeling too social at this particular time. Hence the reason why I was so happy to have a train car practically to myself.''The train left Sighisoara right on time and as we chugged along, there I sat, staring out the window, listening to some music and occasionally making faces at the baby that kept looking at me from four rows away. And between the silly faces and watching the Transylvanian countryside pass by, a countryside full of medieval villages that often appear not to have changed for many a century, the two hours and twenty minutes disappeared almost too quickly.''It seemed that the journey ended only a few minutes after it began.''When we pulled into the Sibiu station, I took my time gathering my stuff and putting on my extra layers to face the cold outside. I then took a deep breath, slung my backpack onto my back, jumped down onto the platform and adjusted my winter hat. And then I wandered off into the city of Sibiu…''On my final morning in the town of Sighisoara, I opened up my laptop at around 10:00am, minutes after finishing off a mediocre breakfast that consisted of a couple of eggs and stale toast. The first thing I did was to log into my email account where I scrolled through the many messages I had received during the night. And then, after only a few seconds, I stopped scrolling. One particular message had quickly stood out among the others and grabbed my attention so unexpectedly that I had no choice but to read its contents immediately.''The email was from a high school friend I hadn’t spoken to in a few years and as I read every word ever so carefully, I instantly became aware that, because of this one message, my day, perhaps the following few days, perhaps the rest of my trip in Europe, would no longer be the same.''The content of my friend’s email was nothing shocking nor was it filled with bad news. It was just a simple email written to say hello, to give me a quick update about his life and to let me know that he still considers me to be a good friend despite our long lapses in communication.''Maybe you’ve received a similar email before. So you’ll hopefully know what I’m talking about when I say that my friend’s email was the kind of email that makes you stop whatever you’re doing and wonder why you haven’t kept in touch more often. Then, as the tingling sensation on your skin increases in intensity as you think back to all of the good times you had spent together, you also begin wishing that you could just call up that friend this very evening and then meet him or her for a couple of beers or a meal at the Town Spa (a well-known restaurant in my hometown).''Yet this feeling must not be confused with sadness. Far from feeling sad upon reading this message, I actually felt a moment of happiness, an extraordinary moment in fact, one that no medieval Transylvanian town could ever offer me.''And as soon as I finished reading the email for the third, or maybe the fourth time, I just laid back in my bed and spent some time deep in thought, quietly contemplating my life, the decisions I’ve made, the people I’ve met and the path I’m currently on.''I love to travel. I know that those few words make up a childishly simple sentence but I really feel there is no other way to say it. But just because I do love to spend my time learning about the world with my own eyes, it does not mean that I don’t spend some of my time wishing I was somewhere else, doing something else, surrounded by those with whom I shared so much during my earlier years.''Life on the road can be lonely at times, which is why such a wonderful surprise of an email from an old, wonderful friend can have such an effect on me. I can’t explain how it feels to know that such a person still considers me a friend even though I haven’t seen him in so damn long.''I’m not really sure the point of this post or where I was trying to go with this, but as soon as I left Sighisoara, I already knew that my time in Sibiu, my next destination, was going to be different. I was not at all interested in wandering around another town, taking photos or doing anything that travelers tend to do.''I just wanted to rest, to stop exploring, to take things easy and to not think about being a traveler. It was as if the email I had received made my travels, for a short time, seem somewhat silly, as no matter how many countries I visit, no matter how many people I meet, little can match the feeling of knowing that some connections we make, especially those made and solidified during our youth, will survive the challenges of growing older and heading off in opposite directions and ultimately, end up lasting a lifetime.''During the three days I spent in Sibiu, I did nothing. I was not a traveler at all. And I loved every minute of it. I really was happy, glowingly happy, just knowing that even with the choices I’ve made, choices that have naturally taken me far away from those I once knew best, I was still considered to be a friend.''Note'':''I would also like to send out a huge dose of gratitude to the trio of Royce, George and Shrey who allowed me to crash at their apartment in Sibiu during my stay. I simply could not have asked for a kinder, more hospitable group of hosts.''Any tales of friendship to share? Any seemingly lost friendships that re-surfaced?''From the small city of Brasov to the medieval town of Sighisoara, this leg of my train journey made the previous one from''Bucharest to Brasov''seem much less crowded than I had earlier described. In fact, that earlier trip now resembled a quiet day on a deserted island in comparison to the circus that was my trip to Sighisoara.''However, I do believe that everyone loves a good circus and without a doubt, I certainly loved this''Romanian train ride'', despite the crowds of people, with bodies overlapping and legs tangled together, that filled every inch of the train car I rode in. And not only was the overhead compartments so overstuffed with luggage, but it was practically impossible to walk down the aisle of the train due to all of the baggage that had to be piled up there as well. I had to place my backpack on top of a small duffel bag that was placed on top of a massive duffel bag that was wedged in between a 10 gallon plastic container of what appeared to be either gasoline or wine and a black suitcase.''The atmosphere was quite festive though, with many a loud conversation taking place, some of which seemed quite heated while others seemed to be quite amusing given the uproarious laughter that would spread throughout the train car every so often.''Sandwiches were being eaten, drinks were being shared, children were sleeping in their mothers’ laps and even businessmen were working on their huge laptops despite having no space at all to themselves.''As for me, I just sat there. There was too much going on for me to participate and so I rested my head against the headrest, twisted my body so that the fluffy women’s jacket I was sitting on (not sure whose it was but there was nowhere else to put it) provided some extra cushion for my backside and I then observed the show.''Luckily, I was seated near a window and so I could also catch a glimpse every now and then of the few towns we passed through, their medieval stone towers always sticking high into the sky. But, even though this was the heart of Transylvania and even though there were these fascinating scenes outside, I still had a difficult time concentrating on anything but the scenes inside the train.''And that wasn’t really such a bad thing as I soon found myself wishing this train ride would last for several more hours than scheduled. Traveling through Transylvania in this style, with the chaos on board, the arguing elders in the seats behind me, stuff constantly falling from above onto everyone’s laps, local music being played from old cell phones and all the eating, drinking and chatting, just felt right.''I couldn’t help but smile at what I was witnessing, especially knowing that I had a couple of more train rides ahead of me in this region.''*Unfortunately, whenever I would pull out the camera on this train, the other passengers politely declined to have their photographs taken so I don’t have much that displays the chaos. And I wasn’t too comfortable trying to sneak photos in either as everyone seemed quite adamant about not wanting to be photographed.''While this is my own adventure and my posts are always my own words based upon my own personal experiences, I must make a note that''Eurail.com''has provided my Eurail Pass as part of their Blogger Project for 2011.''The fact that I ended up celebrating Halloween in Transylvania was a complete accident as, after twelve years of traveling, I barely remember when most holidays take place. I had actually forgotten that Halloween was nearly upon us when, just about ten days ago, a fellow traveler I met in Belgrade happened to ask what my Halloween plans were while in Romania.''Fast forward to 6pm on October 31st and I find myself, along with fellow travelers Jerry (Mexico) and Margunn (Norway), walking out of my guesthouse in the medieval town of Sighisoara, located in the heart of Transylvania. The three of us were the only guests in the guesthouse and after a quick chat over hot tea in the communal kitchen, we had decided to venture outside in search of a memorable Halloween experience in the land of Dracula.''Our adventure began with a cautious stroll along the impossibly dark path that follows the Tarnava Mare River, where we encountered mere shadows of other human beings, the vague outline of their mysterious figures floating past us in complete silence.''We then crossed the river using the footbridge located below the Old Town, with only the distant moonlight to guide us across. And as we reached the other side, we noticed that the town seemed quiet, too quiet, with not another person around, something that we were definitely not expecting on Halloween in Transylvania.''We wandered the town for ten minutes, eventually choosing to walk through the doors of a small restaurant located on the edge of a small plaza, one of only two restaurants that appeared to be open. And while there were no pumpkins, no costumes and no indication whatsoever inside of it being Halloween, there were a few grumpy staff members who proceeded to serve us hearty portions of chicken goulash and polenta and who kept our mugs filled with plenty of Ursus beer.''After an hour and half, with stomachs satisfied and courage superficially increased, we returned to the streets, seeking that Halloween excitement we had come to find. But alas, our search was fruitless. The town of Sighisoara remained empty, with no sign of activity, no gatherings and not a party anywhere to be joined. We stood on a lonely street corner, with the lip-cracking wind smacking against our faces and our minds dreaming of the warm beds awaiting us back on the other side of the river.''Without saying a word to each other we lowered our heads and began to walk in the direction of our guesthouse, heading back, forced to accept that Halloween night in Transylvania would be a bust.''A SUDDEN CHANGE IN HALLOWEEN PLANS''Upon reaching a confusing intersection of side streets and narrow lanes, the three of us all hesitated, not exactly sure of which direction to turn. We looked all around us, even behind us, wondering exactly when we had lost our way. But then, as we struggled to decide our next move, it was Jerry, our Mexican companion, who broke the silence.''Jerry suddenly suggested that instead of returning to our guesthouse, we should wander up the hill and into the citadel, the walled medieval part of town. Not only that but Jerry also felt that we should continue even further, by climbing the 160+ steps that led to the very top of the hill, where the lonely Church on the Hill and a massive Lutheran graveyard were located. After hearing this suggestion, Margunn and I argued and fussed and complained about the cold for several minutes, but Jerry would hear none of it, remaining persistent in his attempts to add some spice to this evening.''And soon enough, we gave in, not so much because we wanted to hike fifteen minutes uphill to the graveyard at 9:00pm but more so because we no longer wanted to be standing on this street corner shivering.''THE GRAVEYARD ON THE HILL''A few minutes later, we entered the large gate under the citadel’s imposing Clock Tower that marks the entrance to the fortified town of Sighisoara. We proceeded to walk through the town itself, as quietly as possible, as our steps were the only noise to be heard throughout this maze of cobblestone streets. It appeared as if we had the town to ourselves, with the actual residents remaining warm and safe inside their homes, and other travelers not daring to venture into the hometown of''Vlad the Impaler''(Dracula) on Halloween.''Creeping along, we turned left and we turned right, we passed a creepy tree and an ATM machine. And then, at the far back end of the town, we entered the seemingly infinite covered wooden stairwell that led from the town itself up to the topmost section of the hill.''We climbed up the creaky steps, speaking no words as our hearts pounded out of our chests every time the bushes next to us inexplicably rustled and the faint sound of a blender was heard coming from a house below. We were in no rush at all as none of us knew what to expect once we reached the top.''Of course, once we did climb that final step, we were not surprised to discover that we also had the highest point in town, this hill, all to ourselves as well and after a quick walk along the dirt path that circled the shining white Church, there we stood, all alone, in front of our final destination. There before us was the Lutheran graveyard, set inside a forest of both trees and impenetrable darkness, and surrounded by the type of black metal fence, which was some two meters high, that is clearly meant to keep people out. Yet despite the sword-like spikes on the top of this very fence, we knew right then and there that nothing was going to deter us from properly celebrating Halloween in Transylvania.''So, over the fence we all climbed.''TOMBSTONES, BLACK CATS & BARKING DOGS''The dried leaves crumbled beneath our feet, the branches cracked in the wind and our breathing created a misty haze over the tombstones that only seemed fitting. We slowly inched forward, not sure what to do, or where to go, but riding high on the thrill of being in such a place on this very night.''With every noise we heard we stopped moving and looked at each other, as if any of us could determine whether that noise was a sign of real danger. Should we turn around and run straight back to the fence? None of us knew…and so we just continued heading deeper and deeper into the graveyard.''At one point, we each started taking photos and before we knew it, our confidence had grown even more. So, we took even more photos, pointing out the ghosts and ghouls we thought we saw in almost every shot, and no longer paying attention to our surroundings or the fact that we had just broken into a spooky graveyard.''As we approached one particular set of tombstones, we noticed several black cats, one perched on top of a grave, one in a tree, one bouncing all over the place, and soon enough, one sitting comfortably on my head. I’m not sure where that falls on the spectrum of luck, but the only natural thing to do was take some photos of that too.''And then, some ten minutes after we had pulled out our cameras, we were brought back to reality upon hearing the dogs. We heard barking, wild and ferocious barking, but we couldn’t determine from where it came. At first, we tried to ignore it by wandering even deeper into the forest graveyard (great idea I know), deeper and deeper into the unknown, but every now and then another evil bark was heard and we would immediately freeze up, once again unable to decide whether this would be a perfect time to bolt.''When a few minutes would pass without hearing the dogs, we would naturally return to taking more photos until the next round of barking commenced, a process that repeated itself for over an hour as we continued to tiptoe around the graveyard and occasionally exchange high-fives with each other for being so brave on Halloween.''However, eventually, a time came when the wind seemed to greatly increase in strength, the barking became more frequent and the trees and tombstones began whispering (so it seemed). And this is when we reached the conclusion that it was now time for us to retreat. In an instant, we all turned around and sprinted back towards the fence, hopping over tombstones, tripping on branches and feeling as if our lives were suddenly in great danger.''Each of us chose a different section of the fence to climb back over, and it was by no means an easy climb at all. As soon as I tried to rush myself, I got my foot stuck on one of the metal spikes and nearly landed on the ground face first.''But I made it, as did the others, and soon enough, we all met up in front of the Church on the Hill, having successfully escaped from the Lutheran graveyard of Sighisoara on this most haunted of nights.''THE WALK BACK''With a quick stop at the Dracula’s Restaurant inside the citadel in order to catch a glimpse of the only known image of Vlad the Impaler (thanks to Gary from''Everything-Everywhere.com''for letting me know about this painting), we once again crossed the cobblestone streets, wandered through the main gate under the Clock Tower and returned to the part of Sighisoara that lay below the hill.''Once on safe ground, standing right in front of the restaurant where we earlier ate, the three of us exchanged one final round of high-fives, and yes, we took a few more photos. And then we easily found our way back to the footbridge this time, walked along the river and down the street to our guesthouse, where we quietly settled into our beds, our Halloween night in Transylvania having thankfully come to a safe end.''*Note'': The only reason I say ‘thankfully’ is because the next morning, Jerry had an interesting conversation with the owner of our guesthouse. It turns out that when the graveyard is closed every night, four Rottweilers and four Dobermans are released in order to protect the area until morning. And apparently last year two people were killed when they climbed the fence, tried to explore the graveyard and were promptly attacked by the dogs. Now you can understand how thankful I truly am to have made it out of that graveyard alive on Halloween.''So how was your Halloween? I’d love to know what kind of craziness (or lack of) you were up to as well!''The train ride between Romania’s capital of Bucharest (which I’ll talk more about in a future post) and one of the most visited towns in all of Transylvania took a few moments to get used. The train itself was in good condition, the seats looked the same as on all the other trains and the compartment was once again sufficiently warm given the cold temperatures outside. However, what made this train stand out from every single other train I’ve taken during this''Eurail trip'', were the people.''The simple fact that there were so many people on board this train came as quite a shock as my previous journeys had all taken place on trains there were never more than 40% full. But this train to Brasov was 90% full, with legs everywhere, bags overflowing from the luggage shelves above, from under the seats and even out in the hallway, and jackets and hats and scarfs tossed all over the place.''I’m not saying all of this in a negative way at all. I had just become so used to hopping onto a train, choosing any seat I fancied, stretching my legs and arms out and riding to my next destination in relative peace and quiet.''Of course, as you might imagine, this full train to Brasov, which was quite the opposite of peaceful, was certainly quite memorable as a result. With either a human being or a piece of luggage occupying every seat, there were bound to be interactions with the other passengers. And what started off as nods, and the occasional smile, and maybe an apology for stepping on someone’s foot or spilling a little cherry yogurt on their pants, turned into interesting conversations.''On this journey, I spent much of the time talking with two other passengers, both young locals from Brasov, one who was about to move to Brussels as a student and the other who had recently returned from a motorbike trip in which he and his friends had driven from Mongolia to Romania, having passed through all of Central Asia along the way. It was intriguing to hear both of their stories, to listen to their thoughts on Romanian politics and to share opinions about the state of the world and how it affects each of our lives.''Every now and then I would glance outside as well, but in the end, I missed most of the mountain scenery because of the conversations taking place. However, as a traveler who cares more about such human interactions than I do about visiting any particular tourist site or place of interest, this jam-packed''Romanian train''from Bucharest to Brasov proved to be exactly the kind of travel experience that I seek, even if my knees hurt afterward from having no room to stretch while on board.''And when I finally stepped off the train, I then had plenty of time to look around, as it was time to begin my exploration of Transylvania.''I’m walking around Zagreb, Croatia, freezing cold, hungry and far from being in my normal travel groove. Nothing seems interesting, I have nobody to talk to and I start to think that this might be one of those days where I should return to my room and just work on my laptop all afternoon.''I make the decision to grab some quick food before heading back to my hotel and I begin to wander down a narrow street that seems to be full of dining and take-away options. But as I pass kebab shops, pizzerias and bakeries, nothing seems too appealing and so I continue my search.''Five minutes later and I’m standing at the base of an outdoor set of stone steps, which I randomly start to climb without hesitation, leaving the street behind and inching my way upward. One hundred and twenty seven steps later I reach the top. Now I’m in the Upper Town of Zagreb and the first thing I notice is that there is almost nobody else around. The neighborhood seems completely empty, with the sound of a car off in the distance the only sign of activity.''Heading along Kamenita Street, and without a map or guidebook, I reach the St. Mark’s Cathedral and the main square. I walk around the Cathedral, nod to a couple of the heavily armed security guards guarding what appear to be government buildings and I then turn left and walk down Cirila I Metoda, a street I chose to explore for no particular reason at all.''At this point,  I remember that I had been quite hungry and so I keep my eyes open for a place where I could buy a snack. Further down the road I notice a building on a corner, with lights on, a sign out front and even a couple of people hanging outside the door. I skip my way down to the entrance and read the big sign, which leads me to put my hands on my hips and exclaim, ‘Now that’s interesting!’''I was not standing in front of a restaurant, instead, I was standing in front of a''very intriguing museum'', the Museum of Broken Relationships, which had been recommended to me by another traveler I had met in Slovenia. And now that I had randomly ended up at it’s very entrance, I had no choice but to enter and see what this place was all about.''THE MUSEUM OF BROKEN RELATIONSHIPS''Having won the Kenneth Hudson award for the most innovative museum in Europe this year, this museum promises to offer visitors an experience that differs greatly from a typical museum visit.''The idea is that, while human beings often celebrate love and relationships, as soon as one of our relationships comes to an end, we are trained to automatically try and cleanse ourselves of every reminder of that relationship in order to heal our emotional suffering and return to a state in which we may seek out a new relationships to enter into. So the founders of the Museum of Broken Relationships began to wonder why we don’t formally recognize and focus on failed relationships as well, instead of trying to make them vanish, especially considering the powerful emotional effect that such relationships tend to have on our lives.''Then, the founders took this concept and created the museum, a museum in which the exhibits are all donations from those who have lived through a broken relationship and one which gives people an opportunity to perform an official farewell to someone, to something, to a time that is no longer. As a result, people can choose to deal with the emotional hardships of a failed relationship by exhibiting whatever it is they once felt the need to hold on to.''A SAMPLE FROM THE MUSEUM''First, this is probably one of the smallest museums I’ve ever visited, only occupying five tiny rooms. However, I spent over 2 hours inside, moving slowly from display to display, reading every single story of a broken relationship and the significance of the objects that were donated to the museum.''To give you an idea of how I managed to spend so much time here, let me show you a sample of some of the items that were on display, as well as the stories that went with them. (I’ll show a photo of the object and then write out the accompanying text that was written by the person who donated the item.)''“An Under-Knee Prosthesis”''In a Zagreb hospital I met a beautiful, young and ambitious social worker from the Ministry of Defence. Love was born when she helped me get certain materials, which I needed for my under-knee prosthesis, as a war invalid. The prosthesis endured longer than our love. It was made of sturdier material!''“A Broad Bean Heater”''There’s a saying in Egypt that broad beans are best served warmed up. Our relationship never got warmed up, but the friendship remained as strong as dried broad beans.''“A Honey Bunny”''The bunny was supposed to travel the world but never got farther than Iran. This is not photoshopping, but a real photo of the bunny in a desert near Tehran.''“A Hundred Swedish Crowns”''This small bill is the only thing left after a relationship and a trip to Stockholm. He told me: “Keep it, you’re going to use it the next time you come and see me…” But there was no “next time”.''“Air Sickness Bags”''A range of air sickness bags as a memento of a long-distance relationship. One Croatia Airlines, one Lufthansa, one Hapag Lloyd Express and three GermanWings. I think I still have those illustrated safety instructions as well, showing what to do when the airplane begins to fall apart. I have never found any instructions on what to do when a relationship begins to fall apart, but at least I’ve still got these bags.''“A Stupid Frisbee”''Description: a stupid Frisbee, bought in a thrift store, was my ex-boyfriend’s brilliant idea – as a second anniversary gift. The moral was obviously that he should be smacked with it in the middle of his face the next time he gets such a fantastic idea. Since the relationship is now preceded by the world “ex,” the Frisbee remains in the museum as a nice memory and expelled negative energy. Feel free to borrow it if you like. PS Darling, should you ever get a ridiculous idea to walk into a cultural institution like a museum for the first time in your life, you will remember me. At least have a good laugh (the only thing you could do on your own).''And so, room to room I went, ever so slowly, not wanting to miss a story, not wanting to skip even one remnant of a relationship that no longer exists. While at first this may seem to be quite a depressing way to spend an afternoon, the effect of my visit to this museum was actually quite the opposite. I felt a sense of connection to others, a sense of understanding, and perhaps even better, a sense of relief that my own failed relationships are just a handful of an infinite number of relationships that all ended up the same way.''So if you’re ever in Zagreb, Croatia, and especially if you find yourself wandering around town wondering why your relationships just never seem to work out, pay a therapeutic visit to the Museum of Broken Relationships. Far from breaking down and crying non-stop for hours, you’ll instead be skipping around the streets in no time at all, happily aware that you are by no means alone.''When it’s a cold, cloudy and rainy day, the idea of sitting on a train for 9 hours, which ordinarily does not invoke a great deal of excitement, doesn’t really sound so bad at all. And this is a good thing considering that today is such a day and I’m actually on such a long-distance train right this very moment, the Inter City 569, traveling from the northwestern Romanian city of Timisoara to the Romanian capital of Bucharest.''I only arrived in Timisoara early yesterday afternoon from Belgrade, Serbia and at the time I was a little naive about the''train system in Romania''. I simply assumed that I would have many options to travel to Bucharest and that the 550 kilometer distance would be covered in around 5-6 hours.''So when I discovered that the fastest train option left at 6:00am, and still took 9 hours, I had no choice but to prepare myself for a long travel day. With that said, I was definitely looking forward to once again traveling by train as the train systems of Bosnia and Serbia, where I have been over the past 10 days, were not covered by my Eurail Global Pass. As a result, I mostly traveled by bus. (**For EU citizens, when you purchase an''InterRail Pass'', the Serbian train system is included.)''And during that time away from the trains, I started to miss the comfortable seats, the space to wander and stretch my legs and even the clickety-clack of the wheels on the tracks. Hearing that clickety-clack right now, as I write this post and as we pass through the city of Dobreta Turnu Severin, has admittedly made this lengthy journey significantly easier to digest.''However, despite being back in a wide, soft, reclining train seat, I can’t stop thinking about how I actually almost missed the train this morning.''If there’s a common mistake that every traveler makes at least once (or 100 times in my case) while on the road, it is not checking to see if they have crossed into a different time zone when traveling to a new country. So had I not randomly woken up at 4:16am this morning, which I discovered was actually 5:16am when I suddenly had a feeling I might have changed time zones the day before, I would have missed the train.''After a crazy 6 minutes of brushing my teeth, getting dressed and packing up my stuff, I checked out of the hostel and the staff called me a taxi, which arrived at 5:40am. Luckily, I reached the train station 5 minutes before the 6:00am departure time and after a quick sprint across the tracks, I jumped on board and chose a random seat. Somehow, I had made it.''The train began to roll out of the station shortly after and I could barely stay awake, but unfortunately, before I could fall asleep, the ticket collector came around. And after looking at my Eurail Pass for five minutes she proceeded to give a few shakes of her head, a couple wags of her finger and then place such a mean look on her face that I felt as if my arrest was imminent. Then, just when I began thinking about the conditions of Romanian prisons, she suddenly walked away without saying anything and I decided to stare out the window at the brown fields passing by.''Naturally, five minutes later she returned, this time with another ticket collector, one who spoke a little English. They both sat down and the man immediately said to me, “We have a big problem”. But then I just sat there for a few more minutes as the two ticket collectors looked at my Eurail Pass over and over again, pointing to random words, shaking their heads to each other, glancing at me every once and a while and writing things down in a small notebook. While this was going on I was preparing myself to face that ‘big problem’ but instead, and quite out of nowhere, the man just handed me back the Eurail Pass and welcomed me on board.''That was it. They walked away again and I never did find out what was the big problem.''So, fully relaxed and without having been handcuffed, off to sleep I went amid the relaxing atmosphere of another European train, enjoying a lovely 3 hour rest that just ended about 30 minutes ago. The train is now quite empty, it’s a quiet, warm ride and the dark gray clouds outside have begun to lift at least enough for me to see the river we’re traveling next to. Checking the schedule, it appears that the next major stop, coming up in about an hour, will be the city of Craiova and from there, we shall begin the final stretch to Bucharest, a city that I really know almost nothing about, but one that I am certainly eager to delve into.''While this is my own adventure and my posts are always my own words based upon my own personal experiences, I must make a note that Eurail.com has provided my Eurail Pass as part of their Blogger Project for 2011.''As a long-term traveler, I have certainly witnessed a great deal in my life, however, there are some things that, no matter what, I will never be able to truly understand. And one of those things involves what it feels like to experience war first-hand.''While I’ve traveled through''Pakistan and Afghanistan''post-9/11, ventured to the front line of the battle for Kashmir, roamed the bombed out neighborhoods of''Beirut'', the killing fields of Cambodia and areas of Central America that have seen much fighting over the years, I’ve never actually lived through war. My travels certainly allow me to gain a significant amount of knowledge about many of the conflicts that have taken place on this planet, or are still taking place, but I will always remain an outsider looking in, unable to comprehend watching the destruction of my country, of my home, of my family or perhaps even of my own life.''Sadly, there are far too many human beings on this planet who know perfectly well what it’s like to live during a terrible war and for many of these people, wondering whether or not they’ll live another day becomes as common as wondering what they’ll be eating for their next meal.''WELCOME TO BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA''From the moment I entered Bosnia and Herzegovina, until the moment I crossed the border into Serbia some 10 days later, I had no choice but to constantly think about the 1992-1995 Bosnian War. There’s no avoiding it, no matter what your motivation for traveling to this region, not when almost every single building in the country is covered with bullet holes, when the aftermath of heavy shelling and deadly bomb explosions are still ever so present and when the situation in Bosnia during the years since the war ended has clearly been filled with immense challenges and struggles for the 3.5 million inhabitants of this country.''Destroyed buildings, both partially and completely, line many of the streets in Sarajevo, as well as those in dozens of other cities, towns and villages. In fact, the destruction, which was more than I’ve seen in any other country, made it terribly difficult for me to believe that this war took place some 15 years ago, especially when there are still empty buildings littered with broken glass, bullet shells and even business files left scattered on the floor, as if these places had been attacked yesterday.''A VERY BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE BOSNIAN WAR''This war, which resulted from the breakup of Yugoslavia, began after the Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina declared independence in 1992. The referendum was signed by the political representatives of all of Bosnia’s ethnic groups, including those of the Muslim, Orthodox and Catholic faiths, except for one, the Bosnian Serbs. The Bosnian Serbs then decided to create their own Republic, which they named The Republic of Srpska. Following this declaration, and with the direct assistance of the Serbian Forces, the Army of the Republic of Srpska attacked Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to gain and secure as much land as possible.''And so this brutal war, which involved the ethnic cleansing of Bosnian Muslims, repeated massacres and four years of almost non-stop shelling of Sarajevo and other cities and towns, began.''Despite having superior strength, in both manpower and weapons, the Serbian Forces eventually lost momentum when the ethnic Bosniaks (the Muslim population) and the ethnic Croats (Catholic population) of Bosnia joined forces by creating the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.''Then, in 1995, shortly after the Siege of Sarajevo and the Srebenice massacre, an instance of genocide in which 8000 Bosnian Muslims were killed by members of the Army of the Republic of Srpska who were under the control of a Serbian General, NATO joined the war by attacking key Srpska positions. These attacks helped bring about an end to the fighting.''In December of 1995, the Dayton Agreement was signed, an agreement that effectively led to the official creation of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, as if this situation wasn’t already complicated enough, the Dayton Agreement, the aim of which was to bring peace to the region, created a double layer political structure in which the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina would consist of two separate entities, The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (mostly consisting of Bosnian Muslims and Catholic Croats) and The Republic of Srpska (consisting of Bosnian Serbs), each of which were given approximately 50% of the overall territory.''These days, all three ethnic groups have equal status within the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and one can easily pass between the two as if they are one unified country. And according to locals I spoke with, all three ethnic groups, for the most part, co-exist in harmony, preferring to live in peace than relive the fighting that took place in the 90s.''SO MANY BULLET HOLES''Even though the situation is relatively quiet today, again, it is basically impossible to avoid thinking about or talking about the war every day while visiting this region. For every bullet hole, of which there are millions upon millions, there is a story to be told, so many of which involve the loss of life, of constant sniper attacks and non-stop shelling, of concentration camps, indiscriminate and unnecessary killing, ethnic cleansing and human beings inexplicably behaving at their very worst.''Upon''watching the videos''that document some of the events and upon hearing these first-hand stories from those who witnessed the war, I often found myself transported right into the middle of the struggle. It all seemed so real when I would look into the hills where the Serbian Forces launched their attacks and when I would pass yet another building that has yet to recover from the war.  But even during those moments when I really could imagine the bombs landing and the missiles flying above, I still remained an outsider, only able to listen and watch, to ask questions and make observations about the past.''As much as I learned about this war, I still don’t know what it feels like to have sniper bullets whiz by my head as I run across an intersection or to watch my friends die in an explosion while buying bread at the market.''AN UNEXPECTED DISCOVERY''As I walked around Sarajevo, from Bascarsija to Kovaci, from Bistrik to Mejtas and over to Grbavice, day after day amid the ruins and results of the Bosnian War, trying to understand this land and its people, through both its history and its present-day situation, I naturally found myself feeling quite distraught quite often.''However, at times, as I struggled to accept how cruelly humans can act, I must say that it seemed as if I was the only person dwelling on the fact that life in Bosnia and Herzegovina, from the start of the war up until today, has been extremely difficult to say the least. With the widespread destruction that took place, this region lost almost all of its industry, leaving it unable to compete with other countries and severely struggling in terms of its economy and the ability of its citizens to create new lives for themselves.''But, no matter where I looked, who I met or where I went, I seemed to always end up surrounded by Bosnian people who, despite what they have lived through, have opted to greet and spend each day with such a positive attitude, with so much laughter and with the brightest of smiles.''While I’d certainly hesitate to conclude that their laughter and smiles are the result of a genuine happiness with their current situation, which, as I mentioned, is not an easy one, I do believe that Bosnians have chosen to focus on appreciating what they do have instead of dwelling on what has happened in the past or what their lives now lack.''And again, this is a remarkable occurrence, especially considering that the older generation almost unanimously wishes for a return to the stable times under the rule of''Josip Broz Tito''and the country’s youth know only war and a constant struggle to survive. Yet, despite the differences in opinion, and even despite the religious and ethnic differences, Bosnians seem to have accepted the current situation with a relaxed shrug of the shoulders and a ‘let’s make the best of it’ attitude.''As a result, I often found myself surprised, and even inspired, by the warmth of the Bosnian people I met, by their light-hearted outlook on life and their decision to try to enjoy their lives as much as possible. If the people of a war-torn country can smile in the face of such a recent history, then someone such as myself, who has not dealt first-hand with war, should be able to do the same.''Upon reaching this conclusion, I soon discovered that the bullet-holes, the crumbling buildings, the war memorials, the heart-breaking stories, while they all felt so recent and troubling at first, eventually faded somewhat into the background for me, just as they have now done for most Bosnians. Despite appearances, that war has ended.''And by the time I finally left Bosnia and Herzegovina, the truth is, I left not as a traveler disturbed by the horrific tales of devastation and death, but as a more knowledgeable and appreciative traveler, one who realized that even the brutal destruction caused by unnecessary war is still no match at all for human beings determined to find a way to live in peace and to smile.''Beyond the city of Ljubljana, that city to which I confessed''my deep love''last week, the tiny nation of Slovenia offers a significant range of other interesting destinations that every traveler to the region would be wise to consider visiting. In fact, many of you pointed out this very fact in the comments of my previous post about this country.''In my case, due to my somewhat limited time in Slovenia, I ended up taking two day trips during my stay, both of which took place with my new friend, Matija, a local Slovenian who worked at the fantastic Vila Veselova hostel I stayed at in Ljubljana. Matija offered to become an unofficial ‘guide’ of sorts and was always willing to load a few people into his trusty van and drive them to various parts of his country.''ALL THINGS BLED…A LAKE, A CASTLE AND AN ISLAND''The first trip we embarked on brought us to what is one of the more well-known sites in all of Slovenia…Lake Bled. Now you might think that a lake is a lake is a lake but I challenge you to visit Lake Bled and then tell me that this location does not offer a setting so inspiring that you immediately want to turn your one day visit into a week-long, or even longer, stay.''It’s not just a lake. It’s a splendidly deep blue lake, with the medieval Bled Castle perched atop a limestone cliff near the shore and the small Bled Island sitting ever so majestically in the middle of the glistening water, with the pastel pink color of its 600-year old Pilgrimage Church of the Assumption of Mary elegantly glowing against the backdrop of strikingly green forest-covered mountains.''Enough of the poetry, you get the idea. Spec-tac-u-lar!''With more than enough activities to keep us occupied, our small group spent most of the day at Lake Bled, climbing up a rarely used forest trail that led to a lookout point at the back of the castle and then hiring a clunky old rowboat (a big thank you to fellow traveler''Christopher''for doing all the rowing!) so that we could visit the island as well.''And considering that there were not so many other visitors in Bled on this particular day, we strolled along the paths, contemplated swimming in the cool waters, ate at a local restaurant in the village and just sat down and admired what has to be one of the most beautiful countries on this planet, all in peace and quiet.''While, as we all know, my photos are never going to win any''awards'', here’s a selection that I consider to be the best of the bunch so that you get a better idea of Lake Bled…''BOHINJ…ONE MORE LAKE TO VISIT''After the visit to Bled, we jumped back in the van and Matija drove us westward along a narrow mountain road until, about forty-five minutes l''ater, we arrived at Bohinj just in time for sunset. Bohinj is a municipality located in the midst of the Julian Alps and is home to another impressive lake, Lake Bohinj, which is also surrounded by mountains but, unlike Bled, does not have a town, or much activity, on its shores.''Lake Bohinj is nature at its best and for those with more time to spend in the region, this area offers endless opportunities for hiking, kayaking, bicycling and climbing during the summer as well as skiing and ice skating during the winter months. It also offers endless opportunities to go for a refreshing swim, which is exactly what the handful of other visitors to the lake were doing when we arrived. Of course, almost everyone in our small group followed suit, stripping down to their underwear or swimsuits and jumping right in as well.''For those who may have read my post a few months ago about my visit to some''Mexican cenotes''this year, you’ll already know that there was no way I was about to get in that freezing water myself. Instead, I placed my towel on the ground, and with my two jumpers zippered up nice and tight, I sat, shivering slightly, as everyone else splashed around in the lake.''But believe me, disappointed I was not as I spent the next hour or so glancing all around me, stuck in a state of disbelief that I was actually in Slovenia, this speck of a country that other travelers had written so positively about before me and whose''stories''and''posts''laid the foundation for my desire to witness such phenomenal nature for myself.''As if walking twenty minutes across Ljubljana (basically from one end of the city to the other) at 7:30am, in temperatures that refused to rise above freezing, and with my backpack strapped to my back, wasn’t tough enough considering my strong dislike for waking up early, you can imagine how I felt when I soon found myself standing on Platform 6 at the Ljubljana train station, waiting for a train that simply was not arriving.''The official departure time had been 8:15am, but as 8:15am rolled around, as well as 8:30am and 8:45am, no train had appeared. And there I stood just staring at the ground, along with fifty other people whose bodies were frozen solid and who all appeared to be in the same state of indescribably horrific pain as a result of the strong wind blowing in our faces. All I could do was wonder how rare it must be for a train originating in such an efficient country as Austria (the train was coming from Innsbruck) to be so late.''It was not until 9:20am that the train slowly pulled alongside the platform, at which time all fifty of us passengers jumped on board in a massive rush.''This was a small train of only five cars and so I simply opened the sliding door to the first compartment I came across that had an empty seat. Five minutes later the train began to move towards Zagreb,''Croatia''and I smiled at my fellow passengers in the compartment, which included an elderly Slovenian man and two young Slovenian women.''My friends, I must tell you how lucky I was to have chosen this compartment. For the next two and a half hours I would end up not only chatting with two lovely Slovenian women, but receiving a most thorough and eye-opening education about….the natural beauty and cosmetic product company known as “Lush”, which I’m sure many of you have heard of.''Yes, yes, yes. It turns out that these two women were both store managers of Lush locations in Slovenia and they were on their way to their annual, week-long company meeting/social get together that was taking place in Belgrade, Serbia.''And so, after introducing ourselves and getting to know each others brief personal story, I proceeded to sit in that train compartment in a state of complete fascination as I discovered an entirely new world, a world that consists of Fairy Jasmine Bath Bombs, Sex Bombs, Shimmy Shimmy Massage Bars and even Pow-Wow Lip Scrub, which is made from Pop Rocks candy and is meant to be licked off by one’s kissing partner. (No, they did not have any Pow-Wow with them for me to sample.)''In order to hold my attention as much as possible, these two women would often take a break from talking about sensual lotions and shower gels, and they would point out the window, giving me a basic, but interesting, description of the towns and villages we passed. Of particular note was the wine region of the Lower Sava Valley, a region I wished I had visited during my stay but which I will certainly reach the next time I’m in Slovenia.''As you might imagine, this constant conversation made the trip from Ljubljana to Zagreb pass quite quickly. And I must say that, overall, this certainly was another fantastic''European train journey''. The train car itself was surprisingly warm, the immigration procedures entering Croatia were super-easy as the officers board the train and check your passport without you ever leaving your seat and the combination of inspiring Southeastern European scenery and friendly fellow passengers once again reminded me why I enjoy traveling so much.''However, it must be said that by the time I arrived in Zagreb and had to say my goodbyes to the two Lush store managers, all I could really think about was finding a Lush shop in Croatia. I desperately wanted to purchase one of their Irresistible Bliss Solid Shampoo Bars (that supposedly lasts for 80 uses – can you imagine!) and, well, quite possibly a You Snap The Whip Body Butter, just in case I meet a special someone while on this trip.''While this is my own adventure and my posts are always my own words based upon my own personal experiences, I must make a note that Eurail.com has provided my Eurail Pass as part of their Blogger Project for 2011.''No, Ljubljana is not a woman, but these days, I’ll take whatever I can get. If that means falling in love with the adorable capital city of the small European nation of Slovenia, then so it goes.''Ljubljana, she who mesmerizes and awes visitors with her enormous beauty, is actually quite petite, with a population consisting of a mere 265,000 people or so, and a city center that can be crossed by foot in less than 15 minutes. She definitely keeps in shape as well, evident by her striking figure that follows the curves of the Ljubljanica River. And no matter which part of her your eyes fall upon, whether it be the glowing, and often snow-covered, mountains that form her edges or the atmospheric streets and narrow laneways that wind across her center (sorry, that sounds a lot dirtier than I anticipated), you are bound to find yourself at peace, feeling ever so calm and even slightly giddy at being witness to such a cozy and lovable destination.''With the Ljubljana Castle perched above the city center, from where one may truly admire this crossroads of North, South, East and West Europe, with its impressive collection of Baroque and Vienna Secession-influenced buildings, the brilliant city of Ljubljana becomes all the more brilliant when one considers that this is the capital city of an independent country that is only 20 years old.''Yet despite its youth and its small frame Ljubljana really does require several days to explore properly. The pace of life is such that an entire afternoon can easily be spent in a small cafe by the river, sipping coffee, eating strudel and chatting with whomever happens to be sitting at the table next to you.''And while there are a sufficient number of museums and sights of interest to keep one busy, including the National Museum of Slovenia, Plecnik’s National Library, the France Preseren monument in Preseren Square, the Triple Bridge, Dragon Bridge, the Butcher’s Bridge, Tivoli Park, the local markets and of course, that Ljubljana Castle, this is the type of city where travelers should forget about creating a detailed daily itinerary. A random wander, without any plan whatsoever, is a much more suitable method of exploration for a city of this size and of this high degree of likeability.''With Slovenia itself being a country of only 2 million people, the Slovenian people, especially the younger generations, are quite aware of the need to speak other languages and so, as a traveler who most likely doesn’t speak fluent Slovenian, you’ll never have to worry about communication. Almost everyone you meet will not only speak fluent English but will be more than happy to chat and answer any questions you may have. During my visit, it was quite common for me to stop someone in the street to ask for directions and then end up talking about Slovenian history for thirty minutes or end up being invited to a bar for a drink.''The vibe of this city is such that everyone seems so happy, so alive. As the guide of the free walking tour that I went on one day told our group, ‘life in Slovenia is quite good’, and that is exactly the impression that I received from the moment''my train arrived''. The result was a smile on my face during the entire duration of my stay, even on the day when the temperature dropped to 0 C. There simply can be no other reaction to such a positive place.''And while there are a decent number of tourists roaming the city center every day, Ljubljana makes it quite easy to still enjoy a remarkably local experience. The tiny eateries on Trubarieva Cesta or over by Rimska Cesta, areas that are quite popular with students, offer up local Slovenian specialties all afternoon and evening, along with pints of locally-brewed Union pivo (beer), for very reasonable prices. In fact, every restaurant, cafe and bar I visited proved so locally delightful that I passed many hours inside of each, unwilling to settle for anything less than a completely relaxed dining and/or drinking experience, just as the Slovenians around me preferred as well.''Then, whenever I finally did make my way back outside into the streets, I always felt as if this city was already so familiar to me. Even a short twenty-four hours after my arrival I began to recognize locals around town and they too would recognize me. Ljubljana really is that intimate, and so wonderfully attractive as a result.''Ahh…Ljubljana. I’ve only been gone for three days now but I miss you more than you know. Never before in all my travels have I been welcomed so enthusiastically into strange streets, protected from the cold with such warmth and hospitality and treated as such a good friend despite having never met before. It’s no wonder that I found it so difficult to leave you, to say that final farewell and to pack my bag and move on.''And as I stood in Preseren Square on my last day, leaning up against the walls of the Triple Bridge, watching the happy people pass me by, glancing up at the castle and off into the distance towards the Slovenian Alps, listening to the accordion music joyfully being played near the river, deciding where to have my final coffee, my final beer and my final meal, I also spent much time wondering when I might be fortunate enough to see you again.''I am in love with Ljubljana and I dare anyone to visit this city and not fall victim to her powers of seduction as well.''If the Wiener Schnitzel that I ate at the Plutzer Brau restaurant in the center of Vienna last week was not the largest Wiener Schnitzel ever created on this grand planet of ours, I shall shave my head and eat only cold soup for the remainder of this trip. Or maybe I’ll just travel to whatever restaurant serves a larger Schnitzel and eat two of them in one sitting.''But really, even though the Plutzer Brau itself does not claim to serve up the largest Wiener Schnitzel known to mankind, I really do find it quite difficult to believe that a larger Wiener Schnitzel could possibly exist.''This restaurant, which was hand-picked by my local friend Rudi, is a local establishment that is not only quite difficult to find but is also quite worth the trouble of finding it. Even Rudi got us lost a couple of times en route as the restaurant is located in a far corner of a small, relatively hidden lane, the entrance to which looks like every other lane in the neighborhood.''But once you do take your seat at one of the outdoor tables at the Plutzer Brau, you can then be certain that a high quality, Vienna-style evening meal will soon be served. And if you want to try out the specialty of the house, you have no other option but to order the  largest Wiener Schnitzel.''That is exactly what I did and about twenty minutes later, this is what the waiter placed in front of me….''I know it’s difficult to tell from the photo, but this flipping Wiener Schnitzel was over 12 inches / 30 centimeters in length and 6 inches / 15 centimeters in width. And upon seeing this gargantuan thing, you can imagine how I would reach the conclusion that it is not at all possible for a Wiener Schnitzel to be any bigger.''For someone with such a huge appetite as myself, I also have no problem admitting that I struggled, struggled tremendously in fact, to finish this meal. In the end, I did manage to eat it all, as did my friends Rudi and Fabian, but we did need an abnormally lengthy amount of time to do so as every bite presented an even greater challenge than the previous one. We were full after five bites but the Schnitzel was so good that it was impossible to put the fork down.''Eventually, we did each reduce our individual Schnitzels to one final bite and once that last piece disappeared into our mouths, we were then forced to remain in our seats for about an hour and a half afterward. While sipping schnapps and groaning from the pressure placed upon our overstuffed bellies, we let the food digest long enough so that we would have enough strength not only to lift ourselves out of our seats, but to walk to the proper Underground station in order to travel back to Rudi’s apartment. Even after waiting so long this was still no easy feat.''Of course, this short post certainly wouldn’t be complete without a few more photos that show how, piece by piece, that massive Wiener Schnitzel went down…''And just in case you might be wondering how many Wiener Schnitzels have been eaten so far this year in Vienna, here’s the ‘official’ Wiener Schnitzel counter that is located in one of the Underground stations…as you can see, quite a significant amount of Schnitzel has been enjoyed.''I really hope that none of you inform me about a Wiener Schnitzel that is even bigger than this one!''The second leg of my train trip around Europe involved a somewhat shorter, and no less comfortable, international journey than the first leg. Starting off at Vienna’s Meidling station, I found myself on a Maribor-bound train sitting in a near-empty compartment, something that came as quite a relief.''The day before, when I had visited the ticket office at the train station to reserve my space, I was informed that, with my''Eurail Pass'', all I needed to do was show up. Apparently, I did not need to book an actual seat ahead of time.''While this information did come straight from the ticket office itself, I was still a little weary as I had been required to book a seat for my earlier train trip from''Lucerne to Vienna''. Well, of course the ticket office was correct and I had dozens of empty seats to choose from. And when the ticket collector came around, all he did was stamp my Eurail Pass, allowing me to sit back and relax.''Unfortunately, however, I was able to relax so much that, maybe thirty minutes after leaving the station, I fell into a deep sleep, only to wake up some two hours later. And when I did awake, the train was already in''Slovenia''and about to arrive in the town of Maribor, where I would be required to change trains.''Changing trains seemed like it would be quite easy, right up until I glanced at the official clock at the Maribor train station. Our train from Vienna was arriving six minutes late, and while that may not seem like much, I only had five minutes to catch my second train. But alas, the Slovenian train system is quite organized and, knowing that our train was about to arrive, they kindly waited for us transferring passengers, of which there were maybe twenty.''The second and final stage, from Maribor to the Slovenian capital of Ljubljana, took a mere one hour and forty-five minutes. The train car I ended up sitting in was naturally as empty as all the previous ones and as comfortable as well, despite the fact that, from the outside, the Slovenian train appeared somewhat shabbier than the Austrian trains.''And while the Slovenian scenery also differed greatly from that of it’s neighbor to the north, I was unable to really pinpoint the differences through my exhaustion-induced haziness. But by simply glancing at the architecture, and even the people that I observed in the streets and gardens of the towns we passed, I definitely sensed that I was now in Southeastern Europe, a part of the world I had never been to before.''While this is my own adventure and my posts are always my own words based upon my own personal experiences, I must make a note that Eurail.com has provided my Eurail Pass as part of their Blogger Project for 2011.''One does not need to spend much time in the city of Vienna to understand the reasoning behind it’s constant ranking as one of the world’s most liveable cities. I needed only about four minutes to make this discovery myself as, from the moment I stepped off the train upon arrival, I found myself to be a much greater fan of this city than I would have ever imagined.''I will state that I had some luck on my side, as I was picked up at the Wien Westbanhof train station by none other than''Fabian Kruse''and his good friend Rudi. And as any traveler must admit, life on the road is always made significantly easier when you don’t have to worry about finding a place to stay upon arrival or how to find your way around a new city without speaking the language.''Thanks to Fabian and Rudi, my Viennese experience promised to be relaxed and, even better, more unique than had I spent three days on my own in this city.''AN EVENING AT A HEURIGER''It came to be that on my second evening, Fabian and Rudi asked if I wanted to join them for a visit to a Heuriger. At the time, I had never even heard of this word and I had absolutely no idea what they were talking about, but I certainly wasn’t going to say ‘no’ just because of that minor detail. I agreed to join them and just like that, out the door we went.''So, what is a Heuriger?''That’s a very reasonable question and one that went through my mind several times as we walked down the street to begin this adventure. All I could do was put my faith in my friends as we used a combination of transportation systems – subway, tram and foot – to reach Stammersdorfer Strasse, located about one hour outside of the center of Vienna. A few minutes of further searching brought us right to the entrance of''Heuriger Wieninger'', a Heuriger that is apparently highly regarded by both locals and visitors alike. And this was the moment when I finally learned the answer to the question above.''The Heuriger Weinenger proved to be a typical Heuriger, which can best be described as a “wine-tavern where wine-growers serve the most recent year’s wine and where patrons can experience Gemultlichkeit.” Getmultlichkeit can be translated along the lines of “cheerful coziness”. Along with the wine and the coziness, a Heuriger also generally offers a selection of local foods, often served buffet style.''Our Heuriger experience took place in an open, ambient courtyard, where dozens of people sat around wooden tables, with the entire area lit by candlelight and faint, yet decorative, lanterns that hung near several small trees and vine-covered walls.''And once seated at a table, what does one do at a Heuriger? Well, before the evening was even five minutes old, we were already sipping on spritzers, a refreshing drink made simply by mixing white wine and seltzer, that seemed to be, based upon our quick glance at every other table, the proper way to start this meal.''Then, spritzer turned into wine and after a couple of rounds, the time to feast finally arrived as well. So, off we went into the quaint and cozy buffet room inside the building next to the courtyard where I quickly found myself face to face with a large selection of food, all of which I wanted to try, and none of which I had ever heard of.''After filling up my tray with the three dishes that I eventually decided upon, with the help of Fabian who translated my order to the staff behind the counter, I handed over the undeniably reasonable sum of 15 Euros for the food and wandered back to my table. And then I ate. I ate some sort of pasta-like dish full of pumpkin, a slice of cumin-spiced meat and a salad soaked in delicious and aromatic pumpkin oil. We also ordered a variety of Liptauer, flavorful and sometimes spicy cheese spreads prepared with any number of soft cheeses, that we smeared onto freshly baked bread.''While the above is definitely not a normal evening meal for me, and probably not a meal that I could manage to eat more than once per month due to it’s heaviness, it was undeniably a most satisfying dinner experience. This was even more so the case as the evening pressed on and the atmosphere in the Heuriger became increasingly more festive.''And festive it remained, right up until we finally left this fine wine-tavern at around 10:00pm, something that we were only allowed to do upon finishing a requisite, and locally produced, after-dinner schnapps. Of course, this was by no means a terrible way to conclude this traditional Heuriger experience at all and it also guaranteed I would remain as jolly as could be during the entire one hour ride back into the center of Vienna.''My recommendation is simple….if you find yourself in Vienna, whether you’re on''ski holidays to Austria''or are on the way home from a European jaunt, just make sure that spending an evening at a Heuriger ends up on your itinerary. Heuriger Wieninger was fantastic and there dozens and dozens of others to choose from as well, many of which are located on Stammersdorfer Strass.''Less than two minutes after walking into the ticket office at the train station I walked back out into the streets of Lucerne holding my freshly printed train ticket to Vienna. Sure, I would have to travel from Lucerne to Zurich on''Switzerland’s train system''and then switch to''Austria’s international rail service''that would take me the rest of the way, but with my Eurail Global Pass, the two separate trips were treated as one journey, making the reservation process as hassle-free as possible.''I simply informed the ticket agent of my desired final destination as well as the day and approximate time I wished to travel and she immediately printed out two tickets, one for each leg of the trip. And that was it. Done deal.''Then, the following morning, I returned to the train station and the actual train journey began, a journey that started off with a smooth 50-minute ride to Zurich, an easy transfer to my next train and even better, the discovery that I would be sitting next to a Tibetan monk who was on his way to a Buddhism conference in Salzburg, Austria. We ended up chatting for almost an hour, sharing stories of Dharamasala, India as well as recipes for spinach and cheese momos, until the ticket collector came by and kindly pointed out to the monk that he was sitting in the wrong train car. Of course, being a Tibetan monk, Joshi took this news quite well, laughing and smiling the entire time as he gathered his backpack, shook my hand and said goodbye.''With Joshi gone, I settled into my seat and hoped that the remaining 8 hours wouldn’t be too painful. Little did I know at the time just how painless this journey would prove to be. In fact, this was perhaps the most comfortable, and easiest, long-distance journey I’ve ever taken in all my travels, on any form of transportation. Not only were the seats uber comfortable, the leg room more than sufficient for a giant, the train cars spotless and the staff friendly, but the on board menu was also impressive (food and drinks did cost extra but were reasonably priced) and every seat had it’s own personal plug outlet. As a result, and while sipping tea and nibbling on a sandwich, it didn’t take long for me to realize why so many travelers rave about train travel in Europe.''And apart from the comfort level being top notch, it was actually the scenery that lined this route, from the moment I boarded the train in Lucerne until the moment I disembarked the train in Vienna, that made this first leg of my Eurail adventure so truly memorable.''From the Swiss Alps to the Austrian Alps, from Buchs to Bludenz, Landeck-Zams to Innsbruck, Salzburg to Linz, this was the kind of scenery that any normal human being could stare at, in complete awe, for hours and hours on end, which, in my case, was perfect considering that it took nine hours to reach my destination. At one point, I decided to turn on my laptop and start watching a movie, but after 30 minutes I realized that I had not been paying attention at all as I remained fixated on the mountains and country villages passing by. So I turned the movie off and closed my laptop.''I might have taken a short nap at around hour five, and I did read a few pages of my book at around hour seven as well, but in reality, when the announcement was made that Wien Westbahnhof (Vienna) would be the next stop, I found it difficult to believe that 9.5 hours had passed. I literally walked off of that train feeling as fresh as if I had just taken an all-inclusive holiday to a Greek island.''And so the first leg of my Eurail adventure came to an end, with me not only looking forward to spending some time wandering around the Karlsplatz and Stephansplatz in Vienna, but also looking forward to the next travel day of this trip. I must come clean and admit that I was not expecting to enjoy train travel this much but with my''Eurail Global Pass''in hand and a dozen destinations ahead of me, I can’t think of any other method of transportation I’d rather use to explore this continent.''While this is my own adventure, I must make a note that Eurail.com has provided my Eurail Pass as part of their Blogger Project for 2011. With that said, I am completely free to write about my journey as I see fit (I would never participate in any project that would not allow me to do so) and as always, my posts are my own words based upon my own personal experiences.''Swans. A great deal of swans, and ducks. Bridges, wooden bridges, too. And flowers. Flowers everywhere. Lots and lots of flowers.''This is Switzerland after all, and one should not expect anything less than swans, wooden bridges and an abundance of flowers. And yes, I was greeted by all of those things upon arrival in the town of Lucerne, along with the Swiss Alps, lakes, rivers, ancient town walls complete with watch towers, as well as clean streets, manicured gardens, efficient public transportation and of course, empanadas.''Empanadas?''Actually, the very first thing I did upon arrival in Lucerne was to eat empanadas.''I had been strolling around Lucerne’s main train station looking for a quick bite to eat when I ended up in the basement of the terminal building. I turned to the left and walked towards a group of people sitting in comfy armchairs and then, suddenly, I found myself standing directly in front of an empanada stand. This wasn’t an ordinary empanada stand either, it was a Mexican-owned empananda stand that served up chicken mole empanadas.''Before I knew it, I was speaking Spanish with the woman behind the counter, a woman who had only arrived in Switzerland four weeks ago from Mexico City. And given that I’ve spent a significant amount of time in''Mexico''lately, I was ecstatic to be speaking with this women. In fact, I became so engrossed in the conversation that I forgot that I was not actually in Mexico.''Our chat lasted for about twenty minutes, with her serving up fresh empanadas to a steady stream of customers the entire time. After devouring two impressively tasty, yet shockingly expensive ($5 USD each), chicken mole empanadas myself, I finally decided to leave her to her work and said goodbye. And then, as I walked away, I could not help but break into laughter at the fact that the first person I ‘met’ in Switzerland was a Mexican and the first meal I had consisted of a Mexican snack item.''LESSON ON BUYING APPLES''After a few hours of wandering the streets of the Old Town on my second day in Lucerne, I suddenly felt an urge for some fruit and so I entered the first supermarket that I came across. I went straight to the fruit section, placed two golden delicious apples into a bag, then grabbed some orange juice and some yoghurt and went upstairs to the check out area. After a few minutes, it was my turn at the cashier and the woman at the register scanned the yogurt and then the juice. Next, she grabbed the bag of apples, started searching for something on the outside of the bag, and then put the bag down, quite roughly I may add, while giving me one nasty stare.''And then, as I stood there somewhat confused, I was reprimanded, in Swiss-German, and quite severely it seemed, because I had forgotten to follow the one vital rule of European fruit shopping. You see, when you want to purchase fruit at a supermarket in many parts of Europe, you must first weigh the fruit on a scale that is located in the fruit section and then print out, and place onto your bag of fruit, a price sticker before bringing it up to the cashier.''I make this mistake every time I’m on this continent. And unfortunately, while I would have been perfectly happy to go back downstairs and print the sticker myself, the cashier chose to bark out a few sharply worded lines at me and then angrily storm off downstairs herself to the fruit section.''So there I stood, causing a major backup at Register #12, with people asking me, in German, what was going on and me trying to explain that I screwed up with the apples. I’ve never seen so many people walk away from me while shaking their heads in disgust.''NAMASTE, LUCERNE''It was a cold night and I was hungry. And even though the apartment where I am staying is a good thirty minutes walk away from the center of town, I threw on all of my warm clothes and began the hike anyway. Up and down the hills I went, with my mind focused on one specific destination that I had passed by earlier in the day.''And let me tell you, as soon as I walked up the stairs and opened the door to the Kanchi Indian Restaurant, I wanted to hug every waiter and waitress that glanced my way. In fact, the waitstaff turned out to be so incredibly friendly that I don’t even think they would have minded a big embrace from a random tourist.''For the next hour and a half, I was beaming as I devoured a magnificent vegetarian thali, joked around with the waitress (who admitted to me that she only knew five words in German and was happy to be speaking with me in English), and enjoyed the toasty atmosphere, brought on not only by the heater in the room, but from the fifty or so densely packed patrons, all of whom were Indian apart from me.''I’m not sure I’ve ever been in such a warm, friendly Indian restaurant. Even many of the other diners came up to me just to say hello on their way towards the exit after finishing their meals. I did not want to leave this place, even after I had scraped up every last bit of aloo matter with my crumbs of nan bread. Knowing that I had a 30 minute, mostly uphill walk back didn’t help either.''However, eventually, after one last look at the requisite Ganesh poster on the wall and a good luck tap on the requisite wooden elephant’s head, I said my goodbyes to the staff and left the restaurant. Back on the streets of Lucerne, I once again, just as I did after walking away from the empanada stand, had to remind myself that I was actually in Switzerland.''MY SHORT VISIT COMES TO AN END''Yes, I know that none of the above involves much in the way of typically Swiss experiences, but hey, that’s how my time here has panned out so far. On the other hand, I did spend the rest of my short visit eating my fair share of pastry items from the famous Bachmann’s Bakery, walking along the shores of the Vierwaldstaettersee (Lake Lucerne) and sitting in a beer house next to River Reuss. I did try to admire the towering mountains that surround this town, but I only managed to see them for a quick two minutes one evening as they have remained shrouded in fog the rest of the time.''Anyway, I knew from the start that my time in Lucerne would be abnormally short as I simply chose this town to be my starting point. Such a short stay obviously doesn’t lead to the most fulfilling of travel experiences but on the other hand, it does certainly benefit the wallet by ensuring that I’m not completely broke by next Tuesday. (All I can say is that Switzerland is expensive, $11 USD for a bottle of water at a normal restaurant type of expensive!)''So, tomorrow morning, I shall board a train to Vienna, which will mark the first true leg of my''Eurail adventure''. I’m looking forward to the 9-hour journey as it’s been a while since I’ve traveled by train in any country. And what better way to get back into the comofort of train travel than with a trip across the Austrian countryside.''The countdown has begun. I now have less than 24 hours before my flight to Europe and as usual, this is proving to be a most hectic period of time. Even though I’ve had to prepare for dozens of flights, trips and adventures over the years, I still find myself a bit overwhelmed upon realizing that I only have one day left to ensure that I’m ready for whatever may lie ahead.''And what does such preparation involve?''Well, the preparation for this''Eurail trip''has been somewhat different than the norm for me. To begin with, this may very well be the first time that I’ve had to pack a backpack full of warm weather clothes and as a result, I have found myself in disturbingly unfamiliar territory. My backpack has never before failed me in terms of having enough space to fit all of my possessions, however, those possessions have always included t-shirts, shorts and…well, not much else. Now I’m trying to stuff my heavy fleece, an extra jumper, a few long-sleeved shirts, thick socks, a scarf and two pairs of pants into my pack, which is being forced to endure an intense yoga-like session of stretching that it has never before had to deal with.''And in addition to suffering from winter clothes confusion, I’ve also been trying to complete the following list of tasks before I fly out to Zurich this very evening…''Switch my mobile phone plan so that I don’t lose my phone number while away''Go to the bank to take out some cash''Buy some extra contact lens cleaning solution (because this stuff tends to be super expensive overseas)''Eat one last chicken salad sandwich on a bagel from my favorite Brooklyn bagel shop''Do a load of laundry''Publish this post to my blog''Visit some family and friends to say goodbye''Send my broken external hard drive back to the manufacturer''Purchase some vitamins to take with me''Clean out my backpack''Find a good book to take with me''I’m perfectly aware that not a single item on that list is so vital to the success of my upcoming trip that I should really spend more than a few minutes thinking about or trying to accomplish it, but in reality, every time I look at that list, my muscles tense and I start to wonder how I’ll ever survive if I leave any item unaccomplished. And of course, the more I dwell on this thought, the more overwhelmed I become and the less I’m able to concentrate on doing anything that needs to get done. In fact, the only thing I’ve crossed off my list so far is eating my favorite bagel sandwich.''Most likely, at least half of the items on my list will remain undone by the time I step foot onto my flight later this evening. And while at first that seems troubling to me, after a couple of deep breaths, and perhaps a glass of wine or two, I’m sure I’ll realize that it’s not so terrible after all. Actually, I already know what’s going to happen based upon previous experience. At some point, which very well may be in a few minutes from now, I’ll just throw in the towel and make the decision to forget about my silly list so that I can enjoy my last few hours in NYC.''It’s not as if Switzerland doesn’t have washing machines or ATMs or even stores that sell contact lens cleaning solution at prices that are most likely not as outrageous as I might imagine. I shall soon remember these facts and as a result, I shall survive, just as I have done dozens of times before.''Then, as soon as I’m able to let go of that list and stop worrying about things that just aren’t so important, my mind will instantly quiet down. The result will be a calm, happy me, and when I do board my flight this evening, my mind shall also be clear, fresh and fully prepared for the upcoming journey.''And once that happens, once any traveler stops worrying about whether or not they’ll find toothpaste in Bangkok, if they’re bringing enough socks or what might happen if they don’t buy extra batteries for their flashlight, they’re free to concentrate on much more important things, such as how fortunate they are to be getting on an airplane, about to travel and discover and learn, first-hand, about this world of ours.''So, as I finish this post, I myself have certainly begun to forget about my To-Do List above (apart from the item listed as ‘publish a post to my blog’) and I’m actually quite relaxed. My clothes are dirty, I don’t have any vitamins and I never made it to the bank, but I really do think I’ll be alright in the end.''Off to the airport I go, ready for Europe.''Hopefully I’m not the only one that gets a little overwhelmed before a trip…I’m sure some of you other travelers go through a similar stage before leaving as well, right?''I have spent the past three and a half days in a crazed, super-energized state of being in which I have barely been able to sit still for more than nine seconds at a time. Four hours of sleep became the norm as my mind refused to rest until I had finalized an itinerary for my upcoming trip to Europe. It wasn’t an easy task at all as there are simply too many extraordinary places to visit, but in the end, I did manage to formulate a plan.''Let me begin by saying that I could not have asked for a better collection of comments on''my previous post'', comments so full of tempting travel suggestions as well as offers to show me around parts of Europe and even to let me crash on your sofa. And there were even more comments that came through on Facebook, Twitter and in the dozens of personal emails that you sent my way. In fact, with every new comment I received, I would become so ecstatic that I would shout out ‘I love my readers!’ for all to hear. (I know, it sounds cheesy, but it’s the truth.)''And while my friends got used to me shouting this in their apartment every few minutes during the evenings, the other customers at Tillie’s Cafe, where I spend a few hours working on my laptop each day here in Brooklyn, never seemed to enjoy my outbursts, nor did the staff.''Anyway, you get the point. You’re awesome. Yes you.''CREATING THE ITINERARY''I began by listing every single one of your suggestions on a spreadsheet, and upon glancing at the final result, my reaction was simple enough. I just kept thinking to myself, “I need to find a way to go everywhere on this list!”''Of course, a couple of hours later, after desperately trying to map out a route that would allow me to cover Finland, Ireland, Portugal, Liechtenstein, Bulgaria and every country in between by rail in less than two months, I was forced to reach an unfortunate conclusion.''If I were to go everywhere that was suggested, I would end up spending approximately 19 minutes and 43 seconds in each destination. After all, while two months might seem like a significant amount of time to travel around Europe, it’s not enough to cover the entire continent.''And so, sadly, I had to start trimming places off the list.''The two countries that received the most mentions were, by far, Slovenia and Romania. Therefore, I figured that my itinerary definitely needed to include those two countries, especially considering that I have never been to either of them. And once those two countries made the final list, it became apparent that Northern and far-Western Europe were just too far away to include on the same trip.''So, after two days of constant (and I mean 20 hours per day constant) itinerary experimentation and re-arranging, as well as the shedding of a few tears when certain favorite destinations of mine such as Prague and Berlin were crossed off the list, I finally created the route that I will take.''And the fact that every time I glance at the names of the countries along this route I feel the urge to break into a happy dance (which for me involves standing straight up, gently swaying my arms and looking incredibly uncomfortable), I’d say that I’m satisfied with the result.''MY EUROPEAN ITINERARY''The route below includes the major destinations that I plan to visit over the next six to eight weeks, most of which I will be traveling to/from on my''Eurail Global Pass''. Naturally, I’ll also be stopping at and exploring other locations within each country as well, but I’m going to leave such side trips up to last minute decision making. All I wanted with this itinerary was to determine the general route I’ll take from country to country. Apart from that, I don’t even have the slightest idea yet of how long I’ll stick around each destination.''So….''On Monday,''September 26th'', I shall fly from''New York City''to''Zurich, Switzerland''.''And then I shall continue on, by Eurail, from….''Zurich''to''Vienna, Austria''Vienna''to''Ljubljana, Slovenia''Ljubljana''to''Zagreb, Croatia''Zagreb''to''Sarajevo, Bosnia''Sarajevo''to''Belgrade, Serbia''Belgrade''to''Romania''(where I will use my Eurail Pass to visit such destinations as Bucharest, Brasov, Sibiu and Cluj, among others)''Romania''to''Bulgaria''(where I will visit destinations along the Black Sea as well as other places such as Polvdiv and of course, the capital city, Sofia)''And that’s the plan!''One thing to note is that the portion of my trip that will take me through Bosnia and Serbia is not fully confirmed. My decision to pass through these two countries will depend on time, and if I choose not to visit them, I will re-route and head to Hungary from Zagreb instead, and then on to Romania. Also, Bosnia and Serbia are not countries that are included on my Eurail Pass (although Serbia is included on''InterRail Passes''which are for citizens of the European Union).''Clearly, with the above itinerary I will be missing out on such rewarding destinations as Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Spain and Germany to name a few. However, I will be covering approximately 33% of the countries that were recommended, several of which are countries that I have never visited before. My chosen route will also allow me to meet up with several friends, fellow travelers and other bloggers along the way, something that is always a bonus when traveling anywhere.''As I write this post, I feel more than ready to get this trip started, and I’m sure my friends whose sofa I’ve been sleeping on for the past three weeks are more than ready for me to get started as well!''And now that my Eurail Global Pass arrived this morning (via mail) and I''shaved my armpits''this afternoon in preparation for my travels, all that’s left is to get on that flight to Zurich on Monday evening.''I certainly hope you’ll follow along as I bounce around from country to country and again, I want to thank you all so very much for offering your assistance and ideas and ultimately helping me create such an ideal itinerary for this Eurail adventure.''For those of you who have been following this blog for a while, you’re probably well aware of how poor of a planner I truly am. My plans are constantly changing, even at the last minute when there appears to be absolutely no chance at all that my plans could possibly change. Well, they do change. And they do change often. Such is the life of a permanent nomad.''About one month ago, I actually wrote a post called “''Choosing My Next Travel Destination''” in which I asked all of you, the phenomenal readers without whom this site would never exist, for advice on where I should travel to next. The response was simply awesome, with over 100 comments and emails full of interesting suggestions that included  places as diverse as the Philippines, Colombia, Romania, Latvia, Georgia, India, Japan, the US and even Antarctica.''And the number one suggestion, by far, was the grand continent of Africa. Readers left such positive comments, not only describing their own travel experiences, but also explaining why Africa would be such a good match for me.''I must admit that every time I read one of those comments recommending that I pack my backpack and head off to Africa, the excitement grew exponentially!''That’s why, in one week from now,''I’m heading to Europe''.''I know, it sounds ridiculous, but let me explain what’s going on before you throw your tomatoes at me and boo me out of the room.''IT’S TIME FOR SOME TRAIN TRAVEL''Recently, I was contacted by''Eurail.com'', the company that offers the popular Eurail Passes that allow travelers to easily use the extensive train system in Europe. The reason they contacted me was to offer a 15-day Eurail Pass that I could use over a period of two months, not just to travel around Europe, but to also experience first-hand the benefits of using such a pass, something that I have never used on any of my previous visits to Europe.''So naturally, I was intrigued.''However, before accepting the deal, I asked Eurail if they would kindly agree to''one condition''that I really felt was necessary…''I told them that''I wanted my readers to choose the destinations''I would visit. There simply was no way I could accept such a trip as this one without all of you being able to participate as much as possible.''And they instantly agreed!''So, now it’s go time and I really need your kind assistance…''Basically, as of this very minute, I have zero plans for this trip. The itinerary I end up creating will be based solely on''your recommendations and suggestions''. And those recommendations and suggestions can be''ANYTHING''.''Feel free to suggest countries, cities, towns, villages, specific sights, restaurants, bars, goat farms, antique shops, parks, bakeries (please, someone recommend a good bakery!), festivals, canoeing clubs, psychics and/or haunted cabins by a lake.''Heck, I’d love to meet any specific people you can put me in touch with as well!''Anything and everything goes.''Of course, the only catch is that''I need to travel to countries that are included in my Eurail Global Pass''. Luckily, there’s 22 of them, so it shouldn’t be much of an issue. These countries are:''Austria (including Liechtenstein), Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland''And just for general information, the countries on that list that I have''not yet visited''are Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland, Liechtenstein, Romania and Slovenia.''So when am I leaving exactly?''Well, the plan is to fly out to Europe on the 25th, in just six days from now. As a result, on Thursday, September 22nd, I shall compile all of the suggestions and create my itinerary, trying to cover as many of your ideas as possible. And a few days later, I shall take off and begin the adventure…crazy, I know.''WHAT HAPPENED TO AFRICA?''Valid question indeed. And for those of you ready to toss those tomatoes at my head for not traveling to Africa right now…hold on! My plan is to finally make it to Africa in December.''Of course, now that you know me, you probably won’t be surprised if I end up in the Solomon Islands or Bolivia instead, but as of right now, I shall be traveling over to Africa at the end of the year. And I have all of you to thank for leaving such compelling comments the last time around that convinced me that I need to visit that continent soon.''But of course, that’s still a few months away. Now it’s time for Europe.''So I hope you’ll take a moment to offer your thoughts, recommendations and suggestions for my upcoming trip…''Any ideas?''(I thank you ever so much in advance!)''Arriving in a new country, especially if it’s your first time traveling, is almost guaranteed to be an intimidating experiencing. This is even more so the case if you’re starting off in a mega-city such as Bangkok, Mexico City, Delhi or Sao Paolo, among many others.''It’s one thing to ‘force’ yourself to get on that plane, often times alone, to head off to unfamiliar lands. But it’s another thing to suddenly find yourself in the midst of a chaotic, intense and shockingly overwhelming city only minutes after your flight arrives.''No wonder so many travelers are not particularly fond of the world’s largest metropolises! It makes perfect sense when our experiences in these massive cities tend to be of the ‘holy crap, this is crazy, get me out of here!’ sort, especially when our flight arrives at 2am, we don’t have a''hotel room booked''and we don’t speak the local language at all.''TERRIFIED EARL IN BANGKOK''On my first independent backpacking trip, I remember all too well the 2am taxi ride from the Don Mueang International Airport to the Khao San Road area of Bangkok, where I immediately stepped right into the middle of what naturally appeared as a scene of indescribable insanity to my poorly traveled self at the time. The culture shock was instant and harsh and I found myself standing on the side of the road and on the verge of tears. I desperately wanted to hide in a hotel room but I had no idea how to go about finding one.''Tuk-tuks buzzed by me. Bar and restaurant staff yelled out to me. Vendors aggressively tried to sell me t-shirts and fake Ids. It was noisy, crowded, dirty and I was miserable.''Eventually, I walked into the first budget hotel I saw, paid the ridiculously inflated price they wanted to charge me and ran straight up to my room. And then I stayed right there in that room for 24 hours straight, staring out the window, too afraid to step foot outside once again.''I hated Bangkok. I really hated Bangkok. In fact, I wasn’t so fond of Thailand in general either.''And yes, I understand how crazy of a statement that is considering that I had been in Thailand for only one day and had really only seen one street in Bangkok…from behind a window.''But often times, that’s what happens when travelers arrive in such foreign destinations for the very first time.''AN ALTERNATIVE: GET OUT QUICKLY!''In my earlier years of travel, I quickly began to notice a common theme taking place. I simply was not enjoying any of the major cities I was visiting and in the end, it was also affecting my feelings towards the countries as a whole where those cities were located.''Every time I landed in a new mega-metropolis, whether it be Kuala Lumpur or Buenos Aires or Ho Chi Minh City, I always found myself repeating that all too familiar phrase of ‘get me out of here!’ within a couple of hours.''Luckily, that all changed on that one fine day that I arrived in Delhi, India. As I roamed the streets only a short time after my flight landed, the only thing I could think about was my desire to be somewhere else. I simply didn’t want to put up with the intense culture-shock and I was finding it very difficult to enjoy myself at all.''And that’s when''I realized that if I found myself wanting to ‘get out of there’, then I should just get out of there''. Why was I forcing myself to stay in a city that was so overwhelming? Why should I be walking around the streets frustrated and just waiting to leave?''So, the very next morning, after only 12 hours in Delhi, I made my way to the bus station and boarded a bus to the town of Rishikesh, a small, spiritual town set in the beautiful foothills of the Himalayas, along the holy Ganges River. And as soon as I arrived six hours later, I realized that this had been one smart move. Life in Rishikesh is significantly more peaceful than in Delhi. It’s not very crowded or chaotic, vehicles aren’t even allowed in parts of the town, and I had no problem finding a simple guesthouse with great rooms right on the edge of the water.''Relaxed and finally excited to be in India, I then proceeded to spend one week in Rishikesh, which I then followed with one month of travel through the laid-back mountain villages, towns and small cities of the Kashmir, Ladakh and Himachel Pradesh regions of Himalayan India.''Far from intense, this one month was calm and awe-inspiring, with day after day of incredible mountain scenery, rewarding human interactions and visits to isolated Tibetan communities that have remained relatively unchanged for centuries. This experience was nothing like being in Delhi, but at the same time, it was still India.''By the time I made my way out of the mountains, and after a three day stop in the medium-size city of Amritsar, I felt more than ready to once again tackle Delhi.''And tackle I did. What had been such an extremely shocking environment the first time around, now seemed quite fascinating. I was no longer overwhelmed. In fact, I was remarkably comfortable, even while walking around the densely packed markets of Old Delhi. Now I couldn’t wait to spend at least a week exploring every street and neighborhood I could find as every day turned out to be even more rewarding than the last.''LEAVE THE BIG CITIES FOR LATER''These days, whenever anyone asks me about traveling overseas, I usually offer a piece of advice based upon my experience above.''Just because you are flying into a major city, doesn’t mean you need to stick around upon arrival''. In fact, it might be an infinitely better idea to get out of that ‘crazy’ city as quickly as possible and start your trip off by spending some time in a more relaxed atmosphere.''Not only will this help you adjust to the unfamiliar surroundings of a new country, especially if it’s your first visit or even your first international trip, but it will also help avoid negative thoughts and experiences that may affect your travels as a whole. It would be a shame for a traveler to claim that they don’t like India or Thailand or Turkey or Mexico simply because they become too overwhelmed upon arrival in Delhi or Bangkok or Istanbul or Mexico City.''So my advice would be to jump on a bus or a train or even a flight or a ferry to somewhere less intimidating as soon as you arrive. Wait until you’re comfortable in this new country and until the initial culture shock has begun to wear off before you head back to the big city and all of its chaos. It might take a week or two or even a month before you feel ready, but I’m confident that you’ll notice a major difference with this method.''Chances are you’ll actually enjoy the time you spend in that city and instead of screaming ‘get me out of here!’, you’ll be looking for ways to extend your stay even longer.''And as a side note, this method is not only for inexperienced travelers. I still skip past major cities upon arrival every now and then when I visit a new country. Sometimes I just don’t feel like putting myself through a hard-core adjustment phase and so I much prefer to start my adventure in a more relaxed setting.''Does this idea make much sense? Do you think it would help lessen the initial culture shock of arriving in a foreign country?''I’m always telling people that $1000 per month is more than enough money to travel around the majority of the world. There’s even been a few times on this blog that I’ve mentioned $500 being enough to travel, and travel relatively well, around certain regions.''But there is a problem with such claims and that problem lies right there in the previous sentence. What on earth does ‘relatively well’ really mean?''The more I think about it, the more that I realize that what is ‘relatively well’ for me might be absolutely miserable to someone else, or on the other end of the spectrum, my traveling style may even seem luxurious to others. And because of the wide range of possibilities that ‘relatively well’ may represent, any post I write about how much money I spend while traveling or how inexpensive traveling can be is nowhere near complete if I don’t clarify what ‘''relatively well''‘ means to me.''If I claim to spend $1000 per month or less while traveling, am I sleeping on the streets, eating only one plate of rice per day and hitch-hiking everywhere I go in order to keep my expenses as low as possible?''It’s easy to get excited about the possibility of traveling around the world for such a small amount of money, but it would probably be significantly less appealing if such budget travel involves you having access to a shower only once per week, sleeping in rat-infested abandoned buildings and begging for food.''MY BUDGET TRAVEL STYLE''So what does $1000 or less per month get me while backpacking?''First, I would never promote budget world travel if my claims of being able to do so for little money involved sleeping on the streets and starving oneself. And while it is true that I slept on the grass in the middle of the Ala Moana Park in Honolulu one night while passing through Hawaii, that was the only time I’ve slept ‘on the streets’ and that was purely by choice (which proved to be quite a poor choice once the sprinklers automatically turned on at 3am).''It is a fact that I am definitely a budget traveler. My goal is to travel around this world of ours while spending as little money as possible to do so….comfortably. Yes, I need a little comfort while on the road. While I may opt for very cheap accommodation options and I never eat in expensive restaurants, it is not my desire nor interest to travel around in poverty.''To give a better idea of what it’s really like to travel on a budget of less than $1000 per month, let me break down some of the more common expenses I face.''Accommodation''This past Tuesday I went to get a haircut in the city of Worcester, Massachusetts, a city that is located about an hour to the west of the city of Boston. I had simply woken up in the morning and decided that it was time to trim the hair and so I asked my uncle, who I was visiting with, where I could find a cheap place for a cut.''Thirty minutes later I was sitting in the chair at Supercuts, which, for those of you not familiar with this fine establishment, is a chain of budget hair salons located throughout the USA. And as the woman assigned to cut my hair threw that standard black cape over me and began spraying nearly an entire bottle of water into my thick head of hair, she began to engage in what is quite the standard hairdresser/client chit-chat.''“Do you have the day off from work?” she asked.''“No, I’m just here visiting family,” I replied.''“So you don’t live around here?”''“No,” I said.''And then, just as she started buzzing the sides of my head with a #4 clipper, she proceeded to ask the question that should naturally follow the previous one.''She asked,''“Where do you live?”''To which I replied,''“I’m originally from Boston but I generally live overseas these days.”''Now let me tell you something about Marianne. She was a nice lady, with a bright smile and what appeared to be a positive outlook on life. She wasn’t exactly the best hairdresser I’ve ever met, but again, she seemed like a very sweet woman.''However, despite my guess that Marianne has rarely left the state of Massachusetts during her 30+ years on the planet, I still would never have expected the words she spoke only seconds after I answered her question about where I live.''First, she asked, “Overseas?” to which I replied, “That’s right, overseas.”''And then she stated, “Overseas. I’ve read that it’s beautiful over there. You must have had a long trip to Worcester. What is it, about three hours from here? Did you have to fly to get here?”''Yes, that is a word for word quote.''As I sat there a bit stunned, and no longer caring that my left side burn was now an inch lower than my right one, I quickly tried to go over several scenarios in which she might have misheard or misunderstood my original answer. But when she finally blurted out, “Overseas must be so nice”, I knew that she had heard the word correctly.''Naturally, I had to say something in response and after fifteen seconds of dumbfounded silence I just muttered, “Yeah.”''The rest of the haircut passed without another word being spoken and when Marianne held up the mirror so that I could check out her artistry on the back of my noggin, I just muttered “It’s fine” without really looking. I simply couldn’t get her words out of my head.''I’m not trying to make fun of anyone here. I just think it’s an absolute shame that the concept of ‘overseas’ is so foreign to some that they don’t even have the most remote idea of what it means. How does that happen?''Of course, it is slightly amusing as well and it does rank up there as one of the more bizarre travel-related conversations I’ve ever had over the years. And despite the terrible haircut, at least the 20 minutes I spent in that chair was somewhat entertaining.''I’m sure that many of you have also had some disturbing or bizarre conversations either during your travels or while talking about your travels with others.''Here we go with this month’s installment of the''Travel Questions Answered''series. The goal of this series is to share my responses to many of the emails I receive from readers just in case more of you may have the very same questions on your mind.''This month’s questions focus on such topics as saving money, travel motivation, safety in Mexico, traveling with a laptop, where to obtain visa information and carrying a sleeping bag while on the road…''Let’s get started!''1. I have a chance to stay at home for the next three months and save $2000 more before traveling, or I could just take the money I have now and start my journey. My gut tells me that if I want to start living life to the fullest, then I should take the jump now and go. But more money would help me travel for longer…..any ideas?''That’s always a tough decision to make. I would usually say that taking the jump now and starting your travels, without worrying about how much money you have in the bank, is the way to go. However, the main reason I say that is because it is quite common for those three months of extra work to turn into six months and then turn into one year and on and on. In the end, the allure of a steady paycheck keeps many people from achieving their goals in life, so if they don’t take that step and start traveling immediately, they may never take that step at all.''On the other hand, if you are confident that you are definitely going to travel once those three months of extra work are complete, then it might not hurt to stay at home and save up that additional money before beginning your adventure. But again, if you feel that you might lose your desire to travel if you don’t leave now, then I would just pack up and leave right away!''2. What is the main reason that you have decided to continue traveling for so long?''Over the past few years, every time I visit my friends in NYC, a most interesting phenomenon has taken place. We’ll be sitting around one random morning, perhaps in the living room of my friends’ apartment or maybe at the funky, yes, I said funky, Tillie’s Brooklyn Cafe, a few blocks away, and we’ll be discussing the usual topics that we discuss during my yearly visits. These topics include our desire to become stand up comedians, our goal of one day owning our own hostel and whether or not walnut raisin cream cheese should legally be allowed to be smeared onto an onion bagel.''However, whatever the topic, there always comes a moment when our conversation, after twisting and turning in every possible direction, suddenly leads to one idea that always seems so brilliant at the time.''And then, 2 hours after that moment of brilliance strikes, the three of us find ourselves in a rented car driving out of NYC through the Lincoln Tunnel and eventually, on to the Garden State Parkway. We’re on our way to Atlantic City, once again.''For those not too familiar with Atlantic City, it can be described as a mini-Las Vegas that is located along the east coast of the US. Ultra popular up until the early 1990s, this city has struggled over the past two decades, and especially in the past 8 years, with the growth of other nearby casinos and dozens of proposed large-scale projects being scrapped due to the recent financial problems in the US. The result is a current day gambling town that consists of somewhat outdated beachfront casinos, a mile-long Boardwalk full of fried dough stands, Chinese massage parlours and what is an incredibly suspicious number of psychics and a local community that appears to suffer from some of the most extreme poverty I’ve seen anywhere in this country.''Interestingly enough, Atlantic City is incredibly multicultural, with Bangladeshi rickshaw drivers trying to eke out a living alongside Korean shop owners, Mexican chefs, Croatian pizza makers, Irish bartenders, Somali delivery men, Filipino and Venezuelan housekeepers, Russian receptionists and Atlantic City born and bred casino dealers.''Atlantic City lacks the kind of ‘WOW’ factor that even those who dislike Las Vegas can’t help but notice in that town. There is none of that Vegas nightlife or intensely energetic atmosphere or visually impressive setting in Atlantic City, which shouldn’t be the case given its coastal location and unique Boardwalk. It’s as if this town somehow ruined a perfect opportunity to continue growing as a major destination.''Of course, my friends and I do decide to spend two days here every year so the city must be doing something right I guess.''ATLANTIC CITY: DAY 1''This year’s adventure began at 6:30pm, the moment we checked-in to our hotel. And after a quick two-minute visit to our room, we went right back outside, not so much because we were in the mood to start gambling, but because we were in desperate need of some leg-stretching due to a serious map-reading error on my part during the drive down from NYC which caused the normally two and a half hour journey to take over four hours instead.''So we took a brisk walk along Atlantic City’s famous Boardwalk in order to loosen ourselves up and to release all of that tension from being stuck in a car for so long. Then, after an hour of walking, we suddenly looked at each other, nodded in unison and entered the first casino we came across.''And that’s when I immediately lost $20 at the Taj Mahal Casino.''We then moved next door to Bally’s, where we all proceeded to lose $40 within twenty minutes.''A quick stop at Caeser’s Palace Casino and we had all lost $40 more.''With our gambling off to a horrendous start, we all decided to step away from the casinos for a while, which we did by wandering away from the Boardwalk and around the streets of the eerily deserted, and shockingly run down, town of Atlantic City itself.''We did manage to find a small, friendly Mexican restaurant where we ate a silent dinner, all of us nibbling ever so slowly on our quesadillas, not wanting to think about what lie ahead once we finished our meal. But by the time we did finish those quesadillas, as well as our second round of drinks, the three of us began to notice that recognizable, yet inexplicable and very dangerous, boost of confidence, the kind that only appears on a gambling trip. You know the one, that feeling of such invincibility that causes you to run down the street while still wiping cheese and sour cream from your mouth and to then march straight into the Tropicana Casino, walk directly up to the craps table and immediately pull out $100, ready to turn that amount into $1000.''Unfortunately, or perhaps luckily, on this particular night, my confidence fell short in the end and after standing at the craps table for fifteen minutes with that $100 in my hand while doing nothing but trying to get a piece of lettuce out of my teeth, I just shrugged my shoulders and walked away.''And so my first night in Atlantic City came to an end. By 11pm my friends and I were back in our hotel room watching the terrible Laurence Fishburne film, “Predators”, and by midnight, I was sound asleep.''ATLANTIC CITY: DAY 2''With another full day and night to spend in this city, we all made sure our second day got off to as late a start as possible in order to limit our money losing potential. In fact, it was well after noon before we finally decided to walk to the tiny local diner on Atlantic Street where we always eat breakfast at least once during our yearly trips to this town.''There’s really no better way to make yourself not feel like gambling than to stuff your face with a three-egg omelet and a pile of hash browns. And I am happy to report that this method was once again successful as the only thing I wanted to do after this meal was to sit on the beach and take a nap, which is exactly what I did.''Eventually, however, after an hour on the beach, that false confidence that only the flashing lights and cheesy sounds and gigantic billboards of massive casinos can create, began to creep into my head yet again and the only thing I could think about was winning, and winning big. Thirty minutes later I found myself back inside of the Tropicana Casino and five minutes after that I was back out on the Boardwalk, having lost another quick $20 bucks.''As you might be able to tell by now, I’m not much of a gambler, and in fact, neither are my friends. The idea of playing craps or blackjack for hours on end does sound slightly appealing but the unappealing thought of possibly (or probably) losing $200 is significantly more intense. As a traveler, it’s difficult not to put things in perspective. Two hundred dollars lost at a casino is two weeks worth of traveling in India or one month’s rent in Thailand or 400 tostadas from my''favorite tostada joint''in Playa del Carmen.''So it takes a lot to get me to part with my money, which is why I was so surprised when even the above eye-opening monetary comparisons still could not keep me away from the craps table on my second night in Atlantic City.''Of course, as I write this now, I most certainly wish that I had been able to convince myself to stay away as, which I’m sure you could have guessed by now, I wasn’t the most successful of craps players that night. Granted, I had a wonderful time chatting with the team of dealers who turned out to be quite an enjoyable bunch to be around, but, as nice as those guys and gals were, I think I’d probably be willing to give up the friendly chit chat in order to have the money I lost right back in my pocket.''Well, so it goes.''Once again, by midnight, my friends and I were back in the hotel room, however, this time, instead of watching a movie, we decided to juggle bottles of water and build forts out of chairs and blankets. Then, four minutes later, once we became bored of those activities, we went to sleep and another trip to Atlantic City came to another sad end.''Actually, it was only sad until about halfway through our drive back to NYC the following morning when we discovered a satellite radio station that played nothing but short clips from standup comedians, including one of my favorites,''Steven Wright''. Soon enough, our gambling losses were forgotten and by the time we rolled back into Brooklyn, we couldn’t have been in a better mood, which is why it shouldn’t be a surprise that we have already planned our gambling strategies for next year’s visit to Atlantic City.''Have you been to Atlantic City or any other gambling destinations? Surely there are a few gamblers out there in the crowd…and hopefully you’ve had much better success at it than I have!''While traveling from Florida to New York City two days ago, I found myself mid-journey sitting in the airport at Charlotte, North Carolina, nibbling on a sandwich and observing life around me. There is always so much to observe in airports and many a time have I amused myself for hours in between flights simply by doing nothing else but wandering around and watching my fellow human beings.''And during the 2 hours I spent at Charlotte’s airport, there certainly was no shortage of things to observe and think about, some of which I wish to share with you below.''First…''I love Caribbean accents. Is there any other type of accent that sounds so laid-back and soothing? Even when they’re upset, such as the four women from Barbados sitting next to me whose flight home had just been canceled, people from the Caribbean often sound as if they’re still loving every minute of life. And it’s all thanks to that beautifully melodic accent. (When compared to the New Yorker sitting on the other side of me who was complaining loudly because our flight to NYC was delayed by 15 minutes, I couldn’t help but think that our world would be a significantly more relaxed place if we all learned how to speak English like Jamaicans.)''Of course, no matter what one’s accent may be, I’ll still never understand…''Why do men talk on their mobile phones while urinating in a public restroom? I don’t get it and it just seems nasty and wrong. Urinating and telephone conversations don’t mix, especially when both are being done in public. And usually, just as was the case the other day, I only see such behavior while using the restrooms in airports.''Speaking of public men’s restrooms, working inside of one, such as the attendants who constantly clean the restrooms at Charlotte’s airport while handing out paper towels and wishing every single person a safe journey, has to be one of the most unpleasant jobs on the planet. I probably tip these people more  than any other service worker I come across as I simply can’t imagine having to spend 8 hours every single day stuck inside a public restroom.''And while I don’t tip the airline check-in staff…''Being overly kind to such airline personnel certainly does have benefits, especially if it’s 6:30am and every other passenger around you seems to be a bit grumpy. Usually I’d be grumpy at 6:30am as well but for some reason, on this day, I was in a chipper mood. And after cracking a couple of jokes with the woman at the check-in counter, I found myself with a free exit row seat for both of my flights. Not only that but she let me in on a US Airways secret…all exit row seats become available (without the extra fee) 45 minutes before departure. All one needs to do to land one of those seats is to ask at the gate.''However, there is one type of seat that is even better than the exit row…''Rocking chairs! Placing rocking chairs inside of an airport terminal building is simply an excellent idea. Everyone loves rocking chairs (right?) and it’s much more enjoyable to spend time between flights slowly rocking back and forth in a large, naturally-lit open space than it is to sit on an uncomfortable, thinly cushioned bench at a dark and dreary departure gate.''And whoever thought of having rocking chairs inside the Charlotte airport is probably the same person that decided to…''Place a piano that passengers can play in that very same open space. Another brilliant idea. I certainly wouldn’t mind being stuck for days at an airport that has rocking chairs and a public piano. Of course, it does help when there is someone there who knows how to play the piano. As soon as children climb onto the piano bench and start pounding their fists onto the keys, it’s not such a pleasant or relaxing experience any more.''Do you know what else is not a very pleasant experience?''Let’s just say that the Department of Homeland Security does not appreciate it when passengers attempt to enter the airport security checkpoints from the exits. After my first flight had landed in Charlotte, I began the walk to the next terminal building from where my second flight would depart. But somehow, and perhaps it was a result of my fascination with the rocking chairs that I came upon, I entered into some sort of trance where I wasn’t paying any attention at all to where I was walking. I only snapped out of that trance when a TSA officer started yelling at me. I looked up and realized that I had wandered into the security checkpoint area by accident. I hadn’t made it to the metal detectors but I was only a few feet from where passengers collect their belongings after passing through the x-ray machine. After yelling at me to stop, the Officer just threw his hands in the air in disbelief and I chose to quickly turn away and jog away from there.''Incredibly, as I jogged away, I was still moving quite slow in comparison to…''Every single person whose flights had just arrived in Charlotte. I’m not sure if you’ve noticed this but people walk super fast when they get off an airplane. It’s as if the momentum from flying through the air at 500 miles per hour continues once passengers are allowed out of their seats at the gate. I watched several airplanes pull up to their gates and every single time, a few minutes later, 200 passengers burst out of the jetway at hyper-speed and blasted through the terminal building like blazing comets. My guess is that they maintained this daredevil pace until they reached the luggage carousel, where they then probably got upset at having to wait 15 minutes for their luggage.''At least they were dressed comfortably while standing there waiting because…''The only time wearing sweatpants is considered perfectly acceptable these days seems to be while traveling. I remember when I used to wear my favorite blue sweatpants to school (I know, I know…but it was a good 20 years ago) and now you hardly see sweatpants anywhere. But if you’re like me and you crave a little sweatpants nostalgia every now and then, just make your way to the airport and you’ll be reliving those fond childhood memories in no time at all.''And that concludes the summary of the thoughts that went through my mind while in the Charlotte airport. Do you have any other interesting airport observations to share?''Photo credits:''LAX Airport''/''Charlotte Airport''When I first crossed the border from Guatemala into the Mexican state of Chiapas back in late 2009, I had no idea how long I would be sticking around Mexico. I really had nowhere to be and had no specific plans for the near future but at the same time, I was quite exhausted from having just traveled overland throughout all of Central America.''After a few days in Mexico City, I made a decision to visit a Mexican friend of mine who had been living in Puerto Vallarta at the time. I wasn’t really in the mood to bounce all over the place and seeing an old friend from my days working on board''cruise''ships was always something I enjoyed. And it was also hard to turn down my friend’s offer of a comfortable place to stay, especially after she told me there was a large swimming pool located on the roof of her apartment complex.''Well, soon after arriving in Puerto Vallarta, one thing led to another and it quickly became apparent that I, along with my friend, would be spending a great deal of time in Mexico.''We didn’t stay in Puerto Vallarta for very long, but as we moved about – from the west coast to the east coast, from Queretaro to the white sand beaches and Mayan lands of Quintano Roo and the Yucatan – my fascination with and love of this country grew daily. Never had I previously imagined that Mexico would offer such a diverse and delightfully intense cultural experience as that which had greeted me in every city, town and village.''And so, it was no surprise that two years passed with Mexico as my ‘home base’.''However, as most of you know, I recently made the decision to leave Mexico and so I boarded a plane bound for the US just over one week ago. But due to my extreme fondness for this country, I did not say goodbye as if I were never to set foot on its soil again. Instead, I thanked Mexico for her hospitality and made a sincere promise to return as soon as I possibly could.''So now, I invite you to watch this short 2 minute video (more like a collection of photos set to music I guess) that recaps my time in the immensely rewarding country that is Mexico:''“MEXICO: 2 Years In 2 Minutes”''For anyone interested in reading more about my experiences in Mexico, there’s plenty to read over at my''Mexico''page!''As many of you have already read in others posts of mine, as a long-term traveler, I do not look forward to certain aspects of returning to the United States for my yearly visits to family and friends. This has nothing to do with actually being in the US as, these days, I am able to thoroughly enjoy my time here as I bounce up and down the east coast for a few weeks.''And while it still is true that every visit to my home country requires me to re-adjust to what has now become more of a foreign culture to me than many of the cultures I spend so much time immersed in overseas, again, even this ‘reverse culture shock’ or readjustment period is nothing I really dread.''What does make me hesitate about returning to the US is the experience of passing through''US Immigration & Customs''at the airport, an experience that, more often than not, is an unpleasant one given my extensive travel history. I’ve now visited enough ‘unfriendly’ or ‘suspicious’ lands to warrant a harsh line of questioning, thorough inspection of all my belongings, having my laptop turned on and all the files examined and on that one special occasion after spending some time traveling through Pakistan and Afghanistan, an''intense and disturbing interrogation''.''HERE WE GO AGAIN''Naturally, when my flight arrived in Fort Lauderdale, Florida the other day (coming from Mexico), as excited as I was to see my family, I could not help but notice the building nerves that spread throughout my body as I walked from the arrival gate to the Immigration line. My palms became sweaty, my heartbeat increased and I reminded myself of the importance of staying calm if I was once again treated harshly by an Immigration Officer.''The line at Immigration this time was unusually short and after a three minute wait, I soon found myself standing in front of an Officer who immediately took my passport and swiped it into his computer system. And then, without a word, he flipped through the pages of my passport until he discovered a visa stamp that caught his attention.''And of course, that visa was for''Iraqi Kurdistan''. After studying this visa, the Officer finally looked up at me and asked, “Do you speak Arabic?”''Immediately, I prepared myself for another interrogation and had a feeling that this was going to be another hellish trip through US Immigration.''However, after answering “No” to this question (not that the answer should make any difference whatsoever), the Officer didn’t say a word and before long, I realized that this was, in fact, not going to be a typical US Immigration experience for me after all.''MY IMMIGRATION SURPRISE''After flipping through my passport some more, and asking me to identify what countries many of the stamps belonged to (as some of the stamps from last year’s visit to the Middle East, such as''Syria''and''Lebanon'', are written almost entirely in Arabic), this calm Immigration Officer then asked me a few more specific questions. And as I always state, I have no problem at all with any Immigration Officer asking me questions. I would ask myself questions as well if I saw my passport.''But it was the manner in which this Immigration Officer asked these questions that actualy made this trip through Immigration a…pleasant….yes, I would go as far as to use the word ‘pleasant’….experience as opposed to what I’ve experienced before.''Ever so politely, the Officer continued to ask me about my travels, why I enjoy traveling so much, what were some of the other countries I’ve been to that were not in my current passport and of course, what I do for work. And as soon as I mentioned that I work online, he let out a short laugh while shaking his head and then he said, “''That’s what I thought you were going to say. Good for you. That’s great that you want to travel around the world. Welcome home.''”''While it is true that I was kept at his Immigration booth for a significantly longer period of time than most of the other US Citizens passing through, I must state that, for the first time that I can recall, I was treated with nothing but respect and courtesy, which is exactly what should happen according to the US Customs & Border Patrol’s “''Pledge to Travelers''”.''A CHANGE IN ATTITUDE?''Eventually, the Officer handed me back my passport and wished me the best of luck in my travels, having never raised his voice, never making any accusations and never treating me as a threat to my own country simply because of the diverse collection of stamps in my passport.''And while this may not be something that many people spend much time thinking about, the manner in which I am treated upon arrival in my home country makes a huge difference to me. It’s frustrating to spend such significant time trying to educate myself first-hand about the world, only to be treated like a criminal for doing so. Also, I want to know that the borders of the United States are protected by people who understand the value of international travel, not by close-minded individuals who automatically feel threatened upon seeing one passport stamp in Arabic.''Well, I am happy to report (ecstatic, in fact) that I finally encountered the type of Immigration Officer that should be cloned thousands of times and placed at every airport and land border crossing in the country. While still doing his job effectively (after all, he wasn’t asking me questions out of personal interest), he not only made me feel welcome in the country of my birth, but made me feel as if my life of travel was not a crime, but something worthwhile and truly valuable.''Of course, it’s somewhat disappointing that such a positive US Immigration experience stands out as something extraordinary and completely surprising, but it’s a start. Perhaps this is an indication of a shift in attitude within the US Customs & Border Patrol agency (''CBP'') that just might help make entry into the United States more bearable for everyone.''Do you have a recent experience with US Immigration or any other country’s Immigration that you want to share?''Let me start off by thanking every one of you who left a suggestion in the comments of my last post (and in emails) about''where I should travel''next. I really wasn’t expecting such enthusiastic recommendations and every single comment I read put a huge smile on my face.''And as soon as those comments starting piling up I began to spend some time pondering over the suggestions, as well as thinking about my own goals for my upcoming travels and what I wish to accomplish.''In fact, I had originally planned yesterday to be the day that I would sort it all out and make a decision. The idea was that I would use the one and a half hour flight from Cancun, Mexico to Florida to concentrate on choosing my next destination. Flying through the sky at 35,000 feet just seemed like a perfect time to think about travel.''And as the plane took off at 11:31am yesterday morning, I did begin to read through the list of possible travel destinations – which includes Africa, Azerbaijan, Philippines, Colombia, Antarctica, Latvia, Bosnia, Bulgaria, India, Tajikistan, South Korea, China, Japan and many more – I had written down from all of your comments.''However, the reality is that my flight came and went and I was not able to reach a conclusion, not because there were too many options but because my session of travel contemplation did not last very long after take-off.''I believe that it was about 20 minutes into the flight, as we soared high above the western tip of Cuba, that the airplane suddenly dropped straight out of the sky. One second the clouds outside seemed to be far below the airplane and the next second they seemed to be far above.''And I, my friends, was terrified.''IMPENDING DOOM''Okay, maybe the above was a little bit of an exaggeration.''Perhaps the airplane didn’t exactly ‘drop’ out of the sky. I guess it was more like a quick shake, a little shimmy if you will. Actually, if I remember correctly, the pilot referred to it as a ‘small pocket of turbulence’.''However, it sure felt like more than a ‘small pocket of turbulence’ to me. I braced for the worse and remember thinking that I really should have been kinder to the woman at the airline check-in counter who had confusingly tried to charge me double the normal airport departure tax. Now I was certain that my life was about to end and that was going to be my last thought.''This never used to happen when I traveled on airplanes. But, and I really, really, really, hope that I’m not alone with this, as I get older, it seems that those little moments of normal turbulence have become significantly more frightening.''It’s as if the airplane hits one small ‘bump’ in the sky and the next thing I know the sweet elderly lady next to me is asking if I would be so kind as to release my insanely tight grip on her now black and blue arm.''All it takes is one little hiccup in the air and I immediately reach under my seat (while holding back tears of course) to ensure that my inflatable life vest is in place before lowering myself halfway into the crash position. Of course, I try to pretend that I’m searching for something in my backpack that I’ve placed under the seat in front of me but I’m really just getting ready for the inevitable impact.''FLYING USED TO BE FUN''I’ve literally flown hundreds of times during my life and for years I loved every single minute of every one of those flights, even those moments when the plane was stuck in turbulence, both small and large pockets. Never did I find such common turbulence to be any reason for worry at all.''But these days, not only do I immediately think my life is in its last precious moments but I’m often unable to concentrate on anything else during the rest of the flight.''I can’t even concentrate enough to watch''Kung Fu Panda 2''on my personal entertainment screen. The airplane shakes once and I close my eyes so tightly and my heart beats so quickly that I enter into a twenty minute ‘life flashing before my eyes’ session. And when I finally snap out of it, the damn Panda has somehow discovered inner peace and is now able to redirect cannon fire coming from Lord Shen’s armada. How did that happen? I missed it all.''Well, I suppose this is just something that I need to come to terms with. There is no denying the fact that as I get older, I find myself more and more uncomfortable while flying. Perhaps ‘uncomfortable’ is not even the best description.''‘''Scared out of my flipping mind''‘ is probably somewhat more accurate.''Has anyone else experienced this? Anyone? Please??''The time has come once again for me to leave Mexico. In only four days time I shall be on an airplane bound for the US. The ‘plan’, and I use that term ever so loosely considering that I really don’t have anything planned apart from boarding that airplane on Monday morning, is to perhaps spend a few weeks visiting family and friends.''After that, I shall head off yet again. To where exactly?''Well, I shall be heading towards my favorite of destinations, that intriguing and typically fascinating land know as, the unknown.''The reality is that, at this very moment, I have no idea where I’ll be going after the US.''And while it is true that only recently I announced''my participation''in the''Ultimate Train Challenge'', that 30-day train journey from Lisbon to Saigon that is taking place during the month of September, my ‘plans’, as they have so often done this year, have once again changed. I have chosen to back out of that adventure after a great deal of thought. I just felt that it wasn’t the best match for me at this time. (I still think it’s an excellent idea and I hope you will join me in following the four bloggers who will be embarking on the''Ultimate Train Challenge'', which begins in less than 20 days.)''So, it’s now time for me to go somewhere new and create my own adventure. The problem is that whenever I sit down to try and determine to which region of the world I should travel, I find myself unable to reach a conclusion.''At certain times I find myself thinking about a trip to South America, perhaps starting off in Colombia, a country I have never before visited and a country that such travelers as Dave from''GoBackpacking.com'', Troy from''FoggOdyssey.com'', Brendan from''BrendansAdventures.com''and Jasmine from''JasmineWanders.com''have spoken so highly of that I would be a fool not to place it on my list of possible options.''However, I also have moments when I start to feel as if I need a complete change of scenery right now. After all, I’ve spent such a significant amount of time in a Spanish-speaking, Latin American country over the past two years that it might be healthy to head for a completely different region such as Eastern Europe. I must admit that it is quite easy for me to start imagining myself wandering through such countries as Ukraine, Moldova, Romania and Bulgaria, countries that I have long dreamed of, yet have never gotten around to visiting.''Of course, my mind doesn’t stop there. Before long, that one country that I can never seem to get out of my head starts to take over my thoughts, leaving me wanting nothing else but to be walking down the streets of any of its cities, towns or villages. Naturally, that country is India and it’s been over two years since my last visit, which is the longest I’ve stayed outside of that country at any point during the past decade. Even now, as I type these words, I can picture myself falling to my knees outside of the arrivals hall of the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi, and kissing the ground, so happy to be back on Indian soil.''But, wait a minute, what about Africa? There lies an entire continent that I have yet to explore. I must admit that the thought of traveling through countries such as''Mali'', Sudan, Morocco, Zimbabwe, Mozambique and Namibia is also as appealing a thought as is possible for a long-term traveler such as myself. On the other hand, that thought is also quite intimidating. There’s such a variety of countries to visit in Africa and I would have no clue where to begin.''I just don’t know where to go.''And the above are just a few of the regions of the world that have crossed my mind. Other options include a trip through the Caucasus region, where Eastern Europe meets Western Asia and countries such as Armenia, Georgia and Azerbaijan await. And far away in the western Pacific Ocean is that country of 7000+ islands known as the Philippines, a country I have often thought about visiting as well. Heck, I’ve even contemplated traveling to Yemen (sorry, mom…but I imagine you’re somewhat accustomed to me traveling to such destinations by now).''As you can see, this is no easy decision. So, even though I will be somewhere new at some point in the relatively near future, I cannot tell you where that will be at this moment.''Actually, the more I think about it, the more I realize that''I should be asking you for advice''. So, let me do that right now.''Are there any regions or countries that you would suggest I visit?''Or perhaps there’s a part of the world that you would like to see me travel to?''I know that second question sounds a little strange but I really do want to hear your ideas. And I certainly thank you ahead of time for any input you choose to give!''Do you know those days when you find yourself stuck in a foreign city, standing on a street corner, dripping in sweat from the burning heat, your shoulders in pain from carrying your overstuffed backpack, unable to find any hotel that has an available room and suddenly realizing that you are completely lost in a part of town that looks anything but welcoming?''Perhaps you do remember such a day or maybe you can imagine such an experience happening to you, when you’ve been so lost and frustrated that you just lean up against a wall, on the verge of tears, wondering why you took your trip in the first place. You close your eyes for a moment and wish that you could be instantly transported to a more familiar land.''Maybe, after a few minutes, you manage to gather some strength and you slowly walk towards a tiny shop down the street that sells cheap shoes, with the shopkeeper sitting out front, cutting his toenails and smoking a cigarette. The shopkeeper lifts his head and begins to stand up, staring intensely into your eyes and making you feel even more uncomfortable. You immediately clutch onto your belongings tightly, fearing that this man might pull a gun from inside his jacket and steal everything you own. You think of turning around but you realize there’s no avoiding this man now and so you bite your lip and accept the oncoming trouble.''You try to remain calm, but the shopkeeper slowly pulls his hand out of his pocket, clenches his fist and gets ready to throw what is surely going to be a violent punch to your head. He draws nearer, his fist only inches from your face, and then..''He smiles and says, “''Fist bump, I give fist bump. I see on tv.''”''Shocked, you quickly, yet clumsily, return the first bump and upon doing so, the man then shakes your hand and welcomes you into his shop. Before you know it, you are sitting on a small wooden stool, surrounded by shoes, sipping tea and nibbling on stale cookies that this man has saved for many years in the hopes of such an encounter with a foreigner. Through broken English you chat and laugh for over an hour and he even calls up his cousin on the phone and invites him to join you.''His cousin soon appears, along with two of his friends, and immediately, this new group of friendly faces invites you to dinner at the family’s village home about three hours outside of the city. You naturally accept the invitation, and in a battered old pickup truck, you soon head off, along with the shopkeeper, the cousin and the cousin’s friends, as well as a goat, a rusted out refrigerator, a live snake kept in a paper bag, and a ridiculously large sack of bananas, into the mountains beyond the city limits.''Rolling down a gravel road through a landscape full of bright sunflower fields, with the most impossibly located villages scattered in the mountains high above, you munch on bananas with the others and take a swig every now and then from an unmarked mystery bottle that is being passed around.''Upon arrival in the village, you are quickly escorted to the home of the village chief, a kind man with only one leg, his other leg, according to the incredible story he tells, having been lost during a fight with a tiger that had attacked the village some years before. Members of the community, many of whom had never before seen a foreigner so close, excitedly invite you to join them for dinner on a patch of grass right next to a colorful wooden temple built in honor of a spirit that the villagers believe inhabits the mountains.''Several local delicacies are served, with dozens of plates being passed around and the locals forcing you to be the first to try every dish. Villagers approach you throughout the meal, pat your back, giggle, pinch your cheeks and even place droplets of ‘magic water’ on to your head to see if you would disintegrate. The children find it amusing when you spread your arms out wide as if you had performed a magic trick by not melting into the earth.''After the three-hour meal, the shopkeeper and his cousin invite you to sleep in their family home that night and they build you a comfortable bed out of blankets and mats, placing several sunflowers on top of you before you go to sleep, something that is done to all visitors in order to protect them from the spirit.''You sleep better than you’ve slept in months and when the sun rises the following morning, you are awaken by several smiling people, and encouraged to quickly rise out of bed and join the group outside. It is the''annual Yak Festival''and the entire village is full of thousands of beautiful yaks roaming around. As a guest of honor, you are placed atop the largest of yaks, whose local name, for some unexplained reason, translates as “Apple”, and you are led on a long procession, along with dozens of other villagers, through the mountains. You eventually reach an idyllic lake, with water so blue and the surrounding scenery so impressive that you feel as happy as you have ever felt at any point in your life.''After going for a quick swim and admiring the views, you head back down the mountain to the village, where you discover that preparations are under way for the Yak Festival celebrations. You are immediately invited to attend the ceremony and festivities, which you are informed will last for 4 days.''And so, for 4 more days you remain in that village, celebrating, sharing stories, laughing, riding yaks, racing yaks and participating in a tug-o-war against yaks, and also getting to know so many wonderful people. You spend one night camping out under the stars, another night sleeping in the mountains with several of your new friends and on your final night, you don’t even sleep at all as the chief organizes another celebration specifically for you.''As you dance throughout that final night, in this remote village, so isolated from any world you have ever known before, you realize that your reasons for traveling have been confirmed as valid once again.''On the fifth day, you say your goodbyes, shake hands and hug everyone in the village several times. Before you are allowed to leave, the chief takes you to the top floor of the colorful temple and says a prayer for your safe journey. He then''hands you a cherished yak testicle as a gift'', which you hesitatingly accept even though you do not have a bag to put it in.''You are then given a lift back into the city, once again in that old battered pickup truck. The driver of the truck, who decides to take the longer route through the canyon in order to show you more of his homeland, eventually drops you off in the afternoon, in front of a budget hotel in the city. Your new friend, the shopkeeper, goes inside with you and helps you secure a room at a local price.''After throwing your backpack down on the bed, you go back outside and begin to wander the streets. Before long, you find yourself in a familiar place, on the very same street corner where, only 5 days prior, you had been, and felt, so lost. However, there are no tears of frustration this time, only a smile, a smile so wide that you are certain it will remain on your face for quite some time.''What Is Happening To Such Random Travel Stories?''I’m talking about those fascinating stories that leave readers and listeners in complete and utter awe, barely able to believe what they have heard and so inspired that they never want the story to come to an end. (I’m not saying that my story above fits that description, it was just a somewhat fictional story pieced together from several of my own experiences.)''I believe that one of the reasons such unique, random travel stories have seemed to fade is that today, when we find ourselves lost on that random street corner in a foreign country, frustrated and unsure of what we should do,''we no longer walk over to the shopkeeper''or ask the stranger in the street for directions or assistance.''We simply''pull out our iPhones instead'', and have Google Maps instantly tell us where to go. Or we quickly tweet to the world, “Stuck in Tashkent, where should I stay?” and receive a response from others within seconds.''And while those tools certainly have their benefits, the result of using them is the elimination of much of the spontaneity and randomness that typically leads to the experiences that make travel so wonderful (and travel stories so intoxicating). Simply because it is easier to look at a map on our phone doesn’t mean we have to do just that.''So, before we reach for our iPhone next time, let’s stop and think about the wild and unexpected travel experiences that we may miss out on by choosing to rely on the technology we carry instead of choosing to interact with all of the interesting human beings around us.''I’m very interested to hear your thoughts on this one…what do you think?''Welcome to the second installment of my “''Travel Questions Answered''” series! Here is where I answer questions that I have received from readers, either via email or in the comments of one of my posts. The idea is to share my answers to some of these questions so that others may be able to benefit as well.''This month’s''Travel Questions Answered''deals with such topics as travel insurance, accommodation, staying healthy, safety on the road and whether or not I consider myself to be homeless…''1. What type of plan do you suggest for health and dental insurance while living abroad and can you get good coverage without paying a fortune?''These days, I have a comprehensive health insurance plan from back in the US, even though I spend most of my time outside of country traveling. I figure that having such a plan would be well worth it in the event that I need to return to the US for a more serious medical issue. However, I normally also sign up for travel insurance, usually through a company such as''WorldNomads.com''. For a relatively low fee (around $50 – $60 USD per month), I’m able to get quite decent coverage for the duration of any trip, and if I choose to extend a particular adventure, I can easily extend my travel insurance plan as well.''This way, if I have any illness or injuries while abroad, I know that I will be covered in whichever country I am in. Clearly, having both insurance plans increases my monthly expenses but these are the kind of expenses I am willing to incur given the potential benefits.''One thing to note is that unless you have a residency or long-term visa for a particular country overseas, you most likely won’t be able to obtain any local insurance in that country. So in most cases, travel insurance is your only option.''2. As a nomad, does it mean you don’t have a permanent address, essentially homeless? Or do you rent apartments where you currently stay?''A few weeks have passed since I’ve mentioned the country of India in any of my posts, and that’s an amount of time that I consider unacceptable for someone who is as addicted to India as I am.''So be warned, this post is all about India and an experience involving an the Indian Railway.''However, I’m not going to talk about my own experiences traveling or volunteering or living in this huge, diverse land. Instead, I want to bring your attention to the experiences of another traveler,''Mr. Drew Gilbert''.''I first met Drew and family (he’s been traveling around the world with his wife''Christine''and their adorable son Cole) just before Christmas last year while in Thailand. I think the first time I met him was at an Indian restaurant actually. I know for certain that the last time I hung out with him was at the PS Lanna Bowling Lanes in Chiang Mai, Thailand.''And while Drew may not exactly be a world-class bowler, he sure is a solid guy, one with whom I thoroughly enjoyed talking and getting to know. Even more, he’s one talented storyteller (which I’ll get to in a minute). Anyway, shortly after Drew, Christine and Cole left Thailand, they traveled eastward, landing in India. And given my own love of this land, it was only natural that I would follow his adventures closely.''During Drew’s visit to the subcontinent he decided to participate in what, to many, might be considered complete insanity. He joined a small group of people who embarked on the''Great Indian Railway Challenge'', a 16-day train journey that circumnavigated the entire country of India, traveling in one giant circle and covering 12,000 kilometers along the way.''As if one simple overnight train journey in India wasn’t full of enough challenges, Drew wanted to delve even deeper, to challenge himself as much as possible. So off he went to experience India in a way that few people would ever have a chance to do.''But here’s the thing, Drew knew what he was doing. He knew his insane train journey would be full of rewards and lessons that only an intense Indian adventure could provide and so instead of passing the time with eyes closed, just waiting for the trip to finally reach its end, he chose to keep his eyes as wide open as he possibly could at all times. He kept his eyes open in Mumbai, Dwarka, Delhi, Assam, Darjeeling, Kolkata, Chennai, Rameswaram and every city, town and village in between.''As a result, he not only has an amazing story to share, but he has also given every one of us an opportunity to feel India, to explore India and to learn from India just as he did. Being the gifted storyteller he is, Drew has managed to transform his unique observations and experiences into…''“a wildly entertaining tale about one man’s lengthy train journey around the fascinating world that is India. It’s a useful travel guide, educational tool and brilliant personal account of the shocks, surprises, struggles and unfamiliar observations that every travel to India must deal with. Drew’s honest writing style also brings the reader directly into the story and once you finish reading this book, one thing is for certain. You’ll be more excited than ever to experience India for yourself.”''The above really sums it all up. I actually wrote those words as a review immediately after I finished reading''his excellent book'', Surviving The Indian Railway.''And the reason I wanted to write this post now and bring it to your attention is just in case any of you…''a) plan to visit India and are looking for a unique way to learn what to expect''b) want to visit India but need some extra inspiration before you book a flight''c) have already visited India and want to relive your surreal adventures''c) enjoys reading high-quality travel stories that immediately transport you to the destination being described''If you fit into any of those categories, I just thought you might be interested in having a read of Drew’s story as well. It’s even more entertaining than watching him go bowling.''Surviving The Indian Railway''– $9.99 –''Click here for more details''Two hours outside of Cancun, we turned off the main highway and into the small town of Piste. And at this point, our road trip officially began.''The goal was to spend two days driving around the Mexican state of Yucatan, a state that offers a major change from life in the state of Quintana Roo, the state where Cancun, Playa del Carmen and Tulum dominate the entire tourism industry of Mexico. Yucatan, on the other hand, is no tourist mecca, apart from the Mayan pyramid of Chichen-Itza which receives daily busloads of day trippers from the more touristy areas near Cancun. Remove Chichen-Itza and you have a large region that provides a most unique insight into Mexican culture and more specifically, into modern day Mayan culture.''That’s right, Mayan culture.''Perhaps you’re thinking, “''Mayans? I thought they were only an ancient civilization?''”. I once thought that as well, right until I arrived to Mexico last year and began seeing signs in the Mayan language, a language that has no resemblance at all to Spanish and is still widely spoken in these parts. The Mayans have been around for a long time, more than 4000 years in fact, and yes, they are still around, with many of their communities being located in the state of Yucatan.''THE VILLAGES OF YUCATAN''Starting in Piste, we rolled along the narrow, quiet roads that led us straight through the dense jungle of the Yucatan. And as if my mood hadn’t been lifted enough by the scenery, thousands and thousands of beautiful yellow butterflies suddenly filled the air around us, as if they were welcoming us into the heart of Mayan country. For over an hour we drove through the butterfly-filled jungle and my mouth and eyes remained wide open in awe the entire time.''Every now and then we would reach a Mayan village, evident by the village names that were difficult to pronounce and which one would never expect to find in Spanish-speaking Mexico.''We passed through such communities as''Xanaba, Citilcum, Tixpehual, Yokdzonot and Tixkokob'', and each village offered another glimpse into Mexico that simply is not possible while living in or visiting the usual vacation hotspot that is the Riviera Maya.''IZAMAL, THE YELLOW CITY''In the late afternoon of that first day in Yucatan, we found ourselves entering the 15,000-person town of Izamal. This town is designated a “''Pueblo Magico''” (''Magic Town'') by Mexico’s government, a designation given to towns that offer visitors a ‘magical’ experience due to their unique cultural, historical or natural significance.''And if there’s one thing you can say about Izamal, it’s this:''It is yellow''. I’m not talking about the flowers or the butterflies or even the signs in the streets. I’m talking about every single building being the exact same shade of yellow.''The result is one impressive looking town, which is why, moments after our arrival in the town center, we couldn’t wait to begin wandering around. Everywhere I looked I saw yellow and it literally made me giddy with delight. Every time I looked down another street, it naturally turned out to be just as yellow, if not more yellow, than the previous street, and as a result, I felt the need to yell out, “That street is yellow!” every single time (much to the annoyance of everyone around me of course).''We wandered across the soothingly peaceful central plaza, full of street vendors and locals chatting to each other while sitting on wooden benches under the shade of the trees. We visited the Franciscan Convent, built atop the remains of a Mayan pyramid, a convent where Pope John Paul II gave a speech to local indigenous groups back in 1993 and which is, of course, as yellow as all of the other buildings in town. From the convent we roamed further away from the center of town, eventually locating the''Kinich Kakmo pyramid'', a most impressive Mayan ruin site that almost never gets a mention in any tourism material.''Upon our descent from the pyramid, and just as the sun began to set, we unanimously decided to spend the night in Izamal. We quickly booked a room at the simple yet atmospheric''San Miguel Arcangel Hotel'', located right on the central plaza, with views of the convent and much of the town from our balcony.''And once we threw our bags on the beds, we were off again, this time to eat some Yucatecan cuisine at a local restaurant (''where we ended up watching an intense ping-pong game that was taking place inside of a 24-hour coffin shop across the street'').''Then, with stomachs full, we took a seat on a bench and enjoyed a lengthy rest while observing the mellow activity of a Saturday night in Izamal. Families ate and laughed together, children zoomed around on skateboards and bikes, a few elderly men played their guitars under a tree and horse-drawn carriage taxis came and went, bringing people wherever they needed to go.''I was a happy man as I sat there on that bench, so much so that I found myself on several occasions imagining what it might be like to live in Izamal for a few months. There is something magical (hence the label by the Mexican government) about such isolated locations, locations where life is simple and what we consider to be important worries and stresses of our normal daily lives no longer exist.''Some people may find such a town boring and I can certainly understand that. But for me,''I find such a town to be both healthy and intensely appealing''. Maybe it was just all that cheerful yellow.''THE LONG, REWARDING WAY HOME''On the last day of our road trip we departed Izamal and drove to Merida, the capital city of the state of Yucatan, where we spent half the day wandering around once again, visiting a couple of museums, enjoying the festival in front of the cathedral and eating local food that cannot be found anywhere else in Mexico.''But I must admit, despite the striking multi-colored buildings and the energetic and positive atmosphere of Merida, a city of one million people, I spent much of the time thinking about Izamal and the other villages and towns we passed through the day before.''And when the time came to leave Merida and begin the long drive back to Playa del Carmen, I did not hesitate for even a moment in choosing the route I would take. There was no way I was going to get on the toll highway and speed straight across the jungle, all the way back to the Caribbean coast.''So I turned off the main road and entered the village of Kantunil instead. It would be local roads one more time as I wanted another opportunity to experience the atmosphere of this region.''And as we passed through the small Mayan villages of Kaua, Cuncunul and Ik Kil, communities that few travelers reach, I was once again reminded that such''a simple, traditional way of life has much to teach those of us who struggle to find peace in the modern world''.''Have you been to the state of Yucatan? Does it sound like a region you would be interested in visiting?''This is the second post of a relatively new series called “''Terrible Photos''” in which I openly share with you some of the terrible photos I’ve taken during my travels. I do not try and hide the fact that my photographic skills are not very well developed at all. And for anyone who might have read the first post in this series –''Terrible Photos of the Middle East''– you should be well aware of what’s in store for you with this post…''There is nothing quite like a shot of the Adriatic Sea, with a stretch of land in the background and with the leaves of a beautiful, lush green, exotic-looking tree acting as a frame for the entire scene. There’s also nothing quite like a similar shot in which the leaves of such a tree almost completely cover up the scene, leaving the land in the background barely visible. That, my friends, is a photo of the town of Split, Croatia.''Let us now transport ourselves to Florence, Italy, a city so pleasing to the eye at times that even the least skilled photographers among us should find little difficulty in capturing impressive shots. In reality, the only way that one could screw up a photo here, especially a photo of that recognizable Florence Cathedral (Duomo), would be to take a photo with that domed building in the distance, off to the left, with a construction crane to its right and perhaps an ugly wall with bushes and weeds in front of it located in the foreground. Hmmm….''The above two photos represent exactly 25% of the total number of photos I took during a visit to Sweden a few years ago. I took these while walking around the grounds of a small castle located on the outskirts of the town of Vasteras. Did I take a photo of the complete castle itself? I did not.''It seems that during this visit to Barcelona’s famous La Sagrada Familia, my fascination with including construction equipment in my photos was born. I’ll just blame this one on the fact that I only had a couple of hours of free time that day and was in a great rush to get back to the cruise ship I was working on at the time.''When you arrive in Trencin, Slovakia, there is one building that dominates the view, the medieval Trencin Castle, located high above town on a rocky hilltop. Yup. This is my photo of it. My only photo of it.''During my trip to Croatia (the same trip during which I took the first photo), a friend and I drove down to the coastal town of Dubrovnik. The interesting part about this drive is that at one point, the main highway to Dubrovnik leaves Croatia and passes through Bosnia-Hercegovina for a few minutes. You guessed it. The above is my only photo of Bosnia-Hercegovina. And isn’t she a beauty?''That concludes this installment of the''Terrible Photos''series. In all honestly, I can’t believe you made it this far and I certainly appreciate you putting up with my poor photography.''Let me ask. Is it easier for me to travel extensively because I am from the USA?''I personally don’t think so.''However, I tend to receive the occasional email from people who feel that creating a life of travel would be significantly more difficult for someone who is not from a Western, English-speaking country. I certainly understand how that may appear to be the situation but I really believe that, in reality, it isn’t the case.''Usually, the emails I receive about this subject refer to the ability to earn money overseas and the author almost always points to the several methods I’ve used over the years to earn an income. It is then suggested that they, because of their nationality, would not be able to pursue or obtain similar employment, and therefore, not be able to survive out there in the world.''My response to these emails is generally the same. While certain aspects of my lifestyle would indeed present a bigger challenge to some (such as obtaining visas and facing higher expenses based on one’s home currency), I honestly don’t think that earning money while traveling or living overseas is one of those aspects.''Work At Sea''We all think about travel. Chances are that we all find ourselves daydreaming about travel quite often as well. Even I daydream about travel…even when I’m traveling. That’s how attractive the idea of visiting foreign lands can be.''But there is clearly a difference between thinking or daydreaming about travel and that feeling of pure travel euphoria that suddenly strikes from time to time, a feeling so intense that we are left wanting nothing else but to be instantly transported overseas. Suddenly, not only do we want to be riding camels across the deserts of India, swimming in the waters of Tahiti and wandering through the Roman Colosseum, we want to be doing all of these things RIGHT NOW!''We go from being merely excited about travel to being so insanely, super-flipping excited that we can’t sit still and we start trying to re-arrange our lives so that we can begin a new trip immediately.''I’m sure any of you travelers out there know exactly what I’m talking about. And even those of you who have yet to travel probably experience certain moments as well when you feel an uncommonly strong urge to drop everything, run straight to the airport and get on a flight to somewhere new.''So what is it that turns on that switch?''For me, it always changes. Sometimes the excitement is cranked up upon purchasing a flight ticket or obtaining a visa from the Embassy of a country I’m planning to visit. Other times, it’s from reading a particular book or magazine article or listening to a certain song. And there are even times when it may be from something as seemingly insignificant as buying a new pair of sandals because my current ones simply won’t survive being dragged through another country.''Yes, sometimes that’s all it takes. With new sandals in hand (or on feet) I’m ready to embark on another adventure, and that realization can send me into a such a state of joy that it’s as if I’m in the midst of an out-of-body experience.''Before I left home back in 1999 to start this life of travel, the grand moment of excitement came when I purchased my very first backpack. I’ll never forget that day when I put a Kelty Redwing 2900 on the checkout counter at Eastern Mountain Sports in Boston and told the clerk, “I’ll take it”. (At least that’s what I think I said. My excitement at that very moment was so uncontrollable that it probably came out as “Owl techie.”)''Anyway, the point is, we all have something that sends us into that glorious state of travel euphoria, where the only thing on our mind is finding a way to get out there and experience this world of ours. If it’s not buying a backpack or a flight ticket, maybe it’s reading a guidebook for some faraway, exotic land that you hope to visit one day. It could be anything and…''Whatever it is, I want to help you reach that level of excitement. So here’s what I’m going to do…''$50 Travel Euphoria Giveaway''Here are the rules:''1.''Leave a comment below''explaining what gets you into that state of travel euphoria where you become so excited about travel that nothing else seems to matter.''Then…''2.''Head over to my''Facebook Fan Page''and if you haven’t already, “Like” the page.''(This is an important step, although the only reason I included it is because I’d love to have more Facebook fans! But in order to win, you’ll need to “Like” the page.)''And that’s it.''In one week from now, at''6pm GMT (2pm EST in the US) on July 23rd, 2011'', I’m going to choose one comment at random (using the website''Random.org'') and that person will receive $50 towards whatever it is that would immediately get them super-excited about travel. To make it more interesting, if by 6pm GMT on July 23rd there are at least 100 comments on this post, I will pick 2 winners who will each receive $50 to help them reach travel euphoria.''So be sure to spread the word!''And remember…''It doesn’t matter if you plan to start traveling tomorrow, next month or even next year, it’s never too early or too late to start getting excited about the adventures that lie ahead!''Please note:''If the item that will make you most excited to travel can be found on''Amazon.com'', your $50 prize will be in the form of an Amazon.com Gift Card. However, if the item is not available on Amazon or you currently reside in a country where you cannot receive packages, I will use another method to ensure you receive your prize in full. (This is not a sponsored giveaway.)''What does a person do when standing at the edge of a frigid pool of water, watching their friends jump, one after the other into that very pool? And what happens when these ‘friends’ begin yelling out insults once they surface, taunting the only person not willing to take the plunge?''Last week, I was that person as I stood, for a long time, at the edge of Cenote Eden, unwilling to budge.''If you’re not familiar with a cenote, they are basically sinkholes filled with groundwater that are connected to larger bodies of water that lie deep underground. They come in several forms including large open pools, small pools half-covered by a rocky roof and even massive underground cave systems full of stalagmites and stalactites.''And it just so happens to be that, stretching both north and south from Playa del Carmen, Mexico, lies an area full of these cenotes. Some are located only a short distance from the edge of the road and others require a 30 minute drive through the jungle along a bumpy dirt path in order to find them.''Here’s another photo of a cenote to give you a better idea:''So, back to the story. What did I do upon hearing the insults of my friends as I stood there at the water’s edge of Cenote Eden?''After a lengthy internal debate about whether or not to join the others, a debate in which I determined that jumping into an active volcano crater seemed infinitely more appealing to me (unfortunately there was no active volcano nearby), I eventually took five large steps back away from the edge followed by an uncomfortably deep breath. And then, after counting to three, I ran towards the water…''Upon reaching the edge I closed my eyes, lifted my arms into the air and then…I stopped running, sat down on the ground, dangled my feet in the water for a few minutes and finally began the torturous process of lowering myself ever so gently into the icy pool.''When it comes to cold water – and by ‘cold’ I am referring to any water with a temperature less than 80 F / 27 C – I normally stay away, far away. My body simply can’t handle it. It’s not only unenjoyable, it’s actually painful for me to be swimming around while shivering and convulsing as my body tries to figure out how to handle the sensation of cold.''However, on this particular day, it didn’t take long for me to realize that this was a unique occasion. Turning down an opportunity to swim in one of Mexico’s cenotes would simply be foolish, especially when everyone else in the group was happily jumping in the water, swimming through the caves, admiring the marine life that swam around them and continuing to throw insults in my direction.''Eventually, into the water I went.''And yes, I survived.''For anyone who has visited a cenote, I’m confident you will agree that the experience can really be quite therapeutic. In what way exactly, I’m not too sure, but there’s no denying that the clean, calm, crystal-clear waters and the typically wild jungle settings of these sinkholes and caves lead visitors into a most peaceful state of mind. I certainly felt this peacefulness, even if for only a brief moment and despite what I swear were icicles forming on the end of my nose. (My friends told me it was just a leaf but what do they know?)''It turned out to be this peaceful state of mind that I felt while shivering in the waters of Cenote Eden that convinced me to also go for a swim at Cenote Dos Ojos (Two Eyes), the second cenote we visited that day. And, if you can believe this, not only did I also take a dip in the cavernous cenote known as El Cristalino (The Crystal) later that afternoon, I even took a running start and leaped right in.''Here’s the proof:''Surprisingly, that wasn’t so painful after all. I wasn’t about to jump in again but I’m glad I did it that once.''So with that said, I hope this post may act as further evidence that there is even more to Playa del Carmen than hotels, tourist bars, good Wi-fi,''divine tostadas''and the white sand beaches that act as this town’s front yard. Now you know about the dozens upon dozens of cenotes waiting to be explored that fill the backyard as well.''Here’s a few more photos from my day out at the cenotes:''Have you been to any cenotes in Mexico? Anyone else out there who absolutely cannot stand swimming in cold water?''It’s time to try something new.''As I now receive an average of 10 – 15 emails per day from readers who have questions about a whole range of travel-related topics, I decided to begin a new series so that more people can benefit from the answers I provide.''I’ll still reply to every email I receive but instead of giving my usual thorough and detailed answers directly, I will post the questions and answers that I think others would be interested in reading about right here on the blog.''We’ll see how this first post goes and, depending on the response, I’ll continue with this “''Travel Questions Answered''” series every week, every two weeks or once a month.''So, let’s get this series started with some questions that have arrived in my inbox this week…''1. How are you able to go from place to place and work? Do you have to apply for a work visa at every single place? Or has your visa been getting sponsored by companies who hire you? Working visas in Europe are hard to come by so how do I do this?''In my situation, I don’t require work visas because I don’t actually work in the countries I visit. My work is all online and I am not working for or being paid by a foreign company or organization. So, in the eyes of every country I visit, I am merely a tourist.''When it comes to working specific jobs in different countries overseas, a proper work visa is generally required. Some countries, such as Australia, New Zealand and the UK, offer working holiday visas to young citizens (usually under 30 years of age) of certain other countries. These visas can be easy to obtain, either through the government’s website or through an agency, and they allow you to travel and work small jobs legally during your stay.''But there are only a handful of countries where this is actually possible, so if you want to obtain an official work visa somewhere else, you’d need to get hired by a company first. Once you’re hired, the company will often complete and submit all of the necessary paperwork to the government in order for you to obtain the visa. This goes for positions such as teaching English at a school or language institute,  working for a tour operator and any other official job you may be hired for.''As for an American just showing up in a place such as Europe and trying to find work, that’s a bit more of a challenge. The only real way to get an official working visa in most of Europe would be to apply and be hired for a job with a company that is willing to sponsor you, but this is really only an option for those looking to work and live in the European Union long-term. For the traveler who is simply looking to earn some cash while on the road, you’ll have to look for ‘under the table’ jobs in places such as restaurants and bars. There is always a risk involved with this but it might be your only option.''2. What did you do about family while traveling or what do you do now? I’m very close with my family, although a computer and a webcam (or tablet) these days is just as good as being there, but I still want to know how you get through all this.''Last week I received an email from that sociable Canadian couple known as the''Traveling Canucks''informing me that they had nominated me to participate in the “My 7 Links” project. This project, started by Katie over at''Tripbase'', offers a way for travel bloggers to share some of their content that might have otherwise become lost in the archives over time while also helping spread the word about other travel bloggers they follow.''Below, you’ll find seven ‘questions’ and seven blog posts that answer those questions, and at the end, I’ll nominate five other travel bloggers to do the same on their own websites.''MY 7 LINKS''1.''Most Beautiful Post''The Food Stall On The Street Corner''This post highlights a 78-year old man I met last year who had dedicated the later stage of his life to serving one particular street food item in Playa del Carmen, Mexico. Sadly, when I returned to Mexico this past April, I couldn’t find him anywhere. And I’m now left to wonder what might have happened to this kind, smiling man I used to talk to several nights per week on the corner of 30th and 104th Streets.''2.''Most Popular Post''The Day US Customs Found A Bullet In My Pocket''Even a year after I wrote this post, new comments still arrive every single day, making this the most-visited post on WanderingEarl.com by far. Interestingly enough, the message of this post is often missed. I have no problem with US Customs officers questioning me whenever I return to the US, but I do believe that these officers should at least be somewhat knowledgeable about the regions of the world they are interrogating me about.''3.''Most Controversial Post''When Tourism Goes Terribly Wrong''Whether you agree with this one or not, the discussion that has so far taken place in the comments is both interesting and worthy of a read. Tourism comes in many forms and the form I discovered in one corner of Bali really disturbed me. See for yourself whether or not my observations make much sense.''4.''Most Helpful Post''How I Can Afford My Life Of Travel''As the goal of this website is to prove that anybody can live a life of travel if they truly want to, this post seems to have helped prove that point more than any other. And the comments that readers have left so far have given me a few other ideas for posts that I hope will be as equally useful.''5.''Post Whose Success Surprised Me''Do You Shave Your Underarms Too?''I certainly wasn’t expecting this post to become popular at all. I was merely curious as to whether or not I was the only male out there who shaves his armpits on a regular basis.''6.''Post I Feel Didn’t Get The Attention It Deserved''The Currency Of Pad Thai''While this post was written way back in October of 2009, it just isn’t read that often at all. It was an attempt for me to explain how I use that typical Thai dish of Pad Thai to ensure that every dollar I spend is spent wisely. If you think that you don’t have enough money to travel, you might want to have a read, especially before you pull out your wallet and purchase anything today.''7.''Post I Am Most Proud Of''A Toast To My Kelty Redwing 2900 Backpack''Back in August of 2009, I wrote this post and then clicked the “Publish” button on my computer screen. And with that simple click, WanderingEarl.com came into existence. I could not be more proud of anything else I’ve written as, without this post, I simply would never have had the chance to interact with, meet or have as an audience, any of you extraordinary readers.''Now here are the''5 Bloggers I’ve nominated''in order to keep the project going (Hint: They are all blogs that I follow regularly!):''James from''NomadicNotes.com''Jason from DigiDrift.com''Mark from''Migrationology.com''Dave from''WhatsDaveDoing.com''Juno from''RunawayJuno.com''I hope you’ll enjoy their posts in this series and as always, thank you for reading!''Today’s post offers an instructional video of sorts.''While at first it may seem completely pointless to demonstrate how to eat something as basic as a Mexican tostada, I have simply watched too many foreigners struggle with this staple of Mexican cuisine to remain silent any longer.''What is interesting is that the actual technique used to eat a tostada is not too important at all. What is important is being able to search deep within one’s self in order to summon the courage necessary to conquer the fear. What fear? The fear of making a fool of oneself.''Eating a tostada can be a messy ordeal. In fact, it SHOULD be a messy ordeal.''Let me give you an example…''Towards the end of this coming August, I shall board a flight bound for Lisbon.  This will not be my first visit to Portugal’s capital city, but it will be the first time I travel there not as a crew member on board cruise ships.''However, that’s not to say that a different mode of transportation won’t be playing a major role in this upcoming trip. In fact, the entire reason I’m heading to Portugal involves transportation.''I’m not talking about airplanes or taxis or even buses.''I’m talking about''trains''.''And plenty of them. In fact, thousands of kilometers worth of train travel.''The plan, after spending a few days in Lisbon, is to wake up on September 1st ready to embark on a journey unlike any other. This day shall mark the start of…''THE ULTIMATE TRAIN CHALLENGE?''Dreamed up, and turned into reality, by Michael Hodson of''GoSeeWrite.com'', the''Ultimate Train Challenge''is a ‘race’ of sorts, one that involves six participants traveling by train from Lisbon, Portugal to Saigon, Vietnam.''The goal is simple –''to set the world record for the longest continuous train journey''.''However, there is much more to this challenge than having six people sitting around on trains making faces at each other for thirty straight days. In fact, all of the participants won’t even be traveling together. Each of us has the freedom to create our own route as we each attempt to rack up the most amount of train miles as possible while traveling across Europe and much of Asia.''We will have to follow a handful of important rules in order to ensure our train journeys are continuous, rules that include not being able to sleep anywhere but on a train, not being able to backtrack along the same stretch of track and also, once we exit a particular country, we will not be allowed to return to that country again.''Then, whoever arrives in Saigon having traveled the longest continuous distance shall be deemed the winner (and probably also deemed the person most in need of a long shower).''MEET THE PARTICIPANTS''In addition to Michael (''@mobilelawyer''), the event’s organizer, my four other fellow train travelers will be:''Ayngelina Brogan of''BaconIsMagic.com''(''@Ayngelina'')''Anil Polat of''FoxNomad.com''(''@FoxNomad'')''Jeannie Mark of''NomadicChick.com''(''@NomadicChick'')''Jenny Leonard of''WhereIsJenny.com''(''@WhereIsJenny'')''This is also a good time to give Chris Richardson of''TheAussieNomad.com''a series of high-fives for setting up the''Ultimate Train Challenge''website and for being the general IT guru behind the entire operation.''MEET THE SPONSOR''Many, many thanks also go out to''Eurail.com'', the primary outlet for purchasing Eurail Passes, and now a major sponsor of the''Ultimate Train Challenge''.''For those who might not be familiar with Eurail Passes, these unique train tickets offer travelers an opportunity to travel all around one or more European countries for a fixed price. You simply choose a Eurail Pass that covers the countries you want to visit and that lasts for the number of days you need, and then, with your Eurail Pass in hand, you’re free to travel as often and cover as much distance as you wish, all for that one fixed price.''It doesn’t get much easier than that, especially if you’re planning on spending a couple of weeks or more in Europe. More information can naturally be found at''Eurail.com''.''MY REASON FOR PARTICIPATING''At first, I was quite hesitant about confirming my participation in this challenge. This was partly due to the fact that rolling across Europe and Asia on one continuous train journey for almost 30 days straight initially seemed as appealing as hopping around the world on a pogo-stick while eating nothing but mayonnaise.''But the more I learned about the event, the more intrigued I became, and before I knew it, this crazy idea suddenly seemed quite tempting. I’m always writing on this blog about how once you get out in the world you’ll discover endless opportunities that you never before imagined. Well, standing before me right now is one of those unique opportunities.''And besides, every single person I mentioned this challenge to all had the exact same reaction: Why wouldn’t you participate?''Good point.''Why wouldn’t I participate in the Ultimate Train Challenge?''The fact that as of right now I have no clue as to which train route I’d take or how I’ll manage to keep up with my online projects, including this blog, while in places such as the middle of Russia, without internet, and with only the clickety-clack of the wheels on the tracks as my companion for days on end, is not something I’m really going to worry about. That’s always been my travel style anyway. I’ll figure things out, whether two weeks before, two days before or even two minutes before I actually need to get something done.''And so, because I couldn’t come up with any real reasons not to participate,''off to Lisbon I shall go''.''AN INVITATION TO JOIN ME''I certainly want to invite you to follow along with this journey, both on this blog and on the official''Ultimate Train Challenge''website. I’m also very open to any input you may have to offer, perhaps based upon your own train travel experiences or simply based upon your ideas and thoughts about this event.''And if you happen to live in or will be traveling through any of the countries between Portugal and Vietnam during the month of September, do let me know. Meeting up for a quick chat and coffee in between train connections would be a most welcome addition to this adventure!''I’m confused.''I’m simply confused as to how it’s possible that I have so far failed to properly explain how I’ve managed to travel/live/work abroad nonstop for 12 years straight (and counting).''The questions are still pouring in every single day: How do you do it? How is it possible to travel for so long? Where does the money come from?''And while I thoroughly enjoy communicating with readers (I’m being completely serious and encourage you all to continue sending your emails to me as often as you wish), the fact that these very questions are on the minds of so many of you out there has led me to believe that I need to do a better job at providing the answers.''While it’s true that I’ve already written''plenty of posts''on the matter, clearly all of these posts, even as one collective entity, still fall well short of proving that a life of travel is not some crazy fantasy but a perfectly reasonable and easily attainable lifestyle option instead.''I’ve even referred to''other''travelers''who are out there living a similar''nomadic lifestyle'', but apparently, that hasn’t been enough either.''So what am I to do?''How do I prove, once and for all, that you do not need $500,000 or even $50,000 in your bank account, that if you are able to scrounge together $500 bucks, there’s little stopping you from becoming a full-time nomad. I’m not joking here. After all, this is exactly what I’ve done myself. Okay, I first left home with $1500 to my name but that’s not exactly a fortune either.''I’m not going to give up trying, so here’s another attempt to show you how I’ve managed to live a life of constant travel.''The following is a brief summary of the past 12 years of my life. It is a timeline of sorts that details where I’ve been, what I’ve been doing and where my money has come from at all times. Ultimately, it shows just how one ordinary person has so far managed to fund 4,195 days straight of traveling and living abroad.''THE TIMELINE''December 25, 1999:''Left home and flew to Bangkok with $1500 in my bank account''Planned to spend 3 months traveling around Southeast Asia''March 2000''Decided to officially extend my trip despite having only $500 left to my name''Taught English''in Chiang Mai, Thailand, earning approximately $150 USD per week (more than enough to live well in this city at the time)''October 2000''Returned to the US with $300 in my account (after paying for the flight home)''Spent 2 months in Boston working as a high school substitute teacher''Saved $2500 during this time''January 2001''Returned to Asia and spent 12 months traveling through Thailand, Burma, Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia and Australia''While in India, volunteered as an English teacher for 3 months in exchange for room and board''Stayed with friends for 3 months in Thailand and taught English once again in Chiang Mai''Lived with friends for 2 months in Australia, which kept my expenses quite low''Returned to the US with no money at all''February 2002''Through a contact, I applied to work on board cruise ships''Landed a job as a Tour Staff with Carnival Cruise Lines''Worked on board two different ships during one 8-month contract''Saved $8000 during this time and then decided not to return for another contract''November 2002''Traveled to Australia for 4 months''February 2003''With $4000 in the bank, I spent two months living with a friend in Los Angeles''Found a short-term job at an advertising company through a temp agency''Worked for two months and left LA with $5000 in the bank''April 2003''Traveled to Thailand, Bangladesh and India''September 2003''Landed a job as a Tour Manager for Norwegian Cruise Lines''Worked two contracts on board ships located in Hawaii and the South Pacific''Traveled to Europe during my 6-week vacation between contracts''Saved $20,000 by the end of my second contract''July 2004''Spent 7 months traveling to Europe, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Afghanistan''March 2005''With $10,000 still in my account, decided to work two more contracts as a Tour Manager for Norwegian Cruise Lines''Saved an additional $20,000 during these contracts''Traveled to Europe during my 2-month vacation in between contracts''December 2005''Traveled for 8 months to South America, Europe and India''September 2006''Was offered a job with Cunard Line (cruise line based out of the UK)''Worked as a Tour Manager on board the Queen Mary 2 and Queen Elizabeth 2 ocean liners''Spent 18 months with Cunard, saving over $3300 per month''Traveled through Europe, Caribbean, Mexico, the Middle East and SE Asia during my vacations in between contracts''April 2008''Traveled back to India for 3 months''July 2008''Worked one final two-month contract for Cunard Line, saving an additional $6000''September 2008''Left Cunard (with more than enough money saved up by now) and moved to Australia''Spent five months in Melbourne working on creating online streams of income''December 2008''Sold my first eBook online''Continued working on promoting my eBook while creating a second eBook to sell''Began earning some income through''affiliate marketing''February 2009''Spent six weeks in Thailand''Volunteered and traveled in India for six weeks''Visited Italy for a few weeks''June 2009''Traveled through Central America and Mexico, finishing the trip by renting an apartment in Sayulita, Mexico''Continued working on my online projects''Income from my online projects reached $1000 per month for the first time''December 2009''Moved to the Caribbean coast of Mexico and rented an apartment in Playa del Carmen, where I spent more time working on my online projects''Officially launched WanderingEarl.com''September 2010''Spent 6 months traveling around the Middle East, Australia and Southeast Asia''April 2011''Returned to Playa del Carmen (where I am currently living) in order to catch up on work''Reached $2500+ per month in online income through the sales of three eBooks I’ve authored and through my efforts with affiliate marketing''Right Now''Planning some new adventures for later this year, including a most interesting 30 day train challenge for the month of September (more details to come in my next post)''Life as a permanent nomad continues''And that’s all there is to it. The truth of the matter is…''$2500 per month, and even $1000 or $1500 per month, is more than sufficient to achieve a lifestyle that involves extensive travel. It really doesn’t take much. Some teaching English here, some''cruise ship work''there, some internet marketing in your spare time and VOILA!''And this is only a tiny fraction of the opportunities to earn money while traveling that exist out there. Once you realize this, you’ll also realize that luck, miracles and having an overflowing bank account play no role whatsoever in allowing you to achieve your travel goals.''All you need is the courage to take the first step and a mind that is open to trying new experiences!''***''If you want to create your own life of travel, you may be interested in my new project –''How to Live a Life of Travel''.''Bus travel through India’s mountainous regions involves dramatic scenery, remote villages, fresh air and colorful passengers. The only thing missing sometimes is the road itself.''An overly squeaky, yet oddly enjoyable, Hindi pop song blared from the crackly speakers as the decrepit bus chugged along through India’s remote Spiti Valley. The wooden-planked floor rattled constantly, adding a unique beat to the tune along with the hypnotic vibrations of the many broken window frames. The bouncing up and down of the passengers, in response to the cracks, potholes and rocks on this semi-paved ‘highway’, resembled a choreographed piece of modern dance.''The bus was full, every bench holding up to four colorfully dressed locals crammed together. The bags of rice, sacks of vegetables, and bulky boxes of unknown goods packed into the aisles acted as seats for more than a dozen others. I sat in the back row of the bus, where the five seats held eight people and legs overlapped in an intricate and intimate pattern.''I was headed from the mountaintop village of Dhankar to the riverside village of Tabo, home to the most revered and ancient Buddhist monastery in the Himalayas. Having been pre-warned that this journey usually covered the not-too-great distance of approximately 30 miles in around 2.5 hours, I had no choice but to accept this episode of bone-fracturing Indian travel.''All seemed perfectly on schedule as our bus moved along at its incredibly slow pace for the first hour, quite a feat considering that, during long stretches of straight road, our maximum cruising speed still never exceeded 15 miles per hour.''However, the leisurely meandering through these massive 15,000-foot Himalayan mountains, only a short distance from the mysterious Tibetan border, left me mesmerized by the awe-inspiring views at all times. Tiny Tibetan villages, recognizable by the scores of multi-colored prayer flags flapping in the wind, appeared in the most unexpected of places, impossibly high up on the slopes or far down below along the banks of the Chandra River.''Every now and then the bus would come to a stop at some unmarked location, with no human activity anywhere in sight. But sure enough, a passenger would disembark and vanish along a barely visible path that provided no indication of a destination. Looking around in all directions at the completely uninhabited landscape, I was often left to use my imagination in determining where this person could possibly be headed.''At moments such as these, being subjected to another slice of India’s wonder, I would glance down at the small sticker I had placed on the front of my backpack earlier in the day and I would repeat its simple words, “I love India!”, over and over again, fully appreciating every minute of my journey.''THE DETOUR''Of course, despite the happiness of being in such a unique part of the world, when the bus suddenly came to a halt and the driver turned off the engine, I was thrilled to observe all of the other passengers begin to collect their belongings and exit the bus. I definitely welcomed what appeared to be an early arrival at Tabo.''Unfortunately, this thrill was short-lived as I quickly discovered that we had not in fact reached Tabo one hour earlier than scheduled. Instead, we had stopped behind another bus, one completely empty of passengers and with its driver taking an afternoon nap on the roof. Our own driver climbed the ladder to the roof of this other bus, shook awake its driver and offered him a cigarette. While they shared a smoke, I chose to investigate.''The situation soon revealed itself –''the road was gone''.''I asked the young man who had been sitting next to me on the bus for an explanation. After introducing himself as Tenzin, asking about the salaries in my country and providing a detailed account of the lives of his two children, he finally explained that a major landslide had taken place a few days earlier.''Due to heavy monsoon rains, a ¼-mile stretch of road had loosened and plunged five hundred feet to the bottom of the valley floor. Where there should have been pavement there was instead a fragile and very alive terrain of dirt and mud and rocks, with the unsteady earth still tumbling avalanche-style to the bottom every few seconds.''Some of the other passengers immediately began walking along a narrow switchback trail that criss-crossed down the mountainside next to the road. Tenzin noticed my confusion and began to point repeatedly, straight across the wide gap in front of us, to our “new bus there”. I glanced across and after a good scan of the horizon located our destination, where the road started once again. But it took a second for the situation to sink in as I began noticing tiny specks moving in a line along the bottom of the valley floor and then straight up what appeared to be a sheer cliff on the other side.''These barely visible dots proved to be the passengers from the bus ahead of us, and while my initial reaction to the unexpected challenge that now lay ahead involved a good deal of rock-throwing and head-shaking, it did not take long for me to remember that, in India, you’ll be left behind if you don’t keep up with the non-stop pace of life. I needed to stop whining and start hiking.''THE GRUELING TREK''The difficult path rapidly descended several hundred feet to the bottom of the valley where it led to a vast field of thousands of recently fallen boulders, a field that I needed to navigate.''After a couple of minutes of hiking across this landscape in my sturdy New Balance cross-trainers, and despite considering myself to be in good physical condition, I noticed that I was constantly being passed by the locals. On a normal day this would not have bothered me, but when a 90-year old Tibetan woman with a basket full of vegetables on her head, wearing mangled, plastic flip-flops skipped past me without hesitation, I felt pathetic. Her two-toothed smile seemed to be a mocking gesture, a sense that intensified with each smiling, waving person that continued to fly by me, hopping from rock to unsteady rock with effortless ease.''Nobody at all seemed the least bit disturbed that their peaceful bus journey home was suddenly interrupted by the need to carry their belongings on a strenuous two-mile hike through an inhospitable and unchartered mountain valley.''Eventually, I reached the waist-deep raging stream, on the banks of which I stood for some time, unable to determine how the two dozen people in front of me had reached the other side. Only when I turned around and realized that I was the last passenger to cross did I inhale deeply and start jumping along a scattered collection of slippery rocks, semi-submerged in the frigid water. Upon reaching the other side, I was delighted that I had managed to only soak one pant leg up to the thigh.''So proud was I! That is until I looked in front of me.''What had earlier appeared off in the distance as a sheer cliff face of mud and rock turned out to be exactly what I now faced. As I watched my fellow passengers, hoping to find some clever local guidance, I instead discovered that the several hundred-foot climb was of the “anything goes” type of adventure. Some people followed a four-inch wide path that zig-zagged its way up, others just tried to bolt straight up the mountainside and a few people pulled each other up step by step. Regardless of what they were doing, they were moving and I was not.''I slowly began climbing, clinging to any rock, shrub or chunk of mud that I could grab onto. My sweaty clothes stuck to my body, dirt covered most of my face and my back painfully ached under the weight of my backpack. At several points I wanted to quit, convincing myself that a small hut in this valley would actually not be such a terrible ‘starter home’. But every time I looked straight up to the top, observed yet another Tibetan great-grandmother reaching the road without breaking a sweat, I forced myself to plod along.''The moment when I grabbed onto flat land and pulled myself over the final ledge gave me such joy that I immediately fell to the ground and smiled in victory, with my lungs inflating and deflating at the speed of light.''I was an adventurer! A warrior! A god of the mountains! I was….about to miss the bus.''THE NEW BUS''I heard the unmistakable, migraine-inducing honking of an Indian bus horn. Glancing up, I found Tenzin two-hundred feet away waving furiously for me to hurry. Stumbling off on the final stretch, I dragged my backpack next to me and tried to clear the chunks of mud out of my nostrils.''Just before I reached the bus I passed a group of 3 middle-aged Indian couples who were about to embark on this hike in the reverse direction. They took one glance at me and seemed to become quite concerned about what lay ahead. I looked at them, the ladies in their clean pastel-colored saris and high-heeled shoes and the men in their pressed trousers and dress shirts, each person carrying a piece of luggage. “Very easy,” I said, “No problem.” They thanked me for this good piece of news and I hobbled on.''As the final passenger to arrive, I received not only a hearty round of applause from my fellow bus mates but my repulsive appearance also induced a solid bout of uproarious laughter. And as I fell into my seat in the back row of the bus, once again next to Tenzin, I admitted that I deserved this humiliation. Everyone else looked as if they had just walked out of the day spa at a Four Seasons in Hawaii.''The torture had now ended and as the bus drove off I wasted no time in closing my eyes and entering the deepest of sleeps. My body needed to relax and even the mesmerizing Himalayan scenery could no longer attract my attention.''I slept for what felt like an hour, until I was awaken by Tenzin shaking my arm. I opened my eyes, let out a big yawn, and seeing the smile on Tenzin’s face, began anticipating a nice comfortable hotel room with mountain views and a hot cup of chai.''“Tabo!” I shouted.''Tenzin just patted my leg, let out a small chuckle and said, “No Tabo. No road. New bus.”''And off we went again to cross another landslide.''Have you ever been to the Spiti Valley? Or been stuck in a landslide? Any adventures to share?''As I mentioned in a post about''Playa del Carmen''a few weeks ago, travelers I’ve met here in this coastal Mexican town typically seem to pass through a remarkably similar set of stages.''They get off the bus.''They stand in shock at seeing so many tourists.''They immediately hate the place.''They book a room and plan to leave the next day.''They walk around.''They start to like the place.''They go to the beach.''They now love the place.''They eat at a restaurant away from the tourist zone.''They now want to move here for a while.''They ask me for apartment recommendations.''That’s the power of Playa del Carmen.''But since I’ve already written about that, this post is an answer to that final stage. It is an answer to the question, “''How do I find an apartment in Playa del Carmen?''”''ONLINE vs ON THE GROUND''This is the biggest dilemma. Should you try and secure an apartment in Playa del Carmen before you arrive or should you wait until you get here before you begin your search?''I’ve always felt that the best method of finding an apartment is to show up and do your research on the ground. Not only does this ensure that you know exactly what you’re renting, but you’ll also have infinitely more options to choose from.''Also, consider this. If you were to search right now for an apartment in Playa del Carmen, you’d probably go to Google and type in “Apartments for rent in Playa del Carmen”.''Well, let me ask you… Would it make sense for someone in Japan to search Japanese-language websites in order to try and find an apartment to rent in the USA?  Not really.''So, if you’re interested in finding an apartment in Playa del Carmen, searching online in English won’t get you very far.  You’ll find plenty of websites full of apartments for rent, but these websites will all be geared towards foreigners who don’t realize that searching in English for apartments in a Spanish-speaking country is not the best of ideas (for anyone looking to save money).''Local apartment owners are not going to advertise their apartments on the internet in English, unless they are trying to attract vacationers who don’t mind paying exorbitant weekly rates. As an example, I have a friend who rented an apartment for one month from an English-language website before actually arriving in Playa del Carmen. He paid $3200 USD for his place, which was located in a building where apartments are typically rented to locals for $900 USD per month.''Had this person showed up in town and contacted local apartment owners directly, he would have easily saved over $2200 USD.''That’s obviously a great deal of money to be saved, which is whey I always recommend traveling to Playa del Carmen first, spending a day or two wandering the streets and calling the phone numbers on every For Rent (Se Renta) sign you pass. There are literally hundreds of excellent apartments available in this town and most of them are not advertised online, especially not in English.''ENGLISH vs SPANISH''A common, and quite reasonable, question that I am often asked is, “Can I get a good deal if I don’t speak Spanish?”''The answer is yes. Contacting local apartment owners instead of owners and real estate agencies focused on the tourist market will always get you a better deal, even if the extent of your Spanish is “Hola, agua, cerveza”.''Of course, speaking Spanish can land you an even better deal, but usually only if you’re completely fluent or able to convince a local that you’re from Mexico, which is not easy to do. The problem is, as soon as an apartment owner discovers that you’re a foreigner, and regardless of your Spanish-speaking abilities, the rent automatically increases to a level that is more than what locals would pay.''On the other hand, if you can communicate in Spanish, then you have an advantage in terms of being able to search websites such as''VivaStreet.com'', which lists, in Spanish, dozens and dozens of apartments for rent that are being marketed to locals, not only in Playa del Carmen, but all over Mexico.''THE BEST NEGOTIATION METHOD''Once you find some apartments that you’re interested in, the absolute best method for securing the lowest rent possible is to have a local Mexican inquire about the rent and negotiate on your behalf, while you hide in the bushes (or around the corner).''This is actually the method I used when I returned to Playa del Carmen a couple of months ago. I typically waited in the car, and sometimes in the bushes, while Liz, who is Mexican, negotiated with apartment owners. In the end, we managed to land a 2-bedroom apartment for $800 USD per month that normally is rented to foreigners for $800 USD per week. I only showed my face after the owner gave Liz the ‘local discount’.''Of course, I’m aware that most people looking to live in Mexico for a while probably don’t have a local Mexican friend ready to start negotiating for them, but I’m actually in the process of creating a solution to that very problem. At the end of this post I’ll reveal some of the details.''A HANDFUL OF FINAL TIPS''If you’re searching for an apartment while in Playa del Carmen and you find one that you like, it pays to ask other tenants of the same apartment building how much they pay per month. While this might seem like an uncomfortable question to ask a complete stranger, it is actually quite common here in Mexico and people will usually be more than willing to give out that information. Knowing what others are paying for similar apartments obviously helps you determine whether the rent you were quoted is what it should be or if it’s too high.''Also, if you’re only planning to stay here for 1 or 2 weeks, you’re best option is to stay at one of the small boutique hotels in the center of town that offer excellent rooms in beautiful settings for around $30 – $50 USD per night. Apartments will be outrageously expensive for such a short period of time.''On the other end of the spectrum, the longer you’re planning to stay, the better deal you’ll be able to get on an apartment. If you’re able to commit to a 3 or 6 month contract, especially if it’s during low season, which runs from May to October, you’ll be in the best position possible to really grab a great deal on a place.''Finally, there is always one other method that you should consider using when searching for an apartment, a method I wrote about last year in my post “''How To Rent An Expensive Apartment For A Budget Price''“.''AN EASY SOLUTION''Given the amount of emails that I receive from people interested in moving to Playa del Carmen, I recently started thinking of ways for me to help make the process easier for everyone. And I think I’ve come up with a solid idea.''I don’t want to make a formal announcement yet before the kinks are all worked out, but the general concept is to have a team of local Mexican friends available to do your apartment hunting and price negotiating for you.''They’ll inspect apartments, take videos and photos of the exterior and interior, which they’ll send to you along with a full report, and they’ll negotiate the rent for you, which ensures that the rent offered will be at the local rate. Once you’re happy with the apartment and the quoted rent, our team will close the deal and then pass along your details to the apartment owner.''This solution ensures that you end up paying local rents without having to speak Spanish and without having to wait until you arrive in Playa del Carmen to search for an apartment. I know that I would have personally loved to use such a service in many of the places I’ve lived around the world, which is why I’m confident that this idea will prove useful for many people.''For now, until I make a more official announcement, if you’re thinking about renting an apartment in Playa del Carmen for 1 month or more, I invite you to''send me an email''and I’ll gladly forward you some more details.''Any other tips to add? Anyone headed to Playa del Carmen in the near future?''Stepping on the brakes, I slowed my car down to a crawl before rolling over the special speed bump set up by the Mexican police. I had arrived at the permanent road block located on the highway from Cancun to Playa del Carmen, a road block that I had passed through several dozen times before.''I knew the procedure well. After the speed bump, drivers should keep on driving unless one of the heavily armed police officers tells you to stop.''Luckily, the police here rarely stop foreigners, especially one driving a tiny, fifteen year old car (yes, me). But of course, on this occasion, when I glanced towards the police officer standing off to the side, we unfortunately made eye contact, which prompted him to stick out his hand and motion for me to pull over to a patch of dirt that acted as an inspection area.''And so, upon seeing this, I did the natural thing. I smiled widely, nodded my head and just kept on driving. Off I went, down the highway, continuing my journey to Playa del Carmen. I was tired. I was hungry. And I certainly wasn’t in the mood to be pulled over at a road block. So I didn’t stop.''After ignoring the officer, I glanced in my rear view mirror once I was about 100 feet down the road and sure enough, instead of hopping on his motorcycle to chase me down or pulling out his automatic weapon and firing warning shots at my car, he was just standing there, observing the next group of cars that were passing through the road block.''BENDABLE RULES''I’m perfectly aware that giving people the ability to bend, or even completely ignore, rules and laws, does not help create the most ideal or orderly of societies. Problems, severe problems, plague any country where such a lack of consequences exists and where law and order are fuzzy at best.''But putting that fact aside for a moment, as a foreigner hailing from a country where rules and laws are not meant, or allowed, to be bent or broken, and where most facets of our lives are fully dictated by such rules and laws, I must admit that I get a thrill from being able to drive straight through a road block. It’s the same thrill I feel when sneaking into the tribal region of Pakistan in order to visit the wild gun-producing town of''Darra Adem Khel''or slipping a $20 bill to an Air India gate agent in exchange for a first class seat before boarding my flight or even when simply riding on the roof of a bus through Laos.''And I don’t think I’m alone. Travelers in general seem to get high on the freedom to behave in a way that our home countries would never allow. I’m not talking about committing crimes. Instead, I’m talking about the reason why so many blog posts about Thailand, especially from those visiting for the first time, include stories of driving a motorbike or scooter ‘just like the locals do’. Of course, there are rules when driving in Thailand, but the somewhat relaxed notion of driving lanes and the meaning of red lights is more than enough to give us a thrill unlike any other. It’s also why travelers play with tigers and white rhinos, love to exchange money on the black market, bargain for everything and attend parties more wild than any rule or law would ever permit at home.''A COUNTRY WITHOUT MANY RULES''This freedom from rules and consequences is one of the reasons I love India so much. Over there, rules are often non-existent, and the ones that do exist, can be bent, ignored, re-arranged or completely changed. You can jump on a train without a ticket and without fear of being kicked off and arrested. If you’re caught, you just sort the situation out right then and there. You can drive a motorcycle without a license, push and shove your way to the front of a queue without angering anyone (such behavior is expected), convince a bus driver to let you drive the bus, hitch a ride in an army truck full of armed soldiers on their way to Kashmir or even purchase an elephant if you really wanted one and had the cash on hand.''Sab kuch milega, as the Indians say.''‘Everything is possible’''.''Of course, despite the presence of bendable rules and laws in many countries, I don’t exactly travel around with a Kaleshnikov rifle hanging off of my backpack, urinate my name onto every building I pass and bribe my way through every country. Not at all.''I simply enjoy wandering around knowing full well that what may be completely impossible to make happen back home, could now be achieved in an instant. It’s that freedom to ‘create the rules as you go’ that brings the saliva to the edge of my mouth and leaves me feeling giddy about the endless possibilities that each day holds.''Do you feel this same giddiness while in places with loose rules and laws? For those who have yet to travel, can you imagine being in a place that allows you to do the things I’ve mentioned above?''Today I write to you on my brand new laptop. As reluctant as I was to give up my previous machine, one that surprised and shocked me repeatedly due to its remarkable ability to over-achieve like no other laptop that I had ever owned before, that whole spilling lemonade on top of the keyboard incident really left me with no other option.''And when it came time to purchase a new laptop, I did exactly what I normally do. I narrowed my choice down to two favorites and then I spent eight days weighing the pros and cons of each one over and over and over again until everyone around me, tired of me asking their opinion for the forty-second time, began yelling, “Just buy the damn thing already!”''Finally, I bought the damn thing. However, twenty minutes after clicking the “Confirm Purchase” button on Amazon.com, I changed my mind, canceled my order and chose the other finalist instead.''So now I have an''Acer Aspire TimelineX AS1830T-6651''.''Basically, it is an upgraded version of my last laptop (Acer Aspire Timeline 1810T). I figured that if I loved that old machine so much, there really wasn’t a need to experiment with something else. I decided to stick with what has not only worked, but worked so amazingly well for me over the past two years.''And my new machine is faster, more powerful and it’s still lightweight (3.1 lbs), with a comfortable 11.6 inch screen, full keyboard and most importantly, it can handle any program I throw at it with ease. As a permanent nomad who blogs and works online, what more do I need?''So far, I’ve been as happy with this new laptop as I was with my previous one. The only downside is that I must now keep any drinks, especially lemonade, a minimum of five feet away from me while I’m working. I’ve become a little neurotic about this as I certainly don’t want to spill anything again any time soon. Even right now I’m back at''Ah Cacao Cafe''with my laptop on one table and my mango smoothie sitting on the table next to me, well away from spilling distance.''Apart from that, I highly recommend the Acer TimelineX for anyone planning to travel and work/blog from the road. At under $630 USD, you end up with an ultra-portable yet powerful laptop, complete with specs that match those of many larger and more expensive machines. As far as I’m concerned, this is the perfect laptop for a nomad!''TRAVEL BLOG SUCCESS''Switching gears completely for a few minutes, I thought this would be an ideal moment to mention a special promotion being offered by my pal Dave Lee from GoBackpacking.com.''As I know that many of you are either interested in starting your own travel blog or in growing your current travel blog, this should be of particular interest to you.''Dave is the creator of''Travel Blog Success'', a program that provides the step-by-step instructions one needs to successfully build, maintain, promote and even monetize a travel blog. It’s a program that I’ve used myself, as have dozens of other travel bloggers, and it’s a program that I strongly suggest any serious travel blogger take a look at if they want their blog to stand out in the travel blogging world.''Not only are there dozens of pages of detailed material that will help give a major boost to the success of your blog, there is also an active forum, which I consider to be the biggest bonus of this program. This is where members communicate with both Dave and each other in order to ask questions, seek additional advice and basically pick up the valuable tips and know-how that only an exclusive community of dedicated bloggers can provide.''I won’t go into too much more detail as you can read all about the program right here:''Travel Blog Success''As a side note, and this should be of interest to any of you who are looking to earn money through your travel blog, Dave himself just earned $5000 for the month of May through his blogging efforts. And while that number is definitely on the high end of the spectrum in terms of earning potential, he is clearly someone that knows what he’s talking about, which is exactly what makes his program so worthwhile.''Anyway, the main reason I wanted to mention the course today is because Dave is currently offering a 35% discount (for 4 days only) on the Premium Membership, which will save you over $40 and give you access to absolutely every aspect of the program, including expert interviews and monthly coaching calls as well.''If you have a read through the''Travel Blog Success''website and decide to join, make sure you use the following code in order to receive the 35% discount:''Discount Code:''tbs35''Sale Ends:''Sunday, June 12th at 11pm (EST)''Any other Acer users out there? And if anyone has any questions about Travel Blog Success, please let me know in the comments below or just send me an email!''On Thursday afternoon, I picked up my mom from the airport in Cancun. She was coming to Mexico for a quick holiday and even though her JetBlue flight had arrived 3 hours late, she was in quite a happy mood upon arrival. Actually, I would have understood had she been in a worse mood, considering what she went through to get here.''A few minutes after her flight from Fort Lauderdale had taken off, the air-conditioning system on board the airplane malfunctioned and the Captain flew the plane in circles for a while as they attempted to fix the issue. Unfortunately, they couldn’t fix the problem and after 30 minutes, with the air on board the aircraft barely breathable, the Captain decided to return to Fort Lauderdale.''Once back on the ground, the passengers waited 30 minutes on board the airplane before being told that they would have to disembark and wait for a new plane to arrive. The problem simply couldn’t be fixed quickly.''After sitting around for another hour and a half, the passengers all boarded a new aircraft that had been flown in and off they finally went to Cancun.''Three hours later than scheduled, the flight arrived.''MY FAVORITE AIRLINE''I’m a huge fan of''JetBlue Airlines''. If they are flying a route that I need to take, I’ll choose them over any other airline without hesitation. The reason is simple. When I fly with them,''I feel as if they care about my business.''Here’s a perfect example: While waiting for a new plane to arrive in Fort Lauderdale, all of the passengers on my mom’s flight were informed that they would be receiving a $50 flight voucher for the inconvenience. Then, upon arrival in Cancun, every single passenger was handed a letter by a friendly JetBlue representative as soon as they stepped off the airplane. The letter consisted of an apology for the day’s events and written documentation that a $50 travel voucher would be received.''Later that night, my mom received an email from JetBlue confirming that the $50 travel voucher had been added to her JetBlue Frequent Flyer account.''That’s customer service.''MY LEAST FAVORITE AIRLINE''After my mom received the email from JetBlue, I commented that, “''I wish Continental Airlines was the same. I’ve been waiting 3 months for a hotel room reimbursement that they owe me''.”''I’m not very fussy about customer service. As long as I’m treated adequately, I’m happy. However, what does bother me is consistently bad customer service, the kind that leaves me feeling as if a particular company couldn’t care less about having my business.''And that’s exactly how I feel about''Continental Airlines''.''Back in March, when I had to suddenly change my plans and return to''North America from Singapore'', I went ahead and booked a flight with Continental Airlines. Then, due to the earthquake and tsunami that took place in Japan, my flight had to be re-routed at the last minute. In the end, I was given a route that required me to spend a night in San Francisco before continuing on to Mexico the following day.''The agent who changed my flight told me not to worry and that all I needed to do was book a hotel room myself and then submit the receipt for reimbursement once I reached my destination.''She then strongly recommended that I use''Hotels.com''to book my hotel'', telling me that they are a partner of Continental Airlines, and that booking with them would make the reimbursement procedure much easier.''It sounded good to me.''Three flights and an overnight stay at the Best Western Plus in San Francisco later, I was where I needed to be.''CONTINENTAL’S VERSION OF CUSTOMER SERVICE''It’s been 3 months since that journey and I’ve still yet to receive my reimbursement.''Continental Airlines keeps asking me to provide the original receipt from the Best Western Plus. And I keep explaining to them that this is impossible.''When using Hotels.com (again, the hotel booking website that Continental told me to use), you end up paying Hotels.com directly and they then go ahead and pay the hotel. As a result, the hotel that you stay at will either provide you with a receipt that has a $0 balance or simply not provide you with a receipt at all (as was my case).''So, despite explaining this upon submitting my hotel reimbursement request, as instructed, using the online form on Continental Airlines’ website, I kept receiving emails telling me that:''“''An original check-out receipt from the hotel is required for reimbursement purposes.''”''And I kept replying with emails such as this one:''“''I just want to clarify. The Continental Airlines customer service rep that I spoke with recommended that I use Hotels.com to book my hotel and then submit it for reimbursement. And by using Hotels.com, customers pay the website directly and therefore do not receive a receipt from the hotel. However, you require a receipt from the hotel, which the hotel cannot provide? Clearly there is something wrong with this.''”''Eventually, back in April, I was instructed to send all of my documentation (the same documentation I had already emailed) by regular mail to the Customer Care Center’s office.''And that’s exactly what I did, along with another letter explaining the situation.''STILL WAITING''After 2 months passed without any response, I decided to call the Customer Care Center a few days ago and find out what’s going on.''Of course, it took two days to actually reach a Customer Care representative because every phone number I dialed led me to the reservations line. I would then wait on hold for 30 minutes only to be transferred by a reservations agent to the Custom Care department, leaving me to wait on hold for another painfully long period of time.''And when I finally did speak with someone, this is what happened:''I asked for the direct Customer Care telephone number, and was told that Continental Airlines no longer has a direct number to the Customer Care Center. Everybody is now required to wait on hold to speak with a reservations agent before waiting on hold again in order to speak with a Customer Care representative. Not a good start to the conversation.''After looking up my case ID number, the representative gave me a long run around that included such statements as: ‘your case is pending’, ‘the manager in charge of your case is off duty today’, ‘only two executive managers in the company have the power to approve hotel reimbursements’ (really?), ‘these two executive managers are very busy and the claims process is complicated and takes time’, ‘the assistant manager working on your case does not have the ability to approve reimbursements’ and finally, ‘there is a chance that the executive managers will deny your claim’.''I then informed the representative that denying my claim was not an option I would accept and she simply replied that nothing else could be done at that moment to help me.''All of this nonsense for a $113 hotel reimbursement''.''Continental Airlines has so far required me to wait 3 months, write 9 emails, make 5 phone calls and wait on hold for a total of 2 hours while an assistant manager and two executive managers go through what should not be a ‘complicated process’ in order for me to receive my legitimate claim.''JetBlue, on the other hand, had a letter and a $50 flight voucher waiting for passengers upon arrival in Cancun because of a simple 3-hour delay. JetBlue not only showed that they care about their customers, but they also avoided receiving 150 angry phone calls from those passengers.''Continental could learn a few lessons here. I’ve been growing increasingly frustrated with each phone call and email I’ve had to make as I repeatedly discover that Continental really doesn’t care a walrus’s eyelash about having me as a customer.''Not only that but I just can’t understand how such a large company won’t provide the public with a dedicated Customer Care telephone number. I don’t think that Continental Airlines could say “''We don’t care about customer service''” any more clearly than that.''And if that’s the case, I’ll make sure that the 20+ flights I take each year are all with other airlines.''End of rant. Although I’d be happy to take bets on whether or not you think I’ll ever receive my reimbursement!''Anyone else have a Continental experience to share?''About ten days ago, I was working on my laptop as usual in the wonderful''Ah Cacao Cafe''here in Playa del Carmen. At one point, I stood up from my seat and walked towards the restroom. And then I unzipped the zipper to my shorts as one would do before using the urinal. However, without even realizing it, I had actually unzipped my zipper before I even entered the restroom, while I was still walking across the cafe.''And then, it wasn’t until mid-urination that I happened to glance to my right and look in the mirror. While trying to make sure I didn’t have any brownie stuck in my teeth, I suddenly noticed the reflection of the bathroom door, which I had left completely open.''Sure enough, there were a few other customers who could see right in and all I could do was smile at them through the mirror as I carried on with my business.''Clearly, I have become so comfortable in this cafe that I forgot it was a cafe at all. I thought it was my apartment, where such actions wouldn’t really be so out of place.''After it happened, this small situation at Ah Cacao made me realize, not just how comfortable I’ve become at that cafe, but just how comfortable I’ve become in''Playa del Carmen''. Perhaps a little too comfortable.''CHANGE OF PLANS''Originally, I had written down that small tale because I planned to use it in order to illustrate my need to take a break from Playa del Carmen, to travel somewhere new, even for just a short period of time. Usually, the only way that I can survive living in one place for many months in a row is to make sure that I take such small breaks every now and then in order to keep life fresh.''This is why, in my original post, I was going to blurt out something like, “Well, as luck would have it, June is full of travel plans for me!”''But, and I must warn you that this post is about to take a drastic change in tone, I won’t be writing anything like that any more.''My exciting post about my travel plans for the month of June is no longer.''And it all began when I knocked a large glass of lemonade onto the keyboard of my laptop the other day. The situation then become worse when I sliced my finger wide open while cutting up a tomato a short time after.''As my computer proceeded to die a slow death and the blood dripped from the gash in my finger, all of my plans fell apart. Actually, my plans didn’t exactly fall apart because of these two relatively insignificant incidents, but these two incidents forced me to realize that I needed to take apart my plans myself.''The year that has been 2011 has so far been a wee bit more challenging than I had been expecting. It seems as if every week has brought with it some unexpected situation that has left me with no other choice but to change my plans on a moment’s notice or rethink the decisions I’ve made. And naturally, the result of so much instability and confusion is spending a great deal of time wondering why all of these things are happening and what I need to do to change the situation.''THE OLD PLAN''Had all gone smoothly, I would be leaving in exactly one week from today to spend about six days in Vancouver, attending the''TBEX (Travel Blog Exchange) Conference''. In fact, I was so sure that I was attending this conference that Anil from''FoxNomad''and I decided to give an informal talk about our recent trip to Iraq on Friday, June 10th at the Persian Teahouse in downtown Vancouver.''Unfortunately, I’m not going to TBEX anymore. And now I must admit that I’m the ass that has backed out of this talk that we had planned, leaving Anil on his own. But believe me, this was a terribly difficult decision and I wouldn’t be backing out of this if I felt I had any other option.''Here’s the original invitation:''Pre-TBEX Iraq Talk''Hopefully Anil will still be going ahead with the talk and I highly recommend anyone in the area to attend. As many of you know, our experience in Iraq was unlike any other travel adventure either of us had ever had and this talk is a great way to gain some further insight on what it’s truly like to visit this region.''Apart from the talk, I also began making plans to meet with specific bloggers at TBEX, bloggers who I’ve previously only communicated with online but who I would be absolutely excited about meeting in person. And then there are all of you I’ve met before and who I would have had a chance to spend more time with and gotten to know a lot better.''I’m not lying when I say that I was really looking forward to TBEX, as far as the socializing goes.''And then I spilled that lemonade on my laptop and sliced open my finger.''As a result, I realized that now is the time to sort out 2011 before it gets too late. My mind has been far, far away from the present moment in recent weeks, leaving me in a daze at times, one that has sucked the energy from me and made it almost impossible to concentrate on anything.''Something is just off right now. And I’m taking my distant state of mind and the accidents that have occurred as a sign that I need to find out what is wrong and fix it. And the sooner the better.''This is why I’m skipping out on TBEX. I need to deal with these challenges, do some serious thinking and put my life back in order. Bad timing indeed but necessary nonetheless.''So, I’ll be sticking around the Playa del Carmen area instead, heading off on some short trips to various places in the region in order to clear my head and take whatever steps I need to take to get back on track.''(Remember, I’ve never said that''being a permanent nomad is easy''!)''AN APOLOGY''The point of this post was not simply to provide a (non) update of my plans for the month. I am also fully aware that the state I have been in has had an effect on others. I’ve had to break or cancel plans more times this year than I have in the last 10 years combined. I’ve also been unable to confirm my participation in certain events that need confirming or I’ve gone back and forth like a child, one minute saying I’ll be there, the next minute saying I can’t go.''So to all of you who I’ve done this to lately, I honestly do apologize. This isn’t like me at all, and by taking the first half of June to concentrate on turning this year around, I hope to solve my current inability to make decisions and return to my normal self as quickly as possible.''And that transformation will hopefully begin on Friday with a much needed visit to one of my favorite places in all of Mexico, the''laid-back and colorful colonial town of Valladolid''.''When many people think of Playa del Carmen, Mexico, they automatically think of a heavily touristed party destination for Americans. As a result, it’s no surprise that many independent travelers don’t really have a desire to visit this town at all.''However, every now and then, some independent travelers do end up here, usually when en route to or from Central America, and of course, most of these travelers, at least the ones I’ve met, typically have the same initial reaction upon arrival.''“Playa del Carmen is not for me.”''And I can understand that. For those in search of wild adventures in new and exotic lands, seeing a gringo as soon as you get off the bus, one wearing an over-sized sombrero while inhaling a constant stream of beer from a neon purple, 3-foot long plastic drinking vessel, is not a good start.''Just walking down the street, passing t-shirt shops and sports bars, seems to lead many travelers to declare, “What am I doing here?” and to start thinking about their next destination.''THE TRANSFORMATION''Actually, about four years ago, I backpacked through Playa del Carmen during a brief one month trip to Mexico. And not surprisingly, I stuck around for only 2 days, not wanting to spend another minute here. It simply wasn’t the type of travel experience I look for at all and after one walk along La Quinta Avenida (5th Avenue), which is a mile-long, pedestrian-only street full of cafes, restaurants, boutique hotels, bars and shops geared towards tourists, I was ready to head elsewhere.''After all, more than any other form of travel, I am at my utmost happiest when I am traveling around destinations where very few travelers care or dare to visit at all. These are the adventures that I live for and that prove the most rewarding to me.''So what am I doing here right now, right in the middle of touristland, if I had such a forgettable experience in Playa del Carmen only a few years ago?''Well, the interesting thing about Playa del Carmen is that the people who stick around for a while, beyond that initial “Get me the hell out of here!” phase, tend to undergo a drastic transformation, one that has happened to just about every friend, family member and traveler who has visited me here. Their initial disappointment suddenly turns into an intense attraction, and instead of looking for the next ticket out of town, people start asking me for apartment recommendations instead.''The phrase of the day then becomes:''“I could easily live here for a while!”''And that’s the key. They could easily''LIVE''here for a while, which is much different than visiting this town as part of a Latin America backpacking adventure.''WHY I LIVE HERE''These days, I love Playa del Carmen. I wouldn’t have spent so much time here last year, and then returned this year, if I didn’t find it to be a perfect place to live. I may enjoy traveling through remote and barely accessible regions of the world, but I certainly wouldn’t want to live in those places for an extended period of time, at least not right now. And due to the nature of my digital work, I need to spend about half of each year living in one place, as it’s too difficult to get significant work accomplished while on the road.''From what I’ve discovered so far, Playa del Carmen offers a combination of impressive benefits that is difficult to ignore for anyone looking to live overseas, especially if you prefer to live near the beach.''What are these benefits exactly?''HASSLE-FREE ENTRY''Most nationalities receive a free 6-month tourist visa upon arrival, making it quite easy to stick around for a while. And if you leave Mexico and then return, even if it is only a couple of days later, you’ll receive another 6-month visa valid from the date of your reentry. Working visas are a little more complicated to obtain, but nothing that a lawyer can’t sort out for a couple hundred dollars, especially if you’re hired by a Mexican company or take the necessary steps to start your own business here.''CONVENIENCE''For those of us who are from the US or Canada, Mexico is a most convenient foreign destination. The airport in Cancun (which is located 45 minutes north of Playa del Carmen) is very well connected, with regular non-stop flights to cities such as Fort Lauderdale, New York, Boston, Houston, Raleigh, St. Louis, Philadelphia, Denver, Chicago, San Francisco, Phoenix, Calgary, Edmonton, Montreal, Toronto and Vancouver.  As for me, the flight from Mexico to Florida, where my family now lives, is significantly shorter and cheaper than a flight from almost anywhere else in the US to Florida.''And even for Europeans, there are frequent, direct flights to/from Belgium, UK, Switzerland, Spain, Italy, Germany and France, making Cancun a surprisingly simple destination to reach.''WORK OPPORTUNITIES''If you’re''not a digital nomad'', Playa del Carmen offers a handful of work opportunities that could help you pocket some money while living down here, although a good working knowledge of the Spanish language would be needed. Under the table jobs are available in bars, restaurants, hostels and small hotels and you could always try to teach English (or Italian, French or German) informally. In addition, you could apply to work as a Timeshare salesperson at one of the dozens of resorts in the area, as they prefer to hire foreigners for these potentially well-paid positions.''And for those who simply require an internet connection to get your work done, most apartments come with Wi-fi and there are at least a dozen cafes around town that offer air-conditioned lounges with comfortable seating and Wi-fi (and that don’t mind you sitting there for a few hours working and sipping one cup of coffee).''HEALTHY LIFESTYLE''Playa del Carmen has an abundance of sun, fresh tropical breezes, white sand beaches and warm Caribbean waters, all of which seem to play a role in keeping the body feeling healthy. You’ll also find a never-ending supply of tropical fruits and freshly-prepared fruit juices available for sale on every street corner. Throw in free dance and yoga classes in the park, a public sports complex complete with well-maintained basketball courts, tennis courts and a running track, as well as several modern gyms that offer inexpensive monthly memberships, and it’s difficult to avoid living a healthy lifestyle.''TOURISM''Yes, the throngs of vacationers that flock to Playa del Carmen are actually a major benefit for anyone thinking about living here for a month or more. How is this possible?''To put it simply,''tourism equals infrastructure''.''It may very well be that, during a travel adventure, we thoroughly enjoy sitting on the floor of an old, rusty, overcrowded bus, bouncing along a dirt road for 27 hours just to reach a destination that is 100 kms from where we started. However, I’m willing to bet that most of us don’t really want to go through that very same experience every time we need to go to the market to buy tomatoes.''Thanks to tourism, getting around the entire region that surrounds Playa del Carmen (known as the Mayan Riviera) is not only easy, but comfortable and inexpensive as well. Air-conditioned minivans travel between every town and village in the Mayan Riviera, often leaving every 15 minutes and running 24 hours a day. The cost to travel anywhere in the region is rarely more than $3 – $4 per trip and for an additional 50 cents or so you can even take a luxury bus, complete with free Wi-fi and plush seats.''The roads here are some of the best in Mexico, the taxi operation is well-organized and uses a simple flat rate system, car rentals are cheap and the beaches are kept in immaculate condition. And it’s all thanks to tourism.''A VARIETY OF FOOD''When I’m traveling, I almost never eat anything but the local cuisine of whatever country I happen to be visiting (the exception being Indian food, which I will eat anywhere I find it). So for the most part, you won’t see me eating sushi in Honduras or enchiladas while in Malaysia.''However, when I’m actually living somewhere for an extended period of time, I do prefer to have a variety of cuisine available, because truthfully, one does get bored when eating the same food for several months in a row (again, except for Indian food of course!).''Luckily, as a result of having so many tourists from around the world vacation here, Playa del Carmen offers an excellent selection of Italian, Japanese, Middle Eastern, French, Spanish, Chinese, South American and German restaurants in addition to the endless''local Mexican eateries''scattered all over town.''There are also supermarkets, fruit and vegetable markets, organic markets and even shops that sell the ingredients necessary for one to prepare any type of international cuisine at home. I’ve found Thai curry powder imported directly from Thailand, homemade pesto from Tuscany and even grape leaves from Lebanon.''COST OF LIVING''For many people, this is the one factor that makes or breaks any destination, in terms of deciding whether or not a place is suitable for long-term living. I’ll be honest, in terms of costs, Playa del Carmen is no''Chiang Mai, Thailand'', where comfortable, perfectly-located studio apartments can be rented for $300 US per month and large plates of freshly prepared Thai food barely cost $1. Things in Playa del Carmen are a little more expensive than that, but in comparison to other destinations, and especially in comparison to what I would need to spend in the US for a similar lifestyle, it’s still remarkably cheap.''For those on very tight budgets, you could definitely survive here for around $600 US per month. On the other hand, if you have $1000 US per month to spend, then you could live very well, with about as much to worry about in life as this guy:''To all of you out there who know what you’re doing with a camera, consider the following a compliment to you. The photographs you share are more than impressive. There’s no denying that. And I could spend hours and hours every single day staring at your perfect photos, entranced by the slices of life from around the world that''you capture so damn well''and that you choose to share with the rest of us.''Of course, as a member of ‘the rest of us’, I like to pick up my camera and snap a few photos from time to time as well. There’s no way I’m about to pretend that I take excellent photos, but I’m fine with that and am usually content with what I end up with.''On the other hand, I’d be lying if I said I didn’t wish that I could take brilliant photos on a regular basis as well, just as you professional photographers and others who have mastered the art know how to do. And yes, I know that I could easily learn how to improve my photos, but the truth is, it’s not very high up on my list of things to accomplish. Despite making sure that every camera I purchase has more manual settings and controls than the previous camera I owned, and despite telling myself over and over that ‘this time I’m going to learn’, I never do find the motivation to learn in the end and I typically find myself just messing around with the buttons once again, using the little knowledge I do have to continue taking average photographs.''And even though there is no shortage of flawless photos out there to look at each day, I have a feeling that the majority of us travelers possess similarly average photographic skills. I’m not judging anyone at all, and I will say that most of the travel blogs I read display photos that are of a higher quality than mine (just wait until you see the photos below and you’ll agree), but it just makes sense that superior photography wouldn’t be so superior without the rest of us offering up mostly average shots.''Anyway, this definitely shouldn’t deter anyone from taking photographs, as the quality of the photograph really doesn’t matter so much to many of us. The moments we capture are preserved regardless of whether or not the lighting is perfect. We’ll still have memories of our adventures even if we accidentally cut the head off (in the photo) of a new friend we meet on the bus.''MY TERRIBLE PHOTOS''As an example, only a few days ago, as I randomly looked through all of the photos from my recent Middle East trip, I found myself instantly being transported straight back to the streets of''Aleppo''and the streets of''Sulamainiyah''. Of course, I also found myself laughing out loud quite often because many of my photos were just plain terrible, and these were actually the photos that I felt were worth saving!''However, even though these photos were of such poor quality, I suddenly found myself wanting to share them on this site. I’ve thought about sharing more photos before and the only thing that has held me back from doing so is the fact that I knew my photos were crap in comparison to what makes up the many “Weekly” or “Daily” photo series on other blogs.''But what’s the big deal really? Why can’t I share some more of my photos too? After all, even bad photos tell a story.''So, for all of us travelers who take sub-par photos during our travels, this series is for you. And the first installment of my''Terrible Photos''series begins with some of the worst photographs I took during my trip to the Middle East.''This is a photo of Beirut, Lebanon. More specifically, it is a photo of a random man in a soccer uniform running across the street in front of an ugly overpass in Beirut. Pretty sweet shot, huh?''I took this gem while roaming around completely lost in the Adlieh and Sioufi neighborhoods of the city, when I was looking for the little-known Beirut Art Center. For some asinine reason, while standing on a random street corner, I thought I noticed the perfect shot. Quickly fumbling for my camera, I put all of my faith in my new Panasonic FZ-38 and took the photo.''Man. Soccer uniform. Overpass. Enough said.''This photo was taken inside of the Citadel in Aleppo, Syria. As I walked around this large hilltop site, I suddenly came upon a door while walking through a stone tunnel and I decided to enter. And after a few steps, there I stood, all alone, in front of these two guys. I immediately pulled out my camera thinking I had a wonderful photo opportunity in front of me, but it turned out to be, well, a photo of two half-naked mannequins.''While in the Kurdish city of Erbil in Northern Iraq, I snapped this shot for some reason. Had I turned to the right, I would have taken a photo of the magnificent Erbil Citadel, but apparently I thought that two Iraqi communication towers and a small water fountain would make for a much better image.''Only after I left the 5000 year old, mountaintop village of Amediyah (also in Northern Iraq) did I realize that instead of taking photos of the ancient structures and wild surrounding scenery, I ended up taking two dozen photos of basic stone buildings, such as the one above. I really have no idea why I did this and am a bit bummed that it’s all I have to remember this place. I’d have to say that it’s location at the foot of the Beshesh Mountains was the most spectacular of any village I came across in the Middle East. It’s no surprise then that I screwed this one up!''The New Mosque in Istanbul is a beautiful building, its interior full of color and intricate designs. As a result, it was only natural for me to want to try and be creative with my photos. Unfortunately, I’m not so good at taking regular photos, so I really didn’t have a chance at all with my creative attempts and ended up with a handful of shots, such as the above, that typically give me a headache when I look at them.''Well, there’s plenty more but I think I’ll keep it at that for now. Although, it actually feels quite good to put those photos out there. Perhaps I’ll add to this series with a Terrible Photos of Southeast Asia or Terrible Photos of Australia version in the near future!''How’s your photography skills? Above average, average or as pathetic as mine?''Yes, I know. I am indeed a Digital Nomad myself. It is true that the majority of my income these days is earned online and without my laptop, I simply wouldn’t be able to maintain my nomadic lifestyle.''Of course, that probably doesn’t come as much of a surprise to most of you, because, after all, if you spend even just a few minutes reading a handful of the''travel''and lifestyle design blogs out there, it would be natural to reach the conclusion that the only way to become a nomad these days is to become a digital version of one.''It seems at times that everyone who is traveling or living overseas is earning money on the internet, and as soon as your own mind becomes filled with visions of bank accounts overflowing from a never-ending stream of passive income, it is understandable why you would want to try and create your own digital empire as well.''Believe me, I’ll be the first to admit that earning money online (especially passive income) is simply fantastic. In fact, I can clearly recall the day that I sold my first eBook. That day was an absolute hoot. I was living in Melbourne, Australia at the time, back in 2008, and when I checked my email that morning, I found a sales notification message in my inbox. I stared at this email for a long time, finding it difficult to believe that this wasn’t some kind of trick. For the rest of the day, I honestly couldn’t stop smiling.''“It works! It works!” I yelled out as I ran around the house. “Earning money online works!”''Yes, it works sometimes.''But what is important to realize is that it took me more than 5 months to get that first sale, 5 months of 90-hour workweeks in front of my laptop. And that first sale, while a step in the right direction, was no guarantee at all of future success. It took me another 5 months to start seeing regular sales notifications appear in my inbox, and by ‘regular’, I mean 3 or 4 per week. While that may sound like a success, this resulted in me earning approximately $250 US per month, despite having slaved away for 300 straight days. This amount clearly wasn’t enough for me to survive on as a nomad.''So, ever since 2008, I’ve continued to work hard, working at all hours of the day and night, usually six or seven days per week, whether on the road in the''Middle East'', Asia or''Australia''or while living here in Mexico.''And while it is true that my efforts are now paying off, as I do earn enough online income to support my nomadic lifestyle, there is still little time available for me to rest if I want to maintain that income. As I think most Digital Nomads would agree, the income we earn is never guaranteed and what we earn one month is not necessarily an indication of what we’ll earn the next.''In fact, two consecutive months could be so drastically different from each other in terms of income that one moment you may be ready to move to the Turkish coast for a year and the next minute you’re wondering if you have enough money to replace your worn-out sandals.''Such is the life of a nomad.''OR IS IT?''Actually, such is the life of a Digital Nomad.''And while becoming a Digital Nomad certainly has its benefits, it really is important for every single person who is dreaming of a life of travel to understand that you also have another attractive option available to you.''You can always become a''non''-Digital Nomad.''I’m personally not a fan at all of the term ‘Digital Nomad’, despite being one myself. The term is so widely used these days that the word ‘Digital’ seems to be inseparable from the word ‘Nomad’. In reality, that’s not the case at all.''I’ve only been earning money online for the past 2 years. Prior to that, I still managed to travel around the world for 9 years, all on money I earned non-digitally.''I taught English, I worked on board cruise ships and I worked a few odd jobs here and there in order to save up some more money to travel. And while I may have earned much less at times than what I’m earning now online, I must admit that I enjoyed a handful of benefits from my non-digital work that I miss out on these days. I’ve actually begun to miss these benefits so much that I’ve now started working on some non-digital projects once again.''THE BENEFITS OF GOING NON-DIGITAL''As I repeatedly state on this website, the core goal of my lifestyle revolves around my desire to meet and interact with new people as often as possible, people that I would never have met had I not been traveling. Unfortunately, going digital and sitting in front of my computer every day has not really helped me achieve that goal at all. Sometimes I need to remind myself to get outside and have a social life!''On the other hand, working away from my computer, on projects that require me to interact, face-to-face, with other human beings, is infinitely more rewarding in this respect.''For example, I’ve recently become involved with a small business here in Mexico, a position which has required me to wander around from government office to government office, from the offices of architects to the offices of accountants as well as to cafes and other locations to attend meetings. As a result, I’m interacting with new people almost every day. I’m also practicing my Spanish more than ever and I’m constantly learning something new about Mexican culture… and my social life is alive and well. What a better alternative to being online all day!''In addition, financially speaking, it’s also important to remember that, as a Digital Nomad, you could spend weeks or months working on a new project and end up earning zero dollars as a result. I’ve had several online ideas that turned into complete failures (most Digital Nomads do) and I cringe at the the thought of all the months I’ve spent on my laptop only to scrap these ideas in the end.''On the other hand, as a non-Digital Nomad, you have a chance to earn money for the work you perform by getting a job overseas, never having to worry if next month’s paycheck will be lower than this month’s or whether or not there will even be a paycheck at all.''A LONG LIST OF OPTIONS''I know that the concept of earning an excellent income online (which is infinitely more difficult to accomplish than most people ever imagine) is drool-inducing and appealing enough to get anyone giddy about building websites, but instead of spending the next 12 or 18 months trying to achieve such a goal, I recommend starting your travels right now.''What happens if, at the end of your 18 month online income experiment, you have managed to earn only a trickle of money or maybe no money at all? You might then decide to abandon your travel plans altogether, something that I have seen happen over and over again with people who are tricked into believing that being a Digital Nomad is the only way to achieve their travel goals.''As a result, believe me when I say that earning $3000, $2000 or even a ‘measly’''$1000 per month'', in the form of a steady paycheck, should seem like an equally attractive option as well.''Teach English, work on board cruise ships, work in a hostel or a bar or even on''an organic farm''in exchange for all of your room and board. Do you have a degree? Well, start applying for jobs overseas. Contrary to what you may have read,''actual jobs are not evil''! After all, if you’ve just spent 4 years at university, why not look for a job in a different country that requires the very skills you have? Many people take this path and it’s an excellent way to start your life of travel without having to worry about where the money is going to come from.''Better yet, use your creativity. I once read a story about a young traveler who earned an impressive income by promoting a certain boat tour operator to newly arrived backpackers in a popular Central American town. She earned a small base salary plus a generous commission for every person that signed up for the tour and was so successful that she implemented her business model in several other countries as well.''Why not? Just writing about it makes me want to close the lid of my laptop, travel to Nicaragua and do the same thing she did myself!''But maybe you still can’t get the idea of being a Digital Nomad out of your head. Well, once you’re out there, traveling and living overseas, and putting some non-digitally earned money in your pocket, that’s the time to start working on generating online income. This way, you won’t have to worry about abandoning your travel plans if those efforts don’t pay off.''And the best part is that if you don’t want to try and earn an online income, then that’s perfectly acceptable as well.''Remember,''don’t let anyone convince you that being a Digital Nomad is your only option''.''Not only is it okay to be a''non''-Digital Nomad, it is usually the most reliable, direct and sane path available to help you live that life of travel that you’ve been dreaming about.''What do you think? Are you a Digital Nomad? Non-digital Nomad? Does the above make sense?''Rarely do I use the air-conditioner in my apartment here in Mexico. As long as I open up all the windows, turn on the two main fans in the living room and open the balcony door, the temperature inside is usually bearable, even when the temperature outside reaches 100 degrees (35 C). Usually.''Last Monday, this was not the case as my lungs and nostrils seemed to catch fire with every breath I inhaled and walking from the bedroom to the kitchen felt like I was swimming through a hot tub filled with molten lava. Okay, it wasn’t that bad but I was sweating heavily despite sitting directly under the fan.''And so, on this occasion, I decided to turn on the air-conditioning unit for the first time. Unfortunately, when I pressed the “ON” button on the remote control, nothing happened, and after opening the unit and fiddling around with buttons and levers for five minutes, of which I know absolutely diddly about, it was time to call the landlord.''Our landlord is a wonderful young lady and so, two days later, she arranged for a repairman to come to the apartment to fix the air-conditioner.''Most of us have dealt with plumbers, electricians and appliance repairmen at some point in our lives, but I’m not too sure how many of you have dealt with plumbers, electricians and appliance repairmen in Mexico.''Believe me, there’s a difference.''THE DIFFERENCE''When the doorbell to my apartment rang, I enthusiastically opened the door, knowing that cool air was on its way. However, I found myself a little stunned by what I saw. Then I remembered that I was in Mexico and so I quickly welcomed into my apartment the team of 8 people who had arrived to fix the one air-conditioning unit.''The actual repairman (yes, there was only one repairman in this group) turned out to be the father of the three teenage children in the group as well as the husband of the sole female present and the friend of the other three guys. It appeared that everyone was there to lend a helping hand but apart from the repairman, the rest of the gang just stood around at first.''Less than five minutes after the repairman opened up the air-conditioner unit on the wall, he suddenly climbed back down his small ladder and called out to Liz and I in the kitchen, where we were sitting on stools, trying to get some work done. Did the repairman need a screwdriver? Or maybe a rag? Perhaps he forgot his pliers and was wondering if we had a pair to lend him?''Nope, nope and nope.''The repairman asked us if we had a Wi-fi signal in the apartment and when we told him that we did have an internet connection, he asked if his wife could have the password. He explained that she needed to log-in to her mobile phone account because she was having trouble activating the new mobile phone she had just purchased.''Sure, why not.''The wife then sat down at the dining room table and pulled a netbook out of her purse. At around the same time, one of the sons disappeared outside for a few minutes, only to return from a trip to the family’s car that was parked in front of the building with two large plastic bags full of chips, soda and other snacks, which he began to distribute to the others.''Of course, the fact that the air-conditioner wasn’t being worked on at all apparently seemed strange only to us, as the repairman and his wife seemed perfectly content checking emails on the netbook while the others sat around the living room eating.''This behavior was so confusing to me that, after thirty more minutes passed, I felt that maybe I was supposed to invite them all for a swim in the pool, cook them a meal or offer them the guest bedroom in case any of them felt like taking an afternoon nap. Clearly, nobody had any intention of fixing the air-conditioner any time soon, and so I just accepted the fact that I might have some new flatmates for a while.''At one point, the repairman stood up and walked towards his ladder, leading me to believe that it was finally time to fix what he was supposed to fix. But, not too surprisingly, he just pulled out his other mobile phone and began making phone calls instead.''THE PARTY COMES TO AN END''Three of the men did eventually decide to leave, apparently not too impressed with the party that we had thrown for them, which I thought was going quite well considering that earlier in the day we had no idea we would have to throw a party for the air-conditioner repairman, his family and his friends. Sure, there was no wine and cheese but we did offer them water and fruit, and free Wi-fi.''The repairman and his family remained inside of my apartment for a total of 3 hours and luckily, towards the end of those 3 hours, he did fix the air-conditioner, which only ended up taking 10 minutes of dedicated work.''And when they did get up to leave, I found myself as confused as when I had first opened the door and saw all eight people. It now felt as if this family had been staying with us for a week and so I wasn’t sure if I should give them all hugs and invite them back for another visit sometime.''Of course, once the repairman handed me the bill for his services, I no longer felt like giving anybody a hug and was more than content with giving him a quick “Gracias, adios!” instead.''And then, as I spent the following few minutes after their departure cleaning up potato chip crumbs from the floor, all I could think about was the next repairman that was scheduled to work on our apartment.''Next Tuesday someone is coming over to start fixing the floor that suddenly lifted up, exploded and cracked into pieces last week due to the extreme heat. I guess I should start planning the menu and entertainment schedule before he and his entourage arrive.''Every now and then, while traveling around some faraway land, I’ll come across something for sale, perhaps in a small shop or in a local market, that I am interested in purchasing. Maybe it’s a piece of artwork, some local craft or maybe even a musical instrument of some sort. Sometimes I want to purchase the item for myself while other times I feel that it would make the perfect gift for someone in my family or for one of my friends.''However, nine times out of ten, I walk away without buying the item.''First of all, I travel around with only a small backpack and I simply don’t have the space to add, what''George Carlin used to rant about'',''more stuff''. And besides, I never know when I’ll be returning ‘home’ and so I really don’t want to carry around a Mayan rug from Guatemala or a Tibetan Kalachakra Mandala painting for 9 months.''Secondly, I often hesitate about buying something because I never know if the item is authentic. Shopkeepers around the world will do their best to convince you that that rug is hand-made or that the painting hails from a village high up in the Himalayas, however, I’ve learned to be a little cautious upon hearing such claims. The salesperson may very well be telling me the truth, but sometimes it’s hard to believe the authenticity of something when there are fifty shops in a row selling very similar items.''As an example, here in Mexico, I’ve noticed plenty of shops stocking their shelves with ‘traditional Mexican products’, such as Oaxacan handicrafts and Mayan pottery, that are being unpacked from boxes labeled “Made in China”. I of course have no idea if they are actually arriving from factories in China (and I’d like to think that’s not the case) but it certainly does make me wonder.''So, for these very reasons, I tend to finish an adventure in possession of the exact same items with which I began, having made very few purchases along the way.''Well, I have now found a solution.''It’s called''Novica''.''And as a result of this one organization, it’s possible for any of us to have instant access to a wide variety of cultural items from around the world, many of which are the very same items we probably debate buying during our travels. However, instead of trying to determine the authenticity of something while on the road, Novica takes care of that process by seeking out and working with dedicated local artisans in many different countries.''Operated in association with National Geographic, Novica has quite an impressive mission:''When I first heard the announcement, I simply stared at the television screen and thought, “Okay, he’s finally dead.” Then, for a few minutes, I sat in silence, able to do nothing but think about all of the people who have died, both on 9/11 and during the years since, as a result of the wars that have followed.''When Obama’s speech reached its end, I started to wonder what the eventual outcome would be of this undeniably historic day, hoping that somehow the announcement I just heard would lead to a more unified and peaceful planet.''At this point, the crowds began to form. Outside of the White House and on the streets of New York City, people of all races, religions and walks of life began to gather. Within minutes, photo and video images of these gatherings filled the television screen.''I must admit that I felt a strong sense of unity with my fellow countrymen and countrywomen, masses of whom had gathered in the middle of the night in order to reflect together on what has been a trying decade.''And then I saw the Bud Light bottles. It turned out that the crowds of people on the television screen were not so much reflecting on the loss of life that has occurred, but were instead, celebrating….with beer. Shouts of “USA, USA, USA!” rang out, smiling faces screamed with joy, and people climbed onto the shoulders of friends as if they were at a Guns & Roses concert (sorry, it’s been a while since I’ve been to a concert).''Here in Mexico, I too suddenly felt like cracking open a bottle of beer, or better yet, a bottle of gin. I needed something to dull the disbelief at what I was now watching and more importantly, to dull the fear that began to grow, fear that this behavior just might lead to some severe consequences.''As most of you know, for 11 years now I’ve been wandering around this planet of ours. For 11 years I’ve been trying my damn hardest to play a small role in eliminating misunderstandings and in creating even the tiniest bridge (which is all one lone traveler can hope for) between fellow human beings, regardless of the differences between us.''Throughout my travels, whether I’ve been in Vietnam, Indonesia, Egypt, Argentina, Italy, Croatia, Syria, Samoa or anywhere in between, I’ve encounter good people, people who want nothing more than to live a peaceful, happy life. And I’ve wanted these people to see that I too, am no different than any of them.''So, as soon as I saw those celebrations on the television the other night, my first thought was of all those I’ve met during my adventures, those who live in cities, towns and villages, along coastlines, high up in the mountains, in the middle of deserts and even in Abbottabad, which I happened to pass through myself at the end of 2005 while en route from Islamabad to Gilgit. I tried to imagine how these people were reacting to the cheering and to the drinking of beer, to the contrast between this behavior and my efforts as a traveler to demonstrate that Americans were peace-loving individuals as well.''For some reason, upon hearing the news of Osama’s demise, we chose to celebrate bloodshed and death, to run around the streets as happy as humanly possible, in the exact same manner that certain people in other parts of the world often do when our own people are killed (and for which we furiously condemn them).''The world noticed our cheering. They noticed that instead of separating ourselves from the cycle of violence and war, we enthusiastically embraced it, equating death with victory and demonstrating that we believe killing is acceptable, as long as we are the ones doing the killing.''Yes, we have a reason to feel relief. There is now some closure for 9/11 and the mastermind behind many vicious attacks is no longer able to plan and plot more attacks against innocent people. For that we can all be thankful.''But I personally am not filled with joy at the thought of a human being, any human being, having their brain blown away by a bullet. Osama was a terribly cruel man, but let us not celebrate his death in the streets. Let us use our energy instead to reflect on how we, as a world community, can move forward as one, with less hatred and with less violence towards each other.''And then we can dance, together as friends, with our fellow human beings around the globe. What a better alternative this would be than to continue taking turns rejoicing over the bloodshed of those we label as enemies.''A few weeks ago, I wrote about the method(s) I’ve used over the years to''carry my money while traveling'', mentioning that the money clip is generally my preferred method. However, what I failed to mention in that post is what exactly I carry around with me, clipped in to that money clip of mine.''Obviously, I carry some money, but as several readers pointed out, that’s a bit vague. Do I walk around with $500 in my pocket or do I keep a much, much smaller amount on me, such as $10 bucks worth of local currency? And what about those cards? Do I use credit cards, debit cards or maybe the only cards I carry are playing cards?''CASH''Normally, I carry about $50 USD worth of local currency with me while I’m wandering around each day. But I don’t carry it all in one place. I’ll stick about $40 worth in my money clip and throw the rest either in my other pants pocket or in a shirt pocket if I’m wearing a shirt that has one. This way, whenever I’m about to purchase something small, such as a roadside snack or a tube of toothpaste, I don’t have to pull out my entire money clip. And whenever I use up the money in my shirt pocket, I simply add some more.''I also travel with about $100 US dollars in cash, however, this is only for emergencies and I always leave this money in my hotel/guesthouse room.''And I think it’s been about three years or so since I’ve visited currency exchange booths on a regular basis. ATMs are a much easier way to get cash nowadays as you can obviously withdraw only the amount you need, which helps travelers avoid having to carry around large sums of moolah. Although, the amount I withdraw from an ATM depends on the fees that the local banks charge for each withdrawal. If no fees are charged, I’ll typically take out $100 or less, but if fees are charged, I might take out as much as $200 at a time in order to ensure that I don’t have to pay that fee too often.''Many travelers must also take into consideration the fees charged by their home banks as well, which in most cases are quite significant when withdrawing money overseas. Luckily, especially for US citizens, you can avoid such costs by putting your money in one of the handful of bank accounts that does not charge any international ATM fees (see below).''As soon as I arrive in a new country, the first thing I do is make a trip to the ATM, preferably one inside of the airport. Of course, if I’m crossing a remote land border, say between Bangladesh and India or Turkey and Iraq, where ATMs are nowhere to be found, then I will change some money into the local currency before crossing, but usually just enough to get me to the closest major town.''And when I do need to exchange some money, I personally am not too fussy. I don’t spend full days roaming around comparing every exchange booth in the city in search of the best rate. As long as they don’t charge a commission and the rate is reasonable, I’ll take it.''PLASTIC''In addition to cash, I also carry the ATM card for my Capital One Savings Account, which is one of the US bank accounts that does not charge any fees for withdrawing money overseas. (''Capital One''has a variety of savings accounts that are attractive to travelers.)''I also carry around one more ATM/Debit card from another bank account as well as two credit cards, which I generally only use when I’m booking a flight online.''One of these credit cards is a''Capital One Rewards Card''because this card also doesn’t charge any international transaction fees. And my second credit card is a United Airlines''Mileage Plus Visa''so that every dollar I spend with it increases my United Mileage Plus Frequent Flyer account by at least 1 mile.''(*For US Citizens,''Charles Schwab''also offers bank accounts without international transaction fees. Also, if you have a Bank of America account, you can use your ATM card at any bank within the''Global ATM Alliance''without racking up any fees. For citizens of other countries, it might pay to look at the Global ATM Alliance as well to see if you have an account with one of the member banks. And if you know of any fee-free accounts in Europe, Canada, Australia or elsewhere, please let us know in the comments!)''SECURITY''Unlike a lot of other travelers, I almost always keep my valuables in my hotel/guesthouse room while I’m out and about every day, and this includes most of my money, the credit cards I won’t be needing, my laptop and my passport. I personally find it much more risky to be carrying these items around with me all of the time than it is to keep them in my hotel room. And in 11 years, I’ve never had anything taken from any guesthouse or hotel room that I’ve stayed in, anywhere in the world.''If I walk into a budget hotel and immediately sense a creepy vibe, I simply turn around and find somewhere else to stay. Rarely do I hand over money for a room unless I feel comfortable with the environment and am somewhat confident that my belongings will be safe in my room, just as anyone’s belongings should be safe in any hotel room.''And if I happen to be staying in a dorm room, then I always lock up my valuables in the safe provided by the guesthouse/hostel. If they don’t have a safe, I don’t stay there. It’s as simple as that.''The main reason why I keep my valuables inside of my room instead of on my person is because, the last time I checked, pickpocketing, or most forms of robbery that travelers tend to face for that matter, tend to occur outside of one’s hotel room. If I don’t have anything on me to be pick-pocketed or stolen, then I have nothing to worry about.''In addition, if I’m carrying everything around with me, I also run the risk of leaving something behind during the day, perhaps at a restaurant or historical site,\xa0such as my backpack, with my laptop and passport inside. By walking around with only a small amount of money and my camera in my pocket, I’m a lot more relaxed and therefore more able to enjoy my experiences, knowing the worst that can happen is that I lose $50 bucks and the day’s photos.''And before I forget, I also carry around my driver’s license (we should always have some form of identification on us) and sometimes I even carry around the business card of a hotel that I am''not''staying at. That’s right, I figure that if I’m robbed or find myself in a sticky situation, one where somebody wants to track me down, I better not give them the address of where I’m actually staying. While I realize that this may be a little over the top, I generally only use this tactic when traveling through regions where I must pay extra attention to my security.''Let’s hear your advice! What’s in your money clip, wallet, money belt, rubber band, binder clip, shoe or bra while you’re traveling?''As travelers trying to stretch every dollar we have, it only becomes natural that we should try and find the absolute cheapest airfare we possibly can when it comes time for us to fly somewhere. As a result, I’m sure we’ve all found ourselves at some point staring at the computer screen after an hour of flight research, trying to decide whether or not to fly to Cairo on British Airways or to save $150 bucks and fly with Bob’s Flying Bathtubs instead.''And the fact that saving $150 happens to require us to fly to four different continents, spend two nights on airport floors and finally arrive in Cairo at a most inconvenient 2:30am, doesn’t seem to matter. Saving that money is much more important.''Let me share two examples of my ‘low cost’ flying experiences…''Example 1:''When I needed to travel from Bangkok to Dhaka, Bangladesh, no other airline could beat the $90 fare being offered by Bhiman Bangladesh, the country’s official airline. However, as soon as I arrived at Bangkok’s airport, the fun began. Not only was the flight ultimately delayed 11 hours, but when we finally did board the plane, all of the passengers were told to go directly to the rear of the aircraft because of a technical issue that affected the balance. People honestly sat on the floor, stood against walls and even let their children run up and down the aisles…during takeoff! Throw in windows that were duct-taped together, an unscheduled stop in Yangon, Myanmar and an eventual arrival time of 2:00am (which is what led to''my kidnapping''as soon as I stepped out of Dhaka’s airport) and I’m not quite sure this experience was worth the $50 I saved.''Example 2:''After spending a week looking for flights from NYC to Melbourne, Australia, I couldn’t find a single one-way fare for under $1000 USD. And so, I eventually decided to book a ticket with Qantas that involved only one stop along the way. However, before I hit the “Confirm Reservation” button, I did one last search on''Kayak.com'', where I suddenly found a flight on Malaysia Airlines for only $850. Without hesitation I booked it! Only after I received the confirmation email did I discover what this flight actually involved. I ended up with a 9 hour flight to Abu Dhabi, a 3 hour layover, a 6.5 hour flight to Bangkok, a 5 hour layover, a 1.5 hour flight to Kuala Lumpur, a 27 hour layover (the airline did provide a free hotel room, although it was 1 hour outside of the city), an 8 hour flight to Sydney, a 4 hour layover and a 2 hour flight to Melbourne. I arrived at my final destination some 66 hours after I had left NYC!''So, is saving money on flights worth all of that?''MY THOUGHTS''Saving money on flights is just groovy, especially considering the long, long list of other things that we’d rather spend that money on once we actually arrive at our destination (street food, I’m thinking about you). As a result, it’s no wonder that airlines such as''AirAsia'',''AirArabia'',''Jetstar''and''EasyJet''are quite often the airlines of choice for budget travelers.''However, I’ve now learned that what appears to be attractively low airfares offered by these budget airlines are often not really that much of a bargain. Once you add up all of the fees, I found that it’s not uncommon for the prices offered by budget airlines to be just a few dollars less than what a major airline is offering.''A good example of this is in Thailand. You can fly from Bangkok to Chiang Mai on AirAsia for around $40 USD, but once the fees and taxes are all added in, that fare jumps to around $65 USD. And a flight on Thai Airways or, even better,''Bangkok Airways''(which provides an airport lounge with free wi-fi, quite decent food, drinks and comfortable seating for ALL of its passengers) can often be found for around the same price.''Therefore, it always pays to check the fares available on other airlines before booking any flight with an ultra-budget airline. If the price difference is minimal, I’ll go with the major airline every time, not only because the service is generally better and the entire process simpler but because I’m able to earn frequent flyer miles with the frequent flyer programs of which I am a member.''Of course, I’m not denying that sometimes budget airlines are the way to go. When I recently flew from Bali to Singapore, AirAsia offered a fare that was $150 less than every other airline. It was a no-brainer, especially since it was only a 2 hour flight. I’m a fan of budget airlines in these instances, but unless I can save a great deal of money, I usually opt for other airlines.''COMFORT MAXIMIZATION STRATEGIES''Whichever way you go, here are a couple of tricks I’ve learned that have helped maximize my comfort during a flight without paying a premium for it, no matter which airline I happen to be flying.''First, I never pay for extra options, especially those pertaining to seating assignments. I won’t pay to choose my seat, I won’t pay to board before other people and I won’t pay for the right to push elderly passengers out of the way if they’re headed for a seat I have my eye on.''What I do instead is take a quick glance at the online seating map before confirming my reservation. It is this simple map that holds the key to my comfort.''If the seating map is full, with almost no regular (fee-free) coach seats to choose from, I celebrate. And then I show up at the airport check-in counter as late as possible. Knowing that it’s a full flight, there’s a high chance that all of the regular economy seats will have been assigned to other passengers by this point, leaving the airline with no choice but to give me a premium economy seat instead. And since I didn’t ‘choose’ this seat myself, I am not forced to pay the extra fee for all of that extra legroom.''On the other hand, if the seating map is almost empty when I make my booking, allowing me to choose almost any seat I want, I also celebrate (but I still don’t choose a seat). And then I show up at the airport and kindly ask the agent if I can please have a row all to myself knowing that there is plenty of space available.''Of course, I generally book my flights within one or two weeks of flying, which is also what makes these methods effective. If you book a flight months in advance, you’ll need to log-in to your reservation and have a glance at the seat map a few days before your departure date in order to determine the seating situation. And then you’ll be able to use the above tactics.''ONE SEAT LEFT, TWO PEOPLE TRAVELING''Speaking of tactics…''Last year, when I needed to fly from NYC to Fort Lauderdale, Florida, it was''JetBlue Airlines''that offered the best fare (as they often do). However, there was one minor problem.''There were two of us traveling together but every time I entered “2 Passengers” into the flight search engine, the low $89 fare didn’t appear and instead, I was given a fare of $229 per person. Every time I entered “1 Passenger”, the $89 fare appeared on the screen but with a notation that there was only 1 seat left at this price.''So, I decided to do a little experiment. Using two separate computers, Liz and I each booked the ‘last remaining seat’ at the $89 fare, being sure to press the “Confirm Reservation” buttons at the exact same time on each of our computers. And sure enough, we both ended up paying $89.''I’ve now used this trick a couple of more times, once while booking tickets on Virgin Blue in Australia, once with Jetstar Airlines and most recently with Continental. And each time, that ‘1 remaining seat’ magically became 2 seats!''As a result, I’ve saved over $500, money which I was then able to spend on street food instead 🙂''Do you have any other air travel advice or tricks to share? Please do share!''This article has been written as part of the “''Most Important Word in the World''” series, a collaborative project to inspire people to step outside their comfort zones and find adventure and friendship. Other contributors to the series are:''1 Year Sabbatical'',''Nomadtopia'',''the Dropout Diaries'',''Disrupting the Rabblement'',''Beyond Norms'',''Do Something Cool''and''A World of Inspiration''.''Finally, I had found a town in Syria that was not as ridiculously super-friendly as all the rest. I had been expecting it to happen at some point, because, after all, it would be impossible for every single city, town and village in this country to maintain such a high standard of hospitality.''It’s not that the people I was now encountering were rude, but during my first two days in Palmyra, a small desert oasis surrounded by magnificent Roman ruins, the community seemed somewhat rougher than what I had become used to in other parts of Syria.''For example, my attempts at asking for directions were repeatedly either brushed away or completely ignored. Even when I went inside the “Tourist Office” in order to get a map of the ruins, I was told to leave because they were closed, even though the sign out front read “Open”, the front door was unlocked and there were two tourism staff members sitting at desks inside of the office.''And so, on my third day, while I was wandering the streets of town in search of a local place to eat lunch, I was no longer surprised by the lack of assistance I received. At one point, I simply gave up, stood on a street corner with hands on my hips and made the decision to buy some bananas from a shop near my hotel instead.''Of course, as most travelers would learn to expect, that’s also''the very same moment that I heard a voice, in English, say “Hello.”''I turned around and found a middle-aged local man standing before me with a huge smile on his face and so I naturally returned his greeting, although all I could muster was a quick, mumbled “Salaam”. He then asked me if I was lost and when I explained that I was simply looking for some good local food, he didn’t hesitate for even one second before patting me on the back and stating, “Let’s go!”.\xa0 He then led me to his minivan which was parked across the street.''The next thing I knew we were speeding through the backstreets of Palmyra.''A FILLING LUNCH AND A NEW FRIEND''When we eventually pulled up to a local restaurant, my new friend, Samir, yelled out to a young guy behind the counter and two minutes later I had a large falafel sandwich in my hands. Samir even refused to let me pay. He also refused to let me pay for the local Palmyra-style sweets that he bought for me from a sweet shop down the road.''Samir then insisted on dropping me off in front of my hotel, and by this point, I was ecstatic that my opinion of Palmyra had been reversed as a result of this one experience. What I didn’t know at the time was that this was only the beginning…''Before driving away, Samir asked me to meet him outside of my hotel one hour later. That’s exactly what I did, and surprised was I to find myself inside his van once again, along with four of his friends, all of us on our way to the Camel Races, an annual event organized by the King of Qatar that takes place in the middle of the Syrian desert.''THE CAMEL RACES OF PALMYRA''The rest of the afternoon can best be described through the photos below. All I know is that I spent much of my time squished into the back of a pickup truck with about 20 others, all of whom were cheering loudly and pumping their fists in the air as we bounced along a dirt road alongside the racing camels. And I loved every single second of it.''As I tried to maintain my balance while kneeling on a sack of hay, the others around me held on to my shoulders to make sure I didn’t fall off the truck, while trying to encourage me to join in the cheering.''Samir and his friends kept a close eye on me as well, always checking in to make sure I was still enjoying myself. And of course I was enjoying myself. Considering how poorly my day began, I couldn’t be happier with the fact that I was now spending an afternoon in the mesmerizing desert, watching camel races and chatting with dozens of local villagers. Such experiences as these are exactly why I am addicted to wandering around this planet in the first place.''And''it all began with a simple “hello”'', a word that takes so little effort to utter, yet has the power to lead us on unimaginable adventures that can completely change the outcome of one minute, one day, one year or even an entire lifetime.''Here are a few more photos and''a short video''from those camel races…''Starting this evening (Saturday), my website might be down on and off over the next couple of days as I work on some things. It should take about 24-48 hours to complete so I expect everything to be back up and running as normal by the end of the weekend.''In the meantime, I didn’t sit down at my computer today simply to provide you with that tidbit of relatively useless information. Even with the possibility of my website being down temporarily, I still want to put up a post. And so I thought I’d use this time to tell you something about me that I have never told you before.''I have worms.''That’s right, worms. I’m not talking about a worm farm or a bag of worms that I carry around with me at all times, but actual worms who seem to have set up quite a comfortable community within my intestines.''Picture this. There I am, during my time as a Tour Manager on board the Queen Mary 2 Ocean Liner,\xa0walking into the Officer’s Mess after a long day of work. (Okay, my day actually included a helicopter ride over a volcano and a few hours at the beach but that’s far less dramatic of an opening).''Anyway, I take a seat at my usual table and the waitress soon brings me a menu. After a quick glance at the day’s culinary offerings, I look up at Ivanka (she’s the waitress), our eyes connect and we both smile.''“Everything, no meat?” she asks. I reply with a simple nod of my head, just as I had done every single meal of every single day since my contract had started.''And then, over the following 45 minutes or so, there I would sit, at a table under a series of windows, glancing out at the Pacific Ocean rolling ever so gently by, eating what had now become a typical meal for me. Basically, I would eat at least one of everything on the menu that did not contain red meat (I stopped eating red meat after my first trip to India).''I polished off a large Caesar salad, slurped up a bowl of french onion soup and then devoured a vegetable samosa. Next came the plate of mozzarella cheese and tomato, along with some fresh bread. This was followed by the vegetable lasagne and a plate of chicken curry with rice, and of course, one order of the ginger chili salmon. Finally, I moved onto the desserts, which included a piece of apple pie, a bowl of mixed fruit and a slice of chocolate lava cake.''Other officers would come and go and yet, I, the eating freak, would remain, still trying to satisfy my hunger. Eventually, I would get bored and would leave, but usually I walked out of the mess still somewhat hungry.''This actually went on for almost a year as it took a remarkably long time for me to realize that such an appetite was not normal. What I also failed to realize at the time was that the consumption of such large quantities of food should not be causing me to lose weight either. It was during this year long eating binge that I actually dropped down to the lowest weight of my life.''THE DISCOVERY''Eventually, I decided to pay a visit to the medical staff on board the ship, where, after I had described my symptoms to the doctor, blood was drawn and several other tests were performed. And a week later, when I was called back to the medical center while we were en route to New Zealand, the nurse informed me that I was the proud host of a community of worms.''At least it was a multi-cultural community, with a healthy mix of both pinworms and roundworms, which, according to the doctor, could have been picked up from any number of countries I’d visited during my extensive travels around the developing world.''Since the most common way to end up with such worms is after an infected person scratches their anal area and then touches or prepares food that is then ingested by someone else, this conclusion really didn’t seem too far-fetched, considering all of the unhygienic street stalls I’ve ever eaten at.''The ship doctor decided to prescribe the strongest medicine possible in order to try and kill all of my worms in one shot. And after only one month, it began to work, although I did have to deal with side effects that included stomach pains, headaches and intense nightmares.''But after that first month, I no longer felt the need to eat the entire menu for lunch and dinner, which not only helped me shake off my reputation as an eating freak but also reduced the cruise line’s monthly food expenses I’d imagine.''The only problem, and some might say that this was a significant problem, was that six months later, the worms seemed to reappear. I actually never saw the worms reappear myself but I’m quite sure they moved back in. (I chose not to try the cellophane-tape-applied-to-the-lower-opening-of-the-digestive-track method of confirming this hunch.)''All I know is that my absurd appetite returned and once again, I felt hungry all day long, no matter what I had already eaten. As a result, I was forced to take another round of medication.''That was in 2009.''Am I worm-free now? I don’t think so. My appetite is still abnormally large as I regularly throw down three tostadas, two tacos, a quesadilla and''a mega-huarache''in one sitting here in Mexico. But I’m not losing any more weight at least and I actually feel healthier than ever before.''So what’s the point of all this? Naturally, it’s to bring your attention to the fact that there just may come a day when, after your travels are over, you find yourself wolfing down your ninth chicken parmigiana of the evening, and you start to wonder if that cup of water you drank in a small village in eastern Nepal was such a good idea after all. Or whether or not your favorite street vendor in Panama, the one who shook your hand often and prepared your meals almost every day, ever washed his hands.''When we travel, especially to developing nations in tropical climates, there is always the possibility that we’ll collect more than life-changing memories and a backpack full of souvenirs. We might bring home worms as well, which by the way, should technically be declared on our Customs Declaration Forms, especially if you want to avoid the''wrath of your government''.''One random Saturday, when I was a mere twelve years old, my parents, along with my sister and I, went to visit some family members who lived nearby. We actually visited these relatives somewhat often during my youth and on this occasion, our visit began as such visits normally did. We arrived, ate lunch and sat by the pool.''Eventually, after a couple of hours in the hot sun, and after going for a quick swim and diving from the diving board a few times, I went back inside the house and sat down to watch some television.''This really was just another ordinary visit up until that point.''But a few minutes after settling into the comfortable living room sofa and flicking on the tv, everything changed when my 18-year old cousin, Lauren, asked me to follow her into the kitchen. I immediately followed her until she stopped in the far corner, right next to the refrigerator, where, without a word, she removed the winter hat that she always wore on her head. And then, as I stared in shock at the 50 or so large metal staples that ran from one end of her scalp to the other, all helping keep a long, freshly made incision from opening up, Lauren just looked at me and smiled.''“It’s okay,” she said. “I just wanted to show you in case you were wondering why I always wear this hat.”''Ever since I had been able to understand anything, I had understood that Lauren was sick. But as a young child, it was impossible for me to fully realize what such an illness actually meant. And so, despite my parents telling me over and over again that Lauren had had another surgery to remove tumors from her brain, I always assumed that she would be fine in the end.''That is, until that very moment in the kitchen. Now I suddenly understood that Lauren was battling much more than a simple nuisance, such as a cold or the flu, and that her battle was more difficult than I could ever imagine. And with this realization came the discovery that life just might not be as easy as I had so naively believed. Requiring brain surgery and then having industrial-sized staples placed into one’s head was not something I had ever considered as a real possibility in life.''But now that I had seen it with my own eyes, it became apparent that such a terrible disease, along with countless other illnesses, accidents and life-altering obstacles, could surprise anyone, at any time. This was the day I learned that we are merely human beings, not super humans.''After I left the kitchen and returned to the living room, and as I still tried to process the influx of new thoughts, I sat back down on the sofa and turned on the television once again. However, I of course couldn’t focus on the television at all, and instead chose to observe Lauren as she moved around the house.''It didn’t take long for my observations to have a powerful effect on me, more powerful even, than the moment Lauren had removed her winter hat. Despite the staples in her scalp, despite her long battle with brain cancer and the never-ending surgeries, I’m not sure I had ever seen someone smile as much as she did. Despite the semi-frequent stumbles, when the tumors would interfere for a brief moment with the messages sent from her brain to other parts of her body, despite knowing that her life was going to be cut way too short, she continued to smile.''Observing Lauren that day changed me completely. First, I realized that, as a 12 year old boy, I knew nothing about the realities of life. But what stuck with me the most was without a doubt that smile. I realized that being able to walk around every day with such a smile and with such appreciation for what one has in life should be the goal of every single person. If Lauren could find the positive even in her own, impossibly difficult situation, I felt that I owed it to her and myself to make sure that I too would be smiling so brightly no matter where my life took me.''So, fast forward to today. I’m definitely a happy guy but I certainly, like most people, don’t have a permanent smile attached to my face. However, I must say that every day that I find myself interacting with new people, visiting and learning about new places and cultures around the world, my smile is as present and bright as Lauren’s.''That is why I’m now starting to realize that what drives me to constantly wander this planet is not actually my fear of living a life that is full of regrets, but my desire to achieve a goal I set for myself so many years ago, on that random Saturday afternoon, instead.''Lauren passed away at the age of 19, exactly twenty-one years ago this month. In honor of her, I encourage you to take a moment to remember that life is always worth smiling about, no matter how difficult or frustrating our situation may seem to be.''What do PayPal and Award Wallet have in common? Not much really, except for the fact that I’ve been dealing/working with each of these online tools quite a lot as of late. First, let me state that this is in no way a sponsored post. I simply woke up this morning, sat down at my computer and when I began to write, realized that my recent experiences might prove useful to anyone else who spends a good deal of time traveling.''PAYPAL SOLUTIONS FOR THE TRAVELER''Okay, I honestly don’t like PayPal much at all. It’s a pain. Every transaction I make seems to be a hassle, the fees are quite high and I’ve found their Customer Service to be mediocre at best. As a permanent nomad, I always have trouble with PayPal because I am constantly logging in from different countries around the world, which to them seems quite suspicious, and so they tend to freeze my account remarkably often. And by ‘often’, I mean pretty much every time I make a transaction. I’m actually serious as, in the past 12 months, my account was frozen all 9 times I sent money to someone else through PayPal.''So, from random places such as''Iraq'',''Syria''and''Indonesia'', I’ve had to call up PayPal and answer a long list of multiple choice questions to prove my identity and have my account restored. And unfortunately, when I’m informed that my account has been\xa0 ‘restored’, half of the time it still remains frozen and I have to call PayPal and repeat the process once again.''After speaking with other travelers, the frequent freezing of accounts seems to be quite a common problem. This is why, when my account was frozen one month ago while in Singapore, I decided that I had had enough. I called PayPal and strongly suggested that they either come up with a solution or else I would take my business elsewhere.''Luckily, this time around, I ended up speaking with a very helpful customer service representative who provided me with two solutions that immediately solved my problem.''1. He added a notation on my PayPal account that lists me as a ‘frequent traveler’. This is a similar system to when you call your bank or credit card company in order to inform them that you will be spending some time overseas. PayPal is also working on developing a system where users will be able to go into their account and list the countries they will be visiting in order to prevent PayPal from freezing their account when transactions are made while in those countries. For now, however, if you travel extensively, it might be a good idea to give PayPal a call and have them list you as a ‘frequent traveler’ as well.''2. PayPal sent me a''Security Key'', which is an ultra-thin, credit-card sized card that anyone who travels often can request for free (technically they charge a $29.95 fee for the card but they offer it for free to anyone whose account is at risk of being frozen often). Once activated, you simply press the button on the card before you log-in to your PayPal account and it generates an additional Security Code that is displayed on a small screen on the card. You then must enter this Security Code along with your account Username and Password on the PayPal log-in page in order to access your account. With this method, PayPal knows not to freeze your account no matter where you may be in the world. (You can also choose to use your mobile phone as your Security Key and receive the Security Codes via text message.)''I’ve now used the Security Key twice and it has worked perfectly, so I’m quite happy with this solution. However, it is important to note that the Security Key seems to be quite a secret. When I had trouble activating the card (it was my fault in the end), I had to speak with four different customer service representatives until I found one that even knew what the Security Key was. So it might take some effort to get one, but once you have it, your''PayPal''troubles should be over.''For more information on using PayPal while traveling, have a read of this useful post from''TheLongestWayHome.com'':''How to Deal with PayPal when you Travel''AWARD WALLET''There I am at my friend’s house in Sydney, Australia, trying to search the internet for a good hotel option for my visit to Perth. After thirty minutes of searching, I don’t find anything that appeals to me much and so I decide to book a room at a cheap hostel instead. However, before completing the booking, I run into the kitchen and make a quick sandwich. And it’s a good thing I felt the sudden urge for this sandwich as, by the time I returned to my laptop five minutes later, I had received an important email.''The email was from''AwardWallet.com'', the online tool that I use to manage all of my Frequent Flyer accounts and rewards programs. They were notifying me that my United Mileage Plus miles were about to expire in one month and if I didn’t use them before that time, I would forfeit the 60,000 miles I had in that account.''As I had no need to book any flights, I immediately logged onto my Mileage Plus account and began looking for ways to use my miles to book a hotel room in Perth. Fifteen minutes later I had booked 5 nights at a popular, well-reviewed 3-star hotel in the city center.''Had Award Wallet not sent me that email, I would have never known my miles were about to expire. Sure, United would have sent me their own notification but they typically send me 3-5 junk emails per day, all of which I delete immediately without reading.''This is why I find Award Wallet to be a nifty organizational tool that is very useful for anyone who is constantly traveling and trying to benefit from Frequent Flyer Miles at the same time. Whenever I need to book a flight, I simply log-in to Award Wallet and right there, on one page, it shows me how many miles I have available to use for each airline program of which I’m a member. Also, whenever I fly somewhere and earn miles,''Award Wallet''receives that information from the airlines and automatically updates my mileage balances in my Award Wallet\xa0account.''And, of course, the notification emails are an excellent bonus, especially when the possibility of losing 60,000 Frequent Flyer miles turns into spending almost a week in a mini-suite with a view of Perth’s Swan River instead!''Do you use Award Wallet or PayPal’s Security Key? How has your experience been?''When I was a freshman in high school, I remember the day when a good friend of mine broke his ankle and showed up to school with his leg in a cast. In the 15 years I had been alive at that point, I had never broken any part of my body and so, upon seeing my friend, I couldn’t help but wonder what it felt like to break a bone. In fact, I spent most of that school day wondering how it must feel and I didn’t stop thinking about it after school either. That night, moments before I went to bed, I even took it so far as to wish that I would break a bone myself. I wasn’t looking for a major break, like a leg or collarbone, just a minor one, so that I could get a taste of such an injury.''Two days later I broke my wrist''while playing basketball.''EARL GOES TO JAIL''When I was 17 years old and still in high school, another one of my friends was arrested one night for fighting during our town’s annual Portuguese Festival. In front of hundreds of people he was cuffed by the police and carted off to the police station where he spent most of the night in jail. And being my curious self, I immediately began to wonder what it must feel like to get arrested. Of course, I didn’t really want to get arrested, but I once again couldn’t help making a wish that night, wishing that I could somehow feel what it was like to spend a night in jail.''One week later I was arrested.''My arrest took place at a large Saturday night party that was broken up by the police and where I committed those typical teenager crimes of being a minor transporting liquor and public drinking.''And even though my crimes were quite insignificant, I certainly got a taste of what it’s like to be arrested. I was slammed against a car, handcuffed and forced to stand in the middle of the car park as dozens of cars, full of my fellow high school attendees, drove by one by one. I was then transported to the police station where I was given my one phone call and then tossed in a cell for 5 hours, where there was nothing to do but sit on a hard bench, just staring at the wall.''I even had to appear in court that Monday, where, luckily, I was slapped with only a minor fine after receiving a stern lecture from the judge.''BACK IN MEXICO''So why on earth was I thinking about my broken wrist and my night in jail?''Well, when I left Mexico almost a year ago in order to travel around the Middle East, I remember quite well the day I packed up my belongings and moved out of my small apartment here in Playa del Carmen. I remember it so well because, as I drove away for the last time that day, I set a goal for myself. If I were to ever find myself living in Playa del Carmen again, I wanted to be able to afford a more comfortable lifestyle.''I’m not talking about a luxurious lifestyle, not at all. I’m merely talking about one in which my apartment would be a little more spacious, the kitchen a little more suitable for cooking and the living room consisting of more than one chair. Consider it a slight upgrade, one that I often kept in mind while slaving away on my computer ever since.''Now, here I am, back in Mexico, having just decided to spend the next couple of months living by the beach once again. And sure enough,''the hard work''and lack of sleep and the determination to work on''new project ideas''over the past 10 months have paid off. My apartment this time around is exactly what I wanted (and it even has a swimming pool!).''The simple point is that if we don’t wish, if we don’t dream, if we don’t imagine or believe every single day in the goals we want to achieve (both big and small goals), we might as well not even have those goals in the first place. There’s often more to it of course, such as endless hours of dedication and battling a steady stream of obstacles, but having the right mindset is where it all begins.''I used to spend many nights lying awake, able to do nothing but wish for and dream about living a lifestyle in which I could travel around the world, wherever and whenever I wanted. It certainly took a ridiculous amount of work to get there, but had I never spent so much time believing that it was possible, I’d be back home right now wondering what my life could have been like.''So there you go. If you’re unable to buy that plane ticket to Buenos Aires or Bangkok just yet, or take off for that 6 month trip you’ve been dreaming of, whatever you do, don’t stop dreaming. If you stop believing that you will be on that plane one day, you’ll never make it.''Always remember, you too can get arrested if you really want to.''(On another note, if anyone is headed to Playa del Carmen, I might be able to help you find a suitable apartment as I’m now familiar with every single accommodation option in town after my recent apartment hunting session!)''On April 9th, 2009, I leaned against a wall and watched a man die only a few feet in front of me. This man had been lying down in a cheap metal bed, where he had spent the past 15 minutes shaking violently while a nurse tried to feed him some pills. But it was not until one of the volunteers – a middle-aged American fellow who claimed to be an Emergency Medical Technician back home –\xa0 was summoned and proceeded to haphazardly inject this man with medicine that he finally closed his eyes for good.''I stood there in shock, not because I had witnessed a death, but because I had witnessed this volunteer inject this poor man several times, jabbing into his arm with careless force while appearing to have no idea how to find his vein. In addition, there was a huge air bubble in that syringe and even though the chances are low that such a bubble can be fatal, I’m quite certain that the bubble should not have been injected along with the medication. Either way, all I do know is that this man was dead less than a minute after the syringe was pulled out of his arm.''At this point, the volunteer packed up his small bag and walked away, treating the situation as if he had just tried to fix a leaky toilet. And within seconds, the religious sisters that ran the building quickly returned to their duties, as did the other volunteers around me.''I, on the other hand, ran outside into the sticky Calcutta air. And minutes later I took a seat at a rickety wooden table inside of a back alley chai shop, where I spent the following hour staring at the wall, unable to decide whether or not to continue my volunteer work.''A LONG-AWAITED OPPORTUNITY''For years I had wanted to spend some time volunteering in Calcutta and when I finally managed to work it into my schedule, I showed up at an orientation for Mother Teresa’s''Missionaries of Charity''and immediately signed up for a two-month commitment. Upon signing up, every volunteer is asked to choose which of the nine homes within the organization that they wish to work at and without hesitation I chose the Nirmal Hriday Home for the Destitute and the Dying (aka Kalighat).''The very next day, I began spending four hours each morning and three hours every afternoon feeding and bathing the 50 dying men that called Kalighat home. In addition, I cleaned their dishes, did their laundry by hand, brought them their pills and even gave arm and leg massages to those who were in desperate need of some relief from their constant pain.''On any given day there were approximately 15 of us volunteers at Kalighat and during my first two weeks, the atmosphere was such that I looked forward to every day of work. My favorite moments involved those that took place once the laundry was hung out to dry on the rooftop, once the dishes were all cleaned and we had time to sit down and chat with the residents.''Some of the residents were quite alert and eager to speak of their lives, such as one 75 year old man who spent many afternoons talking to me about his frequent trips to Europe as the vice-president of a major Indian company. Sadly, after being laid off from his position, and after his wife left him, he lost all of his money in a business deal. To make things worse, doctors soon discovered a massive tumor in his stomach. After initial treatments drained his bank account, this man ended up living on the streets of Calcutta until he was brought to Kalighat by an organization that roams the city in search of people in dire need of assistance. By the time I arrived, he had been in his bed, where all of these men remain 23 hours per day, for two years already and the tumor in his stomach was the size of a basketball.''Yet despite his situation, he always smiled brightly when I approached him which in turn delivered a form of happiness into my life that I will forever be thankful for.''However, even with these moments of communication, whether verbal, or as was most often the case, non-verbal, the air inside of Kalighat was admittedly quite heavy. Rarely a day passed without at least one resident passing away, right there in the one large dormitory, for all of us volunteers and other residents to witness. And when you’re surrounded by so much death, it is nearly impossible to remain unaffected. Much of my time, both inside and outside of Kalighat during those days, was spent contemplating this difficult subject.''THE VOLUNTEERS''Before long, I noticed that there were typically two different types of volunteers working at Kalighat. Most were short-term volunteers, those who stayed for 4 or 5 days or maybe a week. These volunteers brought with them an abundance of positive energy that I feel played an important role in bringing much-needed comfort to many of the residents while at the same time making it easier for other volunteers to handle all of the pain and suffering around us.''And then there were the handful of long-term volunteers, those who had been at Kalighat for 6 months or more. Quite surprisingly, it was these volunteers that repeatedly forced me to question the benefits of my commitment and the benefits of Kalighat as a whole.''It seemed that as time dragged on for these long-term volunteers, all of the sloshing around in food scraps, vomit and excrement, while being constantly surrounded by tumors, open wounds and horrendous diseases, led them to forget why they had chosen to volunteer in the first place.''As an example, I clearly remember one morning when I was sitting next to an impossibly thin seventy-year old man (I later found out he weighed 29 kg), trying to gently convince him to take his pills. Each time I moved the cup of pills closer to his mouth, he would turn his head away from me and close his eyes. After carrying on like this for several minutes, one of the long-term volunteers approached me and before I could say a word, he had yanked the pills out of my hand, grabbed this man’s jaw with unnecessary force, pried open his mouth and shoved the pills inside. I watched in shock as the tears started to form in the eyes of this frail, dying man while the volunteer handed me the empty cup and said, “This is how we do it” before storming off.''When it was time to bathe the residents each day, I always made sure I helped them move from their beds to the shower room as carefully as I could. But the long-term volunteers would operate as if we were running a factory, quickly lifting up residents, throwing their skeletal, naked bodies over their shoulders and practically slamming them down on the benches inside the shower room. There was no regard at all for the actual well-being of the person.''In fact, most of the time it seemed that these volunteers had forgotten that they were dealing with people at all. They treated the residents as objects, no different than a beat up old car unworthy of even an oil change. The goal was not to care for the residents as best they could, but to finish their daily duties as quickly as possible. And if that meant throwing someone over your shoulder and jamming pills down their throat, then so be it.''There were actually several occasions when I found myself in the midst of a mild argument with a long-term volunteer. For example, I recall the day that one of them reprimanded me because I was taking too long to scrub down one of the residents, a young man who was suffering from kidney cancer. The volunteer just ripped the sponge out of my hand, immediately threw a bucket of water on this man’s face and scrubbed his body harder than you would scrub your stove top.''Unable to allow this to continue, I asked the volunteer to remember that we were working with actual human beings. His immediate reply was that my statement was irrelevant because it should be our goal to finish bathing all of the residents before the 10:30am tea break. I told him I disagreed, grabbed the sponge once again and demanded that he leave the room. He got up, left the room and minutes later came back with another resident whom he proceeded to bathe in his rough and unacceptable manner.''WHY I WALKED AWAY''I remained at Kalighat for six of the eight weeks I had originally signed up for, choosing to end my time due to a combination of a strong fever and probably more realistically, my frustration with the long-term volunteers.''It was definitely difficult for me to leave the residents behind when I walked out on my final day, especially knowing full well that I had more to give. But in reality, the effect of watching some of the most helpless human beings on the planet be treated worse than the cockroaches crawling under their beds had begun to take its toll on my sanity.''As for the Missionaries of Charity, there’s a great deal of debate about the services they provide. While they undoubtedly do a remarkable amount of good in dozens of countries around the world, some claim it to be unacceptable that despite having millions of dollars in funding, this organization continues to provide barely adequate facilities and''substandard medical attention''for the people they care for. But I don’t really want to join that debate right now because I fully believe that the attitude and efforts of the volunteers, no matter what the surrounding conditions may be, defines the benefits that those in need ultimately receive.''And it doesn’t take much to bring some relief to the most helpless individuals. A little respect and compassion will work wonders which is why I was so surprised by the behavior of some of the volunteers at Kalighat.''Have you volunteered in Calcutta or somewhere else? How was your experience?''By this point in my travels I think I’ve tried it all when it comes to carrying around my money and credit cards while on the road.''Sitting here right now I can only chuckle and shake my head as I recall my inexperienced and frightened traveling self carrying around a money belt during my first trip abroad. That money-carrying option lasted only six months, until I realized that my money belt actually made my life more complicated. I happily discarded it one day while in the town of Mae Sariang in Thailand.''With the money-belt gone, I immediately switched back to the standard method of money-carrying – the wallet. And over the following two years I went through a variety of wallets, mostly cheap ones found in local markets around the world, in an attempt to find one that fit my needs perfectly. Of course, this mission was never successful, although, I still preferred any old wallet over a money belt. But the wallet was bulky, especially when keeping it in my side pocket in the hopes of deterring pickpocketing folk in some of the countries I visited.''Anyway, I certainly didn’t quit my search for a better option.''A SIMPLER METHOD''While working on board a cruise ship in Hawaii, a fellow crew member and good friend of mine once told me that he had faced a similar money-carrying issue as myself. His solution was remarkably simple – a rubber band. I loved the idea and immediately ditched my wallet. My bulky pockets vanished and my money and credit cards never got in the way of my movements. Unfortunately, this only lasted for 2 days, at which time the rubber band broke.''Luckily, all I needed to do was find another rubber band. And even though they broke on a somewhat regular basis, I stuck with this method of money-carrying for just over one year. I eventually gave it up after spending an unsuccessful 2.5 hours searching for a new rubber band one day while in Montego Bay, Jamaica, with my cash and credit cards bouncing around like wild, misbehaving children inside of my shorts pocket.''By the end of those 2.5 hours, I simply wanted nothing to do with rubber bands and so I made the bold decision to abandon all types of money-carrying equipment, to rebel against every method that had ever failed me. Now, when Earl the Rebel would go out, he would just grab his pile of cash and credit cards, chuck it into his pocket, any pocket, and proudly flaunt the chaos and disorganization that resulted.''For two years I carried on in this manner.''UPGRADING TO A HIGH-TECH SYSTEM''It was not until I was backpacking through the Hindu Kush mountains of Pakistan that I started to question the usefulness of my ‘pile of chaos’ method. After all, I was about to cross the border into Afghanistan and certainly such a trip warranted a money-carrying system far more secure than any I’d ever tried before. So a few days before making the overland journey to Kabul, I bought a tough velcro wallet, two rubber bands AND a small chain in the ‘thieves market’ in the Pakistani city of Peshawar.''This high-tech wallet system did prove useful in Afghanistan. My cash and cards remained secure at all times as everything was in one bundle, attached to my belt with that chain, allowing me to quickly and safely pull out money while standing on a street corner buying a bag of raisins.''However, the problem occurred when I flew to Delhi a few weeks later, where I decided not to use the chain any more. And on my very first night, someone pick-pocketed my wallet as I walked through a market.''With wallet gone (along with several hundred dollars in cash and all of my credit cards), I didn’t know what to do. So I bought a cup of tea from a street vendor using the change I found in my other pocket. And then I drank that cup of tea.''And as I sipped away I noticed a man buying a hand towel from a street stall next to me. When it came time to pay for his towel, this man pulled from his pocket something that I knew existed, but had never thought to use myself. The answer to all of my problems shone brightly in my face in the form of a well-polished, silver money clip.''THE MONEY CLIP''My first money clip – a narrow, thin, yet sturdy, clip – was purchased in a shop in the town of Savannah, Georgia the day after returning from India. And from the moment I inserted my money and credit cards into this clip, I knew that my long search for the ideal money-carrying system was closer to an end than ever before.''This clip had just enough flexibility in its curve to effortlessly handle both a small pile of cash as well as a large stash of bills and credit cards and so, together we went across the world, this money clip and I, visiting places such as Hungary and Croatia, Argentina and Uruguay, Myanmar and Thailand and Egypt and Jordan.''For 3 years we traveled the globe, during which time we were inseparable, with my long-dreamed-of goal of  keeping my money well-protected and organized at all times finally having been achieved.''It was not until 2009 that our bond came to an end. We were at the beach on the island of St. Thomas and as I added a five-dollar bill into my money clip after paying for a Corona, the clip just snapped, too weak from years of dedicated service to carry on any further. Heartbroken, yet thankful for the time we had spent together, I had no choice but to lay that money clip to rest in the white sands of Emerald Beach, leaving it free to relax to the soothing sounds of the gentle waves forever.''THE PRESENT DAY''I have a new money clip now, but it’s not nearly as reliable as my old one. This one often refuses to hold my money tight if I only have a few dollars to hold and sometimes I’ll reach into my pocket and discover that my credit cards are sticking in every possible direction. With that said, we somehow manage, and I still find that a money clip is the most useful method of carrying money while traveling around the world.''But the reason I’m writing this post is because sometimes, the challenges of my current money clip become too much to handle. Today is a good example. While trying to pay for a half dozen bagels at the supermarket this morning, I pulled out my money clip and found that it had failed me yet again, leaving my cash and credit cards and driver’s license all tangled up in one giant mess. Money soon fell to the floor, credit cards were scattered on the counter and I stood there helpless, never before having felt so unorganized in all my life.''The young woman at the cash register looked straight into my eyes at one point and tried to comfort me with her smile. She then shook her head ever so slightly, as if to provide an answer to the question bouncing around my head at that very moment.''That question was…“What is the point of using a money clip if that clip doesn’t actually clip anything together?”''How do you carry your money around while traveling? Have you found the perfect solution?''This is a new idea that came to me while flying from Syria to Thailand a few months ago upon completing my recent set of rewarding''Middle East travels''. Given that I’ve been spending so much time flying all over the planet as of late (25 flights in the past 5 months), I decided to start sharing summaries of my ‘travel days’, days in which I travel from one destination to another by air. The idea is to not only tell the tale, but to hopefully share any tips or lessons that I learn along the way that might prove useful to other travelers making a similar journey.''Damascus, Syria to Chiang Mai, Thailand''Part 1:''Taxi to Damascus Airport (800 Syrian Pounds / $18 US)''The taxi ride from the city center to the airport took about 30 minutes, and Rawiz, my taxi driver, gave me a most interesting farewell to this country where I had spent much of the previous two months. Rawiz spoke to me about the Jewish population of Damascus and before long, I received what has to be the most comprehensive summary on the matter. (The short story is that there is still a small Jewish community in the city, even though most of the Syrian Jews immigrated to the United States when the Syrian government lifted restrictions on their movements about 6 years ago. According to Rawiz, Muslims and Jews get along quite well in Damascus and he claimed to have several Jewish friends himself.)''Part 2:''Damascus International Airport''Arriving one and a half hours before your flight out of Damascus is more than sufficient no matter where you happen to be flying. To put it simply, the airport is tiny. Only ten minutes passed from the moment I walked through the doors of the airport until the moment I sat down at the gate. There was not a single person in line at the check-in counters, security or immigration.''And so, with seventy-five minutes to kill, I wandered around the departure terminal (which took exactly 4 minutes) and then plopped down in a chair for some good old people watching until it was time to board the plane.''All you’ll find inside the terminal building of this airport are a handful of souvenir shops and one stall selling bottled water, soda, nuts and chips.''Part 3:''Flight from Damascus to Bangkok (via Bahrain) – Gulf Air ($302 USD)''Gulf Air'', the principal airline of the Kingdom of Bahrain, often offers cheap long-haul flights to many destinations around the world and their website is always worth a look if you’re headed anywhere that requires you to pass over the Middle East. The only potential issue is that many of their flights involve long layovers in Bahrain and unless you obtain a visa ahead of time, most nationalities won’t be allowed to leave the airport. But apart from that, I’ve found Gulf Air to be a good value airline and have now used them on several occasions.''Part 4:''Bahrain International Airport''Luckily, my layover in Bahrain was only 5 hours this time around and with free Wi-Fi offered throughout the airport, the time passed quite quickly. (Plug outlets are difficult to find but are located in the corners of most gates, right next to the internet computer stations.)''Apart from getting some work accomplished, I also had a quick chat with a Filipino guy who was on his way to Riyadh, where he worked as a construction laborer. Interestingly enough, he had also spent time working on board cruise ships as a cabin steward when he was younger and so we both reminisced for a while about''life at sea''.''When the time arrived for me to board my flight to Bangkok, I must admit that the sound of Thai voices and the sight of Thai people that greeted me on that Airbus-320 had such a calming effect on me. Only minutes after sitting down in my seat, I found myself engaged in a friendly chat with the bubbly Thai guy next to me. This was perhaps one of the happiest planes I’ve ever been on, with widely smiling people everywhere I looked.''Of course, the conversations died down for a minute when the Bahraini woman in front of me chugged two beers, a glass of whiskey and three cups of red wine in the first hour and a half of the flight and then became violently ill while her husband informed the concerned Thai stewardess that his wife had never drunk alcohol before in her entire life. This was not a pleasant scene but before long, the overall positive mood of the flight returned. Such is the power of the Thai smile.''And six hours later we arrived in Bangkok.''Part 5:''Bangkok Suvarnabhumi Airport''After passing through Thailand’s efficient immigration lines, I had 3 hours to spare before my flight to Chiang Mai. So I headed straight for the domestic terminal where I simply walked up and down the huge departure wing for over an hour in order to stretch my legs. I thought about turning on my laptop but I learned that while the airport does have Wi-Fi, you need to obtain an access code from one of the Information Desks and this only entitles you to 15 minutes of free internet. Each gate also has free Internet Kiosks but I’ve always been quite wary of using such kiosks after reading''this interesting post''over at''FoxNomad.com''.''I also withdrew some Thai Baht from the ATM while waiting for my flight, and was surprised to discover that all ATMs in Thailand now charge a fee of 150 Baht ($5 USD) per transaction. So it definitely pays to take out a decent amount of money the first time or else those extra fees will start to add up quite quickly.''Suvarnabhumi Airport also offers a huge variety of cafes and restaurants (most of which are open nearly 24 hours per day) and an abundance of comfortable seats and benches to relax in. The airport is also quite well-organized, with official, and typically friendly, Information Desks located everywhere and clearly marked with blue and white signs.''Part 6:''Flight from Bangkok to Chiang Mai – AirAsia ($61 USD)''While''AirAsia''offers what may appear to be absurdly cheap fares to various destinations around Asia/Australia, there are a lot of extra fees involved depending on how much luggage you carry, if you want to choose your seat and even to use a credit card to book your ticket. In the end, the price of my  Bangkok to Chiang Mai flight was only $8 USD cheaper than a flight with Thai Airways (a wonderful airline!), so AirAsia might not always be worth it. I ended up using Air Asia because Thai Airways didn’t have a flight that fit my schedule, otherwise, I would have gladly paid the extra $8 USD.''Part 7:''Chiang Mai International Airport''One of the reasons I love flying into Chiang Mai is because it offers what is perhaps one of the easiest arrival experiences of any airport in the world. Your flight arrives and less than ten minutes later you’re out the door and less than ten minutes after that, chances are you’re already checking in to your guesthouse/hotel.''One thing I noticed this time upon arrival at the Chiang Mai airport is that there is a kiosk located right next to the luggage carousel where foreign visitors can receive a free SIM card for their phone. You can’t miss the kiosks as they’re bright yellow with a sign that says “AOT” and I definitely recommend taking advantage of this offer. It takes only a minute to sign up and once you have your free SIM card, all you need to do is add some credit (which can be done at any 7-11 shop, of which there are dozens in Chiang Mai) and you’re ready to make phone calls. While it may not sound like such a big deal, this offer will save you about 200-300 Baht (the normal cost of a SIM card) as well as the potential hassle of having to get your phone set up once you get into the city.''When leaving the airport in Chiang Mai, I recommend heading straight for the exit doors at the far left end of the arrival hall. Immediately outside you’ll see another kiosk with a sign that says “120 Baht Taxi”. Simply tell the staff at the kiosk the name of your''booked hotel in Chiang Mai''and they’ll immediately assign you a taxi. Once you reach your destination, you pay the driver 120 Baht ($4 USD) and that’s all there is to it.''So on December 12th, I eventually reached my final destination, a small guesthouse down a small lane in the middle of the Old City of Chiang Mai. It was quite a smooth, enjoyable journey in the end as I managed to get some work done, sleep a decent amount, watch a couple of crappy movies and meet some interesting people along the way.''And I don’t know about you, but whenever my final destination is home to''mango and sticky rice'', I’m one mighty happy traveler.''Total Trip:''Damascus to Chiang Mai / 19 hours / 3 flights / $363 USD''My bedroom no longer sways in the night and I no longer work to the melodies of a three-piece Latvian orchestra in the background.  Oddly enough, I now seem to wake up each morning in the same location where I fell asleep the night before.  Nobody is cleaning my room every day, washing my windows (which have now transformed from round to square shaped), dictating what clothes I need to wear.  If I am going to be late for something, I no longer have to make an announcement throughout the entire community where I live, informing thousands of people to expect some delays in my arrival.''‘Ship life’ is the term used by all the thousands of cruise ship crew members worldwide to describe the unique lifestyle that defines the entire essence of our existence.  Whether working on board a 150,000 ton, 3000 passenger ocean liner or a 500 passenger ultra-luxury ship, ‘ship life’ involves the rules, both written and unwritten, the interactions of several hundred crew members representing over fifty nationalities, the late nights in the crew bar and the fish head soup (popular among the large Filipino segment of the workforce), the fake smiles and ‘good afternoon madams’, the cabin inspections, the obnoxious guests, the security screenings, the consistently failing relationships.  Nepalese security guards, Ukrainian dancers, Filipino deck hands, South African hair stylists, Moldovan bartenders – everyone survives in an unfathomable underworld that rules every second of how we live and work.''‘Ship life’ is also what I have just left behind.  Do I miss it?  Of course I do.  It is a sense of community that I do not think is possible to experience any where else on this planet.  But, just like many of those who live in the real underworlds that exist on land, I had to leave it behind before ‘ship life’ became the ‘only life’ I would know.''I will admit that as a crew member I was spoiled.  I would fall asleep in Barcelona and wake up in Athens, with the process simply repeating itself over and over again while the destinations constantly shifted from St. Lucia to Curacao to Hawaii to Quebec City to Rome to Dubai, Malta, Norway, Kuala Lumpur, Samoa and on and on.''My actual job was that of Tour Manager, responsible for the shore excursions we offered our guests in the various ports of call.  I dealt with hundreds of local tour operators all over the world who treated me well, almost too well.  After all, I ran the department that sold their tours and therefore controlled the flow of money that ended up in their pockets.  Whenever I wanted (or perhaps a friend or someone I needed to impress wanted!) to swim with the dolphins in the Caribbean, ride a helicopter over the active volcano in Hawaii, visit the ruins of Petra or sail to a secluded Greek island, I simply asked and instantly received.''In addition, my team and I were treated to gourmet meals, beach parties, private tours and unlimited rental cars, surfboards, resort passes and more, the cost of which was always taken care of by these tour operators.  Seldom was it even discussed, it simply was the norm.  During the Christmas holiday season we were truly spoiled, much to the envy of the other crew members, as we would return to the ship in the afternoon carrying endless bottles of champagne and wine, gift certificates, even iPods and $300 Maui Jim sunglasses.''Some would say that my team of five staff and I had the best positions on the ship.  I would not for an instant disagree.''I did earn my salary, having to work extremely hard, seldom less than 10 hours a day and every now and then up to 16 hours, without a day off for the entire six month contract.  The pressure bordered on extreme in regards to both exceeding revenue goals and ensuring the thousands of guests on tour remained happy.  As a result, in between my paperwork, constant emailing and handling of guest issues, I usually only managed a couple of hours off in each port, a quick stroll or swim, a bike ride or some surfing, simple activities to maintain the last remnants of my sanity.''Crew members always joke to each other that the best times off the ship are simply when the ship itself is not in sight.  A day spent on a beach with the ship still in view is pointless and better spent on ‘metal beach’, the crew sunbathing area on the topmost deck of the vessel.  For those that can get far enough away in order to truly release the day’s frustrations, they undoubtedly enjoy an extremely valuable period of time.  But once you re-enter the port gates at the end of your day, and you wipe the sand from between your toes, that first glimpse of the ship forces a dreaded yet necessary alteration in mindset.  Back to the routine, back to the ‘ship life.’''As time passed on board and one six month contract became another six month contract and then another, it began to wear me down.  My brain began to numb, I questioned my reasons for being on board more frequently, I dreamt of going to the movies, having a normal relationship or standing in a bathroom bigger than the toilet it holds.  When a new contract commenced, I would be fueled by a fierce motivation to make it my most productive and rewarding contract ever.  But once the first two months would pass, this fire always began to wane, as I realized once again that this contract would be just like all the others.  I then suffered through the final two months, cursing and vowing that I will never return, counting the days until vacation time, that moment when I can finally send my uniforms back down to the linen keeper for storage.''I always ran down the gangway when vacation arrived, as we all do, away from the impossibly long days and the unhappy guests screaming and demanding refunds for boring tour guides or rainy weather.  I yearned to put the lack of social life that often drove me to stare at the walls of my bland cabin in a state of comatose boredom, behind me.  No more late arrivals to port, no more tasteless food, no more mandatory crew life boat drills that seemed to always take place on the mornings when I finally had time to go to the beach.''For the first two weeks of vacation I relaxed at home, adjusting to a new world where I had absolutely nothing to do at all.  But then, after visiting family and friends, taking a short trip to Mexico or Europe, I suddenly always found myself less than a week away from my return date to the ship and without having found another job.''By this point, I am quite predictably no longer able to recall the frustrations, the boredom, the angry passengers or the life-draining intensity of my work on board.  I can now only remember the good times, leading me to the inevitable process of convincing myself, ‘The days were not so long, I had plenty of free time. I can handle the screaming passengers, it was not so bad.   What a wonderful social life!  The wine & cheese nights, the crew parties, the movie nights, the open-deck crew barbecues.  Besides, this contract I will go to the gym and go to the crew bar more often and finally write that book I always wanted to write.  I will not be bored at all.’''One week later I am walking up the gangway again, under a stupor of self-deceit, shouting my ‘Namastes’ and ‘Ciaos’ and ‘Hola chicas’ to those crew I recognize.''After this process repeated itself for four years, the notion of remaining stuck at sea forever started to weigh on me. The money was excellent, but I had already achieved my financial goals and now had the means to take off on any adventure I dreamed of. The balance of what I enjoyed on board versus what I wanted to accomplish in life had begun to change drastically. The time had come to quit while I was ahead and leave ‘ship life’.''Gathering up all of my courage, I recently resigned from my position, following that strong inner urge to head in a new direction.''In one phone call to the head office, I left behind the ‘coneheads’ (crew member slang for ‘passengers’ – referring to the movie ‘Coneheads’ where the aliens left their brains at home before going on vacation).  I left behind the management meetings that discussed such pressing and stimulating topics as the need for special technicians to remove the semen and blood stains from the sheets and the severe shortage of lamb and salmon for the upcoming voyage.  I left behind the constant intestinal illness notification emails from the medical department, informing me of which crew members had a case of uncontrollable diarrhea and were now confined to their cabins for twenty-four hours.''Now that six weeks has passed since my resignation, and I remain confident that this was a sound decision, I can admit that I do miss certain aspects.  But ship life does not allow you to have one foot at sea and one foot on land; you must definitively choose one or the other.  For years I was unable to decide and so ‘ship life’ chose for me, as it does for most of those working on board.''What I do miss has nothing to do with my position or the tour operators that gave me such a royal treatment wherever I went around the globe.  Instead, I long for the underworld that ‘ship life’ represents.   For months at a time, hard work and hard fun intermixed with allegiances and alliances, secret lives and special favors.  As in many other spheres of life, a successful existence on board depends on ‘who you know’.   Without favorable connections, little gets accomplished and few problems are resolved to your liking.''The on board crew mafias operate vital black markets that control a wide range of items, from printing services to dry cleaning to phone cards to alcohol to snorkeling expeditions and fresh fruit.  Catamaran tours were traded for sushi platters, alcohol was sold at inflated rates by certain crew after the bars had closed, entrepreneurial chefs delivered filet mignon and twin lobsters to crew cabins for a small ‘fee’.  Money was actually rarely used, with favors that enhanced one’s life on board usually acting as the preferred currency.''In such an environment, the appeal is great; everyone has a chance to be a superstar, to live the life of a gangster.  I traveled the world, building bonds on many continents and within the vessel itself, both friendships and enemies alike.  I had the power to make miracles happen (to send crew to the Sistine Chapel or the Pyramids) and likewise to destroy dreams (deny crew the opportunity to see the places we visited) within our confined and unique community.   The potential rewards of such a lifestyle are immense – the money, the status, the fantasy.  It starts out as honest work, but the essence of ‘ship life’ reverberates throughout your being, so effectively igniting that innate instinct to not only look after yourself and your interests but to improve the conditions of your life.  Working on board a cruise ship you can choose to hide in the background or try your hand at ruling the world.''Now, when I try to fall asleep each night, the strong winds cause the willow trees outside my window to sway, leaving my room itself completely unaffected by its gusts.  Although I no longer wish to float upon the seven seas, I still close my eyes in the hopes of fading into some sort of familiar dream, perhaps one in which the white sands stretch forever, the money flows and the world is my home.''When I visited Singapore recently, which was the third time that I had traveled to this small city-state over the years, something quite bizarre occurred. I actually enjoyed myself.''During my previous visits, I simply didn’t connect with Singapore at all. I found it to be expensive, culture-less and somewhat boring, three attributes that are not exactly friends of a budget adventure traveler. So when I discovered that I needed to spend a week in Singapore once again, I somewhat unenthusiastically began my search for accommodation.''Hostels in Singapore are pricey in comparison to other Southeast Asian countries as one can easily expect to pay $25 Singaporean Dollars for a dorm bed ($19 US) or around $80 S for a private room, which you can bet will not have a private bathroom and will be the size of a phone booth. I knew all of this ahead of time but instead of settling on some random hostel, I decided to broaden my search to include actual''hotels in Singapore''. And you can imagine my shock when my first search resulted in what appeared to be the perfect deal:''$80 S for a modern, private double room with private bathroom and free wi-fi''The name of the hotel was''Hotel 81'', which appeared to be a somewhat new chain of budget traveler-friendly hotels. With over 20 locations in Singapore, the concept seemed to be taking off, however, the only location offering the $80/night deal happened to be on Dickson Road. Of course, I’m sure that most of you are not too familiar with Dickson Road either, just as I wasn’t familiar with it until I looked at a map and nearly burst into tears of joy upon discovering that it was located in the heart of Singapore’s popular, ideally-situated “Little India” district. (Remember, my addiction to all things India, both''the good and the bad'', is more intense than my need for oxygen.)''Anyway, (and I am in no way being sponsored to write about Hotel 81) this hotel turned out to be what I will so boldly declare as the best budget accommodation option for travelers visiting Singapore. Okay, it might be a bit expensive if you’re traveling on your own, but if you’re at least two people, you’ll only be paying slightly more than you would for a basic hostel. And when that tiny premium provides you with an ultra-comfortable, clean, well-appointed private room, I certainly would be more than happy to spend those few extra dollars, just as I did on this past visit.''So, that’s the sleeping part of my trip to Singapore.''EATING IN SINGAPORE''Wandering around Singapore’s Little India is, as they say, a trip, as in a hallucinogenic journey into a magical land that could only exist in fantasy and never in reality. However, Little India does exist. Basically, it’s an exact replica of an Indian city except that the streets are spotless, the buildings well-built, the population density is about 1/100th the normal density and people actually wait for the little green person to start flashing before crossing the street. Too incredible to believe, I know, but I swear I’m not lying.''And if Indian food is your kind of thing, be warned that you may struggle to eat, not due to a lack of Indian restaurants but rather, an abundance of Indian eateries unlike anywhere else on the planet, including India. You’ll have your choice of South Indian food, such as dosas, uttapams and idlis, North Indian cuisine such as Punjabi curries, Gujarati thalis and tandoori chicken as well as Calcuttan kathi kebabs, Oriyan sweets, stuffed rotis and parathas, biryanis and samosas and pakoras. There are at least two hundred Indian restaurants crammed into Little India, making it nearly impossible to decide where to eat when you’re hungry.''On my first night in Singapore, I ended up roaming the streets of Little India for forty-five minutes before finally forcing myself to choose an eatery. I randomly ended up at Gokul Vegetarian Restaurant.''I’ll keep the description of my experience at Gokul’s rather short. In fact, I’ll only use one sentence to tell you how I felt about the vegetarian curries that this place served up. Here it is… “''This restaurant was so good that I ended up eating here four of the six nights that I was in Singapore.''“''Enough said. If you’re in Singapore, and you like Indian food, eat here.''Okay, okay, I’ll tell you a little more. The preparation of the food, from the Navratan korma, to the Dal Makhani, Saag Paneer and Vegetable Jalfrezi resulted in flavors so intense and fresh that my reaction to every bite would have probably made for the perfect television commercial. The naan and rice, the mango lassis and masala chai, and the service as well were all flawless. One of the waiters even befriended me on my first visit, making sure I sat in his section on my subsequent visits while refusing to accept a tip at any time.''So that’s what you can expect at Gokul’s (located on Upper Dickson Road, no website). And the prices were reasonable as well, with samosas, two curries, rice, naan, lassis and chai for two people totaling $30 S ($23 US). And I wasn’t sponsored to write about this restaurant either. I just want to spread the word!''SURFING IN SINGAPORE''Well, this part may have been a bit misleading. I didn’t exactly surf, as in surf the waves, during my time in Singapore. But I did visit the''Sands SkyPark'', which sits on top of the three 200m towers that make up the Marina Bay Sands Hotel and resembles one massive surfboard in the sky.''And I must say that this building, and pardon the simple terminology here, is the coolest-looking building I have ever seen. Simple as that. From every angle and at any time of day or night, this structure is mighty impressive, as are the views from the observation deck and park at the top, where I spent a good two hours staring out over Singapore.''I’ll let the photos do the talking with this one…''Well, it took me three visits to Singapore to finally connect with this city. And connect I most certainly did, in a way that I never could have expected. On several occasions this time around, as I walked down the road, sat in a park or strolled along the canal, I even began thinking that “I could live here”. But for now, I’m content with just visiting, especially now that I’ve discovered a perfect trio of quality budget accommodation, divine Indian food and a spectacular surfboard in the sky.''Have you been to Singapore or considered visiting?''Chances are that I’m sound asleep as you read this post, no matter what time of the day it may happen to be. I’ve been up all night working on the upload of my new site design, right on the heels of a painfully long 45-hour\xa0journey from Singapore to Cancun.''So, if you could try your best to keep your screams of excitement to a minimum (you are excited about the new site, right?), it would be much appreciated so that I can catch up on my much needed rest.''With that said, there is no denying that today is a swell day. As should be quite obvious by this point, it is the day that I introduce to you my new website design.''My wonderful readers, this is my new website design. New website design, these are my wonderful readers.''I have a feeling that you’re all going to get along remarkably well!''A MIGHTY THANK YOU''When I finally decided to replace my original design, which I had created myself despite having no knowledge of how to do so (I know, it showed), I chose Ali Dark of''DigitalEmpowerment.com.au''for the job. So first off, I’d like to offer Ali my sincerest thanks for all of your hard work and patience over the past few months. I’m quite certain that I was as frustrating a client as there ever was given the fact that I would disappear to places such as Iraq on a moment’s notice and leave you with questions unanswered for extended periods of time. But you’re free of me now (and probably celebrating that fact as I write).''Seriously, though, thank you Ali!''(''Ali specializes in fully customized WordPress themes so if you’re looking to re-invent your own site, I can fully recommend his services. He also informed me this morning that he’ll be offering a variety of special deals to any reader of this site who contacts him. He can be reached through''DigitalEmpowerment.com.au''.'')''THE FEATURES OF WANDERINGEARL.COM''A few new widgets here, a few new widgets there, a splash of color, a new header, better navigation and VOILA… we have a new site design! But what does this fresh design really offer visitors?''The main focus was on creating a site that visitors could interact with and benefit from more easily, which is the reason for the content-packed''Home Page''. There’s also a handful of useful features that my old site just didn’t have, such as:''“Live a Life of Travel” Resources''– This is the''nifty page''where you’ll find some of the most essential guides and resources designed to help anyone live a life of travel. Whether you’re interested in a one-year trip or a decade of non-stop adventure, look no further. (These resources are either written by yours truly or by other long-term world travelers such as Anil from''FoxNomad.com''and Dave from''TravelBlogSuccess''.)''“Where I’ve Been Map”''– The addition of this map on the''Home Page''is so that you can easily see where I’ve been in the world in case you have any questions or need any travel advice. As those who have emailed me in the past already know, I’m more than happy to answer any questions you may have about virtually anything!''“Video Widget”''– As I plan on adding a regular video series to this blog, Ali included a new video widget in the sidebar in order to highlight these video posts. The new series will start in April!''“Categories”''– Yes, a clear, organized list of post Categories is something I should have added a long time ago. At least I have one now (in the footer) and I think this addition alone will make navigating through this site significantly easier from now on.''What else? Well, there’s much more, but there’s really no sense in me writing about it all here when it’s  all just a click away 🙂 In addition, what you see now is not the end. There are more new features on the way over the coming months''as I start to become a little more serious about my blogging.''MORE SERIOUS ABOUT BLOGGING?''That’s right. I must admit that a major reason for launching this new site design, apart from my need to get rid of the slow-loading, user un-friendly, poorly designed previous version, was to re-inspire me to focus on this blog.''While blogging may seem quite easy, let me state that for anyone who is constantly traveling, it ain’t easy at all. In fact, it’s beyond difficult. I simply don’t have the luxury of sitting down in a comfortable chair at a well-positioned desk each day to write posts, read other blogs or stay active with social media.''For the past 4096 days, I’ve been ‘on the road’ and living out of my backpack, and such a nomadic lifestyle, especially if one wants to extract as much education and opportunity from their adventures as possible, is an exhausting full-time job. (*By ‘on the road’, I mean living, traveling, volunteering or working away from my home country).''Combine this full-time job with the 30+ hours per week I spend working on internet projects that actually earn me money and that adds up to 2 full-time jobs. Throw in the need for constant travel planning – accommodation, flights and other transportation, visas and more – and sometimes it feels as if I have 3 full-time jobs. As you can see, this leaves very little time for me to concentrate on my blog (which requires a nearly full-time effort as well) especially if I want to see anything beyond my hotel room or a cafe with free Wi-Fi in the countries I visit.''Somehow, I’ve managed to squeeze by so far, to work, travel and blog at the same time over the past 16 months. However, I’ve now realized – and I’m sure any long-term traveler and nomad will agree – such an intense pace is impossible to maintain for very long.''Anyway, the point is, I needed a change. And that is what this new site design represents. From now on, there’s going to be a shift in the way I spend my time. I am indeed going to concentrate more on this blog while spending less time on my other projects. Sure, it’s somewhat of a gamble to put less energy into the things that actually earn me money but I believe wholeheartedly in this blog and my nomadic lifestyle more than ever these days.''I want this site to continue growing so that my 11+ years of global wandering can help convince even more people that''a life of extended travel is not some crazy fantasy, but a very real lifestyle option instead''. I want you to receive a sudden burst of motivation and confidence in your ability to live a unique life according to your own terms every time you visit this site. And the only way for me to ensure this happens is for me to re-prioritize and focus on what is most important to me (yes, this blog).''So, once again, new website design, I introduce you to my wonderful readers. Wonderful readers, please welcome my new website design.''I invite you to have a look around. The''Home Page''is the perfect place to start! And at this point, feel free to scream out with joy as loud as you wish. I don’t think anything can wake me up today.''My route back to North America – after my recent change of plans – has been a long one. First, upon leaving Thailand, I had to make a stop in Bali and after''a few interesting days''there, I had to fly to Singapore. The reason for all of this bouncing around had nothing to do with some absurd flight route that was offered by some budget airline for some bargain basement fare. I actually needed to stop in Bali and Singapore before returning home.''So, after having spent the past week in Singapore, I am supposed to fly out tomorrow morning. My ticket is for a series of flights that will eventually land me in Cancun, Mexico, where I plan to spend a few days back in Playa del Carmen before finally returning to Florida.''However, it appears as if my journey back to North America is not going to be so easy as I just received an email notification that the first leg of my flight – Singapore to Tokyo – has been delayed. Not only has it been delayed but I will now almost certainly miss my connecting flight to Houston as a result. And not only will I miss my flight to Houston, but the only other available flight out of Tokyo tomorrow (on United or Continental) is a flight to Honolulu, from where there are no other available flights to the mainland for at least 36 hours.''So the point is, you may not hear from me for a long, long time. Or, I might become Hawaii’s newest resident and invite you all to a housewarming party next weekend.''Anyway, I must say that I found it quite interesting that as soon as I learned that my flight plans had begun to unravel, the first thought that entered my head was “I should write a post about this.” And then, as I began to write this post, starting off with a detailed account of my recent whereabouts, something else quite interesting occurred to me.''I spend much of my time writing about the places I’ve been, the places I currently am and the places I plan to be in the future, but I have no idea where most of you are right now. What kind of relationship is this?''Of course, many of you have your own blogs and so I do know the whereabouts of quite a few of you, however,''I’d love to know where all of you are''. I just think it’s time we get to know each other better.''I’m well aware that trying to keep track of everyone’s location on planet Earth is a near impossible task, especially considering that I can barely keep track of my own location (I inexplicably informed a friend last week that I was in Brunei instead of Bali), but I want to give it a try. I do believe that at least knowing this tiny bit of information will help strengthen our relationship. Don’t you?''So, to all of my readers, all of you whom I appreciate even more than my favorite Indian curries…let’s get it on.''Where are you in the world?''Be as specific or vague as you wish…country, city, continent ….planet.''And keep an eye out for that invitation! I’m thinking the white sands of Hanauma Bay on Oahu would be a good place to get the party started.''(''Note:''I was planning to spend some time in Thailand over the next two months but my plans have suddenly changed  for a few reasons that I won’t go into now. After making a quick stop in Bali, I’m now actually headed back to  the US. More to come about this change soon.)''Warning:''This post contains strong and potentially offensive language.''Appalling.''No, I’m not asking how many people you’ve slept with, just how many different beds you’ve slept in over the course of your life so far.''Last week, while flying from Perth to Singapore, en route to Thailand, I randomly decided to try and count the number of beds that I have slept in over the years. And it didn’t take long for me to become obsessed with trying to reach a semi-accurate ballpark figure. First, I began ticking off the beds I’ve slept in over the past 11 years since my current travel adventure began and I did so by tracing over every country, city and village I’ve ever visited as meticulously as possible. The next step was to begin adding up the beds that I slept in during my high school and university years by trying to recall my whereabouts at all times during that period of my life.''The task was difficult and I carried on for over three hours, right up until I found myself unable to remember any more beds for twenty straight minutes. Then, I looked down at my piece of paper full of tick marks and began doing the math until I reached a total.''And the total? 583.''At first glance, that doesn’t seem like such a big number. But when I consider that I slept in 583 beds over an 18 year period (6570 days), that averages out to one bed every 11.27 days since I began high school. And I went to the same high school for all four years, living in only one house at the time as well.''So after looking at the total number of beds this way, I suddenly find it disturbing. Surely sleeping in a different bed every 11.27 days cannot be healthy for one’s body and mind, especially when half of those beds were in third world hotels and guesthouses, or in other words, more closely resembled a piece of sand paper than a mattress.''A BED OF MY OWN''Admittedly, one of the major downsides of this lifestyle is not having my very own bed. Knowing that I will have a good night’s sleep on a comfortable mattress is unfortunately only something I can dream about, as I lie awake on a dirty mattress made of towel scraps and filled with what feels like steel shavings. Oh how I wish I could carry around a bed of my choosing at all times, everywhere I go, so that every day on the road ends with a blissful rest.''Instead, I continue gambling, never knowing what I’m going to get and how I’m going to sleep. And while I’m still tough enough to handle sleeping on a piece of plywood covered with cloth for a night, or maybe two, long gone are the days when I could spend a week or more sleeping on such a ‘mattress’ in order to save a few bucks while declaring my loyalty to that traveler’s concept of adventure!''This is actually a large part of why I have begun to slow down my travels over the past couple of years. Instead of being constantly on the go, I now prefer to spend several months per year staying in one location so that I can find a place with a good bed that I can sleep in every night, allowing me to achieve that zen-like state of mind that a consistent good night’s sleep can provide.''I want to wake up with a wet, drool-soaked pillow more often! Unfortunately, with my nomadic lifestyle and my absurd rate of sleeping in a new bed every 11.27 days, my craving for such a luxury remains unsatisfied most of the time.''Let’s hear your numbers! How many beds have you slept in? Too many to count or enough to count on one hand?''The other day I was asked if one of my goals was to visit every country in the world. And after a lengthy pause, I replied by saying that while I certainly do intend to visit all 193+ countries at some point during the span of my life, I’m obviously not too dedicated to this goal.''Clearly, if visiting every country in the world was a top priority of mine, I would be traveling around to places such as Namibia or Latvia right now, places I’ve yet to visit, instead of finding myself back in Thailand for the ninth time since I began traveling in 1999.''So while, yes, I do want to visit every country in the world, I want to do so at my own pace and while being able to interact with each country as much as possible, as opposed to flying in, spending a night and then flying out simply to check a country off of ‘the list’.''However, if checking every country off of a list as soon as possible is a goal that one is fully dedicated to, I certainly think that is much better than simply wandering aimlessly around the world without any specific purpose.''I recall my first few years of wandering, a period of time that saw me in constant vacation mode as I hopped between countries, only skimming the surface of what travel had to offer. At that time, I was perfectly content checking places off my list even if all I did was stay in the guesthouse for a few days. And I thought I had the most wonderful life imaginable.''Then one day, just over three years into my adventure and while biking around the''ruins of Bagan''in the north of Burma, I realized that all of my traveling was really leading me nowhere. Apart from having quite a few ‘cool’ experiences under my belt, I was barely learning and barely improving myself. My financial situation hadn’t improved either as, for those first few years, I had to constantly check my bank account in order to make sure I still had some money left for a few more weeks of travel.''And so, while sitting inside of Bagan’s Ananda temple during a much-needed break from the Burmese heat, I decided to change the way I traveled. From that point onward, I made certain that I didn’t cross the border into any country without having a well-defined goal.''For example, I would travel to India in order to do some volunteer work, to South America to practice my Spanish, Eastern Europe to improve my historical knowledge of the region and Australia to create my first source of online income while living in a city I love (''Melbourne''). More recently, I lived in Sayulita, Mexico in order to''learn how to surf'', I traveled to''Kurdistan''to learn about the situation in that part of the world first-hand and right now, I’m in Thailand in order to spend some time in a comfortable environment, interact with other travels and catch up on my work.''Everything has a purpose''. No more aimlessness for me.''I really do believe that for anyone interested in extended travel, having such goals is vital. You don’t need to start making a list of goals for every town you visit or even for every country, but traveling with an increased sense of purpose can only help maximize the personal growth you experience while on the road. At the very least it ensures that you gain some extra knowledge that might prove useful at some point in life.''And having such a focus also creates a stronger connection between you and whatever place you’re visiting and as a result, this can naturally lead to new ideas and opportunities that you might have missed otherwise. It’s no coincidence that most of the life-changing opportunities that travel has sent my way all ‘appeared’ during times when I was trying to achieve a specific goal.''I sometimes think of it this way. Nobody attends university without a focus, or major, that they’re interested in studying. So shouldn’t we therefore approach travel, one of the greatest forms of education available to us, in the same manner?''Do you set goals when traveling? What are some of the goals you set for yourself?''(And there are no wrong answers at all. Goals do not have to be serious and deep. Relaxation and clearing your mind are perfectly legitimate travel goals to me!)''From the above photograph, it might be difficult to believe that such a place exists, not in the lush countryside of China, but in the exact center of a city with over 4 million inhabitants. This is the Chinese Garden of Friendship, built in 1988 by the Chinese community of Sydney in cooperation with the community of Guangzhou, China, to commemorate Australia’s bicentennial celebrations.''Adhering to the Taoist principles of Yin-Yang, and with a strict focus on the laws of harmony and balance, this garden is more than impressive, offering a powerfully serene atmosphere to all who step through its entrance.''At first glance, and especially from the outside, the garden seems quite small and perhaps not worth the $6 entrance fee, but as soon as you take a few steps into the Courtyard of Welcoming Fragrance (sounds a bit corny but you have to trust me on this one!), the city outside instantly disappears and the garden transforms itself into a never-ending land of pleasant surprises.''I was free to move in any direction, to choose any path I wished as I made my way through a captivating world of black bamboo groves, cascading waterfalls, mythical rock sculptures, a lotus pond and landscapes full of weeping willows, jasmine and gardenias. With dozens of golden carp swimming in the waters, several large iguanas roaming the paths and flocks of Australian magpies singing from the trees, I often found myself lost in peaceful contemplation as I slowly roamed around.''Moments after descending from a traditionally designed pagoda, I came upon a small covered terrace on the edge of the pond that offered a spectacular, misty view out over the entire garden. For a long time I remained on this terrace, and when a light rain began to fall, I simply took a seat on a wooden bench and observed the rain drops dripping from the leaves all around me. At this point, it had been almost two hours since I had heard a sound from the outside world and when the rain finally let up, I had difficulty convincing myself to continue exploring the garden. I was as content as could be sitting right there on that bench.''Eventually, however, I did continue and as would be expected, I soon reached the exit of the Chinese Garden of Friendship. And after a few moments of hesitation, I did force myself to walk down the steps and back into the middle of Sydney once again. If only I could have camped inside of this garden for a week!''Not surprisingly, though, as soon as I left the garden behind and started walking towards Chinatown, my stomach began to growl and in an instant, a new adventure commenced. My goal was to now track down a big, tasty bowl of''curry laksa'', something I had been craving for quite a few days. And with my calm and meditative state of mind as my guide, I was prepared to dedicate the rest of the day to this new mission.''Chinese Garden of Friendship'':''Hours: 9:30am – 5:30pm (7 days)''Location: At the southern end of Darling Harbour''Admission: $6 adults / $3 children''Have you ever visited this garden or do have any other garden recommendations anywhere in the world?''Walking down George Street towards Sydney’s Circular Quay, I stopped dead in my tracks the moment my eyes unexpectedly fell upon her. And before I was able to continue moving in her direction, I needed several deep breaths and a nod of reassurance from myself that I could handle being any closer.''Only somewhat convinced that I would not break down in tears or begin begging for her to take me back, I approached cautiously, with the hair on my arms standing on end, my heart pounding uncontrollably and with the undeniable magnetism of this seductive Queen slowly engulfing me.''I wanted to turn around and run, but my feet refused to do so. And before long, I had no choice but to admit what was happening.''Exactly as I had feared, as I stood there, right next to the Queen Elizabeth cruise ship docked in Circular Quay, I was overcome with an intense feeling that I was home.''A LITTLE BACKGROUND''For nearly five years I worked on board cruise ships as a Tour Manager, the final two years of that ‘career’ spent working for Cunard Line and more specifically, on board the Queen Mary 2 ocean liner. Back in 2008, I made the decision to''leave ‘ship life’ behind'', and since then, have only had minimal contact with the industry.''But last weekend, while talking with a friend here in Sydney, I learned that the Queen Mary 2 and its sister ship, the newly built, Queen Elizabeth, would be docking in the city a couple of days later. I quickly fired off a few emails and soon discovered that most of the crew members I had once worked with were now working on board the Queen Elizabeth.''And so, on the day of the ship’s arrival, I made the pier at Circular Quay my destination. Unfortunately, with only two days notice, I was unable to secure a visitor’s pass to actually go on board and so I had no choice but to hover around the ship and wait for some of my old friends and co-workers to hopefully make their way outside.''A SMILING SECURITY GUARD''After twenty minutes of waiting by the terminal building exit, I began to think that my visit would consist of nothing more than a glimpse of the ship itself as not a single crew member I recognized walked out of those doors. But before I decided to give up completely, I climbed the stairs up to the second level of the terminal building, which offered a direct view onto Deck 5 of the ship, an outside deck that passengers use to embark and disembark the vessel.''And as I eagerly scanned Deck 5 for familiar faces, I suddenly noticed a wave in my direction. It was a wave that I will never forget. The man attached to that small hand turned out to be Gurung, one of the Nepalese security guards, and kindest people on the planet, with whom I worked during my two years on board the Queen Mary 2.''Somehow, despite the crowd of at least one hundred observers standing all around me and despite the fact that I hadn’t seen Gurung in over 2 years, the forever-smiling Gurkha instantly recognized me. Sure, we had worked together, but when you consider that Cunard employs at least 3500 crew members on it’s three ships in total, you can understand why one smile and wave from Gurung simply astonished me.''For a few minutes, up until Gurung had to return to his duties, I was beaming with happiness as we yelled out to each other (he was on the ship about 50 feet away from me), asking each other questions and trying to catch up as best we could considering that he was on duty and everyone around us was listening.''THE LURE OF SHIP LIFE''With a little help from Gurung, who used his two-way ship radio to inform the current Tour Manager and friend of mine that I was outside, I soon found myself catching up with Susanna, an Italian girl who actually began her ship career as one of my tour staff several years prior.''It did not seem as if an entire two years had passed since I’d been gone, but as if I had just returned from another 6 week vacation in between contracts instead. And as our conversation was interrupted dozens of times as Susanna was forced to deal with Tour Department issues on her radio, on her mobile phone and with the tour operators standing on the pier, it was admittedly difficult for me not to step in and help her out. A part of me wished I was still working on board.''And then, when the ship’s Human Resources Manager, a very kind British fellow I had worked with, suddenly appeared and with a wide smile across his own face began trying to convince me to return to ship life, I must admit that I found myself feeling quite homesick.''Forget about the money, forget about the travel that such a life offers. I stood there homesick for the community that exists on board cruise ships, a community where crew members from over 80 nationalities work and live together, sharing experiences that nobody else can begin to understand, all inside of a multi-cultural floating world unlike any other that exists on the planet. Sure, I could work on a yacht or volunteer my services on bayliner boats (such as those by''Boat Quest'') around the world, but working on board these mega-ships is what has always appealed to be the most.''I feel homesick even writing about it now.''WALKING AWAY''After two hours of catching up with Susanna and a few other crew members I recognized, I eventually had to say goodbye. With some real hesitation, I forced myself to start walking away from the Queen Elizabeth, while fully confused as to whether or not I would rather be walking up the gangway and on board the ship instead.''My mind began racing with visions of returning to ship life and with questions such as, ‘did I leave ships too soon?’ and ‘should I return for one, or maybe two, more contracts?’ bouncing around my head. Such is the temptation of life on board and even after two years away, the temptation to return is as strong as ever.''For now, however, I do plan to maintain my current course in life. And one of the reasons why I am heading to Chiang Mai, Thailand in a few days is because of the large group of travelers and bloggers that currently live there. It is a rare opportunity for me to be part of a community once again.''With that said, it’s always comforting to know that a return to ship life is only a mere phone call away.''If you happen to be interested in entering the rewarding and addictive world of ship life yourself, be sure to check out my useful eGuide, “''How To Work On Board A Cruise Ship''”. It will help get you there in no time at all.''For the past two nights I slept in a teepee. This wasn’t any ordinary teepee either. It was the TeePee 2000, the mother of all modern day teepees, built with such skill and precision and with the comfort of potential inhabitants carefully considered with every stitch.''A friend of mine here in Sydney told me the story of how he and three others wandered into a Sydney Kmart one day and upon seeing the TeePee 2000 for the very first time, decided on the spot to split the $40 investment among them. And ever since that moment some three years ago, that teepee has accompanied him on every camping trip he has ever taken.''So naturally, the reason why I was sleeping in a TeePee 2000 this weekend is because I was camping. I know that might not sound so natural given my recent rant about the combination of''camping and music festivals'', but I assure you, nothing more than some tunes from an iPod could be heard around the campsite this time around.''After the positive results of my recent''weekend stay at a sheep farm'', I’ve found myself somewhat addicted to the idea of spending more time outdoors, right up close and personal with nature. So when the opportunity arose to join some friends for a camping trip to the Booderee National Park in Jervis Bay, a nature reserve located three hours south of Sydney, I stuffed a few clothing items into a daypack, cut my toenails,''shaved my armpits''and joined the group.''And as expected, I loved every minute of this nature break. Jervis Bay turned out to be quite the perfect camping destination.''Not only were the campsites ideally situated within a eucalyptus and mahogany forest, each site was also only a few minutes walk away from a quiet, yet long stretch of white sand beach. Add to this the dozens of kangaroos and wallabies hopping around and the hundreds of colorful Rosellas flying all throughout the forest and one can easily get the impression that they have reached some remote, completely unexplored corner of the globe. We even had a mother/daughter pair of kangaroos that spent twenty-four straight hours feeding on a grassy patch only five meters from our tents, practically never even taking notice of us at all.''For three days I ate good food, drank good wine, went to sleep early, slept soundly each night, swam in the ocean, hiked through the forests and went kayaking around the bay. And again, I felt more relaxed, more present in the moment and so much healthier overall than at any time in the past six months or perhaps even six years.''Waking up to the birds chirping away at sunrise and then sharing the beach with more kangaroos than human beings seems to have that powerful effect on me.''And of course, sleeping in a teepee in the thick of the forest, with the sound of waves gently tumbling against the shores of the bay in the near distance, is just awesome.''View''Jervis Bay, Australia''in a larger map''THE ONLY DOWNSIDE''However, in all seriousness, while these ‘breaks’ have proven to be quite therapeutic for me, I must also admit that they are terrible for my blog. I can’t help but notice that the number of visitors to this site plummet every time I step away from my laptop for two days or more. The natural instinct is therefore to stop taking these breaks in fear that such a trend will continue and before long I am again writing only to my family and closest friends. (Not that there is anything wrong with that but I do wish to write for a larger audience.)''But after some thought, I’ve chosen not to worry too much about this potential problem. Without these mini-breaks, I not only wouldn’t be able to maintain this blog much longer but I also wouldn’t be putting into practice what I believe is most important in life. How can I talk about the need to fill one’s life with whatever brings you the most happiness and the least amount of regrets when I am not doing so myself? I can’t. And considering that I love the feeling of being outdoors and more specifically, being away from my computer every now and then, these nature breaks must continue.''For now, I’ll be sticking around Sydney for six more days in order to attend the''Sydney Travel Tribe''meet-up this Thursday (where I look forward to meeting some great bloggers such as Caz & Craig of''YTravelBlog.com''and Brooke from''BrookeVsTheWorld.com''), then flying out to Perth on Saturday and finally, back to Chiang Mai, Thailand on March 2nd.''So as always, if any of you happen to be in any of these locations, let me know and perhaps we’ll have a chance to meet up at some point!''I’ve never considered myself to be a farm boy. After all, I didn’t grow up on a farm and in fact, the closest farm to where I did grow up was most likely over 100 miles away. And that’s just a guess because rarely did I find myself passing by or visiting a farm at all during my youth.''However, several days ago I was invited by my friends Matt and Alessa to spend a couple of days in the country town of Trentham, located in the hills of the Great Dividing Range, some two hours outside of Melbourne. This tiny town, the center of which basically consists of one pub, one small supermarket, a couple of shops, a bakery and a cricket pitch, is also home to several farms, and one of those farms happens to belong to Matt’s family.''So off we went for a visit and naturally, I had no idea what to expect, other than a few fields full of potatoes and a few paddocks full of sheep. But only minutes after driving up the gravel driveway and being greeted by the family’s energetic and loyal sheep dog, I discovered that I needed these couple of days in the quiet countryside more than I ever imagined.''SHEEP AND SERENITY''From the moment I pulled an old, worn out pair of boots over my feet, tucked my pant legs inside my socks and took my first step of what would prove to be a two hour wander around the farm, I felt a sudden flame of unexpected enthusiasm run through me. And this feeling only intensified as I began hand-feeding the sheep, eating fruits right off the trees and listening to flocks of kookaburras koo-koo-koo-ka-ka-ka’ing away.''Yes, most of us experience some happiness when surrounded by nothing but nature, but in this case, as the fallen branches crunched beneath my feet and as I exchanged glances with a brown wallaby that appeared behind a tree, I found myself fully transported into a state of being where everything around me seemed perfect.''Despite the cold temperature, a strong desire to roam around this seemingly endless plot of nature for days on end soon took up residence inside of my head. Had there been actual farm work to be done at this time of the year, I would have unhesitatingly sheared some sheep, fixed the dam, removed a fallen tree or even harvested some potatoes, and then I would have gladly woken up early the next morning for more of the same.''What made this interaction with nature so unique for me, was that, for the first time in a long while, I had achieved a sense of serenity and calm that allowed me to think with complete clarity. Most of my daily worries, confusion and frustrations had simply vanished and I was living in the present moment, which, when compared to the normal state of my mind as of late, is apparently not how I’ve been living.''This realization, made while standing near the bank of a small creek, forced me to question my pursuit of happiness in life and wonder whether or not laboring away for hours each day on my laptop is actually the best use of my time.''KANGAROOS AND MEDITATION''When nightfall arrived and what appeared to be every star in the Milky Way shone overhead, my friend Matt took Liz and I on an unforgettable ride, one that truly left me with the urge to toss my laptop into that same small creek and start life anew. We went kangaroo spotting and as we drove across the dark, wide-open fields in a pick-up truck, we came upon a group of over thirty kangaroos, which we proceeded to follow around the farm for ten minutes, while all three of us smiled widely and in awe the entire time.''This may not sound too exciting to some of you but the combination of a beautiful night sky, fresh mountain air, being in a remote location and all of those kangaroos hopping around so very close to me, resulted in a child-like giddiness that I did not want to let go of any time soon. Closing my eyes, I summoned all of my inner strength in order to latch onto that feeling of elation for as long as possible.''(this photo is from my trip to the Great Ocean Road as I didn’t have my camera on me at the time)''The rest of my visit to the farm could not have been more satisfying either, as we explored the entire region, stopping by waterfalls, tasting mineral water from natural springs inside the Wombat State Forest, strolling around a lavender farm and a botanical garden and enjoying a lakeside lunch in the slightly larger country town of Daylesford.''Heck, before we began the drive back to Melbourne I even learned how to drive a tractor, which, by the way, proved to be quite a meditative experience as I sat there alone, with sun roof open, just chugging along at 10km/hour, around and around and around the peaceful green pastures.''LEAVING THE FARM''Eventually, we had to leave the farm and during the drive back to Melbourne, I sat in silence, staring out the window with my mind still full of nothing but happy thoughts.  This was a far cry from a normal evening, when I usually find myself worrying about my blog and my work and my travel plans and emails and on and on. Naturally, I’d prefer to have a head full of happy thoughts every single day instead.''And considering that a pair of old boots and a field of lavender has the power to rid my life of all it’s worries, would I not be better off wandering around forests and mountains, working on farms and spending less time on my laptop?''In reality, the chances of me ever tossing my laptop into the creek are quite slim, but I can’t deny that such a move would most likely bring instant and long-lasting inner  peace and joy into my life. And for that very reason, I have not been able to get this idea out of my head since my visit to the farm one week ago.''Do you sometimes think about a drastic change in lifestyle? And what do you think drives us to exchange a simple, satisfying life for one with infinitely more challenges?''This post is a rare one for me, as it discusses something that I seldom do – take a tour. Yes, a tour, as in an organized excursion complete with vehicle, tour guide and a scheduled pick-up time.''Ever since I began traveling, as far as I can remember, I’ve only participated in two fully-organized tours. And oddly enough, it wasn’t even two different tours, but actually the exact same tour that I happened to go on twice, with some 13 years elapsing in between the two experiences. Even odder is that this tour is not exactly one that anyone would ever guess, as it has nothing to do with any world-famous sight and it surely doesn’t take place in a region that most people tend to visit during their lifetime.''WAY BACK IN 1998''I hopped off the bus in the center of Adelaide, Australia, as inexperienced a traveler as the world has ever seen, ready to start a 6-week celebratory adventure now that my semester abroad studies had ended in Melbourne.''With no guidebook and no clue where to go, I began trekking across the central business district until I finally came upon a hostel. It was quite a shabby place, but one with a friendly Swedish girl working behind the reception desk, and not wanting to roam the streets any longer, I decided to throw down my backpack for a few nights. After checking into a dorm room, the girl at the desk started asking me what my plans were for my stay in Adelaide. I had none and so she quickly recommended I join a tour to the Barossa Valley wine region the following day. Even without any independent travel experience, I was still somewhat weary about organized tours in those early days, but the truth is, when an attractive Swedish hostel worker is trying to convince you to do something, you’re going to end up doing it, no matter what the price or itinerary.''So just like that, five minutes after arriving at the hostel, I was signed up for the''Groovy Grape''Wine Tour. It was probably the easiest commission that girl had ever pocketed.''Interestingly, I loved every minute of that tour and even to this day can remember the exact details of almost everything that took place. The guide’s name was Dallas, the other participants included two Dutch girls, three Brits, an Indian couple and a Canadian guy, one of the family-owned wineries we visited was located inside of a barn, we ate a BBQ lunch at a location overlooking the valley and we were over an hour late returning to Adelaide because we were all having too much of a good time tasting port wines at the final winery we visited.''When I returned to the hostel that evening, slurring my speech and probably smiling a little too widely at the Swedish girl, I thanked her for the recommendation, blabbered something about the $50 tour price being money well spent and then proceeded to pass out in my bed until the next morning.''ADELAIDE 2011''Fast forward to two days ago. I arrived back in Adelaide, this time via a flight, and chose to stay at the (slightly) more upscale Wright Lodge, a most pleasant budget establishment where I was greeted by Simon, the very polite receptionist. (I’ll admit that I had hoped the Swedish girl from 1998 was now not only employed at the Wright Lodge but that she hadn’t aged at all either.)''Simon didn’t even attempt to pressure me into booking any tours, and even if he had, I’m not so sure I would have agreed to anything so easily. Also, there really was nothing to pressure me into as I had already booked my Groovy Grape Wine Tour before arriving.''That’s right, on my first full day back in Adelaide, you can imagine my excitement as the Groovy Grape mini-bus pulled up in front of the Wright Lodge at 7:45am, just as scheduled.''I stepped on board, greeted the guide and the two other passengers that had already been picked up, took my seat and prepared to relive “wine tasting 1998”.''GROOVY GRAPE TAKE 2''Well, this time around, the day was nice.''The guide, whose name I’ve already forgotten, barely even spoke to us passengers, the wineries were completely different and clearly used to endless tour groups stampeding through their halls, many of the wines we tasted ended up being dumped in the spittoons instead of being finished and the BBQ lunch took place in a car park.''However, the other participants were friendly, the guides in each winery did provide some interesting information, some of the wines were enjoyable and despite taking place in a car park, the BBQ involved quite an impressive feast.''And, just as it did back in 1998, the tour ended with a visit to a winery that specializes in port wines (or ‘tawny port’ wines as they’re now known), which happen to be my personal favorite variety of wine.''So luckily, the enjoyment factor of this tour increased a great deal during our lengthy stay at''Seppeltsfield Winery'', allowing me to achieve a level of happiness that was admittedly quite close to that experienced back in 1998.''THE TAWNY PORT WINES OF SEPPELTSFIELD''While standing around the tasting bar, we began by first sampling a fruity Rosé and a most interesting sparkling Shiraz before we moved on to the good stuff – a 3-year old, 5-year old, 10-year old and 15-year old tawny. The combination of wine and brandy, stored in oak barrels, produces such a delightfully warm flavor as it ages, and given that I rarely find myself in a part of the world where tawny port is readily available, I soon found myself finishing the glasses of those around me who surprisingly did not enjoy the taste.''And then, only seconds after taking my final sip of that 15-year old perfection, the kind woman behind the tasting bar unlocked a special drawer and suddenly pulled out the mother of all tawny port wines. Right there before me, bottled with such exquisite style and practically pulsating with sweetness (I have no idea what that means), sat the famous Seppeltsfield 100-year old tawny. Since 1878, Seppeltsfield Winery has stored away one barrel of every year’s vintage, which is only to be opened 100 years later. As a result, since 1978, this winery has had a 100-year old tawny to sell every single year, making it the only winery in the world to achieve this feat.''Sure enough, and thanks in part to the seventh tasting of tawny that I convinced the woman behind the counter to pour into my glass, I soon found myself seriously contemplating purchasing that bottle of 1910 Tawny. I couldn’t take my eyes off of it and even went so far as to lightly trace the number ‘100’ embedded into the label with the tip of my finger.''The fact that the bottle was only 375 ml (the size of a soda can) and that it cost a cool $975, actually seemed appealing at the time. And when I compared this bottle to the 131-year old tawny that was on sale for $1500, the 100-year old version seemed like quite a bargain.''However, as I sit here writing this post today, that $975 is still safely stored in my bank account as I decided not to make the purchase after all. And who do I have to thank for convincing me not to purchase that bottle?''A big thank you to budget airline Tiger Airways and more specifically, their strict baggage restrictions! Considering that I am flying back to Melbourne today, that bottle of tawny would not be allowed on board my flight and surprisingly, despite all of the wine I drank during the tour, I was able to remember that before pulling out my credit card.''So, back to Melbourne I go, without that bottle of prized tawny, but quite possibly as the only person on the planet who has taken a Groovy Grape day tour to the Barossa Valley twice.''Has anyone else been to the Barossa? Or to Adelaide? Any other tawny lovers out there?''When it comes to travel in Iraqi Kurdistan (the semi-autonomous region of Northern Iraq), it can be quite difficult to gauge how much money a traveler would need for such a visit. There really isn’t much information to be found on the internet and as a result, even before I traveled there, I had no idea if this region would prove to be cheap, expensive or somewhere in between in comparison to other parts of the world, including the nearby countries of''Syria''and''Lebanon''.''So now that my visit has ended, I am happy to report that Iraqi Kurdistan is definitely accessible for travelers of all kinds, including those who need to stick to a tight budget. It is possible to travel this region for about $35 USD per day, as long as you stick with budget hotels and simple shawarma sandwiches for meals. And if you’re able to find the handful of hotels that offer dorm rooms, you could probably cut your costs down to $20 USD if needed.''If you choose to spend your nights in 3-star, mid-range hotels, and eat in hotel restaurants, you should expect to spend about $80+ USD per day, although you’ll probably agree that the difference in price may not be worth it once you read the below section on “Accommodation”.''Here’s a more detailed guide of the expenses involved with traveling around Iraqi Kurdistan:''$1 USD = 1200 Iraqi Dinars (ID)''VISAS''For a handful of citizens – USA, Canada, UK, the European Union and Australia – obtaining a visa is as simple as showing up at the land border between Iraqi Kurdistan and Turkey or flying into the regional capital of Erbil. 10-day tourist visas are provided free of charge for citizens of these countries.''Other nationalities must obtain an Iraqi Kurdistan permit/visa from an Iraqi Embassy or Consulate before traveling to Kurdistan or else they will be denied entry at the border.''The 10-day visas do state that all travelers must visit the Directorate of Residence at some point within those ten days, at which time you can also apply for a visa extension, but there is some confusion as to whether or not this is really necessary. Read this post about''my experience at the Directorate''for more information regarding the crazy bureaucracy involved with visiting this government department.''ACCOMMODATION''Budget accommodation in Iraqi Kurdistan is surprisingly comfortable and easy to find. A quick walk through the center of any town or city will pass by several, if not dozens, of hotel options, ranging from cheap and dingy to three-star quality. For the budget traveler, the cheaper options should be more than suitable as even these hotels all generally have lobbies, reception desks and relatively clean and spacious rooms, all with private bathrooms and sometimes, a refrigerator and television.''Here is a general outline of what you can expect in terms of price for budget accommodation:''Dorm Room:''A few ultra-budget hotels in each city offer dorm beds for around 12,000 – 18,000 ID per night.''Single Room:''Actual single rooms don’t really exist and so most hotels will charge approximately 75% of the double room rate for single occupancy. Prices range between 24,000 – 40,000 ID.''Double Room:''Good rooms for two people are easy to find and are of great value, typically costing between 35,000 – 50,000 ID per night, which, when split between two people, is quite a bargain for what you receive.''Hotel Recommendations''Erbil:''Hotel Shahan, located on the main road right below the Erbil Citadel, offers basic but clean and comfortable rooms at good rates. Single rooms cost 40,000 ID and double rooms 50,000 ID per night.''Sulamainiyah:''Take a taxi to the Ashti Hotel on Salim Street and you’ll find several other hotel options for all budgets within a two-minute walk. Right around the corner from the Ashti is the Chrkan Hotel, where good double rooms are available for around 50,000 ID per night.''Dohuk:''The centrally located and friendly Bircin Hotel was the best value hotel I found in all of Kurdistan. For only 20,000 ID, this hotel offers spacious and clean double rooms with large private bathrooms and wi-fi access (for a small fee).''In addition, most budget hotels also include a decent Middle Eastern breakfast (eggs, bread and vegetables) in the price of the room, however, the reception staff never seem to inform you of this fact when you are checking in. Just show up in the lobby before 10am and join the other guests who are eating their complimentary meal.''FOOD''Unfortunately, food proved to be the greatest challenge of my visit to Iraqi Kurdistan as there simply is not much variety at all. Eating out almost always involves visiting a shawarma shop for a quick chicken or beef sandwich in pita bread. If you’re lucky, you may find a shop selling falafel sandwiches but the falafel are usually 99% bread crumbs and 1% actual chickpeas. If you’re super lucky, you just may stumble upon an eatery selling salads and roasted chicken (I saw one of these places during my stay).''For an excellent roundup of the food in Iraqi Kurdistan, here’s an article you don’t want to miss –''“''A Taste of Eating Out in Iraq''“.''Here’s what you’ll generally pay for food:''Shawarma''(chicken, beef or ‘falafel’) – 800 – 1400 ID per sandwich''Roasted chicken & salad''– 7000 – 12,000 ID per plate''Sweets''(cakes, turkish delight, custards, etc.) – 1000 – 2000 ID each''Tea''(from tea stalls) – 100 – 300 ID per glass''Occasionally, you may find a more upscale restaurant if you venture beyond the city centers. For example, in the Ainkawa district of Erbil (the Christian quarter), I noticed a few restaurants that seemed to serve a wider variety of Middle Eastern cuisine. In addition, the best meal I ate on the trip happened to be at''Deutscher Hof'', a German restaurant and pub in Erbil that served up excellent German fare in a relaxing setting for very reasonable prices ($25 USD per person for an entree, meal and drink).''For vegetarians, Iraqi Kurdistan will prove even more challenging as you’ll undoubtedly get sick of falafel sandwiches by the end of your first day. It will take some extra effort but chances are that you can eventually locate a restaurant that serves a variety of salads, such as Pizza Plus in Sulamainiyah.''Apart from that, you can pick up some fruit at the local markets and there are always vendors around selling fresh bread!''TRANSPORTATION''Unlike many destinations that are full of specific sights to see, most places in Kurdistan are best enjoyed by simply hitting the streets, going for a wander and seeing where you end up. As a result, unless you are interested in visiting an outer suburb (such as Ainkawa in Erbil), your own two feet are you best option for moving around. But when you do need to take a taxi, they are plentiful and cheap when traveling within a particular city or town.''Local Taxis:''Official taxis are either cream color or part white/part orange and it will rarely take you more than 20 seconds to find one. Prices are generally fixed, but of course, you may end up with a driver who will try to charge you a little more, so it’s a good idea to find out ahead of time (from your hotel, etc.) what the official price should be.''As an example of cost, in Erbil, most journeys within the city center cost 2000 ID and a trip out to one of the suburbs costs 3000 ID.''Long-Distance Taxis:''Traveling between cities is also quite simple as every city has one or more ‘garaj’ where official, long-distance shared-taxis gather. You simply show up at the ‘garaj’, tell the first person who asks where you’re headed and you’ll be led to the proper line of taxis. Once the next taxi is full (with 4 people), you’ll pay the official price to the ticket man and off you’ll go.''It can be a little confusing trying to figure out which ‘garaj’ you need to go to as some of the destinations can sound quite similar. But, for example, if you’re in the city of Dohuk and you want to travel to Erbil, you would tell the taxi driver to take you to “Erbil Garaj”. If you were headed to Zakho, you’d want to go to the “Zakho Garaj” instead.''Here is a list of prices for shared taxis between major destinations:''Zakho (Iraq/Turkey border) to Dohuk:''8,000 ID / $7 USD''Zakho to Erbil:''30,000 ID / $25 USD''Erbil to Sulamainiyah:''15,000 ID / $13 USD''Sulamainiyah to Halabja:''5,000 ID / $4 USD''Dohuk to Amadiya:''7,000 ID / $6 USD''You will see actual buses every now and then traveling between destinations, however, it is not a recommended mode of travel for foreigners. These buses, instead of traveling directly to their destination, often stop in either Kirkuk or Mosul, two cities located just outside of the safety of Kurdistan and each of which is considered one of the most dangerous cities on the planet. While Kurdistan is a''safe place to visit'', these two cities present a very real threat to foreigners and should be avoided.''The shared-taxis do not stop in Mosul or Kirkuk, although they do leave the safety of Kurdistan and travel through the outskirts of these cities without stopping. If you wish to avoid these areas altogether, you would need to hire a private taxi to take you to your destination, using a much longer route through the mountains that will cost approximately $70 USD for a ride between Erbil and Sulamainyah.''To/From Kurdistan:''If you’re traveling overland into Iraqi Kurdistan, you can find a detailed guide and outline of the costs involved by reading this post I recently wrote about my experience''traveling to Kurdistan from Syria''.''ENTRANCE FEES''There really aren’t too many actual tourist sights in Iraqi Kurdistan, so entrance fees will not be a major expense at all. Places such as the Erbil Citadel and Minaret Park are free of charge and other interesting places to visit simply involve walking around a town, which of course doesn’t cost anything. The only entrance fee I had to pay was 2000 ID when visiting the memorial at Halabja, the village where Saddam gassed and killed over 3000 people in the final days of the Iran-Iraq war in 1988. And even if the entrance fee was significantly higher, this site would still be well worth a visit.''Apart from that one site, however, every other place of interest that I visited was free of charge.''INTERNET''Iraqi Kurdistan is by no means the most connected region of the world, but there are enough internet cafes and wi-fi signals around so that anyone relying on the internet for work, could survive without too much of a struggle.''In the capital city of''Erbil'', I found two internet cafes in the city center, both of which offered quite reliable connections for around 1200 ID per hour. One of these internet cafes is located just below the Citadel under the four-star Erbil Tower Hotel.''In''Sulaymaniyah'', I managed to find at least a dozen wi-fi signals from my hotel room, although it was a struggle to connect for more than a couple of minutes at a time. However, it turns out that shisha cafes, such as the''Shawany Maliek Cafeteria''just off of Salim Street near the Great Shang-Hai Chinese Restaurant, offers free wi-fi for customers. Order some apple shisha (about 9000 ID per hookah) and you can sit in a big comfortable chair using the internet for as long as you want.''In''Dohuk'', the budget hotel I stayed at (Hotel Bircin) actually had wi-fi available at a cost of 1200 ID per hour and for those who don’t travel with a laptop, there was also a huge internet cafe just across the street.''And interestingly, unlike neighboring Syria or nearby Lebanon, there did not appear to be any government censorship of the internet in Kurdistan. Websites such as Facebook and Twitter, which are not officially accessible in other Middle Eastern countries, are easily accessible in this region.''WORK OPPORTUNITIES''Apparently, for the independent traveler, it’s possible to find work teaching English in the major towns and cities of Kurdistan. I’m not too sure about the potential wages and I have not met anyone myself who is teaching English here, but I have heard through other people that it is possible. Considering that you only receive a 10-day visa upon arrival, it’s probably best to do some research beforehand and try to find a language school that needs foreigner teachers. Otherwise, you could always visit the more expensive hotels or even the internet cafes, both of which tend to have more English speaking staff, and start your search from there by simply asking around.''FINAL TIPS:''Very few people in Kurdistan speak English, so it pays to learn some Arabic or Kurdish ahead of time or at least carry around a phrasebook.''Bargaining is not at all common and you will almost always be charged the local prices given that locals are not yet used to foreign travelers.''Bottled water is available everywhere although you will rarely find large bottles. Some hotels have filtered drinking water machines where you can fill up your bottles safely instead of having to buy more bottles.''There are no ATMS in Iraqi Kurdistan at all and no credit card services either. You must bring plenty of cash with you – US Dollars, Euros and Turkish Lira would be best – which can be exchanged for Iraqi Dinars with the money-changers that line most of the main streets in every town.''MORE RESOURCES TO CHECK OUT:''A Digital Pocket Guide on Visiting Northern Iraq:''Part 1''&''Part 2''Any questions about the cost of traveling in Iraqi Kurdistan that I didn’t address above? Please leave a comment below or send me an email and I’d be more than happy to help out as much as I can!''How would you feel if you planned your dream trip to the Dominican Republic, flew to the Caribbean, spent ten incredible days on an island and only upon returning home, discovered that you had actually been on the island of Dominica?''Would it affect what had been a memorable experience?''Of course, I doubt that this scenario would really happen, at least not on such a large scale. But on a smaller scale, it certainly can occur during our travels.''For example…''A FAMOUS BEACH''On Sunday morning, for the first time since arriving in Australia at the end of December, I finally ventured beyond the city limits of Melbourne. In a rented, bright blue Nissan Micra, Liz and I drove west out of the city and towards the Great Ocean Road, a well-known coastal region of Victoria. Our eventual destination was the small beach town of Anglesea, where a friend of mine had reserved his brother’s beach house for a week so that six of us could enjoy a short beach break.''About an hour and a half outside of Melbourne, and after a sweet yet talkative elderly volunteer at a roadside information center spent thirty minutes explaining to us, in painstaking detail, every single activity and sight in the entire region when all we asked for was a map, we caught our first glimpse of the ocean as we pulled into the laid-back town of Torquay.''The town of Torquay is essentially a surfers hangout, where the main attraction is the beach, and more specifically, Bell’s Beach. Made famous by the 1991 classic surf film''Point Break''(the final scene was set at Bell’s Beach) and known for having the longest running surf competition in the world, this legendary location seemed the perfect place to begin our five-day adventure along the Great Ocean Road.''For days prior we had talked about visiting this beach, and given our interest in surfing from our days''back in Mexico'', we were genuinely excited to catch a glimpse of surfers riding such famous waves.''After picking up some food in the centre of town, I drove back onto the main road, confident that I would easily locate Bell’s Beach, which is, after all, the most well-known attraction in the area. And sure enough, five minutes later, I turned onto Bell Street and immediately found myself driving down a small road packed full of both cars and people heading towards the beach.''We had arrived. High-fives all around.''I parked the car, we grabbed our sarongs and food and we practically ran up the dirt path that led to the top of a small hill. At the top of that hill we stood in silence as we marveled at the impressive stretch of beach before us. We happily inhaled the refreshing ocean air and smiled widely at the golden sand and emerald waters. It was easy to understand how this location had become so famous.''Despite the crowds, we found a small empty patch of grass and sat down to eat our lunch, which included a vegetable and cheese roll that I proceeded to drop all over my shirt simply because I had difficultly concentrating on eating with such a remarkable beach in front of me.''To the left were hundreds of colorful people engaged in such activities as sunbathing, playing beach cricket or building sandcastles. In front of us were dozens of more people swimming and frolicking around in the ocean. And to the right were the surfers, approximately fifty or so brave individuals attempting to ride the waves of one of the world’s most holiest surf spots.''After our leisurely lunch, we walked down the hill and wandered along the beach for over an hour, while making several honest attempts to go for a swim. Of course, being used to the much warmer waters of Mexico, we only made it up to our toe nails before finding it too cold to proceed any further. But it still felt wonderful to be standing in the ocean at a place I had looked forward to visiting for quite some time.''Eventually, after sitting on the grass once again and watching the surfers ride their waves, we said goodbye to the beautiful Bell’s Beach and returned to our car, where we gave each other one more high-five in celebration of our successful two hour visit.''We then exited the car park and began the drive along the coastal road towards the town of Anglesea.''And then, less than a minute later, we passed a large sign that read, “''Bell’s Beach – 500 meters ahead''”.''It turns out that we had not been at Bell’s Beach after all. We had actually spent two hours at the far less famous Surf Beach instead. Bell’s Beach is located on Bell’s Beach Road, not on Bell Street.''EXPECTATION VS REALITY''Upon seeing that sign, we didn’t have time to do anything but shrug our shoulders, share a short laugh and carry on with our drive to Anglesea. We had friends to meet and were already running late.''But during the rest of the drive, I couldn’t help but wonder if we had enjoyed our visit to Surf Beach because it was actually a beautiful beach or if only because we thought it was the famous Bell’s Beach at the time?''The more I thought about it, the more I realized that Surf Beach basically looked like quite an ordinary beach, similar to hundreds I’ve seen before all over the world. And so, before long, I began to feel that my positive experience there was most likely a direct result of my expectations and not at all of what I had actually discovered.''So now I’m confused.''Does this happen consistently during our travels? Do we sometimes appreciate a travel experience simply because we believe we are supposed to appreciate it? Even if we end up at the actual place we’re looking for, do our expectations blur our interpretation of reality?''In other words, is it possible to view the Taj Mahal as anything less than impressive?''This past week in Melbourne has been full of activity as I had a chance to take part in some events that, every time I’m in Australia, I seem to always find myself attending. Of course, as you probably can guess, none of these events were''Music Festivals''or any other event that involved camping, yet they were all events that have played a significant role in every one of my visits to this city over the years. Without them, summer in Melbourne just wouldn’t be summer in Melbourne.''THE AUSTRALIAN OPEN TENNIS''At $29, a daily ground pass to the Australian Open offers what I think is quite a good deal, one that I always take advantage of if I’m in Melbourne when the tournament rolls around in mid-January. With this pass, one is allowed to spend an entire day watching any of the tennis matches taking place on any of the 22 outdoor courts, including the stadium-style “Show Court 2” and “Show Court 3” as well as the even larger “Margaret Court Arena”. While you’re not allowed to enter the two indoor arenas – HiSense Arena and the center court in Rod Laver Arena – where tennis’ biggest stars tend to play, there’s definitely no shortage of good players to watch outside.''This year, I went to the Australian Open towards the end of the first week and despite the high temperatures, blazing sun and complete lack of shade (ie. Australian sunburn), the outing was perfect. I stayed for over 8 hours, watching both singles and doubles matches that involved such players as David Ferrer, Marin Cilic, Marcos Baghdatis, Maria Kirilenko (don’t worry, I had never heard of her before either), Santiago Giraldo (or him), Lucie Safarova (or her) and an extraordinary amount of women players from the Czech Republic, including, and not limited to, Benesova, Strycova, Ondraskova, Peschke, Hlavackova, Hradecka, Kvitova and Zakopalova.''Surprisingly, and unlike previous years I’ve attended, there were never any problems finding good seats, even in the more popular Margaret Court Arena when it was time to watch the evening match between Andy Murray and another guy. Ok, hold on, I’ll look it up. The other guy was Illya Marchenko from Ukraine.''And unlike other tennis events, from what I’ve heard, the atmosphere at the Australian Open is somewhat, well, different. With endless beer and wine gardens and fans dressed up in elaborate costumes while chanting such slogans as “If you’re Aussie and you know it, clap your hands”, the vibe resembles that of a circus at times, but a good circus. In fact, such a good circus that I’ll keep on returning to it every time I visit Melbourne.''(''Side story'': Two days after I went to the tennis, I was sitting in a small cafe on Chapel Street eating some ice cream when I turned around and discovered that the rear end of Venus Williams was only inches from my face. She seemed a bit agitated, not because my nose was practically rubbing against her buttocks, but most likely because an injury forced her to retire from a match the day before, and so I didn’t attempt to speak to her. And after spending a couple minutes waiting in line for ice cream, she walked out of the cafe anyway.)''AUSTRALIA DAY BBQ''Every year, on January 26th, Australians around the country celebrate Australia Day, a national holiday to commemorate the arrival of the “''First Fleet of 11 convict ships from Great Britain, and the raising of the Union Jack at Sydney Cove by its commander Captain Arthur Phillip, in 1788''” (''History of Australia Day'').''And typically, on this day, no matter where you live in this vast country, there are endless celebrations, festivals and events taking place. The Australia Day brochure for Melbourne alone this year included over 40 special events, ranging from free breakfasts to parades to musical performances and special museum exhibits, with something interesting to do every single minute of the day.''However, as is the case every single time that I am in Melbourne for this holiday, I actually didn’t attend a single event or participate in a single one of the official celebrations. The reason is that one of my long-time friends from Melbourne happens to be one of the several thousand Australians whose birthday falls on Australia Day. And so, every single year since 2000, this friend has invited people to his house for a large BBQ in order to celebrate both events. To my circle of friends in Melbourne, Justin’s BBQ is an event that remains permanently etched on their calendars and without a real good excuse, is never to be missed.''Three days ago, with all of the ingredients to prepare the perfect sangria stuffed into my backpack, I hopped on the tram at around 1pm and rode out to Justin’s house, where I was greeted by a large group of people who were already into their third drink. This group included many familiar faces, mostly friends from my Uni days whom I hadn’t seen since my last visit two years ago, as well as a handful of people I had never met before.''The grill was fired up, the sangria was prepared and just as I expected, the afternoon passed by as enjoyably as I have come to expect from these BBQs, with a combination of conversation and laughter that made me feel as if I had been living in Melbourne, surrounded by these friends, for the past 10 years straight.''CRICKET AT THE MCG''Finally, I come to the third event of my Australian summer…the cricket. Not only am I talking about attending a cricket match, but I’m talking about attending a cricket match at the''MCG'', the Melbourne Cricket Ground, Australia’s most famous stadium.''A friend of mine works for the Victorian Cricket Association and as a result, had access to free tickets for yesterday’s evening match between Victoria and South Australia. And as I entered the massive stadium and glanced around at the well-manicured cricket pitch (field) and at the rows of seats rising high into the sky, I again felt as if I’d been coming here to watch sporting events for years.''We settled into our seats and within minutes the match began. Of course, this wasn’t an international match which is normally attended by over 100,000 insanely devout cricket fans. Instead, yesterday’s match was attended by 10,000 or so relatively subdued fans, who, despite attempting the Mexican wave on two occasions, lacked that intense energy often present when the Australian team plays England.''But despite the low attendance, as well as the insignificance of the game (even with a victory Victoria had no chance of making the playoffs), watching a cricket match at the MCG is never dull, especially when you understand the rules of the game. Luckily, thanks to my previous visits to Australia and the two years I’ve''spent in India'', I do understand the rules of cricket, so if I start clapping my hands, chances are it’s because a Victorian batsman hit a six and not simply because everyone else around me is clapping. Most of the time anyway 🙂''For those of you familiar with cricket, the match yesterday was a Twenty20 match and South Australia managed to escape with a victory when Daniel Christian hit a four during the final over. For those of you not familiar with cricket, South Australia won when a guy hit the ball pretty far just before the end of the match.''So that is a typical summer week in Melbourne, and if you can find a good price on''Australia flights'', it’s the kind of week that anyone could experience. I’ve now been fortunate enough to experience such weeks during every visit to this city over the past 12 years. And now that I’ve done so this time around, it is time for me to move on.''I’m off to the''Great Ocean Road''this week for five days and then to the''Barossa Valley''wine region the following week, located near the South Australian city of Adelaide.''Any cricket fans out there? Or tennis fans?''It happens. Travelers get ripped off. And it happens often.''One of the most common ways of getting ripped off involves taking local transportation and sometimes it seems as if we spend hours every single day trying to negotiate taxi or rickshaw or tuk-tuk fares wherever we go. And somehow, no matter how hard we try, we almost always end up paying infinitely higher prices than locals.''Of course, as soon as we find ourselves being ripped off by taxi drivers or once we learn that we paid much more than other travelers for the same journey, we are oh-so-quick to place all of the blame on the evil taxi or tuk-tuk or bicycle rickshaw driver who took our money.''After all, didn’t we approach the driver with a smile on our face, hand them a piece of paper with our destination scrawled in local script and then, just as our guide book instructs us to do, attempt to reach an agreement on the price before we entered their vehicle?''Yes, that’s exactly the steps we are trained to take and yet, we repeatedly find ourselves frustrated when the driver quotes us an extraordinarily high price for what we believe to be an extraordinarily short journey. Twenty-five dollars for a ride to the market? Come on, that’s a ripoff! It’s a good price sir. That’s ridiculous, I’ll give you five dollars. Five dollars? Impossible. Twenty dollars is my final offer. Are you nuts? No sir, fifteen dollars and we leave now. Fine, let’s go.''Eventually, too frustrated and tired to participate in this argument any longer, we accept the inflated price, climb into the vehicle and then proceed to spend days afterward moaning to every other traveler we meet about how everyone is trying to rip us off.''THE MYTH OF THE BROKEN TAXI METER''After eleven years of traveling, and I do admit that I only figured this out quite recently, I made a discovery that, for the most part, instantly eliminates the chances of me paying non-local, heavily inflated prices for transportation, no matter where I am in the world.''What I noticed is that it is only foreign travelers who approach taxis, tuk-tuks and rickshaws around the world and actually attempt to negotiate a price before even getting into the vehicle. If you take a moment to look around you, the locals in most places do not follow this method. Instead, they simply enter the taxi or step into the rickshaw and tell the driver their destination.''And off they go…with that all-too-infamous broken or missing taxi meter that all of us travelers are constantly reminded of, miraculously working just fine.''When’s the last time you’ve seen a local involved in an angry argument with a taxi driver over the fare? It almost never happens.''Why? Because there is almost always, despite what our guide books tell us, a fare system in place, even in the most undeveloped and chaotic cities of the world. Meters are used with more frequency than we’re led to believe and when there are actually no meters, there are typically government-set prices that drivers are required to charge.''Unfortunately, we travelers automatically assume that such a system couldn’t possibly exist in a place like India or Thailand or Syria and that the goal of every taxi driver must naturally be to rip us off.  So we stroll up to the passenger side of the taxi, pop our head into the window and ask “How much?”, immediately indicating to the driver that we don’t know the first thing about how the local system works.''At that point, not surprisingly, the taxi or rickshaw driver might see this as an opportunity to earn some extra money and hence the higher than normal fares that we are forced to pay. They know we’ll agree to some random price in the end and that random price is going to be a lot higher than the local fare.''A RECENT EXAMPLE''During my recent trip to the Middle East, I found myself at a restaurant one night with a handful of other travelers in the''Syrian city of Aleppo''. In between mouthfuls of hommus, tabouli and grilled eggplant, the conversation turned to taxi fares. The other travelers all complained that it was impossible to get a decent rate for a ride between two points within the city. They all spoke of paying 300 or 400 Syrian Pounds ($6 or $8 USD) for each ride after negotiating with drivers.''At one point, I asked them why they didn’t just have the driver use the taxi meter. “There are no meters in the taxis” was the immediate reply.''Well, every single taxi in Aleppo, Syria has a working meter and upon discovering this myself while taking a taxi ride with a local friend, I never had any issues with taxi fares at all. Whenever I needed a ride, I simply jumped in the back seat, informed the driver of my destination and paid the metered fare. A typical fare for a fifteen minute drive across the city was a mere 20 Syrian Pounds (40 US cents) and not once did a taxi driver try to tell me the meter wasn’t working or try to charge me a higher price.''Not a single other traveler I met in Aleppo had ever paid a metered fare.''HOW TO PAY THE LOCAL FARE''Whenever I arrive in a new destination, before even stepping out of my hotel, guesthouse or hostel for the first time, or even the airport if I’m arriving by plane, I always make sure to ask a reliable local how the taxi system works. Such reliable people include the staff in the guesthouse, the official information booth at the airport or any other local who has no interest in leading me astray.''Do the taxis and rickshaws use meters? Do they have flat rates? How much should it cost to reach my destination?''With that basic knowledge, I no longer have to stick my head into a taxi window while pointing at a page in my guide book that explains how much I should pay, or in other words, announcing to every taxi driver in the region that I want to negotiate for something that is generally not negotiated for, which will always be a losing situation for us travelers.''By giving the driver a friendly nod and getting into the vehicle without asking ‘how much?’, I’m in a much better position to enjoy a peaceful ride for a local fare. This tells the driver that I already know how much the ride should cost and that this is not my first experience (regardless of whether or not it is) using a taxi in this city.''Not only does this save money, but it saves time and even more importantly, it saves us from all of that unnecessary frustration that we carry around in response to being ripped off by taxi drivers every time we need to go somewhere.''IT WORKS ALL OVER THE WORLD''In the past two years alone, I’ve put this method into place while traveling through India (yes, even in places such as Delhi the taxis and rickshaws have and will use their meters), Thailand, Mexico, Central America and more. And the number of times that my attempt to use the local system ended up in an argument over the fare could be counted on one hand.''Of course, if we attempt the local method in a heavily-touristed area like Khao San Road in Bangkok, then we shouldn’t expect much success. When we are surrounded by hundreds of other travelers all willing to lead themselves straight into the trap of being ripped off, chances are the taxi driver we approach will prefer to wait for the next person to come along. Instead, if we walk five minutes away from such a touristy area, the situation will be much different.''Along with receiving the local fare, we might actually interact with our driver as well, as opposed to holding a life-long grudge against him for leaving us no choice but to accept the inflated price that, in reality, we brought upon ourselves.''Any taxi experiences to share or advice to add? What method do you use to try and avoid paying higher fares while traveling?''Something flew onto my upper lip and I woke up. In my exhausted state, still half-asleep, my attempts to swat whatever was bouncing around my face, nearly ended up giving me a bloody mouth. The insect swooped down again and hopped from my left cheek to my left eye before gently coming to rest on my nose. I swatted again, hitting my nose with more force than I would have liked.''Not only was it the middle of the night, but it was the middle of the night in the middle of nowhere and I was inside a tent. As a result, I couldn’t see anything in the darkness, and could only react once I felt the moth land on my face again.''The problem then grew when I felt a second moth flying around my face, and it became even worse as I felt three and then four and before long, dozens of moths attacking me from all angles. It was a full on offensive that left me wondering how on earth all of these moths got into my tent in the first place.''At one point, I opened the flap of my tent and tried to force all of the moths outside with large swooping motions of my arms. It didn’t work and instead, they actually seemed to grow in number, as there were now even more moths attempting to fly into my ear canals, up my nose and even into my eye sockets, all at the same time.''The rain outside forced me to remain in my tent and while I could have buried myself in the depths of my sleeping bag and wrapped my face in a t-shirt, I was determined to get rid of these moths.''Unfortunately, I failed. But after a couple of hours, my exhaustion became too much once again and despite the crazed moths, I somehow managed to fall back asleep.''MEREDITH MUSIC FESTIVAL''The above tale took place two years ago during my last visit to Australia, while I was attending the''Meredith Music Festival''with some friends, an annual festival that takes place in rural Victoria. Before the festival had begun, I was undoubtedly excited to spend some time in the country, listening to good music, especially upon hearing that the forecast called for near perfect weather for the duration of the three-day event.''The problem began, however, when, at the exact same second that we drove through the entrance gate of the festival, the rain began to fall. Fifteen minutes later, as my friends and I tried to set up our tents on a muddy patch of land, the rain poured down with greater force. By the time we made our way down to the main stage and began listening to some music, we could barely see the stage through the rain.''And on that first night, at around 9:00pm, after shivering under a tree while holding a broken umbrella for 8 hours and listening to bands that I no longer cared about, I wandered back to my tent wanting nothing else but to fall asleep.''Fall asleep I did. But as soon as I drifted off, that’s when the moths arrived.''THE BATTLE ENDS''After my exhausting battle with the moths, I woke up the following morning to the flap of my tent flapping around in the wind. I apparently forgot to shut the flap after trying to shoo the moths away during the night. Climbing out of my sleeping bag, I looked for my glasses but couldn’t find them anywhere and so I decided to step outside into the blurry world for a big morning stretch.''As soon as I stepped outside, the only sounds I could hear were those of instant laughter. My friends, who were sitting under a tarp eating breakfast, began laughing hysterically. Our tent neighbors to the left let out a fair amount of chuckles, as did our tent neighbors to the right.''Well, it turns out that''I had not battled an army of ferocious moths''during the night at all. Instead, there had been a large hole in the side of my sleeping bag and as a result, the feathers had been pouring out of that hole, one by one, flying all around the tent and landing all over my face….and hair and every other part of my body.''So there I stood in the rain for all Meredith festival-goers to see,''completely covered from head to toe in a thick layer of white feathers''.''TWO MORE DAYS''Day two of the festival played out much like day one with record amounts of rain continuing to fall. The only difference was that I was covered in feathers all day and when I returned to our campsite in the evening, my tent was flooded. However, despite seeming like a most unfortunate occurrence, after a quick look around me I actually felt quite thankful. One of my friend’s tents had literally blown away and was now sitting upside down about 50 feet from its original site and my other friend’s tent had completely collapsed and now lay in the middle of a large muddy puddle.''Fully soaked and just wanting to get some decent sleep again, I stumbled all the way back towards the stage and asked my friend who drove us to the festival for the keys to her car. I then put on every piece of dry clothing I had, sat in the driver seat and tried to sleep. An hour later, every door to the car opened simultaneously and my friends all piled in, having no other place to sleep as well.''So that’s how we passed the second night, with five of us packed into a small car, all sitting there wet, cold, stinky and grumpy while trying to fall asleep with heavy winds and rain beating down on the outside of the vehicle. Not a word was said, but I’m quite sure that every single one of us would have traded the few musical acts we did manage to see for a few hours in a heated room with a comfy bed.''The rain finally did let up during the third day, at the exact same moment that we drove through the exit gate of the Meredith Music Festival and began the drive back to Melbourne. Incredibly, this was also the exact same moment that I decided never to attend another music festival again.''In fact, these days, whenever I even hear the words “music” and “festival” mentioned in the same sentence, I shudder and immediately walk away. Just a few weeks ago, when I arrived in Melbourne for my current visit, my friends asked me whether or not I would be attending the''Falls Music Festival''or the''Golden Plains Festival''this year.''Not a chance. Call me old or boring, or call me both, but my Music Festival days have come to an end.''Photo credits:''Pyramid Stage''|''Marquee Fail''The first time I traveled to Melbourne, Australia was back in 1998 as part of a student exchange program during my university years. And during the 6 months that I spent here ‘studying’, as well as dying my hair bright blue and having my eyebrows pierced, I fell in love with this city more than I ever imagined I would. Perhaps it was due to the simple fact that Melbourne was the first foreign destination that I had visited on my own, but whatever the reason, as I boarded my return flight to the US at the end of the semester, I knew that it would not be long before I revisited this city and this country.''I know that a lot of people say such things about places they visit. “I’ll be back soon” or “I’ll return one day” are common phrases for travelers to utter moments before they leave a country. I’ve uttered those very words countless times as well, and just like most people, I have not returned to most of those places.''However, when it comes to Australia, and Melbourne in particular, I did return. As I write this, I am actually in the midst of my fifth trip to this city since 1998, partly due to the fact that I’ve managed to find inexpensive flights to Australia at times over the years.''To me, Melbourne is one of those destinations where, no matter how many times I visit, I am always as excited to be here as I was the first time. This would help explain why I’ve now spent more time in Melbourne over the past 12 years – some 20 months in total – than I have in my home city of Boston during that period of time.''THE BOND WE SHARE''I will forever maintain a strong bond with Melbourne because of the education it offered me during that one semester abroad. However, I’m not talking about what I learned in the classroom or on the university campus at all. While I often mention that first “3-month backpacking adventure to Southeast Asia that has now''turned into 11 years of travel''”, I would actually never have even taken that trip had Melbourne never come into my life.''During my semester here, I found myself suddenly exposed to a wealth of new ideas, one of those being backpacking, an entire form of travel that, truthfully, I knew nothing about at the time. Combine this discovery that people of all ages were strapping backpacks to their backs and traveling the world on tight budgets, with the heavy Asian influence in Melbourne, much of which derived from cultures I again, knew nothing about, and the seed of my wandering lifestyle was unknowingly planted.''And I say ‘unknowingly’ because despite learning about the idea of backpacking to exotic Asian lands, my brain was still quite focused on my education and the career I hoped to commence once I graduated. My budding dreams of world travel were stored away in the basement of my brain as I focused on becoming the next Jerry MaGuire. (Yes, it was my goal at the time to become a big-time sports agent.)''WHAT I LOVE ABOUT MELBOURNE''So, here I am back in Melbourne and of course, I am not here this time to study at university or to dye my hair blue for that matter. So why am I here? Why did I board a flight for the several thousand mile journey to this city, just as I’ve done every 2-3 years since 1998?''Here’s a few of the reasons…''Variety Of Food''I’ll never forget my first visit when I couldn’t believe the incredible diversity of food available in this city. From Tibetan to Afghani to Ethiopian to Nepalese and Lebanese, I wanted to try it all and most of the time, I loved what I tried.''Now, each time I visit Melbourne, I typically spend the first few days visiting all of my favorite eating establishments. I happily slurp up huge bowls of Vietnamese noodle soup at Mekong (Swanston Street), dig into flavorful thalis at''Flora Indian Restaurant''(Flinders Street), wait an hour for a table at the''Vegie Bar''(Brunswick Street) for the chance to bite into any of their creative vegetarian dishes, take my time eating the perfect falafel sandwich at Half Moon Cafe (Sydney Road) and giggle in disbelief as I cover my aromatic rice with scoops of insanely delicious coconut-based curries served up at Thaila Thai (Lygon Street).''A Place To Work''Despite Australia’s notoriously poor internet connections (sorry Australians, it’s not the best), the''State Library of Victoria''in the heart of the city has proven to be my savior during my last few visits. Basically, it’s a free office for me to use and I love walking up the steps each morning, wandering across the large halls and finding a hidden work desk or comfy chair to settle into for a few hours. With the most reliable internet connection in the city, as well as a variety of quiet, bright rooms that each offer their own unique atmosphere, I accomplish more work during the hours I spend inside of this library than when I am working anywhere else on the planet. Knowing that I can come to the library and efficiently check things off of my never-ending list of work to be completed is something I look forward to with every visit.''The Great Outdoors''Of course, once the work is over, I’m ready to wander outside and enjoy the Melbourne summer as much as possible (except on those cold summer days that appear with more regularity than I would like to see). Luckily, I never have to walk far to find something interesting. From tiny cafe-filled alleys improbably wedged between tall office buildings, the Southbank Promenade along the Yarra River, the endless paths through the expansive and impressive''Royal Botanical Gardens''and the abundance of open-air markets to get lost in, there is no shortage of places to explore by foot. Often times I’ll simply jump on a tram and ride out to the edge of the city, where I can spend hours strolling through the beach community of St. Kilda, in and out of the second-hand shops, beer gardens and Middle Eastern restaurants of Sydney Road or the Vietnamese cafes and bakeries on Victoria Street.''Strong Friendships''Without a doubt, one of the main reasons I return time and time again to this city is the great group of friends I have that live here. Many of these friends are people I first met during my studies and with whom I’ve stayed in close contact, while others are people I’ve met during subsequent visits or Australian travelers I met overseas during my adventures. The result is that I now have a larger community of friends here in Melbourne than I do in any other part of the world, including anywhere in the US. And having such a network of good people to spend time with is not too common for someone who spends most of the year, every year, out on the road.''So yes, even a permanent nomad finds comfort in such a strong community of friends. In fact, I derive so much enjoyment from the interactions and gatherings that result, that I am willing to travel halfway across the world every few years in order to experience it. And this is the very reason I have now realized that Melbourne is no longer merely a travel destination to me, but more of a ‘home’ instead.''This morning I was forced to dry my underwear and socks in the microwave. It all began when I had the unfortunate timing of washing a load of laundry at the exact same moment that the rain started to fall here in Melbourne. And that was five days ago. For the most part, the rain has been falling ever since.''So, when I hung up my laundry to dry on the clothes rack, they naturally didn’t dry, but instead, remained completely damp until they began to stink up the house where I am staying. As a result, I had to wash all of my clothes again, but afterward, with the rain continuing to fall, they still would not dry.''When it came time for me to dress this morning, I really didn’t feel like spending another day without wearing any underwear and furthermore, both the one pair of socks I’ve been using for the last five days and my two feet really needed a break from each other as well. Hence the microwave and the drying of my underwear and socks on the popcorn setting.''Anyway, this short tale is quite a good indication of how my 2011 has started. Apart from having to heat my underpants on a plate and wear a somewhat damp and stinky t-shirt, I’ve spent most of my visit to Melbourne so far dealing with conjunctivitis and an allergy to what I thought was my friend’s cat. It turns out it’s an allergy to pollen, and unfortunately, pollen is much more abundant all over Melbourne than is the dander of my friend’s cat.''My daily routine has generally gone something like:''Sneeze, sneeze, coughing attack, sneeze, goo in my eye, eat Indian food, coughing attack, goo in my eye, sneeze, sneeze, eat a peach, sneeze, coughing attach, attempted sleep.''Yes, it has been as fun as that sounds.''OH POOR ME!''I’ve barely slept in two weeks, my clothes stink, my lungs have not enjoyed a full breath of air in a long while, my left eye is more gooey than I’d prefer and I’ve barely been able to go outside much lately due to the rain.''Wait a minute.''I’ve barely been able to do much because of the rain? I’ll admit, I actually said these very words this morning while sitting on my friend’s front porch, looking out at a garden full of 19 sunflowers and waiting for the rain to ease up so that I could run down the street to the closest tram stop and head into the city.''Again, I’ve barely been able to do much due to the rain?''In case anyone hasn’t heard yet, large parts of Australia are in the midst of severe,''record flooding''right now. Entire communities are under water up in Queensland, homes and business completely washed away and human lives lost. The photos and videos I’ve seen are mind-blowing and for thousands upon thousands of people, their lives will never be the same again.''Yet here I am complaining that a light drizzle has prevented me from going downtown and eating another plate of Indian food with some friends. Sure, perhaps my day, or even the past few days, has been interrupted by the rain, but try complaining about that to someone from Brisbane, whose entire life has been interrupted by the flooding and whose home has been reduced to a massive pile of rotting debris. Now they must pick up the pieces and build a new existence from scratch and I can’t even begin to imagine the strength needed to face such a challenge.''Due to this current situation in Australia, I’ve also spent a great deal of time this past week reflecting on other natural disasters that have occurred around the world recently. And it only took me a few minutes to realize that the number of people whose lives have been completely upended, or in many cases, cut way too short, is beyond staggering.''I often think that the sheer magnitude of such disasters is simply too great for the human mind to even comprehend, which is the reason why the rest of us can so easily carry on with our lives despite the large-scale suffering of so many others. If we witness a tragedy with our own eyes, right in front of us, it will affect us deeply, but when such a disaster takes place on the other side of the planet, to people we don’t know and in such numbers that just don’t seem real, we have a remarkable ability to distance ourselves from the situation.''WRITING THIS POST''About an hour after I sat there this morning complaining that my day was ruined due to the rain, the clouds parted and the sun came out. I then hopped on a tram into the city center and strolled along Elizabeth Street to my favorite cafe where I ordered a cup of white hot chocolate, sat down at a table and turned on my laptop. My goal was to write a post about the struggles I’ve endured during my first two weeks here in Melbourne, including that feisty case of conjunctivitis and the pollen allergy.''But before I began to type, I took a minute to read another online article about the flooding in Queensland. And halfway through the article, I read this:''“In Toowoomba, it emerged that schoolboy Jordan Rice, 13, who was scared of water and could not swim, told bystanders to save his 10-year-old brother, Blake, as fast-running waters engulfed the family car. Seconds later Jordan and his mother, Donna, were sucked to their deaths.”''(''Full article'')''And so, I’m not going to write about my ‘struggles’ over the past two weeks. Instead, I’d much rather keep this a short post and spend the rest of the time I would ordinarily spend writing, thinking about those people in Queensland. I’ll also be thinking about those people in places such as''Pakistan'',''Haiti'',''Tibet'',''Chile''and''Burma''who are truly suffering right now in the wake of unthinkable natural disasters.''Sure, I know it doesn’t sound like much to just sit here and think about those human beings, but it’s a start. In the midst of all this blog writing and tweeting and all of the traveling from country to country, it is far too easy to lose sight sometimes of how fortunate I am in life.  And today turned out to be one of those days where I had temporarily forgotten this fact.''Thankfully, I have now been reminded and as a result, I can take steps to ensure that I don’t forget again any time soon.''And I sincerely hope you’ll join me in taking a few minutes out of your own day to think about those who are not only less fortunate than us, but who would happily accept a light rain, damp t-shirt and a case of conjunctivitis as the only interruptions to their day.''As I stumbled onto the bus, all I could think about was finding my seat and passing out. I had reached that point of exhaustion where my brain was able to do little more than perform it’s most basic functions and and even an attempt to speak resulted in a jumbled collection of incomprehensible''caveman sounds''.''The time was only 3:00pm but the day had already been quite full of activity. From the moment I woke up at 7:00am, I had spent much of my time climbing around castles, with the time in between spent sitting in a vehicle that meandered through curvy, sleep-inducing mountain roads. The problem was that every time I fell asleep, we arrived at our next destination and it was time to explore once again.''I’m not complaining. My time spent climbing all over the spectacular ruins of Misyaf Castle, a medieval structure rising high above a small Syrian village dominated by fig and pomegranate orchards, was time well spent. Apparently, Misyaf Castle is not listed in many guidebooks and to be honest, even though this site is definitely guidebook-worthy, I hope it continues to be left out of future editions. Having an entire castle all to myself is not something that happens often in life.''The other highlight of the day involved my return to Krak de Chevaliers, the castle where a small group of us had been''chased around a week earlier''by a security guard who tried to close the castle while we tried to enjoy a few extra minutes inside. This time, I had a full 3 hours at Krak and as one might imagine, this second visit was even better than the first.''After Krak de Chevaliers, I traveled straight to the town of Homs, where I bought a bus ticket for the two and a half hour trip to the desert oasis of Palmyra.''And as soon as I boarded that bus, the exhaustion took over. I found seat #31 and plopped myself down, preparing for what I imagined would be a blissful two and a half hours of deep, deep rest and relaxation. Waiting until the bus pulled out of town, where it began it’s journey along a quiet desert road, I finally took one last glance out the window before closing my eyes.''NO SLEEP TILL PALMYRA''I didn’t sleep at all on this trip. In the end, my eyes refused to remain shut despite my overwhelming exhaustion. I tried to recline my seat. I tried to lie down across two seats and stretch my legs into the aisle. But nothing worked and after each attempt I found myself staring out the window at the desert landscape once again.''Why couldn’t I sleep?''The reason is simple. I was in Syria. I was rolling through the Syrian Desert and there was no way my mind would allow me to miss a moment of it. Everything my eyes fell upon forced me to try and make sense of the unfamiliar world outside. Whether it was the infinite stretches of sand, the beautiful rock formations in the distance, the isolated mud hut villages and Bedouin encampments, the herds of sheep or the odd person walking alone across the desert with no starting point or destination in sight, I needed to catch a glimpse of it all.''When we travel, even what at first appears to be just a barren landscape, will reveal to us all sorts of questions, answers, challenges and lessons if our eyes are open wide enough. And on this bus journey, which could have easily been through the Bangladeshi countryside, the Australian outback or the heart of Nicaragua, as much as I wanted to sleep, my brain was smart enough to refuse me this wish. As a result, I observed a part of Syria that I would have otherwise missed and upon leaving the region, would have still never even known existed.''The desert, as it so often does, proved to be full of life beneath it’s surface. Children played outside, shepherds led their herds to water, small army outposts consisting of a handful of soldiers living in tents appeared in the most improbable of locations. I was also left scratching my head each time I noticed another barely visible dirt road that stretched far into the unknown without any sign of civilization in any direction at all.''And by the time the sun began to set behind the hills and sand dunes, creating that purple, all-encompassing glow that only the desert seems to know, I was wide awake, ever so thankful that I didn’t miss a single minute of this seemingly uninteresting bus trip.''How do you view the world when traveling? Do you try to observe as much as possible and not miss out on anything?''There is some confusion as to whether or not travelers to Iraqi Kurdistan are required to visit the Directorate of Residence during their stay in order to validate their visa. After all, the visa stamp that one receives upon entering the country does clearly state, in both Arabic and English, “''Visit The Directorate Of Residence Within 10 Days''”. And in my case, the immigration officer who placed that stamp into my passport repeated twice the need for me to visit the Directorate.''However, other travelers, such as''Anil''of''FoxNomad.com'', were not given these instructions upon entering the country and despite choosing not to visit the Directorate, had no issues whatsoever upon exiting the country at the end of their stay.''As for me, on my second day in the regional capital of Erbil, I decided to take a taxi to the Directorate of Residence just to be safe. And the following, like some of my other Iraq posts, is not only a tale of what I discovered, but perhaps a useful guide for anyone else who finds themselves in the same situation.''Note'': None of the photos have anything to do with the Directorate of Residence but as you’ll see, I was not allowed to take any photos outside of or within the complex.''Step 1: “No Guns or Phones Allowed”''I enter the Directorate complex through an unmarked gate off of a small lane. Immediately upon entering, I am asked to hand over my mobile phone, camera and any other electronic devices at a check-in counter, which I do, while pretending not to be alarmed by the fact that everyone else around me is handing over their fully-loaded handguns.''Proceeding through a thorough pat down, I reach a small courtyard filled with dozens of people – Kurds, Iraqis, Iranians, Turkish and Syrians – all trying to obtain various visas. Without any signs to guide me, I hop from building to building until I find someone who can point me in the right direction.''Here’s the layout of the confusing complex to use as a reference…''Step 2: “Tin Shacks”''The next step involves two small tin shacks at the back right corner of the courtyard (see map above).  The man inside the shack on the left makes 2 photocopies of my passport and visa (250 Iraqi Dinars per copy) and the man inside the shack on the right then fills out several forms, which he hands over to me after I ‘pay’ him 500 Iraqi Dinars for filling out the forms.''Step 3: “Room #3”''The form filling man directs me into the main building where I am told to search for “Room #3”. The building has four floors and the room numbers are in no order whatsoever, which is actually quite irrelevant considering that “Room #3” does not have its number on the door at all. After several sets of bad directions from employees of the Directorate, I find “Room #3”, located on the first floor with a sign on the door that reads “Control Room”.''The door to the office is closed, but I quickly learn that it is acceptable practice to just barge right in. I hand my passport and paperwork to a man at a tiny desk who hands my paperwork over to the more official man sitting to his right. Among other questions, this man asks me how long I want to stay in Iraqi Kurdistan.''My original stamp is valid for 10 days and so I ask for an additional 10 day extension, to which the man asks to see a letter from my employer in Iraq. After explaining that I am merely a tourist, he refuses my extension, however, after some persistence on my part, he eventually writes a short note on a scrap of paper and sends me off to his ‘boss office’. The friendly boss immediately approves my extension, although, while shaking his hand in appreciation, he tells me that I need approval from the ‘big boss’ first. The ‘big boss’ flat out refuses the extension and immediately sends me back to “Room #3”.''Back in the Control Room, defeated and increasingly confused, the man scribbles something onto my forms in Arabic and tells me to visit “Room #15”.''Step 4: “Room #15”''It turns out that “Room #15” is located in the basement. I approach the small window next to the door, hand over my passport and paperwork again and take a seat on the floor of the overcrowded waiting hall.''After 45 minutes, a man calls my name and I enter “Room #15”, where my photograph is taken and an officer asks me the same questions as the man upstairs (Where are you from? Why are you here? What is your profession? What is your father’s name? What is your mother’s name?). The officer then gives me my passport and directs me to “Window #7”, located at the other end of the room.''At “Window #7”, a female soldier asks me the exact same five questions, enters some information into her computer and then places an orange circular sticker on the front of my passport.''Before I can even ask, she tells me to “Go to Room #11”.''Step 5: “Room #11”''Oh my. “Room #11” is no ordinary room. Nobody is allowed to enter “Room #11” and instead, one must join the massive crowd of people pushing and shoving their way towards the small window next to the door. This step, while a vital part of the process, is not for everyone, as I am forced to stick up my elbows, jab endless people in the ribs and step on some feet with a considerable amount of force.''Upon finally reaching the window, a man grabs my passport and paperwork and without a word, disappears into the room.''IMPORTANT TIP'': Once your passport is taken, DO NOT give up your prime position near the front of the crowd. I made the amateur move of backing away from the window and the result was most unfortunate. If you move away from the crowd, you won’t hear your name being called when your passport is ready. I waited for one hour against a wall at the opposite end of the hallway and only when I decided to fight my way to the front of the crowd again, did I discover that the man had been calling my name for over thirty minutes. And inexplicably, because I didn’t pick up my passport when called, I had to return to “Room #15” and have my orange sticker replaced with a new one.''Step 6: “Room #18”''I am told to return to the first floor and visit “Room #18”, another room that does not have its number on the outside of the door. “Room #18” is better known as the “Passport Fees & Fines” office.''The young man in the doorway does not allow me to enter but takes my passport from me. I peek into the office and notice that he places my passport at the end of a long line of at least 100 passports that snakes across two huge desks and eventually ends in front of a man sitting at a computer, who is spending more time drinking tea, eating pastries and talking on his mobile phone than working.''IMPORTANT TIP'': If you’re in a rush or simply can’t stand this process any longer, don’t wander too far from the doorway no matter how many times a man comes out of the office and yells at everyone to stop crowding around the doorway.''I camp out by the door for thirty minutes before I finally put on my sad face, which I hope will convince the man in the doorway to bump my passport up a few places. I also point to my non-existent wristwatch and try to explain that I need to be at the airport soon. (This isn’t a lie as''Anil''was flying into Erbil that day and I planned to meet him at the airport.)''At first, the man ignores me and so I pull out 2000 Iraqi Dinars ($1.65 USD) from my pocket and wait for the right opportunity to slip him a bribe. But before I can hand over the money, I notice that he has just moved my passport to the front of the line.''I watch the man behind the desk talk some more on his mobile phone while typing in my passport information with one finger. He then slides my passport onto another desk, where another man sits in a chair, talking on his mobile phone of course. After ten minutes, I am called inside where I receive a hand-written ‘bill’ that I am instructed to take to the “Bank Counter”.''Step 7: “Bank Counter”''Surprisingly, the “Bank Counter” is conveniently located right next door to the “Passport Fees & Fines” office. I pay the 2250 Iraqi Dinar ($1.90 USD) fee and take the official receipt back to “Room #18”.''I exchange the receipt for my passport and despite the pain from having banged my head on a sharp metal bar sticking out of the wall in the process, I nearly fall to my knees in happiness that the process has finally come to an end.''Unfortunately, at the exact same moment, the man behind the desk informs me that I must now pay another visit to “Room #11”.''Step 8: “Room #11” (again)''Back downstairs I go to the once chaotic “Room #11”, which is now almost completely empty. A guard at the door directs me to a desk inside where a man types some more information into a computer, asks me the same five questions and hands my passport to a woman next to him. She places a large stamp in my passport, right under the stamp I had received at the border, and then hands it over to yet another man.''This man flips through the pages of my passport for a few minutes, drinks a cup of tea, looks for something in a large stack of papers on his desk and eventually, grabs a black pen and enters the expiration date of my visa onto the new stamp.''With my passport in hand once again, I ask the man where I need to be next.''Without even looking up he mutters, “''Finish. You go.''”''And so, almost 4 hours after I walked into the Directorate of Residence in Erbil, I pick up my mobile phone and camera from the security desk and stroll back into the world outside, without having received the visa extension I wanted and completely unsure of why I had to go through this process in the first place.''So while this post may not provide the answer as to whether or not you need to visit the Directorate of Residence during your stay in Iraqi Kurdistan, if you do find yourself in the midst of this obstacle course, you should now be able to navigate the process with ease.''Directorate of Residence in Erbil''Well, I tried to find the actual address of this place but it was impossible. So my best advice is to simply show any taxi driver the visa stamp in your passport and they will understand the Arabic part that mentions the need to visit the Directorate of Residence.''For all the talk about the positive benefits of travel, and more specifically, long-term travel, I’ve begun to realize that there is a completely different side to the story, one that is rarely, if ever, mentioned.  And I will say that before I decided to discuss this unfortunate aspect of life on the road, I thought long and hard about whether or not my claim is actually true.''I think it’s the truth.''Traveling has made me dumber.''It goes without saying that what I like to believe is my open mind and respect for other people is a result of my extensive travels, as is a great deal of the knowledge that fills my brain, dictates my life and ultimately makes me who I am as a human being. And I am proud of who I am and every day I purposely take time to appreciate the life I’ve led.''However, it is also true that the culprit behind my frequent inability to speak clearly or to participate in intelligent conversations or to keep my mind as sharp as possible, is all of this traveling as well.''GOO GOO GA GA''The first thing that comes to mind is that I’ve basically spent the past 11 years speaking in broken, baby English, so it’s no wonder that my vocabulary is not as extensive as I would have hoped by this point in life. Usually, I’m in a non-English speaking country and as a result, I must alter how I speak. Instead of complete sentences, I’ve been saying such things as ‘''You good?''‘ and ‘''Bus Delhi?''‘ and ‘''Me Earl''‘ and ‘''Happy yes!''‘. Come to think of it, not only am I speaking baby English, but I’m speaking baby caveman English almost every single day!''And when I’m not trying to converse in simple English, I’m most likely trying to converse in some badly mangled version of whatever language is spoken in the country I’m visiting. Clearly this cannot be good for one’s intelligence and yes, I feel dumber as a result.''It’s also no mystery that it takes me an extraordinarily long time to think of words that should come into my mind much more quickly. Sometimes I’ll need 7.9 seconds to remember what I like to eat with my muesli in the morning (yogurt) and 12.7 seconds to remember that what I don’t eat is red ‘meat’ and not red ‘meet’. Just this morning it took me 10 minutes to remember the word ‘fabric’.''And even though my head is filled with the knowledge gained through constant cultural interaction, it often tends to be knowledge that is rarely useful when conversing with others. I personally could talk all day about Bangladeshi''taxi mafias'', the Syrian camel races or the details of every Central American border crossing, but those are not exactly topics that come up too often in conversation. As a result, such knowledge becomes buried in the bottom of my brain and then covered up with another layer of much the same. I love having this information in my head, but a good portion of what I learn is not at all useful to anyone other than a permanent nomad or long time traveler.''So what happens is that when I do find myself hanging out with people who are engaged in normal conversations while speaking intelligent English, I’m often left nodding my head, muttering ‘uh-huh’ every now and then and day-dreaming about my time at those camel races.''MORE TRAVEL = LESS STIMULATION''Another truth about long-term travel is that the life-changing intensity of new experiences can easily wear off and as a result, over time, the brain becomes less stimulated by what were once considered unique and eye-opening moments. Sure,''the first time you see an Indian holy man walk up to a urinating cow, cup his hands together, place his hands directly into the stream of urine and then drink it'', your brain is forced to re-evaluate everything that it once thought normal and acceptable in life.''But the second time you see it, you just shrug your shoulders and finish your chai.''Of course, I do put a great deal of effort into trying to ensure that my brain receives as much stimulation as possible and that I am constantly in situations that offer some sort of education. But it’s extremely tiring work, as the more I travel, the harder it is to challenge myself on a daily basis and the easier it is to just resort to a comfortable existence by vegging out on a beach for months at a time. When this happens, the brain is used even less and when coupled with the communication issue, it’s not hard to imagine how this can take a toll on a person’s intelligence.''So,''am I really dumber''because of all the traveling I’ve done?''To an extent, I really believe I am. Although, I don’t necessarily see this as such a terrible thing. I would in no way exchange what I have gained from travel for the ability to talk about stocks and bonds. But if or when I ever decide to alter my lifestyle in any significant manner, I might be in trouble. The relatively disconnected life I lead now might have so little relation to any other way of life, that I would lack the necessary knowledge and skills to adjust to a different path. Perhaps it is this truth that has kept me on the road for so long already.''MY OWN BEST FRIEND''And before I finish, I guess I should mention the ‘talking to myself’ issue as well, an issue that I believe springs from spending so much time on my own, often unable to communicate properly with others. Starting about three years ago, I began talking to myself and these days, I apparently do it so much, that I no longer notice it. While walking through the streets of Chiang Mai, Thailand a couple of weeks ago, my friends would often ask me whether or not I was talking to them. Unfortunately, nine times out of ten I wasn’t. It was just me engaged in some ridiculously long conversations with myself, conversations that I was told were as loud and clear as if I was actually speaking to another person.''I’ll admit that’s a little disturbing and while it doesn’t necessarily translate to being dumber, it is another reason for concern.''Ahhh….traveling. To be out on the road, exploring, interacting and learning. It all sounds so glorious!''Except that it now takes me 10 minutes to think of words like ‘glorious’ and then another 10 minutes to remember why I was trying to think of the world ‘glorious’ in the first place, all because I’m too busy having a deep conversation with myself about the therapeutic qualities of Slovakian mud baths.''So, to all of you hopeful world travelers out there….I wish you the best of luck 🙂''And I’m curious to know if any other travelers have also sometimes felt ‘dumber’ as a result of their travels?''That’s right. I’m the tool.''Two weeks ago, a few minutes into a breakfast I was having with a friend in Chiang Mai, Thailand, this said ‘friend’ suddenly looked up from her omlette and called me a ‘tool’. Actually, not only did she call me a tool, but she called me the ‘''biggest traveling tool of 2010''‘. I know, I know. At first, it sounds like quite the compliment and believe you me, I quickly offered my sincerest thanks to this friend for her kind words.''But as soon as my friend dropped her head into her hands in what appeared to be a moment of disbelief, or perhaps disgust, I realized that something was wrong. Well, it turns out that she was not actually labeling me as''‘''something useful that can help one achieve an aim''‘''but rather as a''‘''person, typically male, who says or does things that cause you to give them a ‘what-are-you-even-doing-here’ look''‘.''Needless to say, upon realizing that she was referring to the''urban slang definition''of the word, the smile immediately melted from my face.''This friend had her reasons though, most notably of which was my refusal, during a group karaoke session the night before, to give up the microphone when Bette Midler’s version of “''Wind Beneath My Wings''” was played. And not only did I refuse to hand over the microphone, but I was quite dedicated to singing this song as passionately as any other human being had ever sung it, which forced me to commit that grave karaoke faux pas of drowning out every other singer’s voice with my own out-of-tune, ghastly shouting. Apparently, it was an ugly sight, even though I must admit that I was completely oblivious at the time and upon finishing the song, thought I had really nailed the performance.''Anyway, my friend politely informed me that I had in fact destroyed that lovable 80s ballad and as a result, had gone on to solidify my place as the ‘''biggest traveling tool of 2010''‘.''Well done Earl.''On that note, I would like to wish you all a most enjoyable and safe New Years and an infinitely rewarding 2011!''And wherever your path takes you during this upcoming year, don’t forget to stop every now and then and enjoy the benefits of laughing at yourself. Although, if you have trouble laughing at yourself, feel free to laugh at me instead. Just let me know if you need some assistance and I’ll send you a photo of my webbed toes.''Upon arrival in the southern Kurdistan city of Sulamainiyah,''Anil''and I instantly found ourselves giddy with joy upon discovering two Chinese restaurants in the vicinity of our hotel. After all, up until that point, the only food we’d eaten were chicken and falafel sandwiches, not because of an abnormal love for such food, but because that was all we could find in other parts of the region.''So as soon as evening approached and our hunger grew, we eagerly wandered over to the larger of the two Chinese restaurants we’d seen and prepared ourselves for a much needed feast of yummy Asian cuisine.''Of course, had we taken a few minutes to properly think this plan through, we might have paused before deciding to enter this second floor restaurant. Truthfully, the sign out front prohibiting us from entering the establishment with any guns or knives should have acted as a clear indication that this was not your typical “lo mein-fortune cookie-free green tea” type of Chinese eatery.''And I’m not sure about your friendly neighborhood Chinese restaurants, but the ones I frequented when I was younger and living in the United States, did not require me to be thoroughly frisked by a large, leather jacket-clad man upon walking through the door. Luckily, Anil and I had both decided at the last minute to leave our AK-47s and machetes in our hotel room and so we both passed the security check, after which we wandered over to a table near the windows.''And as we sat down, the first thing that we noticed, as if this shouldn’t have occurred to us before, was that the Great Shang Hai Chinese Restaurant was one seedy establishment. Not only were we the only customers, but it was eerily dark inside, with only flashing fairy lights on the walls, which created an atmosphere that more closely resembled a brothel in the backstreets of Mumbai (from what I’ve seen in films of course).''Regardless of our observations, we were willing to put this sketchiness aside and concentrate on satisfying our hunger with some Chinese food.''But when the waitress, a young Chinese woman, approached our table, we were quite surprised to find ourselves in the midst of a conversation that went something like this:''Waitress:''She says something in Kurdish''Us:''We stare blankly at her''Waitress:''“Kurdish?”''Us:''“English?”''Waitress:''“You live here?”''Us:''“No. We travel here.”''Waitress:''“What do you want?”''Us:''“Food. Can we see a menu?”''Waitress:''“Food?” (with an incredulous look on her face)''Us:''“Yes, food.”''Waitress:''“Chinese food?”''Us:''“Um…yes, Chinese food.”''Waitress:''“Kurdish food?”''Us:''“Chinese food?”''Waitress:''“Chinese food?”''Us:''“Yes, Chinese food.”''She then walked away and returned with a menu, although given her reaction above and the dusty state of the menu, it was quite clear that this Chinese restaurant was not exactly accustomed to serving Chinese food. In fact, we might very well have been the first people to ever request a menu.''And when we did read through the menu, the expensive prices listed next to each item finally forced us to change our minds about sampling the local Chinese cuisine.''However, at this point, we were quite fascinated by our surroundings and wanted to learn more about what was going on in this joint and so we handed the menu back to the waitress and ordered drinks instead. We figured one drink would be reasonable before taking off once again in search of some food.''Little did we know that the beer Anil ordered would be of the “abnormally large can” variety nor that when I asked for a “whiskey”, I was ordering an actual bottle (albeit a small one) of the stuff and not just one glass. As a result, one quick drink turned into a 2.5 hour session as we sat there in the Great Shang Hai watching the place fill up with other men who also ordered nothing but drinks. And the entire time, Anil and I debated back and forth as we tried to make sense of what was really happening in this peculiar place.''It could have very well just been a bar, but after watching some of the patrons slip wads of Iraqi Dinars into the hands of one of the waitresses and then proceed to beg the bartender to allow the waitress to sit at their table with them (such requests were always refused), I began to think otherwise.''Here’s a short video to give you a better idea of the fascinating restaurant that is the Great Shang Hai:''Somewhat reluctantly, after finishing our drinks (yes, I finished the bottle of whiskey and Anil finished off two large beers), we decided to leave due to the fact that we were now beyond hungry at this point.''And when our bill arrived, it was remarkably cheap, perhaps an indication that this wasn’t a brothel or underworld hangout after all. Usually at such places (again, so I’ve heard), you can’t drink the amount we did for a mere 10,000 Iraqi Dinars ($8.50 USD).''GIVE ME SOME FOOD!''Ten minutes after leaving the Great Shang Hai, we stumbled into a restaurant called “Pizza Plus”, which we were not surprised to discover actually specialized in sandwiches. Although, my eyes did nearly bulge out of their sockets and drool did begin to drip from my mouth upon noticing an assortment of fresh salads as well.''But naturally, since this was Iraq, not even a simple meal of sandwiches and salad could take place without something interesting happening. This time it was the man behind the counter who served us the food, a young Kurdish fellow who informed us that he now lives in Norway. And upon hearing that this young chap lives in Norway, we then asked him why he was back in Kurdistan.''His answer was quick and to the point, although somewhat confusing: “I come back to Kurdistan for money and sexy, sexy!”''Enough said. We sat down at our table and shoveled our food into our mouths in silence.''THE FINAL STOP OF THE NIGHT''With bellies full, and the night still young, Anil and I decided to pay a visit to what appeared to be the most popular night time hangout in all of Sulaimainiyah – the Shawany Maliek Cafeteria.''We stumbled inside this crowded, two-level shisha cafe and grabbed two large, comfortable chairs in the corner. And before long, there we sat, taking turns blowing smoke high into the air as we shook our heads in disbelief at the day’s events. (The day began with our''encounter with the US Marine''who was shocked by our presence in the region.)''In the end, we sat in this cafe for over three hours, simply too content to move.''When we finally walked back to the hotel just before midnight, both Anil and I were in agreement that this day ranked quite high in terms of memorable travel days we’d each experienced. And perhaps that’s hard to believe, as I don’t know, maybe it sounds like an unexciting or even dumb story when read here.''So if that’s the case, then I guess next time you’ll just have to join me and experience it for yourself, which you’ll actually have an opportunity to do once I announce, within the next few weeks, the new project I’m working on 🙂''When I sat down to try and recap the year that has been 2010, my initial thought was to naturally talk about the countries I’ve visited during these past 12 months. However, I soon realized that instead of talking about specific destinations and travel experiences, I’d much rather recap the year through images of the people I’ve encountered along the way.''After all, when I think back to the actual places I’ve traveled to or lived during 2010, the first thing that always pops into my head are the people that made those visits so rewarding. Some of these people may have already been long time friends, others I might have met for the very first time and some I only managed to speak to once or twice. And still others might even be people I only noticed from afar and with whom I exchanged nothing more than a mere nod or smile.''But regardless of how deep my interaction with each, I firmly believe that every individual I come across during my travels (and in life in general) teaches me something valuable, and for that very reason, I tend to remember people much more than the details about any sights I’ve seen or places I’ve been.''So, before I ramble any further, here is a look back at some of those very people who have helped make 2010 the memorable year it has proven to be…''Spending a day with great friends in Valladolid, Mexico.''The “''esquite man''” I visited often in Playa del Carmen, Mexico.''Dinner in Queretaro, Mexico with some of the warmest people I’ve ever met.''Hanging out with my grandmother and her husband when they came for a visit to Mexico.''An instant connection was formed in Istanbul based upon our shared love of waffles!''It began as a photo and turned into an hour long conversation over tea.''This tailor in''Aleppo, Syria''blew me away with his hospitality, with daily invites for meals and conversation.''One minute I’m wandering around looking for food and the next minute I’m in a van with this group of friendly strangers who invited me to the Camel Races in Palmyra, Syria.''After taking the photo, this group of men called me over and provided me with a thorough and humorous introduction to every aspect of camel racing.''Ok, clearly this is not a person but it was my favorite camel from the races!''These hilarious Syrian women struck up a conversation with me on a bus and promptly invited me to their home in Damascus to meet the rest of the family and enjoy a local feast.''One of the vendors outside the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus, this balloon seller kept encouraging me, with a huge smile on his face, to take photos of him, but most of the time he was hidden by his balloons!''The hotel owner in''Beirut''informs me that the hotel is overbooked and that I don’t have a bed, so this group of kind Turkish travelers invited me to share their room and join them on an excursion to south Lebanon.''All I exchanged was a nod with the man on the left but people-watching on this street corner in Iraq proved to be an eye-opening experience given the surprising''normalcy of life in this region''.''These Iraqi guys didn’t seem interested in talking to me too much, probably because I was clearly not up to their fashion standards.''And in addition to the above, I’ve also been fortunate enough to have met in person the following bloggers, readers and other remarkable people below during 2010.''I met Shannon (''ALittleAdrift.com'') for lunch in Cancun, Mexico and dinner in NYC; Dani & Jess (''GlobetrotterGirls.com'') in Playa del Carmen, Mexico; Alan Perlman (''The9to5Alternative.com'') for Indian food in Boston; Dan & Audrey (''UncorneredMarket.com)'', Bessie & Kyle (''OurOwnPath.com)'', Margo (''TravelBelles.com''), Andy Hayes (''AndyHayes.com'') and Dave of''GoBackpacking.com''in NYC during the TBEX conference; spent time with Jodi from''LegalNomads.com''during another visit to NYC; met Sam Wood of''ArdentTraveller.com''in Aleppo, Syria and Johnny Ward from''OneStep4ward.com''in Beirut, Lebanon; traveled to Iraqi Kurdistan with Anil from''FoxNomad.com''; and am currently enjoying the company of''“Team Chiang Mai”'', a group of interesting people living or passing through Chiang Mai, Thailand that currently includes''@GotPassport'',''@Eloren'',''@LinzSlack'',''@OurOnPath'',''@PMangunta'',''@MagicAnt'',''@Unbravegirl'',''@AlmostFearless'',''@DrewGilbert'',''@FlashpackerHQ'',''@WhyGoThailand'',''@TinnieWanders''and''@Dzema''among others.''And for those of you I’ve yet to meet in person, please let me know where  you are in the world right now and hopefully we’ll cross paths in 2011. If anyone happens to be in Australia at the moment, I’ll actually be landing in Melbourne in four days on the 27th of December!''Now that I know you’re interested in possibly wanting to travel overland to Iraq (right?), I thought it might be helpful to provide a detailed guide on how to get there. Sure, there’s always the option of simply flying directly into the regional capital of Erbil, with semi-frequent flights now operating from destinations within both Europe and the Middle East. Such airlines as Austrian Airlines, Lufthansa, Royal Jordanian,''FlyDubai''and''Atlas Jet''all offer service in and out of Iraqi Kurdistan these days.''However, dishing out $500+ USD for a return flight from Istanbul to Erbil might not be too appealing for those with a budget traveler’s bank account and besides, for those with a little more time or perhaps adventurous spirit, going overland is an option you might want to consider.''I chose to travel overland to Iraq, or Iraqi Kurdistan to be specific, starting my long journey from the city of Aleppo, Syria. And first, I will say that just as''traveling to Iraq''in general is not for everyone, neither is embarking on the overland adventure to get there. The route from Syria/Turkey to Iraq is not exactly a hot backpacker’s trail, so if you’re looking for comfort, organization, fresh juice and banana pancakes along the way, you may want to go with the flight option instead 🙂''View''Syria to Iraq Overland''in a larger map''Overland from Syria to Iraqi Kurdistan''Since the route from Syria passes through Turkey as well, this information should be useful for every traveler trying to make their way to the Turkish/Iraqi border, regardless of where you begin your journey.''Stage 1: Getting to Qamishli''Wherever you may be in Syria, you’ll need to take a bus to Qamishli, a low-key, bakery-obsessed town located in the eastern region of the country, right alongside the Turkish border. Buses depart regularly from both Aleppo (5.5 hours) and Damascus (9 hours) and whatever service you choose, it would be ideal for you to arrive in Qamishli before 8:00am, which is the time that the border with Turkey opens for business. I took a night bus from Aleppo and arrived in Qamishli at 6am.''On a side note, you can expect to encounter checkpoints en route to Qamishli, and chances are, the soldiers that question you will then phone ahead and inform the secret police in Qamishli of your arrival. Very few foreigners visit this town and due to some issues with a possible American spy a few years back, the town is a bit on edge. When my bus arrived at the bus station, a driver appeared out of nowhere, asked me if I was Mr Derek Earl and then proceeded to drive me to a hotel to rest for two hours until the border opened. At the hotel, the manager began asking me an odd collection of personal questions, and eventually admitted that he was instructed to do so by the secret police. It was nothing frightening at all, simply a bit odd.''If you arrive in Qamishli after 1:00pm, you’ll have a decision to make. You probably won’t make it any farther than Nusaybin that day, the Turkish town on the other side of the border, as transportation stops running to other parts of Turkey in the early afternoon. So you can either spend the night in Qamishli (ask for Hotel Asia – excellent rooms for $10 USD/night) or in Nusaybin, where prices are going to be higher.''If all goes well, you’ll preferably be crossing the border at around 8:00am and it should take about an hour in total to pass through both Syrian and Turkish immigration. The Syrian side was extraordinarily friendly, even though I spent a great deal of time trying to explain my profession (eventually we all happily settled on “Photoshop man” for some bizarre reason).''The Turkish side was quite different. Here’s a tip. DO NOT mention the word Kurdistan at all when speaking to the Turkish immigration officers. Tell them your destination is simply IRAQ unless you want to be subjected to one angry immigration officer screaming (with spit flying) at you for a few minutes. (Turkey officially does not recognize Kurdistan and is currently fighting against the Kurdish Workers’ Party in the eastern part of the country.)''Details of Stage 1'':''Bus'': Damascus to Qamishli – 250 SP or 500 SP for VIP service ($6 USD / $12 USD)''Bus'': Aleppo to Qamishli – 250 SP or 450 SP for VIP service ($6 USD / $11 USD)''Departure Tax'': Upon leaving Syria, you must pay 500 SP at the immigration office.''Turkish Visa'': Depending on your nationality, you will typically receive a 90-day multiple entry visa that ranges in cost from free to about $25 USD. If you already have a Turkish visa, then you won’t have to pay again.''Stage 2: Nusaybin to Cizre''Once crossing the border into Turkey, you’ll walk a few minutes along a dusty road before entering the edge of Nusaybin, where you’ll pass a couple of laid-back taxi drivers offering to take you somewhere for an exorbitant amount of money as well as a couple of money-changers (nothing official, just men carrying around money).''If you walk up the road for five more minutes, you’ll actually enter the town itself, where you’ll find an ATM on your left and a helpful police booth on your right. Simply ask the policemen, who don’t speak any English, where to find the ‘dolmus to Cizre’.''(Useful Tips: A dolmus is a shared van and is the most common mode of passenger transport in these parts and the word ‘Cizre’ is pronounced ‘Jeez ray’, something I wish I had known at the time.)''The police, and a combination of locals you meet along the way, will guide you to a dolmus stop in the middle of town, from where you can catch a ride to the main ‘highway’ where you will find the vans heading to the town of Cizre. Just keep repeating ‘Cizre, Cizre, Cizre’ to everyone you meet and before you know it, you’ll actually be on your way to Cizre.''Details of Stage 2'':''Dolmus'': Nusaybin town to the main highway – 10 minutes / 1 Turkish Lira (75 US cents)''Dolmus'': Main highway to Cizre – 2 hours / 8 Turkish Lira ($5.50 USD)''Note'': The dolmus to Cizre does not leave according to a timetable, only when full of passengers.''Note'': The ATM in Nusaybin only dispenses Turkish Lira but there is an ATM in Silopi that dispenses US Dollars.''Note'': A private taxi from Nusaybin to the Turkey/Iraq border will cost about $100 USD.''Stage 3: Cizre to Silopi''Upon arrival in the center of Cizre, simply walk up to someone and say ‘Silopi?’ The person will most likely point to the street where you’ll find a group of vans, each with a different destination written in the window. Locate the one that says “Silopi”, climb in and wait for the dolmus to fill up. Once it’s full, off you’ll go for the short ride to Silopi.''However, keep in mind that the later in the day you arrive, the less chance there will be that you’ll find a dolmus. From what I gathered, most of the vans stop running after 1:00pm, so if you arrive later than that time, you might want to hire a private taxi for the ride to Silopi, which costs around $15 – $20 USD.''Details of Stage 3'':''Dolmus'': Cizre to Silopi – 20-30 minutes / 2.5 Turkish Lira ($1.75 USD)''Stage 4: Silopi to Zakho''*''If you’re starting off in Turkey and not Syria, you’ll simply need to make your way to the town of Silopi as well, which can easily be reached by bus or a combination of shared vans from Diyarbakir or Mardin, two larger cities in Eastern Turkey.''This is the most exciting stage as you’ll finally cross the border from Turkey into Iraq! But of course, it’s not that straightforward, and when you arrive in Silopi, unless you somehow managed to get there before 12 noon, it’s going to be a challenge finding a ride across the border. There are only a limited number of taxis that are properly licensed to make this trip and most of them head off early in the morning, stay in Iraq for the night and return the next day. So once they’ve all gone, you might have to wait until the following morning.''Once in Silopi, ask anyone on the street where to find a ‘taxi to Zakho’, which is the border town on the Iraqi side. The taxi drivers generally congregate on a random street corner in the center of Silopi, right next to a “Bankomatic” ATM machine, and within seconds of arriving on this street corner, someone will ask where you’re headed and the long process of finding a shared taxi to Zakho will begin.''However, you probably won’t have to do much as the staff who work in the taxi office on the corner will begin making phone calls, shrugging shoulders and yelling out questions to every driver that passes by. If you’re lucky, a taxi will soon be found. Of course, once you do have a taxi and driver lined up, the next step is finding more passengers to split the cost with you. Hopefully there will be some local Iraqis waiting to make the same trip or else you’ll have to pay for four seats, which will prove to be extremely expensive.''If you’re in no rush, you can also spend the night in Silopi, wake up early in the morning and find a shared taxi without any problem. I got lucky when I arrived, as there were four other locals waiting to go to Iraq and after 30 minutes, a taxi was located. And then a few minutes later, we were waiting in the below line at Turkish immigration.''Once your taxi ride to Iraq begins, here’s what to expect…''You’ll hand over your passport to the taxi driver who will keep it with him until you reach Iraq.''A ten minute drive from Silopi to the Turkish border, where you’ll wait in a long line of vehicles for your exit stamp. (Average wait time is 1.5 hours)''A five minute drive to the Iraqi border where you’ll enter the large immigration hall. Your driver will hand your passport to an immigration official and then you’ll take a seat in one of the comfortable chairs and wait until your name is called out. Once you hear your name, you can collect your passport, although foreigners typically have to answer a few questions about why they’re visiting Iraq before getting the stamp. (Average wait time is 1 hour)''You’ll pass through a very thorough Iraqi customs inspection as well as 3 heavily-guarded checkpoints within a distance of about 300 meters.''You’ll finally arrive at the “Garaj” in the Iraqi town of Zakho, where you’ll find shared taxis to other destinations within Kurdistan.''Details of Stage 4'':''Money'': Silopi is your last chance to get cash as''there are no ATMs in Iraqi Kurdistan''. Your best bet is the Garanti ATM located on the main road a block down from where you catch a taxi to the border. This ATM dispenses cash in either Turkish Lira or US Dollars, both of which can easily be exchanged for Iraqi Dinars once you cross the border.''Shared Taxi'': Silopi to Zahko – 2-4 hours /  20 Turkish Lira or $15 USD or 20,000 Iraqi Dinars. This official price is based on four people sharing the taxi.''Iraqi Kurdistan Entry'': Citizens of the US, Canada, EU, Japan and Australia receive a free 10-day visa upon arrival. All other nationalities must obtain a special Iraqi Kurdistan visa from an Iraqi Embassy or Consulate before arrival or else you will not be allowed entry.''Stage 5: Zakho and Beyond…''Welcome to''Iraqi Kurdistan''!''If all went according to plan (which most likely will not happen at all), you’ll arrive in Zakho by 3pm, just in time to catch one of the last shared taxis of the day to either Dohuk or Erbil. However, if there aren’t any shared taxis available, you can always spend the night in Zakho and catch a taxi the following morning, although, this would waste a valuable day of your Iraqi visa. It would be far better to spend the night in Silopi and cross the border early the next day.''Details of Stage 5'':''Shared Taxi'': Zakho to Dohuk – 1.5 hours / 8000 Iraqi Dinars or $7 USD (based on 4 passengers)''Shared Taxi'': Zakho to Erbil – 3.5 hours / 30,000 Iraqi Dinars or $25 USD (based on 4 passengers)''Zakho'': If you need to spend the night in Zakho, it will cost about 5000 Iraqi Dinars for a taxi from the “Garaj” to the center of town, where you will find a selection of budget hotels.''And that’s all it takes to travel overland to Iraq from Syria/Turkey! Although, don’t forget that you’ll have to make this exact same journey in reverse once it’s time to leave 🙂''*''After this post, I’m going to mix things up for the next couple of weeks in order to avoid what might be referred to as “Iraq Overload”. I’ll basically be alternating between posts on Iraq and posts on other topics instead of just writing about Iraq each time. But for now, the post below was written in response to several emails I received, and while short, I do hope that it sheds some light on where Kurdistan might be headed in the near future.''There is no shortage of optimism in Iraqi Kurdistan. Locals everywhere, from Dohuk to Erbil to Sulamainiyah, as well as in smaller villages such as Amediya, are eager to point out how''calm and normal''life currently is in this part of Iraq. There are smiles on the faces, laughter to be heard and a laid-back approach to life that seems to be embraced by everyone.''Without even asking anyone, I’m quite certain that the reason Iraq doesn’t end up on many traveler’s itineraries is because of a strong sense of fear that bodily harm or even death is a very real possibility for any foreign visitor to this region.''However, traveling has taught me to expect the unexpected and so I figured that the best way to assess the safety situation in Iraq, was to venture there myself. And far from visiting such cities as Baghdad and Tikrit, which are both extremely dangerous, I instead headed to the semi-autonomous region known as Kurdistan. Of course, Kurdistan itself suffers from continued conflict with Turkey to the north and Iran to the east as well as having to fiercely protect it’s borders from the highly unstable regions of Iraq to the south. As a result, traveling to this part of the country is not exactly an automatic exemption from danger.''So the questions is….''Did I fear for my safety while traveling to Iraq?''The honest answer is….’''no''‘. Not at all.''At no time did I feel a threat to my safety and at no time did I witness anything that instilled even an ounce of fear in me.''With that said, traveling to Iraq is still not an adventure for everyone. I’m quite aware that everybody’s perception of danger is completely different. For me, after 11 years on the road and after trips to places such as Pakistan and Afghanistan, much of what might appear shocking, intense or just downright frightening to others, now seems completely normal to me. For example, if the sight of balaclava-clad soldiers standing in the back of pick-up trucks while pointing their massive machine guns in all directions seems somewhat terrifying, then Iraq may not be the place for you. 🙂''But before you make up your mind, let’s examine more closely some of the potential dangers (at least the perceived dangers) involved with traveling to Iraqi Kurdistan.''TARGETED VIOLENCE''The chance of a foreign traveler being targeted for violence in Iraqi Kurdistan is extremely low. The Kurdish people are incredibly fond of foreigners, especially Americans, and not an hour goes by without a Kurd telling you how much they''love George Bush''and the USA. The Kurds benefited immensely during Bush’s eight year presidency, as the take down of Saddam led to a safer, freer and more autonomous Kurdistan. So there’s practically zero chance that foreigners would be targeted by Kurds for any violence and besides, the Kurds themselves are not committing violent acts on their own soil. And while it is feasible that non-Kurdish Iraqis could enter Kurdistan with the intention of harming foreign travelers, it would be quite a challenge for such a person to successfully pass through the dozens of checkpoints in the region. In addition, there just aren’t that many foreigners traveling here either.''In conclusion, being a foreign traveler in Iraqi Kurdistan is not a problem at all and far from being a reason for concern, your nationality will most likely lead to interesting conversations, a lot of hand-shaking and everyone in the restaurant suddenly yelling out your country’s name while still shaking their heads in disbelief that you don’t speak Kurdish or Arabic.''RANDOM VIOLENCE''Violent incidents that are not targeted at foreign visitors certainly do take place in Iraqi Kurdistan. In the past year alone, there has been a car bombing in Erbil, bombings from the Turkish army in the north and apparently, even bombings carried out by Iran on a few villages on the Iraqi side of the border. And only a few weeks before I arrived in Kurdistan, a man driving a bomb-laden car tried to ram through a checkpoint on the outskirts of Erbil as well (the driver was promptly shot by soldiers).''So yes, being caught up in random violence is always a possibility in Iraqi Kurdistan. Due to those highly unstable relationships with both Turkey and the rest of Iraq, it’s just not possible for a region involved in so much fighting to be classified as completely safe. But all of the roadblocks and checkpoints in place do offer a certain degree of protection as it would take considerable planning and effort for anyone with violent intentions to reach his/her potential target.''To give you an idea of the checkpoint situation when traveling through this region, during my 10 day stay,''I passed through 91 heavily-guarded checkpoints''(yes, I did keep track), about half of which required all passengers to hand over identification and for the vehicle to be inspected.''And besides, you certainly wouldn’t travel to any part of Kurdistan that is engaged in active fighting. If you stick to the main cities/towns such as Dohuk, Erbil and Sulamainiyah, your chances of ending up in the midst of a battlefield or danger zone are quite low.''However, changing sides once again, even though I personally felt safe at all times, it is important to understand that the situation could change instantly. All it takes is one act of violence or even a minor escalation of words between two warring sides and the relative peace and normalcy of life in most of Kurdistan would become quite chaotic and yes, very dangerous in mere minutes.''GENERAL SAFETY CONCERNS''In my opinion, the most dangerous threat to your personal safety in Iraqi Kurdistan is the very real possibility of starvation due to the lack of variety in the Kurdish cuisine (at least with what is available in street stalls and restaurants)! Actually, if you love meat or chicken shawarma, then you’ll be absolutely ecstatic about the food. If you don’t, well, be prepared to eat it for every meal anyway or else be prepared to starve!''On a more serious note, from what I could tell, such typical travel concerns as pickpockets, scams and theft are no reason for concern at all when traveling through Iraqi Kurdistan. The Kurds are extremely honest people and you’ll often witness remarkable acts of trust. For example, in every town there are money changers who pile thousands of US Dollars, Euros, Iraqi Dinars and other currencies on a small, unprotected table on the footpath. And I was repeatedly shocked at how often these money changers would leave their table unattended (with all the money just sitting there) in order to go grab some food or a cup of tea, even if it was located on a busy street.''Due to the insistence of locals, I often left my backpack unattended in hotel lobbies, shared taxi stations and even on the side of the road while off doing something else as well. Nobody stole anything. While I can’t say that theft would never happen here, I’m quite sure that it’s not something a traveler needs to be overly concerned about.''CONCLUSION''To some, after reading the above, it may seem that the region is quite safe, just as it did to me, and yet others may still feel that the potential danger is not worth the risk at all.''I feel that it’s important to repeat that''this is still Iraq''and in the end,''it is a war zone''. And that fact alone is not one to be taken lightly.''So despite any descriptions I make of a remarkably easy-going Kurdistan, despite almost every Kurd I met telling me that there are absolutely no safety concerns in Kurdistan whatsoever and despite the fact that walking around the streets, both during the day and at night, feels even safer than it does to walk around the streets of most towns back home in the USA, this is still not the safest of travel destinations.''That peaceful surface is just too fragile to think otherwise.''A US Marine that''Anil''and I encountered at a checkpoint on the outskirts of Kirkuk (not the''“Holy Sh*t!” Marine'') gave us what is perhaps the most concise, yet realistic, explanation of the current state of things in Kurdistan. He said: “''While the situation has calmed down significantly over the last couple of years, just remember that there is definitely still a situation here.''”''So, who’s thinking of traveling to Iraq? Anyone?''*''For the past 10 days, I’ve been backpacking through Iraqi Kurdistan, a semi-autonomous region in the north of Iraq. For five of those days I was joined by Anil Polat of''FoxNomad.com'', a fellow adventurer and a most hilarious traveling companion. I have a lot to write about my time in Iraq and so much has happened that I find it quite difficult to actually organize my thoughts. So in the meantime, I’m just going to write whatever comes to mind, and I hope you’ll excuse me for the randomness that may result!''At the end of the day, I can speak of human interactions, life lessons and that first-hand education that travel provides all I want, but I’ll be completely honest with you, there’s something else that excites me even more than any of these aspects of travel.''In comparison to neighboring Syria, Lebanon is an expensive country to travel around. This is not only due to the higher prices, but also due to the availability of excellent restaurants, endless cafes and bars that never fail in enticing travelers to stop in for just one more drink. And that’s not to mention the French bakeries serving delicious cakes! You can basically find anything you want in Beirut and as a result, travelers tend to spend a bit more.''The ultra-budget travelers among us could possibly survive in Lebanon for about $25 USD per day, but this would require you to once again sleep on rooftops and eat little more than Middle Eastern sandwiches. And on this budget, you’re mode of transportation will have to be your own feet, with perhaps the occasional shared taxi thrown in.''For those interested in a little more comfort and activity, be prepared to spend around $50 USD per day for a private budget hotel room, more frequent sit down meals, taxi rides and a daily cup of coffee from one of Beirut’s interesting cafes.''And if you decide to test out Beirut’s famous nightlife, you could easily double your daily expenses just from dishing out money for the entrance fee to a nightclub and paying for one beer!''The current exchange rate is approximately:''$1 USD = 1500 Lebanese Lira (LL)''(US Dollars are widely accepted as well)''Here’s a more detailed look at the costs to travel in Lebanon:''VISAS''Obtaining a visa at the border is quite straightforward for about 100 different nationalities, all of which are offered a free one-month visa upon arrival. In addition, these visas can easily be extended for up to three months if needed. Most other nationalities can also receive a visa at the border although they may have to pay for it. According to the sign in the immigration office, the fees range from $10 USD – $50 USD depending on the length of your stay.''ACCOMMODATION''Budget accommodation in Lebanon is quite basic. Don’t expect spotless bathrooms, outstanding service or much organization for the money you spend. The lack of decent budget hotels was actually quite surprising in Beirut as there really isn’t even an actual hostel-type operation. Instead, there are about five cheap hotels that offered little more than a thin mattress to lay your head.''Here’s what to expect in terms of costs:''Rooftop:''Mattresses, blankets and pillows provided – approx. 15000 LL ($10 USD)''Dorm Room:''Usually 3-5 beds per dorm – approx. 15000 – 25000 LL ($10 – $17 USD)''Single Room:''Either with shared/private bathroom – approx. 45000 LL ($30 USD)''Double Room:''With private bathroom – approx. 60000 – 90000 LL ($40 – $60 USD)''Most hotels do not include breakfast, although they may throw in some complimentary tea and coffee if you’re lucky.''FOOD''Dining in Lebanon proved to be more tricky than I would have imagined. Budget options, such as shawarma and falafel stands, while not plentiful, are scattered around, while more expensive cafes and restaurants are much easier to find. Here’s what to expect…''Falafel sandwiches and chicken shawarmas''– 2500 – 6000 LL ($1.66 – $4 USD)''Lebanese Fast Food (manakeesh, hummos, kebabs)''– 4000 – 7500 LL ($2.66 – $5 USD)''Bakery items (mini-pizzas & pastries)''– 1500 – 4500 LL ($1 – $3 USD)''Salads (try out Brisk on Hamra Street!)''– 4000 – 7500 LL ($3 – $5 USD)''If you’re willing to spend a little more, you will have endless options, especially in Beirut where you can find not only traditional Lebanese cuisine, but Mexican, Japanese, Italian, French, Chinese, Indian and more. And if you’re really looking to splurge, you’ll have no problem finding a restaurant where $200 USD will barely cover a dinner for two!''Mid-range Lebanese restaurant''– 12000 – 16500 LL per person''Hip pizza cafe''– 20000 – 30000 LL per person''Non-Lebanese ethnic cuisine''– 20,000+ LL per person''Upscale meal in downtown Beirut''– 60,000+ LL per person for meal with wine''In Lebanon, especially in Beirut, vegetarians will have no problem at all finding good food. There are plenty of mid-range cafes and restaurants offering salads, vegetarian soups and other vegetable dishes on their menus. In Beirut, simply head to Hamra Street or the Gemnayze neighborhood for the best options.''TRANSPORTATION''Getting around Lebanon is quite easy, with frequent bus and shared minivans running between most major destinations. And given Lebanon’s small size, you’ll almost never have to take a journey of more than 2 hours. For most journeys of about an hour, buses cost around 1500 LL per person and shared minivans cost around 3000 LL per person.''For destinations such as small towns and villages located in the mountains, there may not be regular bus or minivan service and as a result, the only way to reach these places (such as Beit Eddin, the Cedar Forest and Mleeta) are by actual taxi. The best idea is to take a public bus to the closest major town and negotiate a taxi from there as booking a taxi from Beirut for long day trips tends to be quite expensive. For example, you can expect to pay around $10 per hour to hire a taxi from the town of Saida in order to visit some of the interesting areas of Southern Lebanon.''In most towns and cities (including Beirut), walking is definitely the best way to get around, although when you do get tired, you can always flag down a servis (shared taxi) which will take you to your destination for around 2000 LL while picking up and dropping off other passengers along the way. There are also plenty of public buses in Beirut that will eventually get you to where you need to go for a very cheap fare.''*The four hour overland journey between Beirut and Damascus can be done either by bus for 500 Syrian Pounds ($11 USD) or by share taxi for 800 Syrian Pounds ($17 USD). Simply show up at the bus station in Damascus or Beirut (Charles Helou Station) and you’ll have no problem finding the ticket offices or share taxis. Actually, the drivers will find you quite quickly! You don’t need to make reservations ahead of time and transportation runs throughout the day.''ENTRANCE FEES''There isn’t much consistency to the entrance fees in Lebanon and you can expect to pay anywhere from 2000 LL to 12000 LL in order to enter any ruins site, museum, palace, caves, Cedar forest, castle, etc. All sites will accept payment in either Lebanese Lira or in US Dollars.''INTERNET''For those who need to spend a decent amount of time working or blogging or just checking emails, you’ll find plenty of cafes, restaurants and bars in Beirut that offer Wi-Fi. Just sit down, order a drink for around 5000 LL and nobody will bother you. However, the speeds and strength of the connections definitely vary from barely existent to quite decent, so sometimes it may be difficult to really get anything accomplished. The two best places I found were''Saifi Urban Gardens''in Gemnayze, which is a quaint and quiet outdoor cafe that serves cheap food and drinks, and''Brisk'', a cafe on Hamra Street that offers freshly prepared, ultra-healthy salads and sandwiches for 4000 – 7500 LL and whose friendly staff don’t mind at all if you spend a few hours using their Wi-Fi.''Actual internet cafes aren’t as common in Beirut as I expected, with the two most popular and reliable cafes located on Bliss Road right in front of the American University of Beirut. An hour of fast internet costs 3000 LL at each.''Outside of Beirut, most towns will have at least one decent internet cafe but available Wi-Fi signals become quite rare.''WORK OPPORTUNITIES''Earning money in Lebanon is definitely a possibility and I met a handful of travelers who had found some sort of work here. While many were teaching English (and earning about $10-$15 USD per hour), others were working at cafes, bars or even making their way as yoga or meditation instructors.''Wages are not nearly as high as you would think given all of the wealth that is present in Beirut, so Lebanon might not be the best of places for travelers looking to reboot their bank account. But if you’re less concerned about the amount of money you earn and more interested in the cultural experience, then any job you could find in Beirut would surely prove to be most rewarding.''Of course, I was only in Lebanon for a short time and didn’t really search for work opportunities, so I’m sure that there are other possibilities out there that I simply didn’t discover. (If anyone knows of any, please let us know in the comments!)''FINAL TIPS:''It didn’t appear that cheating foreigners is too common a practice in Lebanon although there were a handful of times, mostly when taking shared minivans, where it was clear that the driver was trying to charge me a higher rate than the locals.''When hailing a taxi in Beirut or other cities, you have two options. If you tell the driver ‘Servis’ and he accepts, then you simply pay 2000 LL and the driver has the right to pick up other passengers. However, if the driver tells you ‘Taxi’, then he is offering you a private ride which will cost as much as 12000 LL. You can always refuse and keep on hailing taxis until you find a taxi willing to take you on a Servis basis.''If you plan to stay for an extended time, it may be more cost-effective to rent a short-term apartment in Beirut for a month or two and then explore the rest of the country using Beirut as a base. You will find good, cheap apartments for rent (usually a private room in a shared flat) being advertised in many cafes, especially the one at the Saifi Urban Gardens mentioned above.''Most cafes, restaurants and shops accept credit cards, although budget hotels generally do not.''Many ATMs allow you to withdraw Lebanese Lira or US Dollars and some even offer Euros.''If I’ve left something out or if you have any questions about the cost of traveling in Lebanon that I failed to answer, please leave a comment below or send me an email!''When I hopped onto the bus that would take me from Beirut back to Aleppo, Syria, I spent the first few minutes daydreaming about the Aleppan cuisine that awaited me at the end of the journey. And then I spent the rest of the 6 hour trip feeling extremely guilty for leaving Lebanon after only 13 days.''This is a feeling I often deal with, one that results from walking along a thin line between trying to avoid living a life full of regrets and trying to gain as intense an education as I can from my travels. If my goal was only to have the best time possible in every country I visit, then I would never feel guilty for leaving a place. But when a significant portion of my travel motivation derives from a genuine desire to educate myself through first-hand experiences, then I often feel that it is my responsibility to remain in a country for at least a month, even two or three. Of course, I am aware that even a few months is not a sufficient amount of time to truly ‘discover’ a place, but it does offer a significantly better opportunity than a much quicker visit.''And since I rarely have a set itinerary and I rarely have any place where I need to be, there is nothing stopping me from staying in one place for a long, long time. So was my decision to leave Lebanon after only 13 days, a decision I made not because I didn’t enjoy the country, but simply because I woke up one morning and decided to move on, fair to Lebanon?''This is what I was left to think about on that bus ride back to Aleppo, as I asked myself such questions as, ‘Did I properly explore the country?’, ‘Did I learn enough?’, ‘Did I meet enough people?’, over and over  again.''And while 13 days might sound like a lot of time to some, I am certain that it will sound like practically nothing at all to others. I did a great deal during those 13 days and spent much time visiting regions outside of Beirut, however, I could have easily stayed longer, visited more places, spoke with more people and in the end, learned infinitely more.''So my question is:''Is it my responsibility as a traveler to ignore my desire to be surrounded by delicious Aleppan cuisine and super-friendly Syrians and instead stay true to my goal of educating myself as much as possible about every country I visit?''Or is this just me being silly and if I want some Aleppan cuisine, then nothing should stop me from jumping on the next bus that will lead me straight to it?''I’d be very curious to hear your thoughts on what you feel is ‘enough’ time to spend in a country.''Do you ever wonder if you’re leaving a country too soon or feel guilty for staying only a short while?''In between the moments of''extreme confusion''that I dealt with during my visit to Lebanon, I managed to discover a handful of places that will forever stick out in my mind for one reason or another. And so I wanted to share these places with you so that you have a broader idea of what a traveler may expect to discover during their journey here.''I shall get right to it….''FALAFEL SAHYOUN''Claims of the ‘Best Falafel in the Middle East’ are thrown around quite often in this part of the world and so when I heard about a special falafel stand, that happens to be one of the oldest in Beirut, I really didn’t expect much. However, it didn’t take long to understand why, despite being located next to three other falafel stands, Sahyoun was the only one of the four with a long line of people waiting to be served. And as soon as I saw the passion and care that went into the preparation of the falafel, I didn’t even have to taste my sandwich to know that it was going to be one of the best I’d ever eaten.''The Greek/Lebanese owner and staff clearly have hit upon a winning formula, as not only was the falafel made of pure chickpeas (unlike others which add bread crumbs into the mix), but the bread was freshly baked and the vegetables and herbs were as fresh as could be. And the cost? A mere 2500 Lebanese Lira ($1.66 USD) per sandwich, making it perhaps the best value meal in all of Beirut. However, you should plan on spending 5000 LL, as after your first bite, I guarantee you’ll want to order a second sandwich (and quite possibly a third after that one!).''Details/Location:''Falafel Sahyoun, Bechara Khoury Avenue, Ashrafieh, Beirut / Make sure you visit the one that looks like the photo above as there is a similar place right next door.''Next up is…''Beirut. One minute I want to pack my backpack and immediately leave this baffling city behind and the next minute I want nothing else but to stay here for several weeks more. And so it is no surprise that despite waking up each morning wondering why I am still here, I soon find myself reserving my hotel room for yet another couple of nights.''Before I continue, I must explain that this is my 12th attempt at writing this post. By now I have probably written 10 pages and some 15,000 words, but I’ve deleted everything I’ve written so far. Basically, writing about Beirut has proven to be a near impossible task, as every day this city proves itself to be more complicated and utterly confusing than any other city I have ever visited.''However, I’ve now decided that this is going to be my last attempt. Whatever I end up writing this time is exactly what I’m going to publish. And as a result, I apologize now for the potentially garbled and inconsistent post that’s about to follow. But in the end, that’s sort of the kind of place Beirut has turned out to be.''A CITY WITHOUT A CLEAR IDENTITY''Unlike most cities I’ve been to, where I am able to detect and ‘feel’ the vibe of the place, I have been unable to detect such a consistent vibe here in Beirut. I think back to my visits to such places as Mexico City, Bangkok or Melbourne, Australia and how I was able to confidently declare “This is Melbourne!” or “This is Mexico City!” soon after I arrived. The unique vibe of each permeated the air and was present in the lifestyle of every inhabitant, in the offerings of every street and in the activities of every neighborhood.''But after 10 days in Beirut (I know that 10 days is not a lot of time at all), I am instead faced with a city so full of seemingly disconnected parts, that when combined, ultimately creates such a fragmented environment that makes understanding Beirut as a whole a lifetime project.''TEN MINUTES IN BEIRUT''To give you a quick example, let me recount what I witnessed the other day within a span of ten minutes and within a distance of about 3 kilometers. (I was in a car returning to Beirut after a day of exploring South Lebanon.)''We drove past a Hezbollah-controlled neighborhood where bombed out buildings were plentiful and there was not one sign of reconstruction at all.''Our driver took a wrong turn and led us into the middle of a Palestinian refugee slum, complete with burning cars, 2 year old children begging on the streets, a sea of intense faces staring into our vehicle and non-stop gunfire coming from around the corner.''We drove past two car dealerships that sold nothing but Range Rovers and the most expensive Mercedes and BMWs on the market.''Our car was inspected by armed soldiers, hundreds of whom were lining the streets of central Beirut as tanks sat on every street corner, with guns manned and aimed at the cars passing by.''We crossed one intersection and then found ourselves surrounded by Gucci, Swarovski, Benetton and Tiffany (among others), with well-dressed families strolling along picture-perfect pedestrian-only walkways and super-glitzy shopping plazas. Children held Winnie-the-Pooh and Mickey Mouse balloons while eating Haagen Daz ice cream cones and being attended to by their East Asian nannies.''Moments later we arrived back at my hotel in the Gemnayze neighborhood, where dozens of half-built luxury apartment buildings sit crammed next to dozens of hip bars and nightclubs and the bombed out shells of dozens of crumbling buildings.''And that was just one ten-minute period of my stay in this city!''Now throw in a population consisting of Sunni Muslims, Shiitie Muslims, Maronite Catholics, Greek Orthodox, Greek Catholic, Armenian Christians, Protestants and Druze, each trying to hold on to their individual identities as much as possible as small groups of East Asians, Pakistanis, Sri Lankans, Africans, Arabs, Europeans & North Americans float in between the seams. Then add a somewhat noticeable anti-American undertone right alongside hundreds of young American students studying Arabic and a shockingly intense dose of Krispy Kreme, Dunkin Donuts, KFC, McDonalds, Pizza Hut, TGIF restaurants, Hardees, Starbucks, Dominoes Pizza, Subway, Burger King and Chevrolet and Ford dealerships and it’s no wonder I’m confused.''WHAT ABOUT ALL THE MONEY?''Clearly there is a great deal of money here, although my research has taught me that the population of this city consists of 20% super-wealthy and 80% poor, with virtually nothing at all in between. And it is the foreign investment, coming from places such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar, that apparently explains all of the “''A Luxuriously Enchanting Lifestyle Awaits''” billboards plastered everywhere, trying to entice the wealthy to purchase massive, yet-to-be-built apartments for millions of dollars. But this image of such extreme wealth seems so out of place (as does the presence of more Maseratis, Porsches and Rolls Royces than I have ever seen in my life) when behind these billboards and fancy cars lie the masses, many of whom are still living in dilapidated buildings or neighborhoods whose conditions could certainly use a significant overhaul.''So what is really going on here? Why is there such a need to transform Beirut into an ultra-wealthy, Dubai-style city? Is this even feasible if 80% of the population is unable to buy into the lifestyle that is taking over? And if this is such a fast-growing, seemingly cosmopolitan city, then why, at any given time, is 40% of the Lebanese population applying for a visa to live in a foreign country? (This statistic was given to me by two government officials yet I can’t claim that it is 100% accurate.)''I myself have only flimsy guesses and no solid answers.''MORE CONFUSION ABOUT BEIRUT''It is only natural that a city so focused on wealth and all things money, is going to be less focused on human connection and interaction. That’s generally how things go. When it’s all about me, me, me,  we obviously think a little less about everyone else.''And so I’ve found Beirut to lack some of that human warmth that is often present in developing or more traditional nations. Locals tend to ignore my greetings, people look me up and down everywhere I go and asking for directions is often met with a short reply or uninterested wave of the hand.  Beirut is the kind of place (at least in my experience) where you sometimes have to ask the restaurant worker three times for your food and then wait as he makes a phone call, watches a music video on the television and smokes three cigarettes before preparing it. Of course this doesn’t happen all the time, but some version of this scenario happened much more frequently here than in other cities I’ve been to around the world.''Also, if anyone can explain why Beiruti drivers will deliberately speed up and cut you off as you cross the street (even if you’re in a crosswalk) while yelling at you to get out of the way, I’d love to hear an explanation. I’ve seen some crazy driving in places such as Mumbai and Cairo, but nothing compares to the lack of respect for pedestrians that I witnessed in Beirut. And while these types of behavior are at times somewhat amusing, I also find that it says a great deal about how people treat each other.''Okay. Let me catch my breath for a moment!''I certainly don’t want this post to sound like a negative ‘review’ of Beirut (which I fear it has) when my goal is simply to try and show how incredibly enigmatic and fascinating this place truly is and how incredibly little I am able to understand of it. In the end, if I didn’t enjoy my time here, I certainly would have left days ago.''I’ve obviously been sucked in by this city’s…by it’s….by it’s…. I have no idea what ‘it’ is that has made me want to stay for 10 days so far, but there really is something about Beirut that has made it nearly impossible for me to leave.''A SIMPLE AFTERNOON STROLL''Of course, by this point, I am no longer expecting to understand this city before I eventually do move on to my next destination. After all, how can I make any progress when, for example, during the ten minute stroll from this American-owned garden cafe where I am now sitting back to my hotel, I will pass by several bombed-out buildings (some of which are still partially-inhabited), a construction site for a 25-story complex of ultra-luxury apartments, a Caribbean-fusion restaurant, a British pub, Hezbollah-posters, emaciated Pakistani street cleaners, a Greek Orthodox church, armed soldiers patrolling the streets, a Saab dealership, mounds of trash 3 meters high, a $100/plate Italian restaurant, a bullet-ridden mansion, a French bakery, a family of homeless Gypsies, an Armenian district, a photography exhibition and a wall full of Anarchist graffiti.''I can’t make any progress. I get a headache if I try.''I’m also fully aware that I could simply ignore all of the above and focus on the pleasant cafe culture here, the nice shops and restaurants along Hamra Street and the lovely Corniche that wraps around the edge of this city. However, I am hungry for more than that as cute cafes can be found almost anywhere in the world. Clearly Beirut has so many hidden layers below it’s shiny and mysterious surface, behind all of those Maseratis, Winnie-the-Pooh balloons and bumper stickers that read “Don’t follow my car unless you want to be killed”.''Unfortunately, I have failed in my attempt to fully understand them.''This post is merely my quick impression of Beirut and I’ve traveled long enough to know that a hundred people will have a hundred different impressions of the exact same place. So if anyone has some insight to share, I’d love to hear from you in order to better understand this most complex and intriguing city.''Damascus, one of the oldest continually inhabited cities on the planet.''So much to see, so much to explore, yet I did very little during my first couple of days in Damascus. Sure, I wandered around the Old City a couple of times, devoured a large vanilla ice cream cone topped with pistachios and cashews from the famous Bakdash ice cream shop and sat quietly for some time in the Umayyad Mosque.''But apart from that, I was unfortunately quite busy with some website issues.''A SURPRISE EMAIL''It all began on my first full day here, when I sat down at an internet cafe in order to check my emails. As I scanned through my inbox, one particular message immediately caught my attention:''The subject read: “''Your Bluehost Account Has Been Deactivated''”''At first I thought it was ‘spam’, but upon closer inspection, I discovered that it was the real deal. Bluehost, the company that hosts all of my websites, had indeed deactivated my account and as a result, all of my websites were down, including WanderingEarl.com.''Of course, after reading the email over several times in a bit of a daze, I still had no idea why my account had been deactivated. I’m not the most technically-oriented of bloggers and the reason for the deactivation might as well have been written in Aramaic.''I spent about twenty minutes just staring at the computer screen, trying to process the situation and allowing the tension that quickly built up inside to run its course before I devised a plan.\xa0Once I was finally able to think somewhat clearly, the adventure that has proven to define my stay in Damascus, finally began…''FROM ONE CAFE TO THE NEXT''After returning to my hotel in order to grab my laptop, I practically ran across the city to a Costa Coffee cafe, one of the few places in all of Damascus with reliable wi-fi. I hurriedly ordered what turned out to be a barrel of cappuccino and I sat down on the most comfortable sofa I could find, ready to try and tackle the issue at hand.''Unfortunately, after three hours at Costa Coffee and finding myself no closer to solving the problem, I was forced to leave the cafe. Costa only allows customers to use the internet for 1.5 hours and I had already begged the store manager to allow me to use an extra 1.5 hours as well. But when that allotment finished, I knew it was time to go. And so I packed up my laptop and ran back towards Souq Saroujah, the area where my hotel was located, in search of any kind of cafe that might offer some degree of Wi-Fi.''And I found one. It was a small, outdoor cafe set down a lovely, quiet lane.''A BAD CHOICE OF CAFE''Now before I continue, let me try and offer some advice to anyone who may experience major problems with their website or internet business while traveling. When you are required to suddenly work on such a major problem, you don’t have time to be picky about which cafe you choose. As long as they have Wi-Fi, you better sit down and get to work.''However, I have now realized that there is one type of cafe that you should probably avoid, no matter how desperate your situation. You see, for some asinine reason, in my unstable state of mind, I thought it would be a good idea to sit down at a''shisha cafe''and puff on some apple shisha while trying to solve my website issue. This was perhaps the dumbest thing I could have done as after a few puffs of this fruity-flavored tobacco, I not only found myself to be disturbingly light-headed, but quite jittery as well. I simply couldn’t sit still, my body was vibrating and I could barely see straight, never mind focus on the issue at hand.''And to make matters worse, I had just received permission from Bluehost to enter my WordPress account in order to try and fix the problem. They kindly agreed to grant me this temporary access under the one condition that I fix the problem immediately and preferably within the following 30 minutes. So there I sat, hands trembling, sweat pouring down my face, my eyes bugging out and the street around me spinning, all while trying to make sense of scripts, databases and slow query logs.''So naturally, after 45 minutes, I had again made absolutely no progress. And when the internet suddenly cut out (and I was informed that it wouldn’t come back on for the night), I quickly paid my bill, knocked over my chair while trying to stand up and proceeded to stumble down the road to a proper internet cafe that my waiter recommended.''Then, for the next 7 hours I sat in front of a computer in a shisha-induced haze, communicating with several AMAZING people that had replied to my frantic emails and twitter messages asking for help (see below for a list of these wonderful people!). Slowly, progress was finally made, and by midnight, I had all of my websites back up and running. However, I spent another three hours trying to make some further changes to this site in order to prevent this situation from occurring again in the future.''(The cause of this problem turned out to be a spike in traffic at WanderingEarl.com. Due to some database issues, my site’s performance was affected which put extra strain on Bluehost’s servers, causing them to shut down my account.)''PROBLEM SOLVED?''At 3am, I finally left the internet cafe and walked back to my hotel, a bit less wobbly than earlier but still exhausted beyond comprehension. And of course, I didn’t really sleep at all that night as I could not stop worrying about this situation, just hoping that the issue was actually resolved.''At 9am the following morning I was back at the internet cafe where I proceeded to spend another 9 hours working on my site as there were still many changes to be made.''I still don’t know if the problem is fully fixed (about a week has now passed) but it has definitely improved and''Bluehost''has kindly re-activated my account. Hopefully this issue is behind me and WanderingEarl.com can move forward once again.''So that was my introduction to Damascus.''Luckily, after the above situation, once I could relax a bit and breathe a little easier, I was able to enjoy the city and surrounding area significantly more. Between daily wanderings through the Old City, attending the Damascus International Film Festival, being invited to a local family’s home for an evening, visiting the only remaining Aramaic-speaking town in the world and meeting such a wonderful group of fellow travelers, I eventually left Damascus one happy Earl.''On another note…''THESE PEOPLE ARE''AWESOME''!''I want to give a huge thank you to everyone who responded to my website ‘crisis’ and offered their assistance. It was your advice, whether through Twitter, email or Skype, that ultimately helped me solve this issue.''So thank you for taking time out of your days to help me out!''Ashit Vora''for your Twitter messages and emails''Doug Farnes''for sharing your knowledge via Skype''Randy from''YearlyGlot.com''for all of your super-helpful emails''Jenny from''WhereIsJenny.com''for offering to put me in touch with her Website Developer''Kyle from''OnOurOwnPath.com''for explaining the problem in a very easy-to-understand way''Raam from''RaamDev.com''for replying to my email so quickly''Ali Dark''for responding to my email and directing me to someone who could possibly help''Dan at''TropicalMBA.com''for offering any assistance he could provide''And if I missed anyone, I do apologize. Even with a decent connection over here Twitter and Gmail keep cutting out and I know that some messages and offers of assistance were lost as a result.''Photo credits:''Shisha Sign''|''Shisha Smoking''Now that I’ve been here for just under a month, I have a decent grasp on how much it costs to travel in Syria. And to be honest, this is a country that offers a quality adventure no matter how much money you’re interested in spending.''On the budget end of the spectrum, it’s quite possible to travel in Syria for about $15 USD per day, which involves sleeping on rooftops (see more below) or in dorm rooms, dining on shawarma and falafel sandwiches for most meals and using only local buses for transportation.''If you move up a notch and stay in private single or double rooms, eat a sit-down meal more often and use taxis to get around, you can travel here for about $25 – $30 USD per day.''At the moment, the exchange rate is approximately:''$1 USD = 46 Syrian Pounds (SP)''To give you a better idea of the costs involved with travel in Syria, here’s some more specific information:''VISAS''The visa situation seems to change quite often but as of right now, citizens of most countries are able to obtain a single-entry visa at the border. The cost varies between nationalities but for most Western European countries, as well as Australia/NZ and Canada, the price seems to be a somewhat consistent $99 USD. I will say that if you have the time, and in order to avoid any potential hassle at the border, it would be worth it to obtain a Syrian visa from the Syrian Embassy in your home country.''US Citizens have no choice but to obtain a visa through the Syrian Embassy in Washington D.C. (or at the Consulate in Los Angeles). The cost is $131 but if you include a short letter explaining that you would also like to visit Turkey, Lebanon and/or Jordan, they will give you a multiple-entry visa, which certainly comes in handy.''And even though every visa states a validity of only 15 days, this is actually no longer the case. Every visitor is now entitled to a stay of up to 45 days and every time you leave and return to Syria, you get another 45 days to use. If you plan to stay inside Syria for more than 45 days in a row, then around day #40, simply visit the Passport Office in whichever town you may be in and after a couple of hours you’ll have your extension.''ACCOMMODATION''All budget hotels in Syria have the same basic setup and on the whole, I’ve found them to be clean, well-fun and quite comfortable. Generally, your sleeping options at each hotel will include:''Rooftop'': Thin mattresses (and sometimes beds), blankets and pillows provided – approx. 200 SP''Dorm Room'': Usually 3-5 beds per dorm – approx. 400 – 600 SP''Single Room'': Either with shared/private bathroom – approx. 600 – 800 SP''Double Room'': With private bathroom – approx. 800 – 1500 SP''Many hotels include a simple Syrian breakfast in the price of the room, which involves a plate of bread, cheese, boiled eggs, salad and tea or coffee. So if you’re on a tight budget, it pays to seek these places out!''FOOD''Street food is everywhere and if you don’t mind eating the same handful of items over and over again, then your food costs will be remarkably cheap. I actually just came back from eating a falafel sandwich, a mini-Syrian pizza, two cheese pastries and a banana shake and I spent a total of 80 SP (less than $2 USD!).''Here’s what it costs to eat:''Falafel sandwiches and chicken shawarmas''– 25 – 50 SP''Bakery items''(Syrian pizzas & pastries) – 5 – 20 SP''Fresh fruit juices and milkshakes''– 25 – 50 SP''Tea from a cafe''– 25 SP''For a more in-depth exploration of Syrian cuisine, you’ll need to part with more money, which makes it somewhat difficult to enjoy the variety of food this country has to offer as often as we’d like.''Mid-range restaurant''with a huge variety of Syrian dishes – 150 -200 SP per person''Mezze style meal''(selection of small dishes plus a few mains, all to be shared) – 350 SP per person''Upscale meal''in a classic restaurant (often set inside an old palace) – 800 SP per person with wine''Also, most dishes in Syria do include either chicken or meat, but for vegetarians, there is always hummous! 🙂 And most most restaurants offer some version of salad as well as grilled vegetables (often aubergine) with rice or bread. You won’t go hungry but you will have to put up with far less variety.''TRANSPORTATION''Walking is by far the best method of getting around every town and city. Taxis are plentiful but are really only necessary to visit the outskirts. And buses, well, they’re both cheap and efficient.''Taxis'': Always negotiate but 100 – 150 SP should get you from one end of a city to the other.''Share Taxis''(Servis): Between certain destinations, and within big cities, these vans follow a set route and will pick up and drop off passengers along the way. Prices are usually between 10 – 50 SP.''Buses'': The prices for long-distance transportation seem to be about 50 SP per hour of travel, making it extraordinarily cheap. And given the small size of Syria, you’ll rarely take a bus journey of more than 3 hours. Buses are clean and comfortable, generally leave on time, have assigned seats and usually include water, sweets and a movie. Not bad for $3 bucks!''ENTRANCE FEES''Every major/minor sight around the country (i.e. Museums, the Dead Cities, Citadels, Palaces, Castles, etc.) has an entrance fee of either 75 or 150 SP. Anyone who can present a valid ISIC Student Card will have these fees reduced to only 15 SP. Compared to many countries, these entrance fees are an absolute bargain.''INTERNET''This is a strange one. In the two biggest cities, Damascus and Aleppo, internet connections are actually quite poor and wi-fi is not too common. And since I do need to work on the internet everyday, I’ve spent a good amount of time trying to solve this issue. So here’s what I’ve discovered:''Damascus''Costa Coffee''(next to the Four Seasons Hotel) offers customers 1.5 hours of reliable wi-fi with any purchase. Coffee prices are about 150 SP.''Al-Hamaraim Hotel''is a popular budget hotel that offers its guests what has been the best connection in all of Syria so far.  The only catch is that it costs 150 SP per day.''Apart from the above, internet cafes are also scattered around here and there, with varying speeds, reliability and prices. Expect to pay anywhere from 50 – 100 SP per hour.''Aleppo''In the new part of Aleppo, there are several reliable internet cafes for about 50 SP per hour.''For wi-fi, the manager of the''Baron Hotel''(Syria’s oldest hotel) will happily allow visitors to sit in the somewhat tattered but atmospheric lounge room while bumming the free wi-fi signal from the 4-star Ramses Hotel across the street. Order a tea or a beer and you can sit there and work for hours.''Oddly enough, in many of the smaller towns of Syria, internet connections are plentiful and often free at many budget hotels.''And while we’re talking about staying connected, a Syrian SIM card for my mobile phone from Syriatel, the country’s largest  mobile communications provider, cost me 200 SP. I then purchased 400 SP of credit which has lasted me almost a month, although I’ve only used the phone to book a handful of hotels and make arrangements to meet up with people I’ve met.''WORK OPPORTUNITIES''If you want to try and earn some money while in Syria, I’ve found that there are plenty of opportunities to teach both English and French. In Aleppo, I was actually offered a job at a language institute where they asked me to teach 10 hours of English per week to classes of only 2-5 students. And they offered me 1000 SP ($22 USD) per hour, which is quite high considering that I don’t have a teaching certificate.''Another opportunity I’ve found is for web designers, of which there seems to be a major shortage over here. So far, I’ve already met 10 local Syrians (mostly managers of hotels and independent tour guides) who were interested in hiring me to help them set up a basic website for their business. I simply don’t have time (nor much skill in this area), but for anyone who does, you’d have no trouble finding endless work. And the Syrians I spoke with are willing to pay quite decent rates as well.''FINAL TIPS''Before I finish this post, here are a few other things I’ve learned here in Syria that will hopefully help you save some money on your trip…you are coming to Syria, right? 🙂''Syrians are generally super-honest and very rarely will try to rip you off. At least that’s my experience so far.''It pays to book hotel rooms in advance during high season (spring and autumn) as there appears to be more travelers than there are rooms (at least budget rooms) in some towns.''Feel free to bargain in the markets and even for hotel rooms but don’t expect a drastic decrease in price.''Tap water is safe to drink here (and most hotels also have a filtered water tap you can use) so you don’t have to buy plastic bottles every day.''Many hotels and restaurants accept credit cards and most do not charge a transaction fee.''There are plenty of ATMs in Syria and the banks do not charge anything to use them.''If you have any questions about the cost of traveling in Syria that weren’t answered in this post, feel free to comment below or send me an email!''Let’s take a tour together, a tour of Aleppo, this city in northern Syria that proved to be a most difficult place to leave.''The goal of this tour is to help any of you who might be traveling to Aleppo in the future gain a better understanding of what to expect and, for those who probably won’t be visiting Aleppo any time soon, to give you a general taste of what this city is all about.''Either way, grab your camera and a bottle of water (which you can fill up using tap water as it’s perfectly safe to drink here!), put on some comfortable walking shoes and let’s begin…''PART 1:''We’ll start off by meeting at the intersection of Bab Al-Faraj and Al-Ma-ari Streets where we can take a few minutes to marvel at the 110 year-old clock tower that stands before us, serving as the perfect central landmark of this sprawling city.''And then we’ll cross the road, an activity which is much more complicated and death-defying than it really should be. Given that Syrians aren’t too keen on applying their brakes even when there are pedestrians directly in front of them, we might lose one or two of you along the way, but for those that do manage to reach the other side without being crashed into by a speeding taxi or truck, you’ll be rewarded with a fresh fruit juice and cheese sandwich breakfast from one of the half dozen juice vendors set up on Yarmouk Street. Choose from pomegranate, orange, banana or mixed fruit and you’ll receive a tall glass of fruity goodness for a mere 50 SP ($1 USD)!''Now that we’re energized, let’s walk a bit further until we reach Baron Street so that we can pop into the famous Baron Hotel, which is apparently the oldest hotel in Syria. We’ll meet Waleed, the friendly manager, and perhaps enjoy a quick tea in the worn, yet historic lounge room where such people as Agatha Christie, Ataturk and Teddy Roosevelt have all spent some time.''From here, we’ll walk along busy Al-Khandak Street and within a few minutes, we’ll reach the entrance to the Haddika Al-Ameh, the largest public park in all of Syria. Designed and built by the French during the 1940s, this peaceful park is the perfect place to observe Syrian life as we stroll along the dozens of tree-lined paths, enjoy a rest on a shaded bench and of course, chat with the locals who will  approach us in order to welcome us to their country.''PART 2:''Moving along, from Haddika Al-Ameh we’ll now head over to the main concrete square that separates the old and new cities of Aleppo, where we’ll stop for a cup of tea from this guy, just because, well, who wouldn’t want to buy a cup of tea from this guy?''Our next destination will be the Christian Quarter, but luckily, our route to this area of the city passes by the most famous falafel stand in all of Aleppo. And so, I encourage you to fork over the 35 SP (65 cents) it costs for the experience, not only of enjoying this culinary treat, but of trying to order your falafel sandwich amidst a crowd of twenty four other people desperately in need of some mashed and fried chickpeas.''The journey through the Christian Quarter of Aleppo will be a random one as I find it best to simply pick one small alleyway and start exploring. These ancient alleyways seem to go on forever and you never know what you’ll find around each corner. You may stumble upon a small collection of sweet shops or a massive church that suddenly appears in the most improbable of locations. We’ll walk through tunnels, under stunning archways, past old wooden homes and into neighborhoods that seem to have remained the same for centuries. And every now and then, we’ll cross a main street that is full of shops selling the latest clothing fashions to young Syrian girls and guys parading around in designer jeans and sunglasses.''PART 3:''Eventually, after a couple of hours of wandering around in this manner, we’ll find our way out of the fascinating maze and soon end up back on Bab Al-Faraj Street. After passing by the clock tower once again, we’ll walk two minutes along Al-Ma’ari Street until we reach Aleppo’s National Museum.''You may not like museums, but I’m quite certain that even the anti-museum crowd among us will be impressed by the extensive collections here, all of which offers an excellent tour of every civilization that has inhabited Syria since 3000 B.C.''Once you see the amount of history that has been found so far at the dozens of archaeological sites in northern Syria, it will probably leave you scratching your head in disbelief at how much more of these ancient civilizations must still be out there yet to be discovered.''Okay, I have a question.''Who wants lunch?''Well, it’s no coincidence that at this point in the tour, the famous Mister Chicken eatery is just around the corner! For those who eat chicken, you’ll have your choice of Mister Chicken’s spicy or non-spicy chicken shawarma, either of which will leave you amazed that a simple chicken shawarma – pita bread loaded with shredded chicken, hommus, yoghurt, tomatoes, lettuce and pickles – can be so remarkably tasty.''For the vegetarians among us, right next door to Mr. Chicken is a small bakery that offers what I believe is the most extensive (and most delicious) selection of cheese and vegetable-filled breads in all of Aleppo. They also sell small Syrian pizzas loaded with vegetables which are so yummy that I’ve been known to eat as many as six of them at one time.''With bellies full, we’ll now go for a 15 minute walk through the Old City where our first stop will be the Great Mosque (Jāmi‘ Bani Omayya al-Kabīr), with it’s thousand-year old minaret rising high into the sky. As we take off our shoes and step foot inside the main courtyard of the mosque, we’ll discover a most calm and peaceful setting and will enjoy a rest on one of the outer walls in order to observe this  structure from within.  If you wish, you can have a peek inside the main prayer hall, a large, beautifully-designed room where you’ll be treated to the humming and chanting of dozens of people reading from the Koran.''If we’re lucky, we’ll be inside the mosque when the muezzin starts to recite the hypnotic call to prayer, allowing us to watch the place transform itself from a near-empty building to one filled with people preparing themselves to pray.''PART 4:''After the mosque, we’ll walk straight into the Old Souk, or main market, one of the entrances to which is just around the corner. Once inside this massive covered market, which fills dozens of tunnel-like and often impossibly narrow aisles, we don’t need a plan. The best way to explore this market is to simply start walking and to go in whichever direction seems most interesting (or whichever direction the crowds of local shoppers forces us to go in). We’ll walk by everything from cloth vendors to food stalls to jewelry shops to welders to spice sellers to wedding dress makers. Chances are that several vendors will strike up a conversation with you, and while some of them are just trying to entice you to visit their shop, many of the vendors will simply be curious about where you are from and will want to welcome you to Syria with a cup of tea.''If you find something you’re interested in buying, perhaps some shawls or some locally made olive-oil soaps, feel free to bargain but don’t forget to do it with a smile! Such interactions in Syria are not treated as two enemies pitted against each other, but as two friends carrying out a friendly business deal.''It’s starting to get late and we don’t want to miss the next sight so we’ll now head towards one of the market’s exits. And as soon as we step out of the market, our eyes will fall upon this magnificent structure looming above us. It’s the Citadel (Qala Halep), located on top of a hill in the center of the city and I have no doubt that after one glance you’ll be more than eager to enter. After paying the 150 SP ($3 USD) entrance fee, we’ll soon find ourselves passing through the main gate and just a moment later, standing inside of this grand fortress. For the next couple of hours, we’ll all be free to roam around this site, which has been in near continual use since 3000 B.C.''You’ll be able to catch perfect views of every corner of Aleppo from the Citadel and you can also wander through the ruins of the interior, passing through tunnels, dimly-lit hallways, underground rooms, theaters and the grand Mamluk Throne Hall. It’s a traveler’s dream, with no shortage of nooks and crannies to explore.''And then, before we leave, we’ll all climb up onto the outer wall just as the sun begins to set behind what I’m sure you’ll agree is one of the most beautiful cities in the world. Together we will share this moment of awe as we all hopefully reach the conclusion that our visit to Aleppo has far exceeded our expectations.''Well, that’s the end of our tour of Aleppo. At this point, you’ll have the choice of collapsing into bed due to exhaustion or maybe venturing out for a delicious meal of mezze (variety of small dishes that are shared among everyone at the table) at the wonderful Al-Kommeh restaurant. There’s even karaoke and a handful of nightclubs to experience later on if you’re interested 🙂''Otherwise, you may just want to relax on the rooftop lounge of your hotel (most of the hotels have them) while puffing on a traditional water pipe, sipping one last cup of tea and soaking in the night time atmosphere of this historic and magnetic city.''This blogging stuff has continued to be quite remarkable as of late, especially the past six weeks or so. Things are happening that I simply never expected and I’m communicating with so many incredible people that it’s almost overwhelming 🙂 Basically, I couldn’t be happier with my decision to start this blog so many months ago.''Also, as you might be aware, I try not to hide the fact that I am ever so thankful to everyone – readers, commenters, those who send me emails, other bloggers, twitterers, facebookers and people I meet every single day – all of whom are the people ultimately responsible for breathing life into this blog.''So…as always, let me start off with another heart-felt thank you to each and every one of you!''WANDERINGEARL.COM AROUND THE INTERNET''I also wanted to do a short recap of where WanderingEarl.com has been mentioned during the past couple of months and, to be honest, as I look at the list, I still can’t believe all of the support that this site has been receiving.''For example, back in September, my post “''How Much Money Do You Need to Live a Life of Travel''” was mentioned by…''Karol Gadja at''RidiculouslyOrdinary.com''Caz & Craig over at''YtravelBlog.com''Kate from''AdventurousKate.com''Facebook Fan Page of''GloboTreks.com''&''Jenny from''WhereIsJenny.com''All I can say is thank you so much!''My post “''The Day US Customs Found a Bullet in My Pocket''” ended up bringing more traffic to this site than ever before, which even caused my site to crash a few times. Of course, many of those visitors came and went, but for those of you who have decided to become a part of the community, I welcome you and thank you for sticking around!''I also wish to offer another big thank you to all of you who included a reference to this post on your own sites, such as:''ExperimentsInPassiveIncome.com''ItchyFeetChronicles.com''Dangerous-Business.com''Facebook Page of''ExpatHeather.com''Avventurosa.com''The-Working-Traveller.com''LiveRichly.com''MatadorNetwork.com''Other posts that received some attention over the past six weeks include:''“Do You Shave Your Underarms Too?” (at''MyAmazingYear.com'')''“How To Fund Your Travels With Creativity” (at''TheBigWhatIf.com'')''“A Quick Word About Pre-Trip Planning” (at''LittleHouseInTheValley.com'')''“How Does A Permanent Nomad Pack?” (at''AsWeTravel.com'',''LiveLifeBig.net'',''MidLifeTravel.com'')''“How Does A Permanent Nomad Pack?” was also mentioned this past week on''TropicalMBA.com''“All Is Well In Istanbul, Thanks To Shakira” (at''TurkishTravelBlog.com'')''“Welcome To Syria My Friend” (at''ThePlanetD.com'',''ThePhilippinesProject.com'')''“Welcome To Syria My Friend” was also mentioned at''TravelingSavage.com'"“A US Citizen In The ‘Axis Of Evil'” (at"'TourAbsurd.com'',''ExperimentsInPassiveIncome.com'',''LiveRichly.com'')''I was also fortunate enough to be interviewed by the wonderfully uplifting Jen Smith from''ReachOurDreams.com'', the always informative Natalie over at''TurkishTravelBlog.com''(who I hopefully will meet up with at some point during my stay in this region of the world) & the highly-motivated Jodi Sagorin from''IfYouNeverDid.com'', who included my interview in her impressive (and free) eBook titled “''How To Be An Adventurer''”.''And I’d like to give a shout out to Troy from''FoggOdyssey.com''who wrote an excellent review of my “''How To Work On A Cruise Ship''” eGuide over at''GoBackpacking.com''.''And then come the lists. Incredibly, WanderingEarl.com ended up on…''Brendan’s (from''BrendansAdventures.com'') “''Top 100''” list of independent travel blogs''AllMyFaves.com''list of weekly blog favorites''TravelBlogSites.com''list of “''Travel Blog Rankings''“''Near the top of the “''150 Travel Blogs for Students''” list put out by Alexis at''CollegeScholarships.org''On''AsWeTravel.com''‘s list of the “''25 Most Inspiring Travel Bloggers in 2010''“''All I can say is WOW! I’d be lying if I said it didn’t feel good to see this blog appear alongside many of my very own favorite travel blogs from out there in the blogging world.''I’d also like to take a quick moment to mention that it’s been quite a challenge trying to travel, work and blog all at the same time during my current trip through the Middle East. As a result, I simply haven’t been able to read as many of your own blogs as often as I’d like, to join in your discussions or to be more active in the world of social media. Please know that this is not permanent and I truly appreciate your understanding that life on the road requires a few adjustments!''ONE FINAL SHUKRAN (THANK YOU)!''To anyone who’s ever read a post here, subscribed to this site, joined the conversation, sent me an email, retweeted anything, mentioned a post on Facebook or on their own blog or website, please know that without you, this site simply wouldn’t exist. And that is a fact I shall never forget.''Also, if I somehow overlooked your efforts in supporting this site and failed to include you above, please send me an email or comment below so that I can thank you properly. It’s been a little overwhelming trying to keep up with everything lately and I know I’ve missed some people as a result. It definitely wasn’t intentional 🙂''From Damascus,''Earl''On this current trip, I have yet to sleep on anyone’s couch even though I planned on doing so upon signing up to be a member of''Couchsurfing.com''. I did attempt to get in touch with potential ‘hosts’ on a few occasions but it simply hasn’t worked out. And now that a month has passed since I’ve arrived in this region of the world, I think I’ve realized that my travel style is simply not too compatible with Couchsurfing.''Here’s why:''First, I generally don’t know where I’ll be tomorrow and as a result, I am naturally unable to send out requests for a couch to sleep on. I’m a last minute planner and will often wake up in the morning and make a sudden decision to move on to a new place. And given that this is how I like to travel, I can’t expect other people to be willing to offer me their couch on a moment’s notice. Besides, my last minute planning often doesn’t even give me time to check Couchsurfing.com and even when it does, I don’t really want to spend a lot of time on the internet sending out requests when the chances of receiving a quick response are understandably quite low.''Planning is almost essential in order to make use of Couchsurfing, as the less time you give potential hosts to reply to your request and to prepare for your arrival, the less chance you will have of anyone being able to offer you a place to stay. All of the hosts that I have contacted did reply to me eventually, but of course, by that time, I had already found a place to stay or moved on.''Second, I’ve also come to realize that for those of us who work while traveling, Couchsurfing may not be the right choice either. I try to put in at least 4 hours of work on my laptop per day while on the road and it is always my goal to work as efficiently as possible during those few hours. The more I can concentrate, the quicker I can finish my work and the more time I’ll have to spend exploring the country I am visiting. And I tend to accomplish more work when I have my own space where I can spread out my stuff, block myself from the outside world and get down to business.''With Couchsurfing, I would be someone’s guest and as a result, I would naturally want to respect my host’s schedule and lifestyle. So I’m just not sure how efficient I would be if I had to focus on work while in someone else’s living room as they go about their normal routine. Apart from that, I’d probably come across as quite rude if I chose to work instead of socialize with my host after they so kindly offered me a place to stay.  Having my own space (i.e. hotel/hostel room) provides a lot more comfort for me and hence an environment where I am free to focus and work whenever the urge strikes.''Finally, I’m a relatively slow traveler (as evidenced by my two week stay in Aleppo) and quite understandably, Couchsurfing is not designed to have travelers stay in someone else’s home for an extended period of time. Usually, the invitation to sleep on a couch is for a night or two and as a result, I would have to spend my time bouncing from couch to couch every couple of days. In the end, it’s just much easier for me to stay in one budget hotel room for the duration of my stay in a particular town or city so that I have a proper base. As a working nomad, having such a base helps me eliminate the need to constantly spend time looking for a new place to stay, time that I can now spend exploring or working.''With all that said, this post is definitely not intended to be an anti-Couchsurfing message. In fact, I’ve now met about a dozen Couchsurfers and Couchsurfing hosts during my stay in Syria so far. And somehow, without actually sleeping on anyone’s couch, I’ve still been welcomed into their community. Several hosts have taken the time to show me around their home towns or to take me out at night to places (restaurants, cafes, karaoke bars, etc.) I otherwise would never have found on my own. The ones I’ve met have been overly hospitable and at least in this region, seem fully interested in interacting with and learning as much as possible from travelers who happen to be passing by. (A handful also seem to be quite keen on picking up foreign female travelers, but they’re quite respectful and harmless if the traveler is not interested.)''So if Couchsurfing fits your style of travel, then I highly recommend giving it a try and sleeping on some couches. If it doesn’t seem like a good match for you, then I still recommend getting in touch with Couchsurfing hosts every now and then as a way to delve a bit deeper into a particular culture. It still gives you an opportunity to meet some interesting and welcoming people but at the end of the day, you’ll be able to return to the comfort of your own room.''Does this make sense or am I just missing something?''After the phrase “''Welcome to Syria''”, the second most common phrase that I’ve heard from Syrians is, surprisingly…''“I love America.”''I’ve been told this on a daily basis over here. In fact, about thirty minutes ago I was getting some photocopies made of my passport from a cigarette vendor/photocopier operating out of a small stall on the side of the road. The man looked at me and in Arabic asked “Ente Amerkey?” (Are you American?).''When I nodded my head that I was indeed American, he touched his hand to his heart and put a great deal of effort into pronouncing the word “Welcome” as clearly as possible. He then said a few sentences in Arabic that I didn’t understand, but another customer standing next to me did me the favor of translating his words.''The vendor had said: “We are happy you are here. We like America. Why USA don’t like me?”''And I know that this is a complicated and tricky subject, one that mixes the feelings of ordinary human beings with the attitudes and agendas of national governments, but it’s really impossible not to be affected by such words.''As recent as two years ago, it was quite difficult for me to even admit that I was a US Citizen while traveling. Often, when locals or other travelers learned of my nationality, I was subjected to a long and intense anti-America rant, no matter where in the world I happened to be.''But here I am some years later traveling through the ‘''axis of evil''‘ and as a US Citizen, I find myself more welcomed than in any other country I have ever visited.''As I say repeatedly on this blog, I personally travel in order to explore and learn about the world with my very own eyes. And what I’ve been experiencing here in Syria so far is all the proof I need that such a first-hand education is not only valuable, but necessary in order to avoid making dangerous assumptions about our fellow citizens on this planet we call Earth.''*My apologies for another post on how friendly Syria has been but it is the kindness and warmth of this country that has honestly defined my stay so far!''Have you ever been completely surprised by a country or people that you initially believed would treat you much differently than they did?''A few days ago, I took a tour.''Actually, it wasn’t really a tour. Four other travelers and I split the cost of a minivan and driver to take us to what we were told were three of the most impressive sights in northern Syria. What the hotel manager who organized the minivan failed to inform us (and what all five of us travelers failed to research) was that each of these three sights was located quite a significant distance not only from our hotel, but from each other as well.''So, what we were told was going to be an easy 9am – 4pm trip turned into a 9am – 10:30pm grand excursion, with 9 or those 13 hours spent traveling inside of a cramped and ludicrously uncomfortable minivan.''Just to give you an idea, it took us almost two hours to get from Aleppo to the first sight we visited, two hours to then reach the next place, two hours and forty-five minutes to travel from there to the final stop of the tour and another three hours and fifteen minutes to drive back to Aleppo.''However, despite the crazy hours spent in that van, despite my terrible headache as a result of not eating the entire day (it was Friday and everything was closed in the small towns we passed through) and despite the facial sunburn and dehydration, I of course managed to enjoy the day.''In fact, if I ignore all of the day’s challenges, this trip was actually quite memorable, as every place we visited left me wishing I had an entire day to explore that one sight alone.''What did we see exactly?''Well, the first stop was…''SARJELLA''Sarjella is the largest of the ‘Dead Cities’, a vast collection of the ruins of over 700 Byzantine towns, villages and monastic communities. Offering one of the best glimpses into the Byzantine world, these ”cities” were abandoned once the political center of the region moved from nearby Antioch to Damascus, further to the south. The town of Sarjella has been abandoned for over 1500 years but many of its semi-complete buildings remain in relatively good condition.''At first sight, Sarjella seemed to be an uninteresting collection of rubble, but upon further exploration, it contained an intriguing group of structures. The area is much larger than it appears from a distance and I spent a good hour and a half wandering all over the site, walking through the stone remains of a tavern, meeting house, bath house and church. The now isolated location and surrounding moonscape-esque terrain created a mysterious atmosphere that could be felt quite intensely as I stood alone in the middle of this once bustling community.''Entrance Fee'': 75 SP ($1.50 USD) – This was the price listed on the sign but nobody asked us to buy a ticket. We just walked in and none of the people sitting around the entrance said anything.''And then we moved on to…''APAMEA (AFAMYA)''This Hellenistic city, founded in 300 B.C. by one of Alexander the Great’s generals, was one of the three main cities of the Seleucid Empire and once had over 500,000 inhabitants. It eventually became part of the Roman Empire in 64 B.C. (the period of time when much of what is visible today was built) and later a part of the Byzantine Empire. Running 1.85 kilometers long, a significant portion of Afamya’s main street has incredibly withstood repeated conquests and even a massive earthquake.''This place blew me away. To see an ancient Roman avenue, lined with hundreds of columns stretching for such a great distance and set on a plateau overlooking the Ghab valley, was quite a remarkable sight. All I did was walk up and down this avenue a couple of times but I had never been to an ancient Roman city where it was so easy to actually envision what life was like back in those days. Not only were there hundreds of mostly intact columns, but there were archways, facades, temples, bathhouses and other structures that were quite well-preserved. I could almost hear the horse and chariots traveling along this main road as well as the philosophers offering their wisdom to all those who passed them by.''Entrance fee'': 150 SP ($3 USD) Amazingly though, nobody asked us to pay the entrance fee here either. We just got out of the minivan and walked right in without anyone approaching us for a ticket.''Once we were finished with Afamya, we made our way to…''KRAK DE CHEVALIERS''This surreal castle was built between 1142 and 1271 as one of the handful of fortifications whose purpose was to guard the main passage route from Turkey to Beirut. It was built by the Order of the Knights of St. John and was generally considered to be impenetrable given its solid construction and impressive location some 750 meters above sea level.''It didn’t take long at all for this place to rise straight to the top of my list of favorite things I’ve seen or done so far in Turkey and Syria. In fact, this mountaintop castle is right up there on my list of favorite sights that I’ve ever seen, anywhere on this planet. Unfortunately, however, I only had a few minutes to explore this place.''After traveling the two hours and forty-five minutes from Afamya to Krak de Chevaliers, we naturally arrived quite late, at 5:35pm to be exact. The problem was that the castle closed at 6:00pm and when we ran up the steps and tried to enter, we were told that we could not buy a ticket because it was too late in the day for us to safely navigate through the now dark passageways.''It took about 5 minutes of begging and pleading before the ticket man agreed to sell us tickets under the condition that we would remain in the castle for no more than 10 minutes. With tickets in hand, all five of us ran up the main corridor and through the main gate where we began what has to be one of the wildest visits to any historical site that I’ve ever been a part of. Everything was in hyper-speed as we bolted from room to room, vaulted hall to vaulted to hall and dungeon to dungeon. We climbed towers, stood on top of outer walls, crossed moats, explored dark tunnels and wandered into mysterious corridors. After ten minutes, we heard one of the castle’s security guards yell out to tell us that it was time to leave. But we didn’t want to leave at all as everywhere we turned there was more and more sections of this incredible castle to explore. And so for the next thirty minutes we played cat and mouse, with the security guard trying to chase us down while the five of us tried to hide/explore as much as possible.''Eventually, after 45 minutes inside the castle, we found ourselves cornered as the security guard caught us off guard by going silent for a few minutes and suddenly popping out of a long, dark hallway that we were about to enter ourselves. Surprisingly, he wasn’t mad at us and he just laughed as we gave up in defeat and began our march towards the exit.''My photos don’t do justice to this place at all and I’m actually thinking about revisiting Krak de Chevaliers once I make my way further south. I would really like to spend an entire day here as this structure appeared far more impressive to me than any fort, castle or other historical structure that I’ve ever come across in any of my travels.''Entrance fee'': 150 SP ($3 USD) This time we had to pay for a ticket 🙂''After Krak, we had to endure the final (and longest) leg of the day’s journey, but we finally reached Aleppo once again, only a mere six and a half hours later than scheduled. At this point, I simply walked into the hotel lobby, asked for my key and went straight to my room. I was in quite a daze, not feeling too well and focused only on getting some sleep. And as soon as I entered my room, I plopped down on the bed with all of my clothes on and instantly passed out.''The next thing I knew it was 9:00am the following morning and I was sitting up in bed somewhat confused, struggling to determine whether I had actually visited Sarjella, Afamya and Krak de Chevaliers or whether those fascinating places were simply memories from a most interesting dream.''There have been a few brilliantly memorable times in my life when I’ve been walking down some random street in some random town of some random country and suddenly I find that there’s a little extra kick in my step. The hairs on my arms stand on end and a tingling sensation runs up my spine and quickly spreads throughout my entire body. And then I glance around me in all directions with eyes open wide (and perhaps even on the verge of tears…maybe) and the widest possible smile across my face.''What I am feeling is pure, unrestricted happiness.''And this is exactly what I felt yesterday here in Aleppo, Syria. I had one of those moments when every aspect of my life – all of my efforts, plans, hopes, thoughts, struggles, doubts and dreams – just molded together into one perfect moment, leaving me to float around the enchanting streets of Aleppo as happy as I’ve ever been.''The factors that led to this moment are simply too complex to speak about right now but in simple terms, I can liken it to the feeling that a 15th century explorer must have felt upon finally laying his eyes upon the land that he had dedicated his entire life to finding. The only real difference is that my discovery did not involve some never before visited part of the world but a never before visited part of myself instead.''And all of this was brought on by the fact that from the moment I crossed the border into Syria, just about every single person I’ve met, from the hotel manager to the falafel vendors to the shop owners to the strangers I’ve passed in the street to ‘Tony’, the old man who sits in a chair on the sidewalk every night puffing away on his shisha, has welcomed me with nothing but a cheerful smile and open arms. I am simply unable to recall any other country that I’ve visited where I’ve been so instantly and warmly welcomed and I still cannot believe how many people have approached me in the streets just to literally say the words “''Welcome to Syria my friend!''” (I’m not sure if they learn that line in school but even those who don’t speak English know these words.)''I know I’ve only been here for five days but already I can hardly walk around this beautiful city without someone yelling out to me and saying hello every few seconds. In fact, this afternoon I went to explore the old souk (market) and literally, within one minute of arriving, I found myself sitting in a small tailor shop chatting with the owner and drinking tea. I ended up in that shop for four hours and by the time I left, the rest of the market had closed. It’s no wonder that I’ve only explored a small part of this city so far when I consider that such similar experiences have occurred at least twice every single day that I’ve been here.''Not once has anyone asked me to buy something from them or asked anything from me at any time. The people I’ve encountered simply want to sit down and speak with me, almost always in order to express their own genuine happiness and appreciation of my decision to visit their country.''Add to all of this overwhelming hospitality the exotic atmosphere borne from the awe-inspiring Arab architecture, the ancient maze of streets and tunnel-like back alleys, the constant sounds of traditional music on every corner and the aromas of freshly prepared Syrian cuisine and it’s easy to understand why Aleppo has captured the hearts of so many travelers before me, almost always leading to a much longer than intended visit.''I must admit that I’ve been captured as well and as a result, I have a feeling I’ll also be sticking around this fascinating city for quite some time.''Have you ever been to Syria or have you ever thought of visiting this region of the world?''It’s quite easy traveling without a guidebook. After all, within minutes of publishing my first post from Istanbul, I received both comments and emails from readers offering me tips on what I should do, where I should go and most importantly, where and what I should eat during my stay.''Seriously, why do I need a guidebook when I receive such specific instructions as these:''“''Hi Earl— hop on a boat from Eminönü to Kadiköy on the Asian side, get off the ferry and cross the street, walk around the building that is directly across from the docks, then cross the street— the whole time, keeping your back to the docks. Turn right and take your first left (should be by the big bookstore with a picture of Victor Hugo on it).''Luckily, there’s no shortage of places to explore in this city known as Istanbul, so when I arrived at the Grand Bazaar yesterday morning only to discover that it is closed on Sundays, I knew that my day would by no means be a failure. In fact, given that the sun was actually shining for the first time in a while, it suddenly seemed to be the perfect day to visit two different mosques that had been recommended to me.''HIRKA-I SERIF''This mosque is perhaps the most elusive in all of Istanbul. Despite several locals informing me that a visit to Hirka-i Serif was a must (in order to view the Holy Cloak of the Prophet Mohammed), nobody could tell me where it was actually located.''Time and time again, all I kept hearing was that it could be found “somewhere in the Fatih section of the city.” Well, yesterday, that was good enough for me, so upon leaving the Grand Bazaar, I began walking west.''The journey to Fatih proved to be extraordinarily long in the end, taking almost an hour and a half. However, the reason it took so much time actually had nothing to do with it’s location, which I later discovered was a mere 3 km from where I had started. But since I was not carrying a map with me, the route I chose to follow was based upon my vague memory of glancing at a map the day before. As a result, I walked about 4 kms past Fatih without even knowing it. When I finally stopped to ask someone where I could find Hirka-i Serif, I’d say that it was his non-stop laughter and shaking of his head that made me realize I had lost my way.''Eventually, I did reach Fatih, although, after asking several more people for directions, I was still unable to locate Hirka-i Serif. Of course, this was most likely due to the obvious fact that I don’t speak Turkish and therefore didn’t understand the directions, but it was fun to walk around thinking that even the residents of Fatih had no idea where this mosque is located.''Despite asking the fruit vendor, cigarette smoker, kebab maker, businessman and water delivery boy for help, I came up empty each and every time. However, I did get a chance to explore Fatih quite thoroughly, perhaps more thoroughly than any other foreigner before me! It turned out to be a great area to wander around with its hilly cobblestone roads, well-kept parks, abundance of interesting cafes and bakeries and a peaceful atmosphere that almost felt out of place in the middle of this massive city. I will admit that nothing really stood out as overly memorable nor did I have any life-changing experiences, but it was undeniably a most pleasant section of the city to explore.''And I did end up stumbling upon a handful of interesting sights, such as the Bazi Mosque, Roman column of Marcian, a couple of former Byzantine churches and the Fatih Mosque, all of which I found without even trying (literally). I somehow even managed to discover an excellent vegetarian restaurant, where I proceeded to enjoy a wonderful feast of lentil soup and baked potato stuffed with vegetables. And while the waiter inside this restaurant was as friendly and helpful as could be, even he couldn’t lead me to Hirka-i Serif.''What he did end up leading me to was a dead end and a dumpster, at which point I began to think about abandoning my search altogether. Then, about five minutes later, after walking up a random and very steep street, I suddenly found myself standing in front of a mosque. Amazingly, it turned out to be Hirka-i Serif.''Unfortunately, though, it was closed.''The courtyard was open, but the mosque itself was not. And so after exactly 4 hours and 20 minutes of searching, I just took a seat on a bench and let my exhaustion overcome me. Thirty minutes later I woke up with drool dripping down the side of my chin and a family of nine staring at me from only a few feet away.''Worth it?''From the outside, Hirka-i Serif appeared quite basic but of course, I have no idea what it’s like inside. Regardless, I highly recommend trying to find this place, especially by walking, as it’s an opportunity to explore several unique neighborhoods far from the main tourist areas of the city.''Location'': Karagümrük neighborhood of the Fatih district of Istanbul''RUSTEM PASHA MOSQUE''A friend of mine sent me an email the other day that mentioned the following:''“''Someone I know highly recommended the Rustem Pasha Mosque, behind an almost-hidden flight of stairs near the spice bazaar. And he described it in such loving detail and awe that now I’m aching to go.''”''After reading that email I immediately put this mosque at the top of my to-do list!''So as soon as I woke up from my nap at Hirka-i Serif, I started walking in what I believed to be the general direction I needed to go. Thirty minutes later I found myself in the thick of an intense market near the main university, a market that had infiltrated a never-ending cluster of narrow, impossible-to-navigate lanes and alleys, all of which were now packed with the Sunday shopping crowd. As you can imagine, it was quite exhausting trying to make my way through the mass of people, so after being pushed around for a while, I decided to take a break in the tiny shop of a random orange juice''vendor.''While drinking my two glasses of freshly squeezed juice, I asked the young guy if he happened to know where I could find the Rustem Pasha Mosque. He quickly smiled and started pointing to the left. I then spread my hands wide apart, attempting to ask if it was far away from where we were. “No, no, no,” he said and continued pointing towards the left. I turned around, looked where he was pointing and sure enough, the Rustem Pasha Mosque was right in front of us.''Entering through a barely visible cave-like opening set into what appeared to be an incredibly ancient structure, I was utterly shocked to discover such a magnificent, yet tiny, mosque wedged into the middle of this market. I quickly took off my shoes and entered the building and after a mere five minutes of sitting on the floor, it became official. This was my favorite place in all of Istanbul.''Peaceful, beautiful and hypnotic are the first three words that come to mind, but I’m quite sure that there are hundreds of powerfully positive words out there that could easily be used to describe this mosque.''A few minutes after my arrival, the mosque’s security guard entered the main room and out of courtesy, I simply asked if it was okay for me to sit down for a while.''“You stay as long as you want,” was his reply.''And so I did. I remained inside for what proved to be the most enjoyable afternoon I’ve spent in Istanbul thus far.''Worth it?''Without a doubt! This mosque isn’t even on many of the maps that I’ve looked at but it’s actually located near, and is quite visible from, the main entrance to the popular Spice Bazaar. And while the Blue Mosque is insanely impressive, Rustem Pasha Mosque allows you to have a much more intimate and personal cultural experience.''Location'': Hasırcılar Çarşısı (Strawmat Weavers Market) in the Eminönü section of Istanbul''Here I am…in Istanbul, where my first two days have been filled with visits to some of the major landmarks\xa0of this great city, many of which are within a mere 300 meters of where I happen to be staying. I spent time wandering through the too-impressive-to-describe''Sultan Ahmed Mosque''(Blue Mosque), the massively-domed, basilica-turned-mosque of''Ayasofya''(Hagia Sophia) and the mind-bogglingly endless labyrinth that is''Kapalıçarşı''(Grand Bazaar), entering each with an intense level of curiosity that was quickly transformed into an overwhelming sense of sheer awe.''However, whether that awe and wonder were actually the result of the history and inspiring atmosphere that surrounded me or of the fact that Istanbul itself was no longer a distant and hopeful destination, I do not know. All I do know is that it felt damn good to be exploring a new land once again.''But of course, there is much more to exploring than simply enjoying the sights and so it came as no surprise that when I climbed into bed at 6pm on my second day in Istanbul, too exhausted to remain awake, I realized that something was indeed missing. It wasn’t an extra pair of''boxer shorts''or a rain jacket (which would be nice given the daily downpours) that I longed for, but rather, a deeper connection to this city. It is true that I had been here for only 48 hours, yet I was eager to reach that level of comfort that helps turn one’s outer observations of a destination into inner exploration and growth.''I knew that connection would come eventually, but I ended up falling asleep in fear of wandering around the Middle East for a few months as only a quiet and distant outsider.''As luck would have it though, Istanbul did not want my day to end on this note and only a few hours later, at 9pm, I suddenly woke up, incredibly hungry and restless.''TIME FOR A WALK''I ventured outside once again, strolled around the Blue Mosque, picked a random street and began walking. For a long time I walked, quite rapidly in fact, glancing around at the people and places I passed but not once slowing down. At this point, I realized for certain that I was stuck in that initial stage that travelers go through upon arrival in a new place, that stage where we have yet to ‘click’ with our destination. We’re not necessarily overwhelmed or unhappy, but we tend to walk around in a state of extreme self-consciousness, lacking confidence in our ability to immerse ourselves in the culture around us.''This state may cause us to avoid crowded places, such as restaurants, local gathering spots or anywhere that we know would offer a unique glimpse into the daily life of a city. We often remain silent, barely speaking to or interacting with anyone. We sometimes walk abnormally fast, put things off until another day, spend too much time on the internet at our hostel/hotel and ultimately try to convince ourselves that despite all of the above, we are loving every minute of our adventure.''In reality, we’re simply trying to avoid sticking out as ‘that tourist’, but we end up engaging in behavior that makes us much more ‘that tourist’ than if we simply followed our inner tour guide. We become suffocated by the thought that people will whisper about us, stare at us, wag their fingers at us…the uncomfortable foreigner so clearly out of place and on their own. And so we practically run past that seemingly interesting and popular local cafe, inexplicably shaking our head as the waiter calls out to us and left to wonder why we’re being so foolish.''Well, I was perfectly aware that my first two days here were fully controlled by all of these silly fears. I won’t even begin to try and deny that! It was only natural, but I was ready to find a way to shed those fears that were keeping me from connecting with Istanbul. Therefore, after having walked halfway across the Old City on that second night, in what must surely have been a record time of about 29 minutes, I suddenly stopped, turned around and headed back towards the small, bustling local restaurant that I had passed earlier.''This time, as I approached the restaurant, I actually slowed down, made eye contact with the waiter and summoned all of my strength to greet him in Turkish. I then took a deep breath, stepped inside and began to tackle my fears.''“Yes, table for 1, please.”''JUST ANOTHER TOURIST''It took only a few minutes. Well before my delicious plate of stuffed eggplant and bell peppers was served to me, I had already found my groove. My confidence had quickly grown enough for me to begin muttering the ten Turkish words I’d been practicing and to ask endless questions about everything on the menu. No longer did it bother me that locals were indeed looking in my direction and even laughing at my apparently odd decision to drink a hot tea before my meal. Instead, I greeted all those around me and simply joined in the laughter.''I continued to get even more comfortable and I felt the difference. The connection between traveler and destination that I had sought, had finally begun to form. After an hour or so, I was completely relaxed, knowing full well that I was now prepared to explore this culture more deeply.''All it had taken was one meal in a restaurant. One moment of not caring that I am a foreigner in a foreign land. Once I accept the fact that, no matter what, we are all tourists or travelers or whatever word you wish to use, and that there is no avoiding it, I find that traveling becomes much easier and infinitely more rewarding.''And it doesn’t matter if we’re exploring Japan, sitting on the beach in Mexico or going on holidays to Turkey, and it doesn’t matter if we travel with an organized group, travel with our family or we travel independently. We all stick out, all the time.''Who cares if we look silly? Truthfully, we probably do look silly to those around us. So instead of using that knowledge to keep our distance from a particular people and culture, why not use it to connect with them instead?''THANK YOU SHAKIRA''Yes, that Shakira.''The highlight of my evening meal came when the television screen in the corner of the restaurant started showing a Shakira video. As she began shaking her hips, as only she can do, I felt a tap on my shoulder. As I turned around, I found the elderly woman next to me (who I had earlier learned was from Lebanon), pointing at the screen and asking me, “She Shakira?”''After I confirmed that it was indeed Shakira, she quickly turned to her husband and with a huge smile on her face said something in Lebanese that included “Ahh, Shakira!”, to which her husband excitedly clapped his hands twice and repeated “Shakira, Shakira, Shakira” over and over again.''Now I really have no idea if this Lebanese couple was simply a huge Shakira fan or if they had made a bet as to who the scantily-clad woman on the television was, but either way, it was a spectacular moment. And once their excitement died down, we all ended up ordering some more tea and sharing some baklava. Then, before they eventually left, they invited me to visit them once I make my way to Beirut.''On my walk back to the section of Sultanahmet where I am currently staying, as I practically skipped down the street with happiness, I popped into a pastry shop for some more baklava (Okay, I went into 3 baklava shops. It’s important to compare quality!), spent some time chatting with a grilled corn vendor and found myself helping a Turkish couple, who were visiting Istanbul for the first time, find their way to their hotel. I ended up interacting with Istanbul more in those thirty minutes than I had in my first two full days!''And when I climbed back into bed shortly after midnight, I was a much different person than the one who had taken an uncomfortable nap earlier in the evening. At this point, without being controlled by needless fear, I knew that nothing was going to stop me from diving into every aspect of Turkish culture and loving every minute of it, regardless of the outcome.''The adventure had officially begun…''Yesterday afternoon, while eating enchiladas in Brooklyn, a friend of a friend asked me a very simple question.''He asked me, “Why are you traveling to the Middle East?”''At first, I didn’t hesitate to give an answer. I began talking about my interest in the education that travel offers and how the Middle East is a region of the world that frankly, I just don’t know too much about.  I went on to say that instead of reading about such places as Turkey, Syria and Lebanon in the newspaper (do people even read newspapers anymore?), I’d prefer to just show up to those countries and try and learn as much as possible for myself.''And that was the end of the conversation.''However, a few hours later, while I was sitting on the sofa at my friend’s apartment, I heard a song that I hadn’t heard in a long, long time. It was a song by the group Clem Snide and as soon as I began listening to the words, I had an interesting realization.''Sure, I love that “first-hand education that world exploration provides” that I always mention, but I suddenly understood that this concept does not constitute the core of my need to travel.  There is something much greater at work here.''What I truly love most about travel, as made clear to me by Clem Snide, is the''UNKNOWN''.''Yes, “''I love the unknown. I love the unknown. He says he loves the unknown.''”''It is the unknown that I look forward to most in all of my adventures. It is the unknown that encompasses the education I seek, the human interactions I enjoy, the shocks to the senses I experience and the challenges I endure.''I love having no idea what is going to happen tomorrow or the next day or the day after that. I love the fact that there are people out there right now who have no idea that our paths are going to cross in Turkey this week or in some other land at some point in the future. I love not knowing where I will be eating, where I will be sleeping or what it will feel like to wander the streets of Istanbul’s Old City.''And while not having any idea how I will get from Ataturk International Airport into the city center tomorrow (heck, I don’t even know what part of the city I’ll be headed to yet!) may sound a bit frightening, I am also fascinated at the same time by the unlimited possibilities that lie ahead.''Again, I love the unknown.''Of course, I’m nervous as well! I still get nervous before starting any travels, just as a performer may get nervous every time they step on stage. (Last night, my last night in the US, I think I managed to sleep for only about an hour!) But with every moment that passes and ever step that takes place – the flight, the arrival, the ride into the city, the meeting of people, etc. – the confidence is sure to grow and what was once the unknown may suddenly become a rewarding moment, a lasting memory or a life-changing experience.''So I guess by the time you’re reading this, I’ll be on my flight to Turkey or perhaps already in Istanbul. And while I clearly don’t have any clue as to where this adventure will lead, I sure hope you’ll stick around for the journey!''Here’s the Clem Snide song I mentioned above…enjoy!''Never did I think that I would actually write a post about how I pack for my travels. It’s not that I have anything against such posts (in fact, I always read them all with great curiosity!), I just never felt that my packing style could be of any interest or value to anyone else. It’s really nothing exciting. I normally just take my pile of possessions, stuff them into my trusty Kelty Redwing 2900 backpack that I’ve been using for the past 11 years and be on my merry way.''However, while sorting out my current pile of possessions this morning, I had what could only be described as a brilliant revelation, although now that some time has passed, I guess it was really just an interesting thought. Regardless of it’s classification, this idea has set me off on a mission that I have now become obsessed with.''My goal is to travel to the Middle East with less stuff, and carrying less weight, than I’ve ever carried before at any time during the past 11 years.''What does this mean?''Well, typically my backpack weighs about 13 kg (28.5 lbs) when fully packed for a trip, but this time, I’m aiming for no more than 8 kg (17.5 lbs). I’ve even gone back and forth toying with the idea of abandoning my Kelty Redwing backpack altogether and only traveling with my tiny REI Flashpack instead.''To travel with only a daypack would be a dream! But at the same time, I’m not so sure I really need to go to that extreme.''All I know is that when it comes to packing, the less weight I pack, the easier it is to travel. There’s a huge difference between hopping from bus to bus, from guesthouse to guesthouse and from town to town with 17 lbs on your back as opposed to 50 lbs worth of stuff crammed into a backpack the size of a larger-than-normal hippopotamus, such as the hippopotamus that keeps popping up in my dreams as of late for some strange reason.''And so right now I’m about to see if I can make it all happen. It’s going to take some effort but I’m feeling quite confident that I’ll be able to reduce the weight I carry and reach my goal.''Below is the pile of stuff that I’m about to tackle…''UPDATE!''Well, forty-five minutes have now passed and in the end, after a most painful process of saying goodbye to many items I had previously not planned on saying goodbye to, I managed to end up with this….''(the pillow is just there for size comparison purposes)''Yes! Weighing in at 7.5 kg (16.5 lbs), my Kelty Redwing is the lightest it has ever been and it’s practically half empty! I just wore the packed backpack around the apartment for a few minutes and I barely even noticed it. This is going to be pretty sweet!''And in case you were wondering exactly''what a permanent nomad takes with him''on an open-ended trip, here’s my list:''(Keep in mind that I will be wearing some of the clothes each day, so what’s listed below is more than what I had in my backpack photos above.)''CLOTHES:''3 shirts''1 pair of pants''1 pair of shorts''1 pair of hiking/athletic shoes''1 pair of sandals''3 pairs of socks''2 pairs of Ex-Officio boxers''1 North Face jumper''ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT:''Acer Aspire Timeline 1810 (the 11.6 inch laptop that I love!)''Panasonic Lumix FZ-38 Camera''Blackberry (which is not in the photo because I can’t find it!)''Chargers for laptop, camera and phone''Plug adapter''MISCELLANEOUS:''1 book (“How Proust Can Change Your Life”)''1 pair of sunglasses''1 “Tek Towel” travel towel (20 x 40 in.)''2 boxes of extra contact lenses''1 bottle of contact lens solution''1 sarong''1 box of Nag Champa incense (will buy in NYC tomorrow)''Basic toiletry items''So there it is. I’m about to embark on a trip that could keep me away from the US for a year or more, and a total of approximately 30 items, weighing a reasonable 16.5 lbs, is all that I need. And even that amount is starting to sound like too much! Perhaps I’ll reduce the weight some more before I leave on Monday.''As always, I’m curious to hear your thoughts. Do you think I’m still taking too much? Or perhaps not enough? How do you pack for your trips?''The plan, and I use that term lightly considering that I have yet to book a flight, is to arrive in Turkey within the next ten days. Actually, before I continue writing, and this if purely for my benefit so I do apologize, I’m going to promise myself that I will book a flight before publishing this post. That should help me get my act together!''Anyway, despite not having a flight reservation at the moment, I’ve already begun the interesting process of trying to decide where I’ll spend my first night in Istanbul. Without surprise, this is the exact same conversation I have with myself every time I’m about to travel to a new country or begin a new stage of my adventures.''Usually, I spend a handful of days and nights going back and forth over my options, attempting to find  that perfect balance between immediate cultural immersion and a somewhat welcome degree of comfort and ease. Often times this issue doesn’t get resolved until just hours before my actual departure and so, on this occasion, I’m determined to make a decision a few days in advance.''While the solution may appear to be simple, requiring only a hotel or hostel-booking website and a credit card, there are a few other options that I also tend to consider. And each of these options offer their own set of undeniable benefits for anyone arriving into a foreign land. Of course, they each come with their own set of challenges as well.''THE OPTIONS:''Booking a room in advance'': I don’t do this often but sometimes I will search online or receive a recommendation from a friend and then reserve a room at a budget hotel/guesthouse before I arrive. This way, by booking in advance, once I walk out of the airport, I already have a destination and don’t have to spend any time worrying about how and where I’m going to find a place to stay. On the other hand, unless the hotel I book comes highly recommended from a trusted friend, not being able to see the hotel and its location before paying for the room is always considered a downside. We just never know what we’re going to get, especially when it comes to budget accommodation!''Wing it!'': This is the method I use most, one that involves arriving in a new country without a reservation for that first night and then just figuring things out once I’m there. I’ll hop into a taxi or bus and head off into the city, sometimes with a particular area of town in mind. As soon as I’m dropped off, I’ll roam around checking out a bunch of hotels/guesthouses until I find a suitable (or passable in some cases) option. While this method does allow me to know exactly what I’m paying for ahead of time, it can obviously be a little challenging trying to find a hotel while staggering around jetlagged, disoriented and overwhelmed by my new surroundings. However, there’s no denying that we adjust to the cultural differences much faster by throwing ourselves right into the thick of it from the start!''Stay with a Friend''(or friend of a friend of a friend): These days, it’s not so far-fetched to contact everyone in our email address book or Facebook friend list until we find somebody who knows somebody else living in the same city where our flight will be landing. And if we’re lucky, they just may be the kind of person who is interested in hosting us for a night or three. Of course, this would be an excellent and most comfortable way to begin one’s trip, as we’d already have a specific and welcoming destination upon stepping out of the airport. The main problem with this option (at least for me) is that I tend to feel like a burden, especially if it’s a contact who I barely even know or in some cases, don’t know at all.''Couchsurfing'': I’ve yet to use''Couchsurfing.com''during my travels but I plan to use it somewhat during this upcoming trip. I’d imagine that securing a spot on someone’s couch for the first night or two would again be a rewarding way in which to begin an adventure. There’s a lot to be said for knowing where you’ll rest your head on that first night and being able to do so in a local resident’s home is certainly a bonus. Of course, as is the case with booking a hotel beforehand, it’s impossible to really know what to expect when we decide to spend the night on a stranger’s couch. However, a little extra time spent on the Couchsurfing website would hopefully help eliminate the chances of having an unpleasant experience!''As you can see, it can be a tough decision. Even after writing about each option, I’ve yet to decide which option sounds best for my arrival in Istanbul (which by the way will be on October 5th – I just booked my flight!).''So at this point, I’d be very interested in hearing your thoughts.''How do you spend your first night in a foreign country?''Do you prefer the comfort of a nice hotel, a stranger’s sofa or maybe you just head straight to the tourist hot spots and figure it out from there (ie. Khao San Road in Bangkok)?''And if you’ve yet to do some traveling, which of these options do you think you’d prefer to use?''On the flight from Delhi to Washington D.C., I spent a good two hours staring at the customs form that I was required to fill out. I had completed every section of the form, except for one. I just wasn’t quite sure if mentioning Pakistan and Afghanistan in the box that asked me to list the countries I had visited was such a good idea. As I wrote down the other countries I’d been to on this trip – Australia, Singapore, Thailand and India – I seriously wondered if I could get away with not listing the other two. (Of course, I wasn’t about to risk it and so I wrote them all down in the end.)''Several hours later, on the ground in Washington D.C., I approached the Immigration Counter and handed over my form. The Immigration Officer swiped my passport, glanced at his computer screen and almost immediately stamped me back into the country. But just before I started to walk away he asked, “So you went to Afghanistan and Pakistan. How was it?” The only reply that I could muster up was a quiet, “Very interesting.”''He then called the next person in line and I turned away, relieved beyond belief at how well that had gone. Of course, that relief lasted a mere six seconds, right until the moment when a Customs Officer approached and asked me to step over to one of the inspection tables.''The following hour and a half of my life is a period of time that I will never forget and truthfully, never really want to endure ever again.''MY FIRST ENCOUNTER WITH A ONE-SIDED MIRROR''After another quick swipe of my passport and after reading the words “Pakistan and Afghanistan” on my form, the young Customs Officer immediately ‘invited’ both myself and my trusty backpack into a small interrogation room for a chat.''Once inside the room, the Officer began to inspect the contents of my backpack. First, he opened the front pocket, and immediately became suspicious of a collection of books that I had purchased in a bookstore in Delhi. There were five books packaged together, each containing the sayings and lessons of a different spiritual figure who had influenced India, including Buddha, Vivekananda, Nanak Dev, Gandhi and yes, the Prophet Mohammed.''Of course, the Customs Officer ignored the other four books and while holding up the book of quotes from the Prophet, proceeded to repeatedly scream “''Do you believe in the words of the Prophet Mohammed?''” over and over again while standing one foot away from my face.''Every time I tried to mention the other books, and the one time I tried to ask why that question was even relevant, I was immediately cut off and told to be quiet. So in the end, the only reply I gave to his question was, “What?”''THE INSPECTION CONTINUES…''The next problem began when the Officer picked up one of my pairs of pants and a shiny, unused bullet fell out of the front pocket. And while I will admit that the appearance of a bullet is always somewhat suspicious, I honestly felt that the additional screaming that was thrown my way as a result of this discovery was more than uncalled for. Without asking any questions at all, the Officer simply acted as if he had found a piece of evidence that undeniably linked me to terrorism.''As a side note, the bullet was given to me as a gift by a child who had taken me on a tour of his neighborhood on the outskirts of Kabul. I had been walking around on my own when he suddenly came out of nowhere, grabbed my arm and stopped me from walking up a hill that turned out to be littered with land mines. This kid had practically no possessions to his name, yet he wanted to give me a gift for spending some time with him. And so he gave me a bullet that he had found and had always kept with him for good luck.''After the bullet, came the burqa. I had purchased a deep blue burqa one day in Kabul in order to show my friends and family the reality of what it’s like to wear one of these things. As the Customs Officer pulled it out of my backpack, he demanded an explanation and even suggested that I had used the burqa in order to move undetected throughout the tribal regions of Pakistan and Afghanistan. As his suspicion grew, so did my confusion at the manner in which this interrogation was taking place.''THE BOX OF CANDY''Up until this point, I had really hoped that the Officer would not look in the side pocket of my backpack. But when he began to unzip the zipper, I had no choice but to take a deep breath and prepare for his reaction.''In that pocket was a box of candy, although this was no ordinary box of M&Ms. It was a box of “''Osama bin Laden Kulfa Balls''” a popular hard candy that can be found throughout the tribal areas of Pakistan. And on the front of the box, one finds an image of Osama himself alongside a tank, missiles and fighter jets. Naturally, the Customs Officer wasn’t too thrilled with me having this item in my possession and he again made the grand assumption that this box of candy linked me to terrorism.''“''I could arrest you right now! Do you want me to arrest you?''“, he started to shout repeatedly.''Eventually, I just gave up trying to offer my explanations and stopped answering his questions altogether.''In reality, I have no idea why I bought that box of candy, other than it grabbed my attention, I thought it was interesting and I wanted to take one home. It really was that simple.''A QUICK FLIP THROUGH MY JOURNAL''The next item to be closely inspected turned out to be my travel journal, the 300 pages of which were full of descriptions about the places and people I had met along the way. I wasn’t worried about him reading my journal at all as it certainly didn’t contain anything that this Officer could interpret as suspicious.''So I thought…''Here’s a tip.''No matter what the reason, don’t ever write “''You can get rid of your US citizenship by going to an Embassy and telling them that you don’t want to be a citizen any more''” in your travel journal!''The Officer had opened my journal up to a completely random page and the line above is exactly what he found written. It was perhaps the only line in the entire book that could possibly have made my current situation any worse. Lucky me.''Before I continue, let me be clear. I was in no way at all implying that I was interested in getting rid of my US citizenship. Not even close! I had simply jotted down something I had read in an online article about the rules of citizenship in different countries. Unfortunately, I wrote down that one line and nothing else as I was in a rush that day and had to leave the internet cafe to catch a bus. I meant to go back and write more about the article I had read, but I never did.''And so there it was, alone on a random page of my journal, just begging the Customs Officer to get fired up once again. I certainly wasn’t surprised when he proceeded to read the line out loud a few times, get right in my face and scream, “''Tell me now! Tell me you don’t want your US Citizenship and I’ll take it away from you. Right now!''”''After trying my hardest to convince him that I did not want to lose my citizenship, the Officer suddenly left the room, returning a few minutes later with his Supervisor. Then, both men spent the following hour asking me a barrage of rapid-fire questions that included, “What do your parents do for a living?”, “Is that your natural hair color?”, “How did you obtain your visas?” and “Were the people of Pakistan friendly?”''“WERE THE PEOPLE OF PAKISTAN FRIENDLY?”''Really?, I  thought. You’re really asking me that question?''Well, I could have just said “No, they were all mean and nasty to me” but there was no way I was about to do that to the wonderful people I had met during my travels. The truth is, almost everyone I met showed nothing but remarkable hospitality, kindness and generosity at all times.  Almost every day during my visit, dozens of Pakistanis would politely approach me, shake my hand and inform me that they are not terrorists and that they do not support Osama bin Laden. They would then ask me to please return to America and tell everyone I know that Pakistanis just want to live in peace like everyone else.  When I tried to explain this to the Officers, they once again ignored me, refusing to believe that there could possibly be even one decent person in that region of the world.''At one point, frustrated by the lack of training/knowledge of the people put in charge of protecting the US borders, I literally pulled out my guidebook and gave them a lesson in geography and in a sense, in reality as well. I showed them excerpts of the guidebook that spoke of friendly locals, must-see highlights and a generally safe environment for travelers. I also attempted to explain that my goal in traveling to this region was to educate myself, not to try and gain admission into a terrorist training camp.''Eventually, in a calm voice, the supervisor asked me one last time whether or not I “believed in the words of the Prophet Mohammed.” (It was as if all Customs Officers had memorized that exact same line.) When I told him that I’m not a very religious person at all, he stood up and much to my surprise, informed me that I was now free to go.''THE AFTERMATH''Through a friend of the family who used to work for the FBI, I later learned that as soon as I had left the Customs interrogation room, the local FBI office in Savannah, Georgia (where I was headed to visit my mom) had been notified of my arrival. As a result, the FBI then tapped the home phone at my mom’s house.''Further, for two years, I was given a private pat down and screening every time I went through security at a US airport. And whenever I returned from overseas, I was forced to go through a 30-minute, overly thorough inspection that involved dozens of questions, a ‘test’ about my previous travels and even a complete inspection of all my computer files.''The good news is that one day, it all stopped. Just like that I had apparently been removed from the list as a potential threat and I’ve never been inspected since.''However, I now realize that I should be enjoying these hassle-free Immigration & Customs experiences while I can, because I have a feeling that after this upcoming trip to the Middle East, I’m going to find myself right back in that interrogation room.''Do you have any Customs or Immigration stories to share?''Now that I’m no longer living in Mexico, I’m beginning to realize that, in terms of being a backpacker, I’m a little bit rusty. I haven’t been ‘on the road’ for quite a while and as a result, I just haven’t had to think about such things as long-distance transportation, finding nightly accommodation and of course, obtaining tourist visas.''Basically, I seem to have misplaced my travel skills and I’m having some trouble getting them back! My surprising inability to think like a traveler has caused me to make a few interesting mistakes this past week in regards to my upcoming trip to the Middle East. And while all of the mistakes are more of the slightly unfortunate / somewhat comical variety as opposed to the devastating sort, they’ve still led to quite a few hiccups that I wasn’t expecting to face.''At least these mistakes provided a wake up call before my actual trip begins, giving me a little bit of time to make the necessary mental adjustments. Once I arrive in Turkey at the end of the month, I should be back to normal once again.''HOW NOT TO OBTAIN A TOURIST VISA''When I officially decided that I would visit Syria on my upcoming trip, I did a very quick Google search in order to learn about their visa requirements for US citizens. After reading one website, the process seemed straightforward enough. All I needed to do was present myself at the Syrian Embassy or one of their Consulates in the US, hand over two application forms and the visa fee and then the tourist visa would be ready within two days. It doesn’t get any easier than that!''And so, based on that knowledge, I booked a flight to NYC (from Florida) where I planned to visit family and friends and apply for my visa at the Syrian Consulate. Unfortunately, the day before my flight, I discovered one minor problem with this plan. There is no Syrian Consulate in NYC! There are consulates in Houston, Detroit and Newport Beach, California, but not a one to be found in the Big Apple. I simply had assumed that if Syria had a few consulates in the US, then surely one of those would be located in the largest city in the country. Oh, how wrong was I!''As a result of this sudden discovery, I spent 4 hours running around Friday morning trying to make up for my mistake. I had no choice but to send my passport to the Embassy in Washington and the longer I waited, the longer my trip would be delayed. (It takes 7-14 days to apply for the visa by mail.)''I sat down and did some proper research, filled out the two visa application forms, obtained a money order, had some passport-sized photos taken and even spoke at length with a representative at the Syrian Embassy. I wanted to clarify exactly how they wanted some of the questions on the application to be answered as my last-minute research revealed the Embassy’s tendency to reject applications if everything is not in absolutely perfect order.''Finally, at 4pm Friday afternoon I walked into the Post Office and sent my package to Washington just in time. And not only did I have to pay the expensive visa fee ($131 for US citizens) but I also forked over a significant amount of money to send the package overnight, not to mention the self-addressed stamped envelope (also overnight service) I needed to purchase in order to have my passport returned to me.''As a result, the total cost of this tourist visa approached the nauseatingly high amount of $200 USD.''So it goes. I guess that’s the price I pay for being rusty.''THE ADDITIONAL COST''Actually, that’s not the total price I’ll pay in the end, as I must now wait until I have my passport back in my possession before booking my flight to the Middle East (this isn’t a must, but it’s definitely the safest decision). And since I plan to leave by the end of the month, I may not be able to use my Frequent Flyer miles for such a last-minute booking and the flight prices will most likely be much more expensive when I try to book a ticket only a few days in advance.''So, what I’m trying to say is…''RESEARCH''! Whether you’re planning to travel to Brazil, China or Romania or anywhere else in the world, two additional minutes of research can eliminate any potential last minute hassles and save you from spending a decent amount of extra money that you could have spent during the actual trip itself. In my case, my 14 months in Mexico apparently made me forget the importance of such pre-trip preparation.''TIME TO DO SOME MORE RESEARCH''With only a couple of weeks left until my hopeful departure, I now also understand the need to do some research about the Middle East itself before I arrive. After all, I don’t want to blindly show up in Turkey only to discover that Istanbul has been recently relocated to Mongolia.''So to start my research, I’d like to ask anyone who has been to Turkey, Syria, Lebanon or any of the other surrounding countries, for any tips or advice you think might prove useful to me. Any special areas you’ve visited, places to stay, food stalls to eat at? Any advice about border crossings, transportation or where to go if I suddenly have the urge to purchase a camel would be particularly helpful!''Have you been to the Middle East? If you haven’t, is it on your list of regions you’d like to visit?''A desire to explore the world is hard to ignore, and for many travelers, as soon as that desire became too strong to be ignored, they simply packed up their backpack or suitcase and took off into the unknown. However, along with that strong desire to travel, there is something else that is needed in order to actually make it all happen. The fact is, you’ll barely make it across your home town if you don’t have at least a few dollars, pounds, euros or yen in your bank account.''So, once again, the question is:''How much money do you really need to start a life of travel?''Is it $4000, $10,000, $35,000, $100,000?''THE SCENARIO…''Perhaps some of you are familiar with this…''One random day we find ourselves spending 59 minutes of every single hour daydreaming about wandering to far-away destinations, immersing ourselves in wildly exotic cultures, dining on new and splendid foods and being able to hop from country to country on a whim. We desperately want to be out there traveling and we start to realize that time is running out for us to begin our long-awaited adventure.''Suddenly, unable to contain our desire and excitement any longer, we make a promise to ourselves that this time, we’re really going to go for it. We search for airfares and we quickly find a flight to Costa Rica that leaves next Tuesday. “I’m going to Costa Rica!” we shout around the room for all to hear, as we imagine ourselves hiking through the rainforest with a toucan on our shoulder.''And then we have a glance at our bank account, discover that we only have $682 USD to our name and that’s the end of that. In an instant, we snap out of our daydream and we simply go back to doing whatever it was we were doing before this ‘crazy’ idea of being a world traveler had popped into our head.''MY STORY…''When I boarded my flight to Bangkok back in 1999, with the goal of traveling around SE Asia for 3 months, in terms of money,''all I had was $1500 USD''to my name. Yes, $1500. Before booking my flight, I had determined that this amount would be sufficient for me to backpack through Cambodia, Vietnam, Laos and Thailand, as long as I traveled on a very tight budget.''Of course, the problem arrived when I quickly discovered (only a few days after landing in Asia) that one 3-month adventure was not going to be enough for me. I now had a new goal, one that involved''living a life of constant travel''. And I was fully aware that $1500 wasn’t about to get me very far at all.''I’ll admit, during the first month or so of my travels, there were more than a few moments when I questioned my decision to travel with so little money. I kept thinking that I should have spent a year working at home first, in order to have saved more before leaving for this trip.''Had I begun my travels with $20,000 USD in my bank account, I certainly wouldn’t have been so worried at the time. The pressure to start earning money would have simply been non-existent, as I could have easily traveled around the world for two straight years on those initial funds alone!''And while that thought may sound appealing at first, as I sit here today, I’m not quite sure that I would have preferred that path in the end.''Consider this for a moment…''If I began my nomadic lifestyle with $20,000, once those two years of freedom and travel were over, and the money began to dwindle, I probably would’ve found that I had lost a good deal of my work ethic and become quite lazy along the way. If I had lived with an “I don’t have to worry about money right now” mentality for so long, I just can’t imagine I would be too motivated to work hard and do whatever it takes to continue traveling. My guess is that if I was in that situation, I would have returned home, taken any job I could find and then proceeded to put the rest of my travel dreams back in the closet.''However, because''I began with only $1500'', the situation turned out  much differently once I decided to become a permanent nomad.''Out of necessity, I was forced to open my mind wider than I’d ever opened it before, and to open my eyes even wider, in order to seek out any opportunity that could help keep me traveling. I began trying to make as many contacts as possible, talking to other long-term travelers and every local person that I encountered. I asked them endless questions and spent hours thinking about every piece of potentially useful advice that I had heard. I knew there had to be way to extend my travels and giving up was simply not an option.''Finally, while eating a plate of the worst green curry I’ve ever eaten in a small town in Thailand, all of the brainstorming and gathering of information paid off. That’s when a good friend of mine and I came up with the idea of teaching private English language classes (using some''unique methods'') in the city of Chiang Mai. And this endeavor worked out very well, earning me enough money to continue living overseas and in the end, easily becoming the highlight of my first visit to Asia.''A NEVER-ENDING WAVE OF OPPORTUNITIES…''From that point on, new and rewarding ideas and opportunities continued to appear before me. For example, while living in Chiang Mai, a local friend of mine offered me a chance to spend almost two months as an assistant tour guide, helping to lead groups on 3-day treks into the jungles of Thailand. Shortly after that finished, I met a fellow traveler who introduced me to the idea of working on board cruise ships. Then, while working on board cruise ships, one of the tour operators we were contracted with in the Caribbean asked me to enter into a business partnership. A couple of years later, a great friend of mine who I met while on board ships as well, demanded that I read “The 4-Hour Workweek”, a book that has helped make my current travels possible. While working on creating online income, I then met someone who opened my eyes to the world of blogging, something I knew almost nothing about until the middle of last year.''The list literally goes on and on and even this year, while living in Mexico, opportunities continued to present themselves, some of which have had an incredibly positive effect on both my bank account and the direction of my life.''And while this may all sound like too-goo-to-be-true nonsense, I’m certain that other long-term, and even short-term, travelers out there have very similar stories to share. I would be shocked if they didn’t!''THE CONCLUSION…''My point is this…had I left home way back when with $20,000 instead of $1500 in my bank account, I’m not so sure I would’ve been open to all of these life-changing experiences. As a result, I doubt that I would have achieved my goal of living a life of constant travel. (Ok, it hasn’t been a full life yet, but 11 years seems like a good start!)''On the other hand, I won’t deny that having a little extra money in the beginning doesn’t hurt. Everyone can use a bit of a cushion to fall back on if things get tough. And if a person is not fully ready to begin their travels, then by all means, continue saving some money!''But if you’re already at the point where you’re just itching to get out there and explore the world, you don’t necessarily need to wait around for another year in the hopes of turning $5,000 in savings into $10,000. I’d personally rather have that extra year of travel experiences, which will inevitably lead to the''opportunities that will change and improve your life in ways you can’t yet imagine''.''If my once shy, confused, young and naïve self can find a way to turn $1500 into a decade of travel, there’s nothing stopping anybody from doing the same. It doesn’t take long to discover that''your open mind is far more valuable than an extra few thousand dollars in your bank account''!''Do you agree or disagree that a person doesn’t need too much money to start a life of travel?''Nine days have now passed since the official launch of my new project –''HowToWorkOnACruise.com''. I really didn’t have any expectations when I did the launch and as a result, found myself overcome with giggly excitement when the first sale was made less than 3 hours after introducing the product''right here''on this blog!''Now I could lie to you and tell you that I sold 193 copies of the eBook in the first four days, and you’d think I’m some sort of an internet income guru, but I didn’t! Not even close! However, I really couldn’t be happier at all as we have enjoyed consistent sales every day so far, with feedback that has continued to be nothing but overwhelmingly positive.''And who do I have to thank?''YOU.''So many of you helped support this project in ways you probably didn’t even realize and I cannot express enough gratitude to you.''While I know I’m going to miss a few people (and I sincerely apologize in advance),''I’d like to give a warm and special thank you to…''Adam Mayfield''for his wonderful review of the Cruise Ship Employment Guide on his site,''VagabondGuide.com'', and to''G & Ray''from''OperationBackpackAsia.com''for their upcoming review as well.''Kate''of''AdventurousKate.com'', for linking to my launch post in her''weekly roundup'', doing so in a style that only a fellow Bostonian could pull off!''Dave'',''Kirsty'', Osborne,''Adam'',''Sam'',''Jason'',''Mark'',''Randall'',''Nate'',''Maria'',''Gray''and''Todd''for your more-than-encouraging comments as soon as I first launched this project!''Everyone who spread the word about this project on Twitter! There are simply too many of you to count and name, but I shall never forget how those supportive tweets ultimately led many people interested in working on board cruise ships to now have the information they need to make it happen.''THANK YOU FOR THE MENTIONS!''Over the past month, it also seems that not a few days would pass before a pleasant surprise came my way. And these surprises often involved the discovery that one of my posts was mentioned on another blog, something that leaves me amazed and shaking my head in disbelief each time it happens. When I first started this blog back in November of 2009, I never imagined that I would even receive a single comment on any of my posts, never mind a mention on the site of a fellow blogger that I admire!''With that said,''I’d like to extend a most sincere thank you to…''Caz & Craig''of the always informative''YtravelBlog.com''for including “The Food Stall on the Street Corner” in their list of “Best Travel Blog Posts for the week of August 23rd”''Nicole & Cameron'', the two skilled writers of''TravelingCanucks.com''fame, for linking to my “Swimming with Sharks – Holbox, Mexico” post in their “''What We’ve Been Reading''” article on August 31st''Dena''at''EvolutionYou.net''for your generous support of my blog in your weekly “Carousel” series of posts''Anil'', with his endless library of useful tips and advice at''FoxNomad.com'', for referring to one of my comments and to this blog on his “''The Best Comments of the Month''” post for August''Deirdre & Shane''at''The-Working-Traveller.com''for including “Why I Work 90 Hours Per Week” in their unique and wonderfully written “''BlogPacker Review''” series''The entrepreneurial''Moon Hussain''from''ExperimentsInPassiveIncome.com''for recommending “Why I Work 90 Hours Per Week” in her “''Fun Friday Round-Up''“''Fellow nomads''Simon & Erin''of''NeverEndingVoyage.com''for posting an interview with me on their site as part of their inspirational “''Nomadic Interviews''” series''My good pal and fellow Indian food-addict''Alan''of''The9to5Alternative.com''and the always thoughtful''Fabian''of''FriendlyAnarchist.com'', for not only mentioning my post “Do You Shave Your Underarms Too?” on their blogs, but for actually shaving their underarms fully after reading the post. You did shave guys, right?''THANK YOU FOR THE COMMENTS!''As I mentioned above, I really never thought that my posts would generate enough interest that people would actually want to leave a comment. As a result, you can easily imagine my astonishment and the resulting childlike behavior, which involved running around in circles while clapping and howling as loudly as possible, when''Angeline M''left the first comment back on November 7th, 2009.''And here’s the thing. I still experience today that very same overwhelming excitement every time I receive an email notification that a comment has been left on one of my posts. EVERY SINGLE TIME! Granted, I no longer run around in circles, but I most certainly do clap loudly! I love that people want to leave comments here, not because I’m trying to set some kind of comment record, but simply because each comment leads to an interaction and it is these interactions that motivates me to continue writing and working on this site every day.''For those of you who have been visiting this site for a long time – including''Jonny'',''Hugh'',''Dave & Deb'', Rose, Liz,''T-Roy'',''Derek'',''Laura'',''Andi'',''James'',''Jackie'',''Nate'',''Jennifer'',''Jen'',''Shannon'',''Ashley'',''Audrey & Dan'',''Raam'',''John'',''Lisis'',''Moon'',''Mark'',''Ayngelina'',''Michael'', Simon,''Jeremy''&''Dina''– I truly thank you for your never-ending support!''And to every other person who has ever read anything on WanderingEarl.com, whether you’ve chosen to leave a comment or not, don’t think for one moment that I don’t feel incredibly fortunate to have you as a reader and in many cases, as a friend. I could not be more thankful for every member of this community!''THANK YOU FOR THE EMAILS!''To all those who have emailed me over the months with questions, comments or just to say hello, let me tell you that these interactions are immensely rewarding to me as well. I encourage you to keep the emails coming as each one I receive quickly leads to an abnormally large smile stuck onto my face. And for anyone who has ever thought about sending me an email, you should never hesitate for even one second. I’d be honored to receive your email and I’ll personally reply as quickly as I can, not out of obligation, but out of sheer interest it getting to know you and assisting you in any possible way.''And who knows, maybe our paths will cross one day…''I’ve already been most fortunate to have met such incredible fellow travelers as''Shannon'',''Bessie & Kyle'',''Jodi,''Audrey & Dan'',''Margo'',''Andy'',''Anil''and most recently, Dani & Jess of''GlobetrotterGirls.com''!''Now that a new stage of my travels has begun, I’d love to meet up with even more of you if possible, so if you’re planning to be in the NYC area next week or even in the Middle East in the near future, let’s see if we can work something out!''ONE LAST THING!''I’d just like to say once again, and this is for absolutely everyone, whether you’ve been hanging around this blog for months or only a few weeks or even if this is your first visit here…''gracias, merci, danke, kop khun kawp, grazie, takk, toda, dhanyavad, terimeh kasih, dekuji, arigato, mahalo, shukran, go-map-sem-ni-dah, teşekkür ederim and THANK YOU''…for spending some time at WanderingEarl.com!''Two nights ago, I sat at a small plastic table just a few feet from the sidewalk, ready to eat one last meal at my favorite restaurant in Playa del Carmen, Mexico. As I sipped on my vanilla-infused mango shake, I kept looking all around me, trying to catch a glimpse of every tree, every storefront and of every person that passed by. I wanted to notice as much of Mexico as possible and to preserve as many memories as I could before flying back to the USA the following morning.''However, none of that has anything whatsoever to do with this story.''What does have to do with this story is that while I was in the midst of all these observations the other night, a dog approached my table. He was clearly a stray dog and didn’t look to be in the best of conditions as he began barking at my feet until one of the waiters shooed him away. And while I can’t be certain, this dog also appeared ready to take a nibble out of someone’s leg, a feeling I had after watching him chase pedestrians down the sidewalk, bearing his teeth, growling and barking ferociously until they ran away.''Eventually, I finished my meal and upon standing up, realized that this stray dog was now waiting for me as I was the last remaining customer in the restaurant. And so, I looked to the left, looked to the right and then glanced across the street,''hoping I’d find the one thing I needed most''at that very moment –''a place to buy some yogurt''.''A GOOD CHOICE OF SNACKS''During my travels I’ve come across a handful of dangerous situations, some of them quite serious and disturbing. However, whether it’s been a gun pointed at my face, an explosion in front of my cabin while working on board a cruise ship or even being kidnapped in Bangladesh, my greatest fear has always been of stray dogs.''It all began when I was in Chiang Mai, Thailand during the days when I was''teaching English''.  I lived in an excellent apartment building near the main university and was within walking distance to everything I could possibly need. The only problem was that whenever I wanted to eat something late at night (which was almost every night!), I had to walk down a dark and isolated stretch of road for about ¼ mile in order to reach the nearest shop or food stall.''The first time I took this walk, I was convinced that my life was about to end. As soon as I had reached the darkest part of the road, six stray dogs came from behind a fence and surrounded me on the sidewalk. Acting purely on instinct, and without any clue of how to handle such a situation, I chose to start running as fast as I could, hoping to reach the first shop before being eaten by the dogs. Somehow, I outran the dogs, although I did lose a sandal in the process.''While in the safety of the shop, I purchased a handful of snack items while trying to decide whether or not to ask the owner if I could crash on the floor of his shop until morning. There were no taxis in this area at night and the only way to make it home was to walk. However, after twenty minutes, my brain had somehow convinced me, as my brain tends to do, that the situation wasn’t nearly as dangerous as I remembered, even though I clearly remembered six wild dogs lunging for my legs while I ran half-barefooted along a dark sidewalk at speeds that I was quite certain I would never be able to reach again.''I left the shop and waited some more, watching the dogs roam around in the distance. At one point, they all seemed to disappear and so I chose this as the appropriate moment to begin my speedier-than-usual walk back to my apartment.''Of course, as soon as I was enveloped in the darkness once more, the terror-inducing barking began and the dogs started sprinting towards me from the other side of the road. This time, however, instead of running, I decided to reach my hand into the plastic bag full of snacks. I grabbed the first thing I could, quickly peeled off the lid and dumped the contents out right in front of me.''Instantly,''the dogs left me alone and began licking up the blueberry yogurt''.''I took this opportunity to slowly back away, but in the end, I only managed to get about 10 meters down the road before the dogs finished the yogurt and began chasing me yet again. And so I pulled out another container of blueberry yogurt, and instead of dumping it in front of me, I scattered it all over the place, dripping a little here, a little there and so on.''In the end, I arrived at my apartment in one piece, although''I had used all three of the yogurts I had purchased''to ensure my safety and was now stuck with only two small bags of raisins. I also didn’t find the sandal that came off my foot either.''From that day on, my routine was quite simple. I made sure that I always had yogurt on me whenever I made that walk or any other night time walk that I took around the city. Sometimes the dogs weren’t there, but when they did approach me, I was always prepared with my weapons of bacterial fermentation.''And so, two days ago, after I finished my last meal in Mexico, I was disappointed to discover that there weren’t any shops open for me to buy yogurt. As a result, there was no way I was going to attempt the long stroll from the restaurant back to my apartment, the path of which took me down an unlit and quiet road. I certainly was not in the mood to be chased by this dog, nor any of his friends, and I also didn’t feel like losing another sandal.''I took a taxi home instead.''USEFUL TRAVEL TIP''Always carry food when traveling'', especially when walking at night. And even though I’m quite certain that there’s no scientific evidence to support this claim, yogurt seems to be loved by stray dogs all over the world. Yogurt, especially blueberry-favored, has never failed me, and I’ve used it to escape dog attacks not only in Chiang Mai, but in Calcutta, India; Melbourne, Australia; Mendoza, Argentina and San Salvador, El Salvador.''After all, as travelers we lock our backpacks in order to fend off pickpockets, we carry only a small amount of money in case we are robbed and so why not take this extra precaution as well and carry some food in case we encounter a pack of stray (and hungry) dogs.''Of course, some may think that having food on you will actually help attract these animals. But if you don’t have any food and you find yourself surrounded by six raging beasts, then your safety may then ultimately depend upon your performance in a a foot/paw race. Even if the dogs approach you because they smell the food, at least you can peel back that lid, spread the yogurt all around and get to safety as quickly as possible!''Any other tips or stories you can share about encounters with wild dogs or other animals? I’m sure someone has been through something a lot worse!!''It happens.''One minute we’re happily exploring the markets of''Yangon'', diving deeper into the history of''Turkey''or practicing our Spanish in Buenos Aires and then, in a flash, we are forced to change our entire travel plans without warning. We are suddenly required to head in a completely different direction, to turn around and go home or to move onto somewhere we never expected when we first set out on our adventure however long ago.''Often times, that instant change in travel plans involves more than simply putting our original travel itinerary ‘on hold’, and instead, leads us directly towards a major life change as well. We must come to terms with the fact that tomorrow, our life may no longer resemble the life we are living today.''Maybe you’re wondering, “how can a traveler’s life change so quickly?”. Well, as I’ve discovered, either myself or through stories told by other travelers, there are actually several reasons why such a drastic change in travel plans might occur (and I’m going to save the reason''why I need to leave Mexico in 3 days''until the end). 🙂''Here’s a few of those reasons…''Sometimes, in the midst of our journey, a new and rewarding employment opportunity suddenly appears out of nowhere. For example, let’s say that we just arrived in Bali one week ago, intending to spend 6 months in this fascinating destination. But one day we receive an email from a friend offering us an incredible position with an incredible organization. It’s a position we don’t want to turn down and so we now find ourselves having to quickly re-pack our bags, cancel our surfing lessons, prepare to change course and figure out a way to be in California in less than a week (as Shannon of''ALittleAdrift.com''recently went through – congrats Shannon on the new job!).''Other times, we are forced to change our travel plans due to something that happens back at home. Maybe there’s an illness in the family, your sister just gave birth or your best friend is getting married. We might be in Croatia, and only 2 months into our round-the-world adventure, but we may find ourselves having to return home or to another country in order to be with our friends or family. We might have a week to make this change, but in some instances, we’ll only have a day or two to re-arrange all of our plans.''Maybe an old friend you haven’t seen in 2 years sends you an email out of the blue informing you that they’re in Costa Rica while you’re in Guatemala and the only way to see each other would be to meet up in Honduras…this coming weekend!''Or perhaps you’re just not much of a planner and when you wake up one day, suddenly realizing that nothing is stopping you from flying to the too-good-to-be-true beaches of the''Cook Islands''(except for a lack of regularly scheduled flights, perhaps), you decide to turn that interesting thought into reality…and quickly.''However the plan unfolds, the end result is always generally the same. You find yourself sitting in a chair, staring at the wall and wondering exactly how you’re going to pull off such last-minute travel planning…''THE PREPARATION PROCESS''As for me, I always seem to be making last-minute travel plans. Whether it was my decision back in 2007 to fly to Buenos Aires within 24 hours after the idea entered my head or the time I had 4 days to get from a tiny Himalayan village to Southampton, UK after accepting a contract on board a cruise ship, I’m now quite familiar with having the direction of my life radically altered in a matter of mere hours. Luckily, at this point, I’m now able to identify the stages that I must pass through in order to ensure a smooth transition into these unexpected travel and life developments.''Stage #1:''UNCONTROLLABLE EXCITEMENT''I’m going on a trip! Woo hoo! For me at least, any thought of packing my bags and physically  traveling to a different destination creates an all-encompassing excitement, the intensity of which can only be matched by the extreme joy involved with eating a plateful of the''perfect Indian curry''. Normally, after staring at the wall for a few minutes, I accept the fact that the direction of my life is inevitably about to change and so I jump out of my seat, full of positive energy and ready to see where the new road ahead shall take me. I might even celebrate a little, perhaps with some break-dancing (as I’m known to do), even though I have a tendency to injure myself within seconds of performing the ‘worm’.''Stage #2:''SHOCK AND FEAR''Following this initial excitement comes the shock, often in an equally intense form and not only due to the blood pouring out from my chin as a result of my break-dancing accident. After all, I could celebrate all I want, but the travel plans I now need to make aren’t going to take care of themselves. I might only have a few days before I must be on an entirely new continent and so I have to get serious about booking flights, doing laundry, packing my backpack, booking a hotel room, renting a car and figuring out any other logistics that must be dealt with. For example, tying up loose ends in whatever country I may currently be in can be as simple as saying a few goodbyes to people I’ve met or as complicated as breaking the lease on an apartment, selling a car and eating as many esquites as I can stuff into my face at my''favorite esquite stall''.''Along with the shock often comes a disturbing fear that I won’t be able to accomplish everything in time and therefore''might end up in some terrifying, and permanent, state of limbo where unorganized travelers are forced to spend the rest of their days with an expired passport as their only possession''. This fear can be quite paralyzing and I often waste one full day dwelling on the possibility of failure before I realize that I just wasted one full day dwelling on the possibility of failure, which naturally, didn’t lead me any closer to booking my flight and organizing my last-minute travel plans.''Stage #3:''REALITY''Yesterday evening I found out that''I need to be back in the US (Florida) by this upcoming weekend''. While that might not seem like the biggest of travel plan changes, there’s a lot more to the story…''As a result of this trip to Florida (which is for a doctor’s appointment), it appears that''I will finally have the opportunity to move forward with my plans to explore the Middle East''. Therefore, more than just booking a flight to Florida, I also need to say goodbye to Mexico (''again!''), book a flight from Florida to NYC, find out when my family and friends will be free to see me during September, obtain visas for certain countries and book a flight to the Middle East. And as summer is quickly coming to an end, my goal is to be in Turkey by the end of the month.''I know this doesn’t exactly sound like a terrible ‘change in plans’ but considering that I’ve been living in Mexico for the past 14 months and that my Middle East trip has been delayed for so long that I began thinking it wasn’t going to take place at all this year, this sudden development has required a major adjustment and shift in focus. And I only have 3 days to get my act together.''MY TO-DO LIST''The most efficient method for tackling what may appear to be an intimidating To-Do List associated with such a life change, is to pick one major task from the list and accomplish it as quickly as possible. Last night I chose to book my flight to Florida. Done.''I’m leaving Mexico this Friday at 12:30pm.''Once such a major task is complete, and the flight confirmation arrives in your email inbox, the reality of the situation undoubtedly sinks in even deeper. As a result, I had no choice but to start knocking the other items off of my To-Do List immediately. The pressure is on and time is ticking away.''I’ve now spent today planning my trip to NYC, learning which Middle Eastern countries require me to obtain a visa ahead of time, where those countries’ consulates are located in NYC and when those consulates are open, as well as my flight options to Turkey if I choose to use my frequent flyer miles.''So, yeah, things are now rolling along and I feel quite good. Once today is over, I’ll be able to spend tomorrow and Thursday enjoying my last couple of days in Mexico as much as I possibly can. Extra time on the beach and a double order of tostadas at every meal will play a role for sure!''There’s still plenty of unknowns for the near-future, but truthfully, I wouldn’t want it any other way. While it is admittedly a little nerve-racking to think that today I’m living comfortably in Mexico and in three weeks I might be in Turkey, living a completely different kind of lifestyle, surrounded by a completely different language, history and customs, it has always been my goal to live a life that allows for and welcomes such last minute changes in direction. I’ve always felt that''the more open we are to these sudden changes, the more opportunities that will come our way, each with the potential to enhance our lives and help us achieve our goals.''How do you handle a sudden change in travel plans? Have you ever chosen to abandon your itinerary due to an unexpected situation?''First of all, let me reintroduce myself. Here I am. Wandering Earl.''Let me repeat, “''Wandering''Earl”.''It appears that more than a few people have been quite confused about my identity over this past week, often mistaking me for someone completely different. I’m not mad or anything. And even though some of you have berated me via email or twitter for what you believed was my seemingly inappropriate and irresponsible behavior, I shall not hold a grudge. After all, I do have to admit that the resemblance between myself and he who I have been mistaken for, is quite uncanny.''Let me take a moment to set the record straight…''This is me,''Wandering Earl'':''(don’t ask why I’m wearing that hat)''And…''This is''Hurricane Earl'':''Honestly, that is a different Earl. And while back in college I may have been known to ‘accidentally’ knock over a chair or table after a drink or two, I have never had it in me to wreak havoc on an entire island or coastal community, at least not with the intention of knocking out electricity, snapping trees or flooding homes.''If you need more proof…''Unlike this other Earl, who refuses to answer my email requests for him to pack up and dissipate, my overall physical strength does not increase while over large bodies of warm water and rarely do I have the time to “help maintain equilibrium in the Earth’s troposphere”. As most of you know, I’m a busy guy.''So there you have it….Hurricane Earl….Wandering Earl…not the same!''MEMORIES OF ANOTHER STORM''On another note, after watching Hurricane Earl pass through the Caribbean and head towards the East Coast of the US, I was reminded of the last major storm that I encountered during my travels. It was back in 2008 when I was in the small town of Fatehpur Sikri, India about 45 minutes outside of Agra, home to the Taj Mahal.''About two hours after I arrived in town, Fatehpur Sikri started getting pummeled by the first intense storm of the monsoon season. As a result, I was forced to hole up in a nasty guesthouse room for two straight days, with the flash floods, 80 mph winds and impenetrable dust clouds making it impossible for me to even step outside. I just sat on my bed for 48 straight hours, with no electricity or running water, and nothing to do but allow the dust flying into my room through the cracks in the window to envelop me one layer at a time. I also had no choice but to laugh as I watched cockroach after cockroach, spider after spider and rat after rat enter my room through a variety of large holes in the walls, all in search of shelter as well.''However, the storm eventually passed and when it did, I quickly stepped outside, brushed the dust out of my hair, picked the dirt from my nose, walked up to the rooftop of the guesthouse and stared out over the ancient and impressive landscape of eerily quiet palaces, tombs and mosques. The sight was absolutely unreal, as not one thing within my view indicated that I was living in the 21st century. Had someone told me it was the year 1571, I would have simply shrugged my shoulders, thought, “What a crazy dream I’ve been having about the future!” and gone looking for some dry fire wood.''AN UNEXPECTED WELCOME''After enjoying the view, I decided to visit the one place where I knew locals would begin gathering now that the storm was over. That place was a popular chai stall I had noticed upon my arrival two days earlier and as expected, it was now full of people milling about and chatting away. I ordered a chai and tried to join in the conversations, unfortunately able to offer little more than a deliberate shaking of my head to indicate my disbelief at the power of nature.''After thirty minutes or so, someone made an announcement and everyone immediately stood up. From what I gathered, it was time to start fixing the damage caused by the storm.''I joined the crowd, much to their surprise, and began wandering through the narrow lanes. We had no real destination it seemed, as the goal involved fixing any damage whatsoever that we found along the way. What I began to experience was the true definition of ‘community’ as we assisted a man in pulling his bullock-cart out of ½ meter thick mud, we bailed the water out of an elderly woman’s tiny one-room home, gathered branches to repair the roof of a small shop and placed sand-bags at one street corner in order to prevent further flooding.''If I remember correctly, we wandered around Fatehpur Sikri for about 2 hours, helping out in whatever way we could, until there was nothing else to fix. At that point, we all returned to the chai stall, drank several cups of the sweet milky concoction and nibbled on what appeared to be four-day-old samosas.''Eventually, I stood up with the intention of walking back to my guesthouse, however, one of the other men in the group grabbed me by the arm and without a word led me down the street once more. Five minutes later I found myself sitting on the floor of a basic, concrete room, surrounded by a dozen ‘cousin-brothers’ and ‘sister-cousins’, all eagerly waiting for me to begin eating the huge plate of freshly prepared channa masala (chickpeas mixed with spices) that was placed in front of me.''Initially, I had planned to stay in Fatehpur Sikri for only two days, but I ended up staying for eight days in the end. During that time, I played cricket every morning at sunrise with a group of local teenagers, I watched Bollywood movies with a dozen giggling children every afternoon and I hung out in shops, chai stalls and local eateries every evening. It was hard to leave this place, mostly because I couldn’t get over the fact that I had instantly been welcomed and treated as part of this small community.''SOMETHING TO CONSIDER''Without a doubt, signing up as a volunteer for an international or even local organization gives us the chance to really do some good in this world. But that’s certainly not the only way we can connect with a community and use our skills, knowledge or even just our two bare hands, to help improve the lives of others. Of course, I’m not saying that we should seek out places prone to natural disasters or travel at times when devastating storms are a guarantee, but inevitably, at some point during our travels we will encounter the force of nature, whether it be monsoon rains, a landslide, heat wave or anything else.''And if we happen to be caught up in such a situation, enduring nature right alongside those whose country we are visiting, this may prove to be the perfect opportunity to make a real difference. Instead of packing our bags and fleeing to the next town as soon as the storm is over, why not stay a while and offer some assistance? As with the above example, the result of such a decision is often rewarded with a sense of community that we don’t always experience as travelers constantly on the go.''Photo: Heavy Rains by''Inexplicable''Have you ever had an encounter with severe weather while traveling?''Over the past few months, every now and then, I’ve mentioned that I’ve been working on a variety of new projects. And while at times it seems as if some of these projects will drag on for another 30 years without ever being finished,''I am thrilled to announce that one of these projects has now been completed!''So why am I even bothering to make this announcement? Well, even though I normally prefer to avoid talking about my current income-generating endeavors on my blog, this case is a little different.''This project, which has forced me to work''90 hours per week''for quite some time now, has the potential to benefit some of you, or perhaps many of you, or maybe even other people that you may know.''How can I be so sure?''I base this belief on the fact that barely a day goes by without a friend, a reader or even a complete stranger, asking me the one question I love to hear:''Can you help me get a job on board cruise ships?''I love to hear that question because in all honestly, had I never worked on board cruise ships, there is no way I would still be traveling today. In short, with the money I saved during my 5 years as a Tour Manager on board ships, I’ve been able to gain enough freedom for me to not only continue traveling, but to spend time working on creating the life I truly want to lead.''Of course, it wasn’t all about the money. Combine the savings with the amazing friendships I made and the dozens of countries I explored as part of my job and you can understand why I’m thankful every single day for the time I spent working on board cruise ships. As a result, the mere thought of someone else experiencing the very same life-changing benefits that I’ve enjoyed, is enough to get me pumped up and ready to assist in any way possible.''LET ME INTRODUCE MY NEW PROJECT:''Yes, it’s a''guide to getting a job on board cruise ships''.''And if I’m allowed to say so,''this guide is AWESOME!''I absolutely couldn’t be happier with the results and so far, the feedback has been nothing but exceptional.''So, if working on board a cruise ship is something you, or someone you know, may be interested in, I highly recommend checking out the official site of my new guide:''www.HowToWorkOnACruise.com''Without repeating the information you’ll find on the website, all I can say is that I’m certain you won’t be disappointed (especially when you see the''bonus''I’m giving away as well)!''So have a look and let me know what you think. 🙂 And as I’m a firm believer that working on board cruise ships is one of the''most underutilized paths to freedom''out there, I sincerely hope that at least a handful of you will find the finished product to be more than useful…''SPREADING THE WORD''As it’s just not my style to randomly ask people to promote something for me, I’d rather put it this way. If you believe that your blog readers, Facebook fans or Twitter followers may be interested in this material, then I would greatly appreciate any efforts to help spread the word as much as you see fit. If you don’t feel they’d benefit, that’s perfectly cool as well, no problem at all!''Also, I do offer a generous affiliate program with this product and if you’re interested in signing up as an affiliate, just send me a quick''email''and I’d be more than happy to walk you through the easy process of getting started.''Most importantly, if any of you are interested in a lifestyle where, as my good friend and cruise ship colleague always says, “every day is another day living the dream”, I’m more than ready to help you make that lifestyle a reality:''www.HowToWorkOnACruise.com''And of course, if you have any questions about the guide or about working on board cruise ships in general, please don’t hesitate to leave a comment below or''email me''directly.''As I gulped down my second mouthful of ocean water while struggling to get my snorkeling tube into my mouth, I suddenly heard some frantic shouting behind me. When I turned around I saw our boat captain yelling and pointing at me to put my head under the water immediately. And so I did.''This is what I saw:''That’s right,''I was face to face with a 6 meter long whale shark''. He was literally no more than six inches away from me and he was clearly as surprised by my sudden appearance as I was by his. With no other option but to be polite, we both made eye contact and extended a brief greeting, just as if we had run into each other while walking down the street. He acknowledged my existence with a quick wink and I tilted my head slightly downwards in a display of advance appreciation for him not tearing off my face.''With our greetings out of the way, my new pal then decided to continue on his journey while I tried to swim alongside him despite my inability to swim as fast as a whale shark. I did manage to keep him in close view for about ten seconds, after which his massive tail fin finally disappeared into the depths below.''Lifting my head out of the water, the first thing I heard was my guide yelling at me to return to the vessel, but I ignored him for a few seconds as I tried to allow my quick and surreal encounter with a massive underwater beast soak in. And then I climbed up the ladder, removed my fins and took a seat on the edge of the boat.''Over the following thirty minutes, I watched the whale sharks swim all around us as the other six people in our group had their turn at being in the water with these impressive creatures.''Then, after everyone had finished their swim, the guide asked me if I wanted another turn.''Without hesitation,''I politely declined'', and then spent the next thirty minutes on the boat as everyone else went back in the water once again.''WHY I DECLINED A ONCE-IN-A-LIFETIME OPPORTUNITY…''When we had arrived at the shark site, located approximately 12 kilometers off the coast of Mexico, there were a handful of small boats scattered over a large area, with about 20 people ready to go swimming with sharks. But within ten minutes after I came out of the water, there were suddenly over 40 boats, carrying at least 250 total people, all crammed into a very small section of ocean.''Everybody there had paid for the trip and everybody had a right to be in the water, but in truth, I would never have gone on this trip myself had I known ahead of time the conditions I’d find.''After hearing stories from others, I had assumed (my first mistake!) that swimming with the whale sharks off the coast of La Isla Holbox would involve a more quiet setting, one with maybe a couple of small boats kept at a safe distance from the sharks, where we would be allowed to get into the water and observe them from a distance as well.''I had no idea that the boat captains would be maneuvering their vessels amongst each other at insane speeds in order to try and corner the whale sharks so that their passengers would have a better chance of being directly in front of them when in the water. I had no idea that the apparently not-so-strict rules that require boats to remain 20 meters away from the whale sharks would not be enforced at all.''It was quite a chaotic and dangerous scene instead, and not only for the sharks. On more than one occasion we had to yell out to our captain because he was heading straight towards a swimmer that he didn’t see or because a snorkeler was seconds away from being caught in our engine.''Basically, the combination of people, boats and whale sharks, all crisscrossing each others’ paths in a battle for position, created a situation that just didn’t sit too well with me. I can’t imagine the amount of stress that the three dozen or so sharks must experience every day while facing such an aggressive onslaught of ‘observers’. It wouldn’t be much of a shock if one of them decided to take a nibble out of a snorkeler’s arm, thus putting an end to these trips altogether and allowing themselves to migrate in peace.''My only other experience of being in the ocean with large creatures was in Hawaii during whale season, where regulations are so strict that as soon as a whale is spotted within close proximity, the boat engine is turned off. Neither a vessel nor a swimmer is allowed to be any closer than 100 yards (90 meters) to the whales at any time. Doing so results in heavy fines.''So I guess that’s what I expected on this trip as well, which is why I ended up somewhat disappointed. Of course, the fact that the boat journey to the whale shark site took 3 hours each way instead of the 1.5 hours advertised, also made the trip significantly more challenging. Throw in some heavy rain and 3-meter waves, which the ‘captain’ of our motorized row boat either failed to notice or took delight in causing long-lasting back damage to his passengers, and I was beyond joyous upon returning to the pier at La Isla Holbox.''LA ISLA HOLBOX – AS PERFECT AS IT GETS''Luckily, the island of Holbox (pronounced Hol-bosh) is as stunning a location as I’ve found in Mexico. Powdery white sands, perfect blueish-green waters and a laid-back village atmosphere made for a wonderful stay. It’s the kind of island where the hotel owners don’t care what time you check-out, there’s more hammocks than people, the locals spend their evenings eating crepes and the only vehicles allowed on the handful of sandy streets are golf-carts.''It was a little strange that lobster pizza was more common on the menus than tacos but the warm and friendly local population and lack of anything to do but relax, is a good enough reason to spend some time here. It’s the sort of isolated-from-the-world location where I could easily live for a month or two, possibly more, although my time would certainly be spent partaking in activities other than swimming with the whale sharks.''Photo: Whale Shark –''Jon Hanson''Have you gone swimming with sharks off Holbox or anywhere else? How was your experience? If not, I’d be curious to know if this is an activity that appeals to you?''Something’s telling me not to post this one, but I’m going for it anyway…''As is often the case, I was just about 90% finished with a particular post that I’d been thinking of writing for a few weeks when another idea suddenly popped into my head. And as I generally welcome random changes in plan, I’ve naturally put the original post on hold and am moving forward with this new idea.''I think the initial problem was that the post I had almost finished was somewhat on the serious side, and today, my mood is far from being serious. From the moment I woke up this morning, I’ve been a bit more goofy than normal, evident by the number of times I pretended to do the backstroke while singing my new (but old) favorite song,''The Swimming Song'', by Loudon Wainwright.''It goes something like this…''“This summer I went swimming, this summer I might’ve drowned, but I held my breathe, kicked my feet and moved my arms around.”''Catchy, I know.''Perhaps this odd behavior is due to spending one hour yesterday evening getting battered around by what were the largest waves I’ve ever seen in this part of Mexico. It was fun stuff of course, but one can only take getting smashed in the side of the face by a brick of water so many times before it starts to have an affect on your brain.''Or perhaps I’m feeling so jolly because it appears that tomorrow I’ll be taking off for a two-day trip to La Isla Holbox, a tiny island about four hours from Playa del Carmen, where I plan to go swimming with the whale-sharks. I don’t even know what that involves really, but I can’t wait to go and find out!''However, truth be told, while the two factors above may have contributed to my increased silliness and joyous mood today, deep down, I know the real reason.''WHAT IS TODAY?''Today, my friends, is''armpit shaving day''!''Ever since I was convinced to start shaving my underarms about seven years ago, my bi-weekly dates with a Gillette 3-blade razor have been permanently etched onto my mental calendar. In short, these are not dates that I’m willing to miss.''I’ll never forget my first time, which occurred so suddenly while I was working on board a cruise ship in Hawaii. One day, upon returning to the ship after a few hours of hiking around the active Kilauea Volcano, I ran into a fellow crew member on the pier, who was also a good friend of mine. After swapping stories of how we had each spent our free time that day, I happened to mention how much I stunk because of all my sweating. My friend then looked at me with what appeared to be a look of compassion, and asked, “You don’t shave your pits?”''Twenty minutes later I was back in my one-porthole cabin, standing in front of the mirror in my goldfish tank-sized bathroom, shaving away, without any hesitation whatsoever.''Just like that, my sweating problem practically disappeared, and away went my odor problem along with it. Now this might not seem like such a big deal at all, but when you spend a significant amount of your time traveling, sweat and stench play a somewhat important role. Before I started shaving my armpits, the underarms areas of my shirts were always drenched and stained with sweat within a minute of walking outside into almost any climate. Now, it takes hours for that to happen, if it even happens at all.''And while nobody has ever come up and told me directly, I can’t help but assume that the locals I meet, as well as my fellow travelers, prefer to spend time in the company of someone whose presence can not be nasally-detected from two kilometers away.''TO SUM IT ALL UP''I now spend about one minute every two weeks in order to help ensure that I….''Smell somewhat pleasant''. (Shaving doesn’t necessarily reduce underarm odor, and I’m still using deodorant, but I’m quite certain that the shaving has helped. If anyone can vouch for me, I’d appreciate it!)''Feel cleaner and for longer periods of time''.''Feel more confident no matter where I am''.''Don’t have to replace shirts as often as I used to.''Can pack less shirts overall''.''Clearly, you can now understand what caused me to go a little nutty with excitement today. And honestly, up until a few minutes ago, I never before realized just how excited I get. You would’ve thought I had just''booked a flight''to some place such as Kazakhstan!''ENJOYING THE RESULTS''As soon as I finished shaving this morning, I walked out onto the balcony of my apartment, raised my arms up high into the sky, glanced to the right, glanced to the left…''Well, I then noticed that I missed a big patch of hair on the left armpit so I had to return to the shower in order to finish the job…but then….''I returned to the balcony and spent a few blissful minutes enjoying the fresh ocean breeze against the bare skin of my underarm, confident that the coming days would be sweat and odor free.''I know that this post offers little more than an unnecessary glimpse into my personal grooming habits, but this is what my wacky mood has produced. Although, I will stop short of apologizing as I’m fairly confident that this can technically be classified as a traveler’s tip!''At 4:00pm every single day for the past nine years, Francisco has slowly climbed onto a worn out bicycle seat and begun pedaling his food cart across Playa del Carmen. His journey always begins in front of his one-room home on 4th Street and always ends exactly fifty blocks away, on 104th Street, where he sets up his stand on the street corner.''Francisco is 78 years old. He’s about 5 feet tall, has skin that looks like dark leather and always wears a white baseball cap hanging loosely on top of his head. He doesn’t have any visible teeth and is always dressed in the exact same pair of pants and button down shirt,\xa0both of which are beyond repair and in need of replacements.''His small rickety food cart has barely enough space for him to serve up the one main item on his menu. It’s called''esquite''and is a popular Mexican snack made of hot corn kernels mixed with mayonnaise, sour cream, cheese and chili powder. I happen to like esquite very much and Francisco happens to prepare the best I’ve found, not only in Playa del Carmen, but in the entire state of Quintana Roo.''You can’t be in a rush if you want one of Francisco’s esquites, as he’s not exactly the fastest server in the world. Even when there’s a line of three or four people waiting, he moves ever so slowly, which seems to be the maximum speed that his fragile body allows. Often, he’ll just stop midway through the esquite preparation process as if lost in thought and unsure of what the next step should be.''But when he finally piles on the last scoop of chili and hands over the large plastic cup to his customers, he does so with such pride that I often find myself holding onto my esquite as if it were some delicate and treasured piece of art work.''One day I asked Francisco how he ended up as a food vendor. He answered quickly, with a hint of both sadness and humor in his voice:''“After my wife passed away, I realized that I am too old for a girlfriend. So why not sell esquite instead?”''And so every day, he rides across town, plops his plastic stool on a relatively quiet street corner and waits for customers. Occasionally, I’ve noticed him chatting with other locals, but more often than not, whenever I’ve seen him, he’s staring off into the distance or just looking straight down at the ground.''At one point, my friend and I had an idea. We decided to buy Francisco a radio so that he could at least listen to some music instead of just sitting there for so many hours without anything to do. But when we asked him why he doesn’t have a radio, he laughed for a few seconds and then said, “I don’t want one. I don’t like today’s kind of music. It doesn’t make me want to dance.”''A few days ago, when I went for an esquite, Francisco recognized me as soon as I got out of my car. He immediately stood up from his stool, waved to me a couple of times and waited for me to approach.''Normally, this is the warm reception that occurs whenever Francisco recognizes a customer, as his face lights up with a huge smile, he shakes your hand and begins chatting away. Sadly, as I’ve found out on a couple of occasions, if you don’t visit him for a week or more, he most likely won’t remember you the next time you do come around and you’ll have to start the process of becoming friends all over again.''During that visit a few days back, I noticed that Francisco was eating a bizarre-looking item of food that I had never seen before. When I asked him what the item was called, not only did he tell me, but he then insisted that I take half of his portion to try it myself. After noticing my positive reaction to what I can only describe as a yummy combination of flan and cornbread, he then took a few minutes to give me precise directions to the only place in town that sells it, despite the fact that he had two customers waiting to order an esquite.''Eventually, Francisco wished me a good night, one of those sincere farewells that clearly wasn’t an automatic response to a leaving customer. I shook his hand one more time, walked over to my car and drove back to my apartment.''And then I sat down in a chair and enjoyed every spoonful of that esquite, never forgetting the kind and generous man, whose 78-year old legs pedal 50 blocks across town every single day just so that he can sit on a stool for hours by himself, on a lonely street corner, in case I, or anyone else in the area, happens to have the sudden urge for an esquite.''If you’re ever in Playa del Carmen and want to try out Francisco’s esquite, you can find him every night between 5pm – 10pm on the corner of 30th Avenue and 104th Street, right under the giant billboard.''Well, thanks to the wonderful advice of so many of you, I can now say that I’ve finally been spending a significant amount of time away from my computer over the past few days, and as one might expect, I haven’t felt this good in a long while. A few swims in the Caribbean Sea and a handful of abnormally long sleeps seemed to have been exactly what I needed. Even when I sit down to work I find that I’m more motivated and focused now that my body and mind have been allowed to relax a little.''However, it does appear that four straight weeks of staring at my computer all day, every day, and barely going outside during that time, has left me struggling to adapt to one aspect of Mexico –''the heat''.''Normally, I don’t mind the heat at all and I even tend to visit places such as India and Southeast Asia during their hottest seasons, when the temperatures typically hover around 50 C (122 F) in many parts. But these past few days have been insanely difficult.''After walking two blocks down the road, I’m already wanting to take a nap! Within seconds of venturing outside, I’m drenched in sweat, my muscles don’t want to move anymore and I’ve already chugged down the 1-liter bottle of water I’m carrying around. So do I turn around and follow my desire to just crash onto my bed and remain there for the rest of the day? No way! I certainly don’t want to exchange a habit of 90 hour work weeks for a habit of 90 hour sleep weeks, and so I push on, forcing myself to try and get comfortable in the heat.''Just don’t expect me to visit any Mayan ruins, to hike through the jungle or even walk around Playa del Carmen exploring areas that I’ve yet to explore. But that’s okay, as I can still feel as if I’m traveling and exploring Mexico, even if I don’t visit something that one would find listed in a guidebook or that’s considered a highlight of the area.''While such well-known and even lesser-known sights often play a major role of any travel itinerary, sometimes travel is just about being wherever you are and soaking up the atmosphere of a place. You don’t have to constantly be on the go in order to benefit from your travels, and in fact, I think that it’s almost vital to stop every now and then and just do something simple.''So what should you do when it’s too hot to trek up that mountain, too humid to visit those ruins or too sticky to even think about another day of sightseeing?''Here’s some alternatives to consider, most of which I’ve been taking advantage of during the past few days myself:''RELAX WITH THE LOCALS:''Chances are, if it’s too hot for you, many of the locals are probably looking for a way to escape the heat as well. So why not join them? Perhaps they congregate in air-conditioned cafes, hole-in-the-wall tea stalls, picnic areas in a local forest, comfy pubs, parks or maybe just a shopping center. Wherever it may be, head on over yourself, start a few conversations and keep from overheating while meeting some new people.''FIND A CINEMA:''This is one of my favorite ways to get out of the heat while traveling and more often than not, even if I end up seeing a Hollywood film, I’m bound to have an entirely unique cultural experience. Whether it’s enchilada-flavored popcorn, beer included with the price of admission, plush sofa-seating or having to pass through two metal detectors and a full-body pat down before entering the theater, there’s a good chance that such an outing will prove to be more interesting than just an ordinary trip to the movies. And most of the time, the air inside the theater will be cooler than the air outside!''TAKE A LONG RIDE:''Jump in a taxi, a rickshaw, a tuk-tuk, on a train, subway/metro or in a boat, hand over some money and enjoy a leisurely ride to nowhere. Who says you need an actual destination? Negotiate with the driver for an hour’s worth of riding around, so that you can just sit back and observe life around you from a different, and shade-protected, perspective. And then keep track of interesting places you pass along the way, so that on a cooler day (or during a cooler part of the day), you can spend more time exploring without fear of melting.  *Perhaps this is only a good idea if you’re in a relatively inexpensive country. The cost of an hour’s taxi tour of, say, London, might force you to end your travels early!''GO FOR A SWIM:''I’m always up for a swim when the temperatures soar, whether it’s in the ocean, a lake, a waterfall or just a public pool. Also, it’s normally quite easy to show up at any four or five star hotel in the town or city you’re visiting, pay for a day pass and make use of their pool and facilities. If you want something more low key (and cheaper), find a smaller hotel or even a hostel with a pool and they’ll often let you in for the day for just a few dollars. And while public pools may seem somewhat nasty at times, they do tend to offer an interesting glimpse into the lives of a local population, and even dangling your legs in the water will cool you down.''STROLL THROUGH A MARKET:''Exploring a market at a leisurely pace is an exceptional way to get out of the heat, as long as you find an indoor or covered market! Roam the aisles, talk with vendors, ask questions about the strange things you find and your day will be filled with memorable moments. And remember that markets are not only for fruits and vegetables. I’ve come across massive flower markets, hand-made furniture markets, religious markets as well as markets centered around local artisans, clothes, spices, musical instruments, books and even a beer market that consisted of several hundred stalls where you could sample and purchase a variety of locally-made brews (it was in Germany of course!). The only danger of spending too much time in these markets is that you just might walk out with a funky desk lamp, colorful candle holder, triangular floor pillow, bag of curry powder and a pair of bongo drums, none of which you’ll be able to fit into your backpack/luggage.''SIGHTSEEING:''I know that, originally, I mentioned sightseeing as the thing to consider avoiding when the heat is too much for most people to bear, but if you’re not like most people, this might be the perfect time to do your sightseeing. This is even more so the case if you’re the kind of person who isn’t a huge fan of large crowds. As everyone runs for the cafes, you can have a particular sight all to yourself if you don’t mind having your eyes stinging from all of the sweat! Often times, our experiences and connections to a place intensify when we are able to focus on the views, the history, the sounds and the overall atmosphere without having to push our way through noisy crowds.''And finally, there’s one more thing that you can do when you are forced to slow down due to the heat. You can do''NOTHING''at all. I’ve spent many a day while on the road doing not much of anything, just sitting on a balcony, swinging in a hammock or plopped comfortably on a sofa in the guesthouse I was staying in. If the heat is sucking the energy out of you, there’s no reason to feel guilty about taking a day or two or three off from your itinerary. While you’re resting up, and avoiding a sunburned face and dehydration, you can chat with the staff at the hostel, the family who runs the guesthouse or just other travelers who don’t want to venture into the heat themselves.''There’s no such thing as a wasted moment of travel and you don’t have to be taking photographs or standing in front of the Taj Mahal to consider a day of travel to be a success. So when the heat arrives, just as it has here in Playa del Carmen at the moment, why not take it slowly and focus on some of the simpler aspects of the culture you’re immersed in? There’s no shame in doing so and you just may discover that such experiences prove to be more worthwhile and rewarding than visiting the must-see sights on your list!''Photo:''High Temperature''Any other suggestions you’d like to add from experience?''I’m not quite sure I can remember the last time I did what I did yesterday. To sum it all up, I did nothing at all. Honestly, up until 10:17pm last night, my day had not even existed.''After enjoying a deep, ten-hour sleep the night before, I awoke yesterday morning at 10:30am. I proceeded to take a shower and prepare myself for what has become my typical day as of late. Sitting down at the table, I turned my laptop on and began going over a mental list of things that needed to be done. However, before I even managed to log into my gmail account, something peculiar occurred. I inexplicably rose from my chair, walked over to my bed and collapsed onto the mattress.''For a few minutes, I just lay there staring at the ceiling, but eventually, and despite having just woken up from such a great sleep, I caved in and closed my eyes.''And then….I woke up at 7:15pm.''At that point, thinking that I surely had enough rest, I tried to stand up, but I failed, several times in a row, due to some slight dizziness and a complete lack of motivation to even walk. So I remained in bed for three more hours, unable to do anything but lay still.''Finally, a bit after 10:00pm, I managed to successfully rise to my feet, drink some iced tea and begin my day.''Am I ill? I don’t think so.''I’m quite sure that I was simply''exhausted''.''SPENDING ALL DAY WITH MY LAPTOP''Even though I’ve been living in Mexico for most of the past year, I have not spent my time here traveling around or exploring as much as I normally do. The idea of living here was to find a place where I could concentrate on my work for a while, work which involves maintaining a couple of streams of online income and attempting to create one or two more streams as well.''As a result, my daily schedule, especially during the past four weeks since my return to Mexico after a visit to the US, has involved little more than quality time with my laptop.''Working 12-16 hours per day has been the norm. Earning an online income is clearly not the result of waving a magic wand, and even after two years, I’m repeatedly shocked by how much constant effort, focus and learning is required. Nothing is ever finished, there is always more work to be done. And as soon as I think I can take a break, it’s time to write a blog post, which happens to be the activity that I love the most but which I have been able to spend the least amount of time on as of late. Couple that with the increasing number of other blogs that I love to read and sometimes I wonder how I’m even managing to find four hours to sleep each night!''Over these past four weeks, I’ve barely exercised, barely stepped foot on the beach, barely done much of anything that hasn’t been work-related. I work at home in the mornings, then I move to an air-conditioned cafe to avoid the mid-day heat and I return to my apartment once the cooler night time air arrives. I then repeat the process over and over again, seven days a week.''SHOULD I BE WORRIED?''Naturally, this style of work keeps me on the brink of complete exhaustion, which I am aware is not a healthy state of being. I know that when my arms start vibrating with electricity as if they have become an extension of my laptop, I should be a little worried. I know that when I try to fall asleep and all I can think about is html code and javascript for two hours, I should be concerned. And every time I forget to rinse the shampoo out of my hair because I was deep in thought about what color the text should be on page 76 of my new ebook, I’ll admit, I should take that as a sign to change my habits.''Yet, I continue this pattern, day in and day out…''To an extent, this method has worked well as I’ve accomplished an incredible amount over the past month – building websites, writing ebooks and generally improving my streams of income. With much of this work out of the way, I’ll be able to start concentrating more on Wandering Earl as well as my next adventure.''As a result, when I woke up yesterday morning and realized that my seemingly never-ending list of ‘work to be done’ has actually started to shrink, my mind and body decided it was finally time for me to rest. The final gate was opened and the intense exhaustion was allowed to drown the rest of me, forcing me to do nothing but lie down in bed and shut down.''WHY LIVE THIS WAY?''If any of you have ever wanted something so badly that you would sacrifice certain aspects of your life in order to achieve that one goal, you’ll understand. I live and breath travel, to the point where just hearing a foreign language or using a foreign currency\xa0 is enough to bring a smile to my face. For me, the highest of highs comes from opening my door and walking out into a street so culturally different from where I grew up that my senses are instantly heightened and my mind is mesmerized, as if I were a child discovering the world for the first time.''At the same time, there’s no way I’m going to keep doing this for an extended period of time. I have a lot of work right now but at some point, there will be a dip, I’ll re-organize some things and I’ll end up with a more sane working/living routine. And then I’ll get back into a healthier lifestyle where I’ll be more efficient with my work.''After all, being a digital nomad and having travel as part of my work should keep me more motivated to do things right than if I was back home in an office. It’s why some companies take extended''tropical retreats'', inviting their entire workforce to spend time and work on a different tropical island every year. How can one not be extra motivated and efficient when work is mixed with travel?''And that’s why, if such an intense month of work every now and then can help me extend my global adventure, even for an extra week or two, if it can help me continue traveling and learning and exploring this world first-hand, than I’m willing to carry on for now. I might have exhausted myself to the point of near collapse today, but I do so in order that tomorrow I will be able to return to India, to explore the Middle East, to continue doing what I want more than anything during my short time on this planet.''Photo:''Orphan Jones''Does this sound crazy or does it make a little sense? Do you make certain sacrifices in order to have an opportunity to pursue your goals in life?''After writing my “''Living Abroad for Less than $1000 per Month''” post a few weeks ago, I received all sorts of interesting emails from readers. I honestly had a great time answering them and I stayed up until 3am a few nights in a row trying to respond as quickly as I possibly could!''Through all of those emails, I did happen to notice that one particular question kept popping up over and over again, and so I thought it best to answer this question as a post in the hopes that the information can benefit as many travelers as possible.''Here’s the question…''How do you find such cheap apartments all over the world?''While the answer to that question certainly isn’t anything groundbreaking, there is actually a particular method I do use that goes beyond your typical apartment hunting and lease signing. And without this method, there is no possible way I would have been able to afford the super-comfortable, perfectly-located apartments I’ve rented in such countries as Argentina, Czech Republic, Thailand and here in Mexico.''HOW MUCH COMFORT DO YOU NEED?''First, it is a fact that no matter where you go in the world, you can always find a cheap apartment. You might have to live a good distance away from the center of town or make due with a somewhat dilapidated building, leaky plumbing and moldy walls, but cheap apartments always exist. While there is absolutely nothing wrong with these places, especially for anyone interested in exploring a foreign land on an ultra-tight budget, before you hand over the first month’s rent, you might want to consider whether or not the apartment truly offers what you need.''During my early years of traveling, whenever I would search for an apartment, my idea of luxury involved having a hot water shower, reliable electricity and a bed without bedbugs. But these days, I do require a certain level of increased comfort, not so much because I’m getting older, but because I spend a good deal of time in my apartment working on my internet projects. And as anyone who spends a lot of time working on their laptop knows, an apartment that lacks natural light and requires you to sit on a concrete floor while cockroaches crawl up your shorts, doesn’t exactly help create a favorable working environment.''What does help is a comfortable chair or two, a good wi-fi connection, a secure door to enter the building (there’s nothing worse than worrying if your laptop is being stolen while you’re out exploring) and a mattress that is more than a few centimeters thick. And while we’re at it, let’s throw in a great location that allows you to walk into town or to the beach in just a few minutes!''So once again, the question is: How do you find such a place without breaking your budget?''HERE’S WHAT I DO…''After deciding on the ‘perfect neighborhood’ in the city or town I want to live in, I’ll spend a couple of days viewing as many furnished apartments as possible. I find these apartments simply by walking around, asking people if they know of any places for rent and calling the phone numbers on the “For Rent” signs that I come across. Usually, the places that interest me the most will be out of my budget, but I don’t worry about that and in a moment, you’ll see why.''As soon as I do stumble upon my ‘perfect place’, I immediately schedule a meeting to speak with the landlord/owner in person. And then, far from accepting the advertised monthly rent,''I offer to pay them 60% of that amount instead''.''Before giving the landlord time to reject this seemingly absurd offer, I then continue with my proposal. I quickly explain…''1….that''I’m a great tenant''! I don’t smoke, don’t party, don’t drink often, I don’t have pets, I’m super-clean, quiet and I mind my own business. I then offer to provide them with references from landlords of other apartments I’ve lived in.''2….that''I won’t use the air-conditioner''which, in many countries, will instantly reduce the landlord’s expenses by a couple hundred dollars. (It might get a little hot, but that’s nothing that a couple of cheap fans can’t fix!)''And''MOST IMPORTANTLY''…''3….that''I’ll allow the landlord to kick me out of the apartment''with as little as three days notice if they happen to find someone interested in renting the place for either a longer period of time or for more money.''At this point, I finally stop talking and wait for the reply, hoping that I’ve presented as compelling a case as needed in order to secure the deal. Sure enough, nine times out of ten, the landlord accepts the offer, especially if it happens to be low season or involving an apartment located in a neighborhood with an abundance of places for rent.''The fact that Kabul lacks anything resembling efficient planning and the fact that street signs are as common as synagogues (there is one!), naturally leads one to believe that tackling this metropolis by foot would be a foolish endeavor. Certainly it would be much easier to jump into one of the 40,000 registered taxis driving around the city, pay the ridiculously cheap fare and enjoy a comfortable ride to your next destination.''However, as any visitor to Kabul quickly discovers, one’s feet, despite the never-ending maze of nameless roads and the abundance of heavily-armed citizens, are infinitely more reliable than any local taxi you’ll find.''I learned this lesson during my first day in the city, after being forced to ride in four different taxis. The problem was that I didn’t use four different taxis to reach four different destinations. Instead, I needed the four taxis just to reach one single destination.''When I had walked out of my hotel (read''this''and if you’ve ever stayed in a nastier hotel, I’d love to know about it!) in the Zar Nagar section of town, I wanted to pay a visit to the Iranian Embassy. (Even though US citizens are not able to obtain independent travel visas to Iran, I figured I would give it a try anyway.) Assuming that a taxi would offer the most direct, and safest, journey across this mysterious city, I flagged down the first one I saw.''NOT AS EASY AS I THOUGHT''I jumped in and gave the driver my destination, which the manager at my hotel had written down in Persian on a scrap of paper. The driver read the note, pointed off into the distance and nodded his head several times. He then drove me three blocks down the road, stopped the vehicle, turned around, shrugged his shoulders and said “Sorry!”. When I repeated the words “Iran Embassy”, he just shrugged his shoulders one more time.''A bit confused, I climbed out of the taxi and immediately hailed another one. But this time, before I opened the door, I asked the driver, “Iran Embassy?”. He confidently repeated the words several times and invited me to sit in the front passenger seat. Then, as we approached a traffic light two minutes later, the driver stopped the car and asked me whether he should go straight, turn left or turn right at the intersection.''My reply was a blank stare, which led the driver straight into a bout of hysterical laughter. And when he finally regained his composure, he simply threw his arms up in the air and, with a smile on his face, informed me, “You go bye bye”.''You see where this is going I’m sure.''It took me forty minutes to hail another taxi, and after being driven around in circles for twenty more minutes, I found myself being politely kicked out once again.''Finally, the fourth taxi of the day was able to take me the rest of the way to the Iranian Embassy, dropping me off exactly 90 minutes after I had left my hotel. It felt as if I had traveled across the entire country, but I later discovered that the Embassy was only 2 miles away from my hotel.''Unfortunately, my visit to the Iranian Embassy didn’t last long at all. As I crossed the street and walked toward the entrance, I stumbled straight into a group of over 500 Afghanis, all trying to storm the front door of the building despite being beaten with long wooden sticks by a handful of armed guards. Not wanting to get caught up in whatever situation was taking place, I quickly jogged off in the opposite direction.''A DECISION TO MAKE''Confused, lost and a bit on edge, I seriously considered jumping into another taxi. But after the first driver that approached me shook his head when I mentioned the name of my hotel, I decided to just start walking instead. And off I went, despite having no idea where I was going.''However, it should come as no surprise that what turned out to be a six hour walk back to Zar Nagar proved to be the most rewarding and educational day of my visit to Afghanistan. During my adventure, I met a team of workers responsible for clearing the mine fields in the heart of the city, a group of children who insisted on holding my hand and guiding me around their neighborhood, the famous ‘King Fixer of Kabul’''Wais Faizi'', a woman who had started one of Kabul’s first internet cafes and a friendly travel agent who was determined to grow his business despite having lost his sight and one of his legs in a bomb explosion.''Let me just say that when I finally walked back into my hotel room that evening, I was a different person from the one who had hailed that first taxi almost nine hours earlier.''THE TAXI EXPLANATION''The following morning, as I ate a breakfast of watery spinach and mushy peas with bread, the owner of the restaurant came over and sat down next to me. We had a good conversation, especially when he explained why my taxi experience was the most common kind of taxi experience in Kabul.''Apparently, the need for taxis was quite non-existent during the days when the Taliban controlled the city as people were unable to move around too freely. When the Taliban left Kabul, taxis were suddenly in high demand as the city began to grow rapidly and its citizens now had places they needed to be taken to.''And so, just like that, hundreds of taxis appeared out of nowhere.''The only problem was that none of the drivers had any experience given the earlier absence of taxis and as a result, nobody had any clue how to get anywhere. In addition, new businesses, schools, hospitals and more were popping up all the time and there simply was no way for the taxi drivers to know the exact location of the growing list of potential destinations. Throw in the changing of street names, frequent road closures and a population that doesn’t speak a common language, and its quite understandable that taxi driver’s spend much of their time shrugging their shoulders and asking their passengers for directions.''Needless to say, during the remainder of my stay in Kabul, I walked everywhere. Every day involved getting lost, several times at least, but by the end of my visit, it seemed that I had literally explored every single street, lane and alley. And all of that walking led to even more unforgettable interactions with an endless stream of local Kabulis, which is exactly what I hoped for when I made the decision to visit Afghanistan in the first place.''Of course, when I needed to get to the airport on my final day in order to catch my flight to Delhi, I did decide to give the Kabuli taxi system one last chance. After all, I didn’t feel too enthusiastic about walking the 16 miles with my backpack on.''Yet despite what I considered to be a very clear impression of an airplane – with my arms spread out wide, my back hunched over and airplane noises shooting out from my mouth – and despite hearing “Ah-ha!”, “Yes!” and “Okay!” several different times, I ended up being dropped off on three different street corners once again. Not one taxi driver knew how to get to the only International Airport in Kabul.''Luckily, just as I began calculating how fast I would need to run in order to reach the airport in time to catch my flight, another friendly local noticed me stranded on the side of the road and offered me a ride in his beat up SUV.''Photo:''Kabul with mountains'