'Here’s a NASUGBU BUDGET TRAVEL GUIDE covering Tali Beach, Calayo Beach, Bituin Cove, Fortune Island, Mt. Batulao, and more! With sample itineraries and summary of expenses.''If Batangas were Westeros, Nasugbu would be the North.''It’s vast, the largest municipality in Batangas. It’s wild; much of its territory is still in its natural, undeveloped state, fringing Mt. Palay-Palay National Park and four marine protected areas. And it’s located in, well, the north. In fact, it straddles the northernmost edges of the province.''But the similarities stop there. Nasugbu isn’t a frozen land about to be invaded by wildlings or white walkers. Like much of the country, it is a tropical paradise that has so much to offer to beach-lovers and mountain climbers alike.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Nasugbu''Best Time to Visit''How to Get to Nasugbu''Manila to Nasugbu by Public Transportation''Manila to Nasugbu by Private Car''Nasugbu Bus Terminal to the Beaches''Where to Stay in Nasugbu''Nasugbu Beach Resorts and Hotels''Nasugbu Houses for Rent''Search for more: Nasugbu Resorts''Places to Visit in Nasugbu''Fortune Island''Calayo Beach''Pulo Island (Loren Island)''Bituin Cove (Angara Cove)''Kayraang Cove''Tali Beach''Layag-layag Beach''Caleruega Chapel''Mt. Batulao''Where to Eat in Nasugbu''Kainan sa Dalampasigan''El Cocinero by Chef Arnaldo''Sample Itineraries''Calayo Itinerary''Fortune Island Day Tour Itinerary''More Tips for The Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Nasugbu''Nasugbu is no stranger to all things big. It is one of the largest municipalities in Batangas in terms of land area, population, and history. It is also home to Central Azucarera Don Pedro, one of biggest sugar producers in the Philippines. But there’s one more thing that it can boast: it is also big on natural wonders.''Nasugbu’s town center is set in an agricultural plain, but much of the municipality’s terrain is crumpled with mountains, concealing dozens of pristine coves at their feet. Some of these coves are occupied by privately owned exclusive villages and clubs like the Hamilo Coast, Punta Fuego, and Tali Beach Subdivision. In order to get access to these beaches, you would need to know someone inside or book a house or villa. Fortunately, Nasugbu isn’t only for the rich and powerful. Many public beaches harbor fishing settlements and mid-range resorts that are open to anyone.''Nasugbu mountains, beaches, and reefs. Photo by Vins Carlos''Here are more things you need to know about Verde Island:''Language'': Tagalog. Dialect: Batangas Tagalog. Although Batanguenos can converse with people from Manila, they use certain words that Manilenos will probably not understand.''Currency'': Philippine peso (PHP, ₱). PHP100 is around USD1.92, EUR 1.56, SGD2.52 (as of April 2018).''Modes of payment'': CASH is preferred! Some establishments in the town center accept credit card payments. If you’re beach-bound, withdraw cash while you’re still in the poblacion area where banks and ATMs are aplenty.''Connectivity'': Both Smart and Globe have strong LTE data signal in the town proper. But both get spotty at best in remote barangays like Calayo and Papaya.''Electricity Info'': 220V, 60Hz. Socket Type A, mostly.''Best Time to Visit''November to May''. These months are generally dry, with little rainfall. November sometimes sees Batangas getting hit by typhoons but it’s far from being a regular occurrence. The amihan prevails during this period. Amihan refers to the northeast monsoon.''Source: World Bank Climate Change Portal''Note that March-May is widely considered the Philippine summer, which is the period when schools close for a break and the general population go on weekend vacations, so expect more tourists, the majority of which comes from other parts of Batangas.''Personally, I like going to Nasugbu between December and March to avoid both the rain and the crowd.''How to Get to Nasugbu''Manila to Nasugbu by Public Transportation''If you’re coming from Manila, you can take a bus bound for Nasugbu in two locations:''DLTBCo Bus Terminal in LRT-Buendia''. The terminal is near Gil Puyat LRT Station at the corner of Taft Avenue and Buendia (Gil Puyat Avenue).''BSC Bus Terminal in EDSA-Taft Pasay''. Situated next to the MRT Taft Station (along EDSA), just behind McDonalds. BSC stands for Batangas Starexpress Corporation.''Travel time'': 3-4 hours.''Fare'': around P160''If your destination is Caleruega Chapel or Mt. Batulao, you don’t need to go all the way to the town proper. You can ask to be dropped off near the boundary. Just tell the driver you’re going to Caleruega or Mt. Batulao and they’ll let you know when it’s time to alight.''Manila to Nasugbu by Private Car''If you’re driving from Manila, you can take any of these routes.''via Cavitex''. This is the road less traveled. This will lead you to Antero Soriano Highway across Kawit, Tanza, Naic and Ternate. Then, you’ll be driving through Mt. Palay Palay National Park (near Pico de Loro) and through Kaibiang Tunnel, the longest subterranean road tunnel in the Philippines. You’ll reach Brgy. Papaya in Nasugbu then Brgy. Calayo. If you stay on that road (Nasugbu-Ternate Highway), you’ll eventually reach Nasugbu town proper.''via Emilio Aguinaldo Highway''which passes through Imus, Dasmarinas and Silang.''via SLEX (South Luzon Expressway)''. Take Santa Rosa Exit and stay on Sta. Rosa-Tagaytay Road then on Tagaytay-Nasugbu Road. (You can also take Eton City or Greenfield City Exits to avoid traffic jams in Sta. Rosa.)''For the last two options, you’ll be cutting across Tagaytay and Alfonso until you hit the Batangas-Cavite boundary. You’ll know it’s the border when you hit a fork. The left road will lead to Lemery, the right to Nasugbu. The right road has an arc with a big-ass “Welcome to Nasugbu” sign. You won’t miss it.''Nasugbu Bus Terminal to the Beaches''If you’re taking the bus and your destination is the beach, you can take tricycle. For anywhere near the town center, the fare should not exceed P50. But if you’re going to Brgy. Calayo or Brgy. Papaya, prepare to bleed at least P300. That’s totally justified because they’re very far and can take over 45 minutes.''Where to Stay in Nasugbu''As mentioned earlier, Nasugbu is huge. Where you should stay depends on what attraction in particular you would like to see. For example, if you’d like to see Fortune Island, you can go camping on the island itself or stay in the town proper. If it’s Loren Island, find a resort in Calayo Beach. For Layag-layag Beach, Brgy. Papaya is the most ideal.''There are four main types of accommodations in Nasugbu:''Resorts or hotels''. These are the usual accommodations. You know this.''Rented houses''. Because much of Nasubu’s jagged coast is occupied by exclusive villages, access is restricted to residents and their guests. Most of these properties are just “rest houses,” which means the owners don’t really stay there. Some owners rent them out to tourists, who are then given access to the beaches and features. Some examples of this arrangement are Pico Sands Hotel and Tali Beach Subdivision.''Homestays''. In public beaches like in Calayo and Papaya, there are locals renting out rooms in their homes to tourists for a small fee.''Camp sites''. Beaches like Bituin Cove (Angara Cove), Layag Layag Beach, and Fortune Island all allow campers to pitch tents for a fee.''Anyway, here are some options you may consider.''Nasugbu Beach Resorts and Hotels''Canyon Cove. Image provided by Traveloka.''Canyon Cove Hotel and Spa''. Wawa.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Pico Sands Hotel''. Brgy. Papaya.''Check Rates & Availability''.''The Mediterranean House''. Brgy. Kaylaway.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Calayo Green Terraces''. Calayo Beach.''Inquire here''.''Nasugbu Houses for Rent''Forest Cove Beach House. Image provided by Traveloka.''Forest Cove Beach House''. Natipuan. Can accommodate up to 16 pax.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Hillcrest House at Tali Beach''. Can accommodate up to 9 pax.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Search for more:''Nasugbu Resorts''.''Places to Visit in Nasugbu''Fortune Island''Fortune Island. Photo by Glenn Ituriaga.''Fortune Island used to be a private island harboring an exclusive luxury resort. But it is difficult and costly to maintain a luxury resort without a ready source of fresh water. One cannot drink luxury. Consequently, it ceased its operations in 2006. One remarkable reminder of its grandeur stands atop the island’s limestone cliff overlooking the sea – Grecian pillars and statues.''Fortune Island is generally rocky with a short stretch of sand. It is now popular among campers and sun worshippers, but it was, for the longest time, a best kept secret among divers. The island is surrounded by shipwreck diving sites including the Dutch warship Mauritius, which sank on December 14, 1600.''READ MORE:''FORTUNE ISLAND''Calayo Beach''Calayo Beach. Photo by Vins Carlos.''Calayo Beach is a public beach lined with several houses and budget to mid-range resorts. The sand here isn’t spectacular. It’s fine but it’s closer to light brown than white. But it is the jump off point to better beaches like Pulo Island, Kayraang Cove, and Bituin Cove (see the next 3 items in this list), which are the main reasons why we’re in Calayo in the first place.''Environmental Fee'': P20''Parking Fee'': P50 day, P100 overnight''For island hopping, you may contact the boatman that toured us around. He was very friendly. He also accommodated all our requests.''Kuya Marvin''Contact Number: 09482543131''Capacity: up to 12pax''Rates: P1500 for Pulo Island, additional P500 for Bituin Cove and Kayraang Cove''If you need to use facilities like restrooms and tables (or even swimming pools), you can stay at a resort as a day tripper. For example, Calayo Green Terraces allows day tours for a fee. Here are the rates:''Entrance Fee'': P250 adult, P150 kid 10 years old or below''Tent with table'': P1000''Cottage'': P1500-P2500''Pulo Island (Loren Island)''Loren Island. Photo by Vins Carlos.''Redundant, I know. Locals call it Pulo-pulo, but tourists know this as Pulo Island or Loren Island. Yep, Loren as in Loren Legarda, who, according to our boatmen, owns this piece of paradise. It’s located just 20 minutes from Calayo Beach. The sand here isn’t white or fine, it’s beige and pebbly at best, but it still offers a fantastic island escape. The island has two beaches and what looks like a sandbar that links to another rocky islet.''Entrance Fee:''P25''Bituin Cove (Angara Cove)''Bituin Cove. Photo by Vins Carlos.''Said to be owned by Sen. Edgardo Angara, this short strip of sand and shingles is a rising camping destination just 20 minutes away from Calayo Beach. You can stay overnight or visit as part of an island hopping tour.''Entrance Fee:''P25''Kubo Rental:''P300''Tent Rental:''P300''Camping Fee:''P100''Kayraang Cove''Also in Brgy. Calayo, this pristine stretch is testament to the natural resources that Nasugbu possesses. According to our boatmen, it is now owned by Henry Sy. Boatmen are no longer allowed to dock or moor their boats on the beach but they can still take passengers to the cove provided that they stay in the water. It’s no problem because the water here is so shallow.''This is one of our favorite spots in Nasugbu. Not many people know about this, and it’s not usually part of island hopping tours, so we had the place to ourselves during our visit. Although we didn’t get to set foot on the beach, we were still treated to a quiet, relaxing, alone time in the water.''Tali Beach''A post shared by Ｒ Ｈ Ｅ Ｙ Ａ (@rheyyyaaaa)''on''Apr 20, 2018 at 10:37pm PDT''One of the most well-known attractions in Nasugbu, Tali Beach has long been a summer favorite in Batangas. Aside from the beach, one can also enjoy its cliff-jumping spot. However, because it’s part of a private subdivision, access to it is restricted only to residents, homeowners and their guests. You must know someone inside to get in.''It’s easy to find a way though. You can simply rent a house for a night. I also found an agency that takes visitors on a day tour to the beach.''Layag-layag Beach''A post shared by Gel (@gelnogoy)''on''Jun 3, 2017 at 8:04pm PDT''Located in Brgy. Papaya, Layag-layag Beach is also starting to get the attention of weekend warriors from Manila. You can go camping and snorkeling here.''Environmental Fee:''P20''Caleruega Chapel''A post shared by Almond Garden Tagaytay (@almondgardentagaytay)''on''Mar 15, 2018 at 3:31am PDT''More casually called Caleruega, the Transfiguration Chapel isn’t really historic, unlike the other churches in this list. But it is one of the most picturesque, making it one of the most popular wedding venues and retreat destinations in the region. Perched on top of a garden-adorned hill, it offers a spectacular view of the Batangan countryside, with Mt. Batulao dominating the landscape.''Mt. Batulao''A post shared by matcha madness (@annplata)''on''Apr 9, 2018 at 4:40am PDT''I haven’t tried climbing this (and given my current figure, I won’t be trying anytime soon, haha). But it’s a favorite among first-time climbers. According to my friend and teammate Asta though, it can be challenging for beginners. One thing is for sure though, this is one heck of a picturesque peak. “Her beauty makes the exhausting climb worth it,” she said.''Where to Eat in Nasugbu''The streets of Nasugbu Town Proper is flanked with carinderias (low-cost eateries) and fast food options, so it’s not hard at all to find a cheap but filling meal. We even had Angel’s Burger for dinner once, haha. I ordered their Hungarian sausage sandwich, P44. Nag-crave lang bigla.''But if you want to try a place that you can only experience in Nasugbu, I recommend these:''Kainan sa Dalampasigan''First of all, there is no view of the sea. Just getting it out there this early because the name of the place sort of implies that. But despite that, Kainan sa Dalampasigan is still a delightful seafood restaurant. This authentic Batangueno gastronomic paradise lies in a lush garden that allows visitors a quick but memorable moment with nature. It’s an oasis in the middle of a rapidly developing town.''It’s best known for their''Bilao sa Dalampasigan'', which is a platter of four of their bestsellers: baked tahong (mussels), garlic shrimps, daing na bangus (milkfish), and grilled pork. The first time I was here, an order costs P550. Now, it’s P990. If the serving size or the price is too steep for you, I recommend going for the baked mussels alone. It’s definitely the best among the quartet.''El Cocinero by Chef Arnaldo''This wasn’t part of our original itinerary. We were on the way home when we passed by this place and decided to give it a try. From the outside, it doesn’t look much. But this unassuming restaurant has that proverbial inner beauty. It feels so homey inside. Every corner is IG-worthy.''The menu is predominantly Spanish. The bestseller? Its signature El Cocinero Paella, which is a panful of flavorful risotto topped with chicken, chorizo, mushrooms, fish, crabs, shrimps, squid, and mussels. It can feed up to four hungry travelers. It’s a bit too pricey though. If budget is a concern, try their paella negra instead. At P720, it is the cheapest in their paella roster. Then wash it down with a glass of malunggay juice (moringa juice) mixed with calamansi.''Sample Itineraries''DCIM100MEDIADJI_0033.JPG''Below are two sample day tour itineraries with breakdown of expenses. The first is for Calayo (Pulo Island, Kayraang Cove and Bituin Cove), and the other for Fortune Island. Please note that both itineraries assume you’re a group of 8 people, splitting the costs of some items and bringing your own food.''Calayo Itinerary''05:30 am – ETD Pasay/Buendia''08:30 am – ETA Nasugbu, P160''08:40 am – Tricycle to Calayo, P75 (P300/4pax)''09:10 am – Pay Calayo Environmental Fee, P20''09:20 am – Island hopping, P312.5 (P2500/8pax)''10:00 am – Loren Island, P25''10:30 am – Kayraang Cove, FREE''11:10 pm – Bituin Cove, P25''12:00 pm – Back to Calayo Beach''12:10 pm – Lunch''04:00 pm – Ride bus for Manila, P160''This itinerary will set you back around''P800 (USD16, EUR13, SGD21)'', excluding lunch. You can bring your own food or buy in the town proper.''Fortune Island Day Tour Itinerary''04:00 am – ETD Pasay/Buendia''07:00 am – ETA Nasugbu, P160''07:10 am – Tricycle to Fortune Island Resort, P15''07:25 am – Pay entrance fee, P300''07:40 am – Boat to Fortune Island, P375 (P3000/8pax)''08:40 am – Arrival in Fortune Island, swim''11:00 am – Lunch''12:00 nn – Leave island''01:00 pm – Shower, P15''02:00 pm – Trike to town proper, P15''02:30 pm – Ride bus for Manila, P160''If you follow this itinerary, prepare to shell out around''P1100 (USD21, EUR18, SGD28)'', excluding lunch.''More Tips for The Poor Traveler''Leave no trace. Don’t leave trash on the beach.''Use reef-friendly sunscreen. Choose brands that contain no chemicals that can harm corals.''The bigger the group, the lower the cost. So invite your friends and form a bigger group.''Bring a hat, light scarf/wrap or anything that can protect you from the sun.''Both Calayo and Papaya collect a P20 environmental fee.''If you have more days, you can also check out the beaches in Calatagan. They’re just an hour away.''If you’re driving, you can make a stop in Tagaytay on your way back to Manila.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''SEPOC ISLAND, BATANGAS: Budget Travel Guide & Itinerary''Masasa Beach and Anilao: Travel Guide''ANILAO BATANGAS ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''MASASA BEACH ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''ISLA VERDE BATANGAS ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''BATANGAS: Budget Travel Guide''Where I’m from, Isla Verde is a stuff of legends. At least, when I was a kid.''Growing up in Batangas, I’ve always heard about Verde Island as a paradise with a wealthy secret. It’s something my late grandfather used to talk about. One doesn’t reach the fabled land easily. Isla Verde, my lolo claimed, is surrounded by monstrous waves.  But one day, he said, if we would be good and do good, we’ll set foot in the island and enjoy the treasures it hides. It is the positive, rewarding counterpoint to Mt. Maculot, which was used by our village elders as a threat and punishment. The nice people go to Isla Verde, and the naughty are abducted by the witch of Maculot.''Of course, as a grownup, I don’t believe that anymore. Well, to be honest, I don’t think I ever did. It sounded like something my lolo just made up to inspire and scare his little grandchildren into behaving well. But when I finally jumped out of the boat and stepped on its glistening shore, it felt like every quiet moment I spent here was a reward earned, like I had been good all my life.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Isla Verde''Best Time to Visit''Day Tour vs Overnight Stay: Which is better?''How to Get to Isla Verde''By Public Boat''By Private Boat''Where to Stay''Verde Island Resorts''Isla Verde Homestays''Batangas City Resorts''Places to Visit in Isla Verde''Getting out of the Island: Isla Verde to Batangas City''By Public Boat''By Private Boat''Sample Itineraries''Day Tour Itinerary''Overnight Itinerary''More Tips for The Poor Traveler''Frequently Asked Questions''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Isla Verde''These days, Isla Verde is no longer the mythical land my grandfather painted in my head. It is, in fact, an island off the coast of Batangas City. It’s composed of six barangays and is home to over 6200 residents. Now that I had the pleasure of visiting it, I can confidently report that I had zero sightings of souls, children or otherwise.''Photo by Glenn Ituriaga''But if there’s one thing that my grandpa got right, it’s that it shelters enormous riches! But instead of gold or coins, Isla Verde is a treasure trove of marine life. I knew this even back when I was in High School. When we crossed Verde Island Passage on the way to Mindoro, I saw dolphins for the first time in my life. They swam and jumped alongside our boat. It was magical, but not surprising at all. Isla Verde rises in the middle of this passage, which is described by a 2007 Smithsonian Institute study as the “center of the center” of the world’s marine biodiversity citing the high concentration of marine species.''Isla Verde is isolated from the rest of the province. While Batangas City is developed, the island is far from it. There is no consistent supply of electricity. Residents rely on generators, which are run from 6pm-10pm only. Some resorts use solar panels, but they can’t provide 24/7 power either. Hence, be prepared before arriving in the island. Bring power banks (mobile chargers). And if you really can’t stand the heat, get one of those mobile battery-powered fans.''Here are more things you need to know about Verde Island:''Language'': Tagalog. Dialect: Batangas Tagalog. Although Batanguenos can converse with people from Manila, they use certain words that Manilenos will probably not understand.''Currency'': Philippine peso (PHP, ₱). PHP100 is around USD1.92, EUR 1.56, SGD2.52 (as of April 2018).''Modes of payment'': CASH! Withdraw cash before you board your boat to the island. There are no banks or ATMs here.''Connectivity'': Both Smart and Globe have strong LTE data signal in the island. (I was surprised, too!)''Electricity Info'': 220V, 60Hz. Socket Type A, mostly. Again, there are no regular power lines in the island. Residents rely on generators and solar panels. Electricity is usually available from 6pm-10pm only.''Best Time to Visit''The Amihan months of January-May are the best time to visit Isla Verde. Amihan refers to the northeast monsoon, which brings cooler temperatures and little rain.''According to the boatmen we talked to, it is also the season when the seas are relatively gentle. I say “relatively” because it depends on a number of factors. For example, if you’re catching the big passenger boats to the island, these waves don’t look much. But if you’re on a small boat, which is what locals commonly use to get around, these waves feel like they’re out to get you.''Source: World Bank''However, note that March-May is widely considered the Philippine summer, which is the period when schools close for a break and the general population go on weekend vacations, so expect more tourists. Good news is, Isla Verde is off the beaten track, so the crowd never really reach critical mass. Despite that, make sure you have prior lodging reservations because accommodation options in the island is pretty slim.''Day Tour vs Overnight Stay: Which is better?''The first thing you need to do when planning a trip to Isla Verde is to decide whether you’re visiting for a day or you’re staying overnight. Which is better? Well, I hate to answer yes-no questions with “it depends” but it depends. LOL. It depends on many factors. Here are some questions you need to ask yourself:''Do you think you can make it to Tabangao port in Batangas City by 9am?''There is only one boat that will take you to the tourist areas of Verde Island and it’s scheduled to leave Tabangao Port by 9am.''Are you completely fine with staying overnight in an island with very limited electricity?''Remember, power is only available from 6pm-10pm. Resorts don’t have air-conditioned rooms. Some can provide fans but because of unreliable power supply, there is no guarantee that those fans will work all night.''Do you think you can catch the 4am public boat back to the mainland?''Yep, it’s scheduled at 4am. And yep, there’s only one trip. Usually, at least.''If you answer YES to all of the above, congratulations, you may consider spending a night or two in Isla Verde! You’re in for an adventure! You get to discover more of the island and witness the sunset!''If you’re not up for it, then the day tour might be better suited for you. No worries, you can still enjoy what the island’s beaches even if you only have a few hours. If you can, catch the 9am public boat transfer to the island to save on fare. However, because there are no public boat trips back to mainland in the afternoon, you’ll have to charter a private boat, which costs at least P2000 per way (maximum 6 pax per boat, usually).''But here’s the rundown:''OVERNIGHT STAY''More time in the island.''Cheaper transportation costs because you can take the public boat to and from the island.''You can catch the 4am return boat to mainland.''More comfortable journey because the big public boat can easily tackle the waves.''No electricity in the island.''DAY TRIP''Short stay in the island.''Bigger transportation costs because you’ll have to charter a private boat for at least one way.''No need to spend on accommodations.''Gives you a chance to find more comfortable lodging options in the mainland or just go home after the island visit.''Uses smaller boats which can be scary sometimes when gliding against the waves. The sea is significantly rougher past noon.''How to Get to Isla Verde''There are two ways to reach Verde Island: by catching the public boat and by chartering a private boat. It is important to decide before the trip which one you’re taking because the ports for public and private ports are not only different and exclusive but also one hour apart!''Public boats are docked at Tabangao Aplaya (Tabangao Port), where private boats are prohibited to pick up passengers. Private boats can be found in Brgy. Ilijan, much farther from the city but much closer to Isla Verde.''Below are more details.''By Public Boat''You need to board a small boat to get to the big boat that ferries passengers to Verde Island.''If you’re taking the public boat, you need to make your way to Tabangao Port or Tabangao Aplaya, where boats to Isla Verde are stationed. Note that this is different from Batangas Port (Batangas Pier). Here’s how to get there:''From Manila, catch a bus bound for Batangas Grand Terminal. Alight at the Grand Terminal. Fare: P157.''Ride a jeepney to Bagong Palengke. Fare: P12. At Bagong Palengke, take another jeepney to Tabangao Port. Fare: P17. Alternatively, you may take a tricycle at the Grand Terminal straight to Tabangao Port. Fare: P300. Total travel time: 35 minutes.''At Tabangao Port, hop onto a small paddle boat that will take you to MB SUPER MARIO. Fare: P10 per person. Then from the small boat, climb to the bigger SUPER MARIO boat. Fare: P120. It will make two stops: first at Mahabang Buhangin, second, at Sampalukan.''At which stop should you get off?''If you’re spending the night at a resort, most likely in Sampalukan. Isla Verde has only a few resorts and they’re all closer to Sampalukan.''If you’re on a day tour, I recommend just staying in Mahabang Buhangin. It’s closer to the mainland. You’ll also find island-hopping tour boats that you can charter here. Even if you get off in Sampalukan and take a boat tour from there, one of the stops will still be Mahabang Buhangin. There are also homestays here if you want to spend the night.''There are other boats to Isla Verde. During our visit, a boat called SEA QUEEN is also picking up passengers alongside SUPER MARIO. However, I don’t think it’s going to the same spots in the island. Our contacts in Isla Verde and the staff at the port upon learning that we’re tourists specifically told us to board Super Mario. They said that if we were going to Mahabang Buhangin and resorts like Isla Verde Tropical Friendly Resort, we should hop onto Super Mario.''IMPORTANT! The boat is scheduled to leave at 9am, at least on paper.''In practice, the boat will leave as soon as it’s full. We arrived just a bit after''8am''and the boat was almost full already that we had to sit on the “outside” part (without cover so make sure you bring a hat or anything to cover your face and eyes). I was passenger #67 on the manifest.''The boat left the port at 8:40am''.''If you’re driving, you can park your car at Tabangao Port. Overnight Parking Fee: P100.''By Private Boat''If you wish to charter a private boat to Isla Verde, it is best if you have a contact before you go. Brgy. Ilijan (pronounced ILI-HAN), which is located over an hour away from the Grand Terminal, is the usual pick up point because it is the part of the mainland closest to Isla Verde, but it changes depending on your contact. It can be hard to find one on the spot. For example, before we decided to catch the public transpo, we considered chartering a private boat. Our contact gave us a pick up point different from Ilijan. (I can’t remember the name of the place. All I remember is that the boat is owned by a konsehal. Haha. But the point is, it varies depending on where your boat is stationed.)''One thing is for sure, though: you’ll have a hard time arranging a private transfer in Tabangao Port because it’s meant for the public boats.''Your chances are better if you go to Ilijan instead.''From Manila, catch a bus bound for Batangas Grand Terminal. Alight at the Grand Terminal. Fare: P157.''Take the jeepney to SM City Batangas. If you can’t find one, catch a jeepney to the city proper (Bayan) and tell the driver to drop you off at a spot where you can take another jeepney to SM. Fare: P12 each leg.''At SM, ride the jeepney to Ilijan. Ask the driver to drop you off before Berania Langley Resort or after Vista de Fuente Resort. Fare: P50.''Walk towards the beach.''Meet your boatman. Ride the boat to the island. Travel time: 45 minutes to an hour.''Ilijan Beach. You know you’re at the right spot when you have this view.''If you need private boat contacts, here are some that I gathered. These boatmen are based in Isla Verde, so they will come pick you up from the island. Boatmen charge different rates and their vessels are of different sizes. The only one that I have tried below is Kuya Sherwin. He charges us P2000 for a small boat that can accommodate 3 passengers. For the rest, I only got to talk to them and collected their contact numbers, but I haven’t tried them or seen their boats. I’m just publishing information that they relayed to me.''Sherwin Acebeda''Capacity: Good for 3 pax''Contact Number: 0975 737 4243, 0999 688 0563''Ilijan-Isla Verde Rate: P2000''Island Hopping Rate: P1500''Kuya Ronnie''Capacity: Good for 6 pax''Contact Number: 0950 278 5709''Ilijan-Isla Verde Rate: P2500''Island Hopping Rate: P1500''Kuya Aldrin''Contact Number: 0912 715 1526''Ilijan-Isla Verde Rate: P2500''Island Hopping Rate: P1500''If you need a bigger boat that can accommodate up to 14 passengers, they can also provide one. I’m just not sure about the rates, so please contact them directly.''Where to Stay''Isla Verde comprises six barangays: San Agustin Kanluran, San Agustin Silangan, San Agapito, San Andres, San Antonio, and Liponpon. For tourists, San Agustin Kanluran is the most important to be familiar with because it harbors the two stops that are most likely of interest to them: Mahabang Buhangin and Sampalukan.''Mahabang Buhangin. Photo by Glenn Ituriaga.''Mahabang Buhangin''is Isla Verde’s main beach. Most of the beach is fringed with bush and small trees, but there is a small community along the coast that offer homestay services.''Sitio Sampalukan''is also in the same barangay but on the other side of the island. It is the usual jump off point to the island’s resorts.''Some resorts also collect additional charges for use of kitchen facilities. It’s usually between P300-P350 per day.''Verde Island Resorts''Here are some of the most popular resorts in Isla Verde. Please note that I don’t recommend any of them because I haven’t tried them. When I visit Verde Island, I simply go on a day tour because I live in Batangas. I see no point in spending on a room when my house is just an hour away from the port.''Isla Verde Tropical Friendly Resort''Locals refer to it simply as “Tropical.” It’s accessible from Sampalukan. All their rooms can accommodate up to 4 guests. Here are the rates per night.''Traditional Hut (Kubo) without Fan: P1500''Traditional Hut (Kubo) with Fan: P2000''Stone House (with fans and own toilet and bath): P3000''Tent for rent: P300, P600''Camping fee (if you bring your own tent): P100 per person''To book, email islaverderesort@gmail.com or call +6327825833 or +639164408647 (between 7am and 7pm only)''Engracio’s Beach Resort''Located in Sitio Sampalucan. Reservation required. Walk-in guests are not allowed. Here are the rates:''Bamboo Room with private toilet/bath and picnic table (good for 4pax): P1500''The Tree House with 3-person tent, beddings, picnic table and shared toilet/bath: P250 per head (min 2 pax)''Old Family house with common toilet/bath and beddings (good for 16 pax): P1500 for 6pax + P250 per additional pax''Entrance Fee: P50 adult, P25 child''To reserve, contact them via''Facebook''.''Surface Interval Resort''This resort in San Agapito was originally built to provide a resting spot and accommodations to scuba divers. But of course, everyone is welcome. Reservation is required (no walk-ins) on weekends and holidays.''Room with shower and toilet (good for 4 pax): P1500''Tent rental (good for 4 pax): P300''Camping fee (if you bring your own tent): P200''Entrance Fee: P100 per adult, P50 child''To reserve, get in touch with them via''Facebook''.''Isla Verde Homestays''Here are some homes in Mahabang Buhangin that accept transient guests for a fee. Note that these houses are very basic, with small no-frills rooms with beds and bare common toilets. Again, I haven’t tried any of these. I just gathered their contact numbers and prices.''Loida Claro Homestay''Contact Number: 09100225437''Rate per night: P300 per head''Jessica’s Homestay''Contact Number: 09361271272''Rate per night: P1500 if 5 pax or P300 per head if 6 pax or more''Homestays also charge additional fee for kitchen use, often around''P300 per day''.''Water is also for a fee,''P150 per drum''.''Batangas City Resorts''If for whatever reason you don’t want to go home yet but you want to be comfortable, a good alternative is to just stay in Batangas City proper in the mainland. Here are some of your options:''PonteFino Hotels''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Days Hotel Batangas''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Bicotels Hotel''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Batangas Country Club''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''SM Travelodge''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Places to Visit in Isla Verde''The primary tourist activity is island hopping, which costs P1500 per small boat. The most interesting stop is Mahabang Buhangin, which is why it makes more sense to just stay here if you’re on a day tour. We didn’t even have to pitch tent. We were just walking along the beach when some locals invited us to just take shelter form the sun in a rest area in front of their house and use their table and chairs. They didn’t charge us for any of it. Naawa siguro sa amin kasi sobrang tindi ng sikat ng araw.''Just to manage your expectations,''the sand in Verde Island is neither white nor fine''. It’s beige and is made up of small pebbles, sea shells and coral pieces. You won’t find any beach in the island (or Batangas in general) than can match the fineness and whiteness of Boracay’s or Bohol’s. But what makes this island special is that it’s surrounded by some of the clearest and bluest waters you’ll see in your life.''Anyway, here are the usual stops of the island hopping tour:''Mahabang Buhangin Beach''Abandoned Verde Island Resort''San Antonio Beach''Sawang Dive''Maliit na Nalayag''Kuweba (Cave and Lighthouse)''Most tours don’t complete the list above and stop at only three or four. The current in this part of Batangas isn’t for the weak-hearted.''Here are the contact details of the boatmen I met in the island and their rates.''Kuya Ronnie''Contact Number: 0950 278 5709''Island Hopping Rate: P1500''Kuya Aldrin''Contact Number: 0912 715 1526''Island Hopping Rate: P1500''Getting out of the Island: Isla Verde to Batangas City''You have two options: boarding the one and only public boat back to the mainland or arranging a private boat transfer.''By Public Boat''The public boat ferries passengers to Tabangao Port and is scheduled to leave at 4am. Yes, A.M. Yes, in the morning. Haha. But please note that it can leave earlier — as soon as the boat is full — so you need to be there even earlier.''Fare: P120.''If you miss this boat, you will have no choice but to charter a private boat.''By Private Boat''If you don’t want to catch the early morning trip or you want to leave in the afternoon, you can arrange a private boat transfer to Brgy. Ilijan or back to Tabangao Port. This is the only mode of transportation available if you choose to go on a day tour.''IMPORTANT: Prepare to get wet. Bring a dry bag for your valuables.''You can find a boatman when you’re already in the island, or you can contact one beforehand. Again, just in case you missed these, here are the contact details of the boatmen I met in the island.''Sherwin Acebeda''Capacity: Good for 3 pax''Contact Number: 0975 737 4243, 0999 688 0563''Isla Verde-Ilijan Rate: P2000''Kuya Ronnie''Capacity: Good for 6 pax''Contact Number: 0950 278 5709''Isla Verde-Ilijan Rate: P2500''Kuya Aldrin''Contact Number: 0912 715 1526''Isla Verde-Ilijan Rate: P2500''Note that the rates above are for Ilijan'', which is closer to Isla Verde but almost an hour away from Tabangao Port. Boatmen based in Isla Verde don’t like taking passengers to Tabangao because not only is it much farther, they’re also prohibited to use that port.''If you decide to travel to Ilijan, the boat will dock at a pebble beach which is just a short walk from the main road. Just proceed to that road and ride a jeepney to Batangas City. According to the locals we talked to, there are plenty of jeepneys passing by until the early afternoon. If for some reason, there seems to be none, you can take the tricycle to a spot where jeepneys from other places pass. Tricycle fare ranges from P300 to P400. Yep, it’s pretty remote.''What if you left your car in Tabangao Port?''This happened to us the last time we were here. Because we traveled to Tabangao Port by private car to catch the public boat, we left the car parked in Tabangao. However, the boat we chartered took us to Ilijan. Apparently, it’s no problem at all. We simply rode a jeepney to Tabangao Port. (Just tell the driver to drop you off at Tabangao PIER.) We got off at a corner and walked a bit to where the car was parked. If you choose the ride a tricycle all the way from Ilijan, the fare is P450.''Sample Itineraries''Below are two sample Isla Verde itineraries with breakdown of expenses. The first is for a day tour, and the other for an overnight stay. Please note that both itineraries assume you’re a group of 4 people, splitting the costs of some items and bringing your own food.''Day Tour Itinerary''04:30 am – ETD Manila''06:30 am – ETA Batangas Grand Terminal, P157''06:40 am – Tricycle to Tabangao Port, P75 (P300/4pax)''07:20 am – Board MB Super Mario, P10''08:40 am – Boat to Isla Verde, P120''10:00 am – Mahabang Buhangin, early lunch, environmental fee: P30''11:00 am – Island-hopping, P375 (P1500/4pax)''02:00 pm – Boat back to mainland, P625 (P2500/4pax)''03:00 pm – Ride jeepney to Batangas City, P50''04:00 pm – Ride jeepney to Grand Terminal, P12''04:30 pm – Bus back to Manila, P157''This itinerary will cause only a''P1700''damage to your pockets (excluding meals). Note that the bulk of the expenses is spent on the private boat ride back to the mainland.''You can bring the cost down to only''P1325''if you ditch the island hopping tour and just stay in Mahabang Buhangin.''You can reduce the cost even further if you have your own ride instead of taking the bus.''Overnight Itinerary''04:30 am – ETD Manila''06:30 am – ETA Batangas Grand Terminal, P157''06:40 am – Tricycle to Tabangao Port, P75 (P300/4pax)''07:20 am – Board MB Super Mario, P10''08:40 am – Boat to Isla Verde, P120''10:00 am – Check in at homestay, P300 + P30 env. fee''11:00 am – Island-hopping, P375 (P1500/4pax)''02:00 pm – Freshen up, rest''05:30 pm – Watch the sunset''07:00 pm – Dinner''08:00 pm – Stargazing, sleep''02:30 am – Travel to Sampalukan, P50''04:00 am – Boat to Tabangao Port, P120''05:30 am – Tricycle to Batangas Grand Terminal, P75''06:00 am – Bus to Manila, P157''This itinerary will set you back''P1500''excluding meals if you do the island hopping or only P1125 if you don’t.''You can reduce the cost even further if you have your own ride instead of taking the bus.''More Tips for The Poor Traveler''First of all, please don’t be an asshole. Don’t leave trash on the beach. Whatever you bring to the place, take them with you when you leave. You’ll find some spots on the beach with trash, but most of them are not from the community but just washed ashore from the city.''Use coral-friendly sunscreen. A study conducted by Archives of Environmental Contamination and Toxicology revealed that most sunscreen products contain chemicals like oxybenzone, parabens and benzophenone that are harmful to marine life. Most, not all. Choose brands that are reef-friendly and do do not contain the said chemicals.''The bigger the group, the lower the cost. So invite your friends and form a bigger group.''If you have time, you can drop by the public market in Batangas City to buy ingredients so you can cook your food in the island.''Bring a hat, light scarf/wrap or anything that can protect you from the sun. Most boats don’t have a tarp cover so you’re pretty exposed.''A P30 environmental fee is collected in San Agustin.''Bonfires are not allowed in the island.''Frequently Asked Questions''Is there a parking space in Tabangao Port?''Yes. Parking fee in Tabangao is P100.''Is there a parking space in Ilijan?''Yes. The pickup point in Ilijan is adjacent a big parking spot, too. I just don’t know the rates.''Are there restrooms in Mahabang Buhangin?''You can ask locals if you could use their restrooms. However, note that water is a premium resource in the island so don’t be wasteful.''Can we bring food to the resort?''Yes. You’re actually encouraged to do that because supplies in the island is scarce. If you have time, you can drop by the public market in Batangas City to buy ingredients so you can cook your food in the island. However, know that if you’re going to use the kitchen facilities of your resort or homestay, you’ll be charged extra.''How do we get around the island?''The most common mode of transportation is the boat, but you can also take a habal-habal which costs P50 per ride.''Will we get wet on the way to the island?''NO, if you’re taking the public boat and you’re inside the covered part. YES, if you’re chartering a smaller boat.''Do we need to pay the resort entrance fees even if we have room reservations?''In most resorts, yes, the entrance fee is collected on top of the room rates.''Anything else we should bring?''Sunscreen, mosquito repellant lotion, and a hat, light scarf/wrap.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Masasa Beach and Anilao: Travel Guide''SEPOC ISLAND, BATANGAS: Budget Travel Guide & Itinerary''NASUGBU BATANGAS ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itineraries''Masasa Beach: Not so Distant Paradise in Tingloy, Batangas''MASASA BEACH ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''ANILAO BATANGAS ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Here’s a budget travel guide blog to Manuel Uy Beach Resort, the newest camping destination in Calatagan. In this post, you’ll find sample itineraries, summary of expenses, and useful travel tips!''“Are we going to Horacio Cheng Beach?” my friend Glenn asked in a tone and with a face that clearly suggested he was not kidding. “Or is that Horacio Uy?”''Realizing he made a mistake, he flashed an embarrassed smile that cut across his now redder face. All he could remember, he explained, was that the resort has an old Spanish first name and a Chinese last name. My only question is, Horacio, really? Where did that come from?''Horacio aside, it is not surprising at all that people have trouble retaining the name of the resort. Glenn certainly wasn’t the first in my circle of friends. Outside Batangas, it is pretty much unheard of. And it’s not every day that we hear about a beach that bears a person’s full name. But you know what, some may remember it as Manuel Uy, Horacio Cheng or Teofilo Chua, but this little nook in Calatagan is the next big thing in Batangas tourism.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Manuel Uy Beach''How to Get to Manuel Uy Beach Resort''Day Tour vs Overnight Stay''Manuel Uy Beach Resort Rates''Entrance Fees''Rental Fees''Parking Fees''Where to Stay''Camping Fees''Calatagan Beach Resorts''Things to Do''Sample Itineraries''Day Tour Itinerary''Overnight Itinerary''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Frequently Asked Questions''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Manuel Uy Beach''According to the boatmen we talked to, the resort got its name from its owner, a Filipino who is currently based in the United States. It is located along the western coast of the Calatagan peninsula. It faces the Verde Island Passage, which is a busy channel so big ships are a common sight from here.''At first glance, it doesn’t look like a resort at all, more like a camp site. With the exception of the shower and toilet rooms and a staff stations, there are no permanent concrete structures along the beach. But the site blew us away in many ways.''Photo by Vins Carlos''First, the beach itself is remarkable. It is a long, wide strip of cream-colored sand lapped gently by Calatagan’s signature shallow waters. You can wade through the little waves for minutes and the water will barely reach your waist or chest. It’s also bookmarked by small rocks that jut out to the sea, adding some texture to the already picturesque cove. it is surrounded by sandbars and snorkeling sites that are easily accessible from the beach.''Second, on one end of the cove is an inlet that divides the place into two parts: Beach 1 and Beach 2. Occupying the southern half is Beach 1, the part immediately after the entrance on the other side of Aquaria Water Park. This is the quieter side. Beach 2 is the northern half, just next to Stilts Calatagan. This is where the restrooms stand and the island hopping boats are stationed.''Third, it is adequately staffed. A lifeguard is stationed near the drop off, where the depth of the water plunges abruptly. He also calls out anyone who might be doing something dangerous in the water. A maintenance crew is also assigned in many areas throughout the site. You can approach them if you need anything, like if you need to find a boat for island hopping. They remind day trippers when their time is up and what time the bus bound for Manila is leaving. They also keep the site clean and trash-free.''How to Get to Manuel Uy Beach Resort''Manuel Uy Beach Resort is only three to four hours away from Manila, depending on traffic conditions. Here’s how to reach it by public transportation.''Travel to MRT Taft Station along EDSA, where you can catch buses bound for Calatagan (4am-4pm). You can also take a van at the basement parking of Metropoint Mall on the other side of EDSA. I haven’t really tried the bus, but I had taken the van to Calatagan a few times before. Travel time: 3 hours. Van fare is P180.''Alight near Calatagan Public Market or anywhere in the town proper.''Charter a tricycle to Manuel Uy Beach. Travel time: 20 minutes. Fare: P200 (good for up to 4 pax).''You might want to take the number of your tricycle driver or arrange to be picked up because in this area, it’s hard to find one to take you back to the town proper.''Day Tour vs Overnight Stay''It is possible to arrive in and leave Manuel Uy Beach on the same day and still have a great time, even if you’re coming from Manila. The place isn’t that big and the island hopping takes only a couple of hours. However, to maximize your stay, leave Manila as early as you can. If you leave at 6am, you’ll arrive at around 9am, go on a boat tour, have lunch, and leave at 3pm, just in time to catch the 4pm return bus. Day trippers are only allowed to stay on site until 5pm.''If you want a more relaxed stay, you can camp out and spend the night here. It also gives you time to see the Punta de Santiago Lighthouse or do a day trip to Stilts Calatagan.''Manuel Uy Beach Resort Rates''Entrance Fees''DAY TOUR''Adult: P100''Senior Citizen: P71''Children (6 years old and below): FREE''OVERNIGHT STAY''Adult: P200''Senior Citizen: P142''Children (6 years old and below): FREE''Rental Fees''Table and chairs: P250''Tent Rental (up to 4pax): P500''Grill Station: FREE''Parking Fees''Motorcycle: P20''Car: P100''Van: P100''Bus: P200''Where to Stay''Camping is the name of the game at Manuel Uy Beach Resort. Just set up a tent and you’re good to go. There are no rooms that you can rent.''Camping Fees''If you bring your own tent, you’ll need to pay the campsite fee. The rates vary according to the size of the tent (or the number of occupants).''1-4 pax: P150''5-10 pax: P250''11-15 pax: P600''16-20 pax: P800''If you don’t have a tent, you can rent one at the resort. It costs P500 per night (good for up to 4 pax).''Calatagan Beach Resorts''But if you really want to stay in an air-conditioned room, there are other better furnished resorts in Calatagan. Here are some of them.''Stilts Calatagan Beach Resort''Aquaria Water Park''White Castle Resort and Hotel (''Check Rates & Availability'')''Villa del Faro (''Check Rates & Availability'')''Lago de Oro Hotel''Things to Do''Island Hopping''. From the resort, you can join a group tour. The rates are P200 per hour and P100 per additional island. There are usually 2 stops: Starfish Island and Sand Bar. Hence, the common cost of the tour is P300 per head. But if you’re alone or a party of two, you can charter a “special” boat tour for P850.''Go swimming or snorkeling''. Calatagan’s shallow waters make it safe for kids (but please watch them still and don’t let them go too far from the shore). You can take dip or just have fun in the water. You can also rent a goggle for only P50.''Watch the sunset''. The resort faces west so expect a spectacular sunset!''Stargazing''. If you choose to spend the night here, download a stargazing app. The one I use is GoSkyWatch, which can identify the stars, planets and constellations.''Stilts Calatagan Day Tour''. Just next to Manuel Uy Beach is Stilts Calatagan, a pricey resort with three beaches. But you can visit on a day tour for a much lower rate, at P385 per head. Doing so will allow you to enjoy not just their beach but also some of the resort’s amenities like the pool. However, the rooms on stilts are off limits to day trippers.''Calatagan Lighthouse''. At the very end of the cape where Manuel Uy Beach is located stands Punta de Santiago Lighthouse (also known as Cape Santiago Lighthouse, Calatagan Lighthouse, or simply Parola). You can drop by on your way back to the town proper. Just add P50 to the fare.''Sample Itineraries''A closer look at Punta de Santiago Lighthouse''Below are two sample Isla Verde itineraries with breakdown of expenses. The first is for a day tour, and the other for an overnight stay. Please note that both itineraries assume you’re a group of 4 people, splitting the costs of some items and bringing your own food.''Day Tour Itinerary''The itinerary below is just a sample. Feel free to make the necessary adjustments if you have other needs and preferences.''06:00 am – Bus to Calatagan, P180''09:30 am – Buy food at Calatagan Public Market, P100''10:00 am – Tricycle to Manuel Uy Beach, P50 (P200/4pax)''10:30 am – Pay Calatagan Environmental Fee, P30''10:35 am – Arrival at Manuel Uy Beach, Entrance: P100''11:00 am – Island hopping: P300''12:30 nn – Lunch''01:30 pm – Swim''03:00 pm – Pack up, trike to town proper, P50 (P200/4pax)''04:00 pm – Travel back to Manila, P180''If you follow this itinerary, prepare to shell out at least''P990 (USD20, EUR16, SGD26)''.''Overnight Itinerary''This itinerary will give you more time to enjoy the beach. Bring your own water and snacks.''DAY 1''06:00 am – Bus to Calatagan, P180''09:30 am – Buy food at Calatagan Public Market, P150''10:00 am – Tricycle to Manuel Uy Beach, P50 (P200/4pax)''10:30 am – Pay Calatagan Environmental Fee, P30''10:35 am – Arrival at Manuel Uy Beach, Entrance: P100''10:50 am – Pitch tent, Camp Fee: P37.5 (P150/4pax)''11:00 am – Lunch''01:30 pm – Island hopping: P300''03:30 pm – Rest''05:30 pm – Watch sunset''07:00 pm – Dinner''09:00 pm – Sleep''DAY 2''06:30 am – Morning swim''08:00 am – Freshen up, pack up''09:00 am – Tricycle to Lighthouse, P12.5 (P50/4pax)''09:30 am – Tricycle to town proper, P50 (P200/4pax)''10:00 am – Travel back to Manila, P180''This itinerary will set you back P1190 (USD23, EUR19, SGD31) excluding other possible miscellaneous expenses like snacks.''If you have your own ride and you have more time, considering trying one of the popular restaurants in Nasugbu like''Kainan sa Dalampasigan''or''El Cocinero by Chef Arnaldo''on your way back to Manila. You can also make a stop in Tagaytay.''You can further bring down the cost of either itinerary if you form a bigger group.''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Leave no trace''. Don’t leave trash on the beach. Whatever you bring to the place, take them with you when you leave. Leave nothing but footprints!''Use coral-friendly sunscreen''. A study conducted by Archives of Environmental Contamination and Toxicology revealed that many sunblock products contain chemicals like oxybenzone, benzophenone, and parabens that are harmful to marine life. Choose brands that do not contain these chemicals.''Swimming is allowed only between 6:30am and 5:30pm''. You can’t swim at night.''Drop by Calatagan Public Market to buy food''and just prepare them on the beach. Use of the resort’s grilling station is free of charge.''Bring a hat, light scarf/wrap or anything that can protect you from the sun''. Island hopping boats don’t have a tarp cover so you’re pretty exposed to the sun.''Pay the P30 tourism/environmental fee''that is collected before entering the resort.''Frequently Asked Questions''When is the best time to visit?''It’s popular among local (Batangas) tourists. Just avoid the weekend, if you can.''Are there shower rooms and restrooms in Manuel Uy Beach Resort?''YES. They’re located on Beach 2.''Are there places to eat nearby?''The best way is to bring your own food. U didn’t see any carinderia or eatery anywhere near the resort.''Can we bring in food from outside?''YES. You’re encouraged to do that because aside from a small sari-sari store, there is no other source of food on site.''Anything else we should bring?''Sunscreen and insect repellant lotion. I have to say, the very first time I contracted was here in Calatagan. That was eons ago, but I still highly encourage you to protect yourself from mosquitoes.''What time is the last trip back to Manila?''. Some say the last trip bound for Manila is at 4pm, others say it’s at 6pm. I’m not sure which one’s right. I forgot to confirm at the terminal. 😞''Photos by Vins Carlos''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''TOP 7 CALATAGAN BEACH RESORTS''FORTUNE ISLAND ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''SEPOC ISLAND, BATANGAS: Budget Travel Guide & Itinerary''BATANGAS BEACHES: Sample Weekend Itineraries''MASASA BEACH ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Masasa Beach and Anilao: Travel Guide''Are you planning a weekend getaway? One of the go-to places atop most lists is Batangas. The latter has plenty of sandy shores for a relaxing trip. Calatagan is a good option for you because it is accessible from the cities surrounding it (including Manila), it has beautiful and idyllic beaches, and you have plenty of choices.''For many budget travelers, Calatagan is known as a camping destination. Back when''Burot Beach''was still open to the public, it attracted weekend warriors from all directions. These days, the go-to camping destination is Manuel Uy Beach Resort, which is pocket-friendly. More info here:''Manuel Uy Beach Resort''.''For those who have a bit more to spend or are looking for a more comfortable place to stay, Calatagan has mid-priced accommodations. This type is still budget-friendly with better facilities. If you read and research reviews enough, you might find one that has comparable amenities to some higher end resorts and hotels in the area.''If a relaxing staycation near the beach is what you’re looking for, Calatagan has high end accommodations just for you. These provide you with facilities that would keep you within the resort during your stay. Some have swimming pools and restaurants where you can get meals without leaving. You’ll have everything you need as long as you are willing to pay more.''Here are the top beach resorts in Calatagan.''Note that we mixed luxury, mid-range and budget resorts here. Because we use TripAdvisor scores as basis for this list, cheaper properties with no online presence like guesthouses and homestays are not considered. We’ll just be creating a separate post exclusively for low-cost options.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Stilts Calatagan Beach Resort''White Castle Resort & Hotel''Villa Del Faro''Golden Sunset Village Resort & Spa''Blue Waters Calatagan Beach House''Lago de Oro Hotel''Banak House Calatagan''Search for more: Calatagan Resorts''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Stilts Calatagan Beach Resort''White Castle Resort & Hotel''White Castle Resort. Image provided by Traveloka''CHECK RATES & AVAILABILITY''Villa Del Faro''Villa del Faro. Image provided by Traveloka''CHECK RATES & AVAILABILITY''Golden Sunset Village Resort & Spa''Blue Waters Calatagan Beach House''Lago de Oro Hotel''A post shared by Sonny Lugtu (@sanisaydap)''on''Apr 17, 2018 at 5:06am PDT''Banak House Calatagan''CHECK RATES & AVAILABILITY''Search for more:''Calatagan Resorts''No matter what your budget is; research about the accommodation before making a reservation. It may be too far from the beach or is difficult to access (especially, if you’re using public transportation). Also, find out if there are nearby places to eat, if you don’t plan to bring your own food and drinks.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''TOP 10 BATANGAS BEACH RESORTS''TOP 10 LAIYA BATANGAS BEACH RESORTS''TOP AFFORDABLE BEACH RESORTS IN BATANGAS (Under P3000)''MANUEL UY BEACH RESORT, CALATAGAN: Travel Guide & Itineraries 2018''SEPOC ISLAND, BATANGAS: Budget Travel Guide & Itinerary''Review: Bagobo Beach Resort in Panglao Island, Bohol''Batangas is often the go-to beach destination for those living in Manila and nearby cities. It is so because of its ivory shores and clear waters, perfect for bumming around, swimming and other similar activities. One of the places in the province to visit is Laiya.''Laiya is just a barangay in San Juan, Batangas. But just for clarity, over the years, it has become synonymous with the entire southern coast of the municipality. Resorts that are located in neighboring barangays are also being marketed as a Laiya resort. For example, La Luz Beach Resort is, in fact, within the territory of Brgy. Hugom, but it is often tagged by travel agencies as a Laiya property.''After spending time on the beach, getting a tan, swimming, snorkeling or diving, you’d want a comfortable place to stay to regain your energy to do it all over again the next day. Before you go on your weekend getaway, it is important to look for an accommodation that fits your budget and other characteristics that complete your vacation.''Just like other places in the province, Laiya has a variety of resorts and guesthouses for all types of travelers. You’ll easily find cheap but comfortable places to stay or high-end resorts for an ideal staycation. If you just want a room with a bed and toilet, you don’t have to spend extravagantly. You can find cheap but comfortable guesthouses in Laiya. For those who are willing to pay more, you’ll find plenty of mid-range to high-end resorts in this part of Batangas.''When searching for resorts in Laiya, pay attention to the details and fine prints. Some resorts look cheap but mandatory meals are not included. These meals can take much of the cost.''Here are the best resorts in Laiya as ranked by TripAdvisor users.''Note that we mixed luxury, mid-range and budget resorts here. Because we use TripAdvisor scores as basis for this list, cheaper properties with no online presence like guesthouses are not considered. We’ll just be creating a separate post exclusively for low-cost options.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Acuatico Beach Resort & Hotel''Sabangan Beach Resort''Virgin Beach Resort''Blue Coral Beach Resort''Estrellas de Mendoza Playa Resort''Palm Beach Resort''Acuaverde Beach Resort''Kabayan Beach Resort''Laiya White Cove Beach Resort''Buracai de Laiya Hotel and Resort''Search for more: Laiya Resorts''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Acuatico Beach Resort & Hotel''Sabangan Beach Resort''Virgin Beach Resort''A post shared by Lovelytin😜😍🌸🌸🌸 (@kirsten_benito97)''on''Apr 29, 2018 at 10:08pm PDT''Blue Coral Beach Resort''A post shared by eescolano🇵🇭 (@eescolano)''on''Apr 27, 2018 at 11:28pm PDT''Estrellas de Mendoza Playa Resort''Image provided by Traveloka''CHECK RATES & AVAILABILITY''Palm Beach Resort''A post shared by ジョイス (@joisushinkei)''on''Apr 28, 2018 at 3:40pm PDT''Acuaverde Beach Resort''Kabayan Beach Resort''A post shared by Mara Cassie Sarino (@mcsarino)''on''Apr 20, 2018 at 2:16am PDT''Laiya White Cove Beach Resort''A post shared by heart bernabe (@heartbrnb)''on''Apr 21, 2018 at 10:51pm PDT''Buracai de Laiya Hotel and Resort''A post shared by Nean (@nean_eats.travels)''on''Feb 7, 2018 at 6:25am PST''Search for more:''Laiya Resorts''Resorts usually has its own swimming pool, decent Wi-Fi, and Instagram-worthy facilities. The rooms are usually spacious and have everything you’ll need, from a refrigerator to room service to cable TV.''The most expensive accommodation isn’t always the best choice; what matters is value for money. A combination of location, good reviews, facilities, services, and pricing allows you to get the most out of every peso you spend. However, always remember that you get what you pay for.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''TOP 7 CALATAGAN BEACH RESORTS''TOP AFFORDABLE BEACH RESORTS IN BATANGAS (Under P3000)''TOP 10 BATANGAS BEACH RESORTS''Paras Beach Resort: Where to Stay in Camiguin, Philippines (Splurge Option)''WHERE TO STAY IN SAN JUAN, LA UNION''TOP 7 LA UNION BEACH RESORTS Under P2500''It was an almost complete silence. I could not even hear the swashes stammer their name. The silhouette of the sharp cliffs sticking out into Balayan Bay grew darker by the minute. The horizon that moments ago was sweet and honey-colored revealed a fiery, fierce attitude. Here in Anilao, it is a sin not to see the sunset after a day of island hopping or scuba diving.''Anilao is best known as a diving destination. While Tubbataha Reef is widely considered the Philippines’ Diving Mecca, many regard Anilao as an “Eden,” the birthplace of scuba diving in the country. But Anilao is more than the treasure-trove it keeps beneath the waves. Its shores are mostly rocky, but in between some of the promontories are small pockets of white and beige sand for the picky beach bum. Its land is wrinkled with small mountains that are great for beginners. It is also your gateway to the islands of Tingloy, which has been gaining a lot of attention over the past few years.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Anilao''Best Time to Visit Anilao''How to Get to Anilao from Manila''Where to Stay in Anilao''Top Anilao Resorts''Search for more: Anilao Hotels''Places to Visit''Anilao Dive Sites''Mt. Gulugod Baboy''Sombrero Island''Sepoc Beach''Masasa Beach''Sample Anilao Itinerary''Summary of Expenses''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Anilao''Rocky coast''Anilao is a quiet barangay on the northern coast of Mabini, a peninsula-municipality that separates Balayan Bay from Batangas Bay. Yep, it’s just a barangay. But Anilao’s popularity prompted resorts in neighboring villages to market themselves as also part of Anilao. These days, as far as tourism is concerned, Anilao is almost synonymous to the whole Mabini municipality.''Thanks to its proximity to Manila (only 3 hours away), it has become an ideal destination for divers, especially to beginners who may be a bit hesitant to travel to the far corners of the country for a first dip. The hidden wonders it keeps in its depths are no longer secret, but they continue to amaze curious souls.''Language'': Tagalog. Dialect: Batangas Tagalog. Although Batanguenos can converse with people from Manila, they use certain words that Manilenos will probably not understand.''Currency'': Philippine peso (PHP, ₱). PHP100 is around USD1.92, EUR 1.56, SGD2.52 (as of April 2018).''Modes of payment'': Cash! While some resorts accept credit card transactions, most establishments prefer cash. There are a few banks with ATM in the town proper of Mabini, but it would be best to have cash on hand even before leaving Manila or Batangas city.''Electricity Info'': 220V, 60Hz. Socket Type A, mostly.''Best Time to Visit Anilao''When is the best time to visit Anilao?''January-April''.''Like most parts of the Philippines, Anilao experiences two seasons: dry and wet. The months of January to April are the driest, while July to October the most rain-drenched.''Source: Climate Change Portal''Because of Anilao’s relative closeness to Manila, its shores and streets can fill up with tourists quite easily. Hence, even when March and April are the most ideal weather-wise, it can be pretty crowded. Even tourists coming from other parts of Batangas are Anilao-bound. If you must visit in these months, avoid the weekends.''In my opinion, January-February is the best period. It’s sunny, cool, and swarm-free.''How to Get to Anilao from Manila''If you’re taking public transportation, here’s what you should do:''1. Take bus going to Batangas City.\xa0Alight at the Grand Terminal.''There are terminals in EDSA-Kamias and Cubao in Quezon City, LRT-Buendia and Taft in Pasay City.''Try to leave in the early morning to dodge the traffic.''If you choose a bus with a CALABARZON sign, travel time will be much shorter because it will bypass several towns and cities (Lipa, Tanauan, Malvar, etc.). Travel time is less than 2 hours. Otherwise, it can take as long as 3 hours.''Fare is P120-P180 depending on your point of origin and route.''2. Ride a jeepney to Anilao''.\xa0Get off at the final stop, the Mabini Multi-purpose Port (aka Anilao Port).''Travel time: 40 minutes. Fare: PhP 37.''There is a Tourism Office in the area if you need help on anything travel-related.''3. Take a tricycle to your resort.''Where to Stay in Anilao''If you’re climbing Mt. Gulugod Baboy, overnight camping makes most sense. Just go on an island hopping tour the next day before leaving to make the most out of your trip.''If not, then stay at a resort. There are dozens dotting the map of Mabini, many of them beachfront. Note that some are not really part of Anilao but in other neighboring barangays.''Top Anilao Resorts''Here are the top resorts under P5000 on Traveloka as scored by online users. (We didn’t include luxury accommodations.)''Eagle Point Beach & Dive Resorts''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Sea’s Spring Resort''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''The Sicilian Reef Dive Resort''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Meaco Hotel Anilao''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Ato Resort and Dive Center''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Planet Dive Resort''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Search for more:''Anilao Hotels''.''Places to Visit''Anilao Dive Sites''Anilao Diving''Anilao’s main draw is its 20+ dive sites. It faces Balayan Bay, which is part of the Verde Island Passage, the center of center of the world’s marine biodiversity according to a 2007 Smithsonian Institute study. Most tourists come here to dive or learn to dive. Most resorts offer diving courses and tours both for beginners and veterans.''Diving costs vary from resort to resort. But here are the usual rates:''Day Tour Dive (for experienced divers): P1500''Day Tour Dive (for experienced divers) with meal and gear rental: P2500''Intro Diving (with instructor): P3500''Some of the usual spots: Mainit Point, The Cathedral, Eagle Point, Arthur’s Rock, Devil’s Point, Beatrice Rocks, Twin Rocks.''Mt. Gulugod Baboy''A post shared by MhykelForYou (@mhykel22)''on''Nov 25, 2017 at 2:35am PST''Literally means “pig’s spine” because of its appearance. It is a range of three hills (Pinagbanderahan, Gitna, and Gulugod Baboy at 525 meters above sea level) that runs across the Calumpang peninsula, perfect for beginners. From its summit, you can have a good view of Balayan Bay, Maricaban Islands, and, on a clear day, Verde Island and Mindoro. The trek starts at''Philpan Dive Resort''.''Sombrero Island''Sombrero Island''Although it belongs to the municipality of Tingloy, Sombrero Island is easily accessible from Anilao. You can even see it from some resorts. It’s a hat-shaped rocky island surrounded with nice, glittering white sand.''You can visit it as part of an island-hopping tour. Just arrange a boat tour at your resort or at Anilao port and tell the boatman to make a stop at Sombrero Island. You can also visit Sepoc Beach on the same tour.''Boat Tour'': P2500 (good for 10 pax)''Entrance Fee'': P200''Sepoc Beach''Sepoc Beach''Another white sand-glazed tip of Maricaban Island. May be included in island hopping tours. Although boats are allowed to dock near the beach, visitors cannot go inland or use its restroom and dining facilities because it’s private, owned by Eagle Point Resort. Hence, if you really want to make the most of your stay here, book your tour with Eagle Point Resort. This way, you also get to trek to the top of a hill and enjoy a view of Sombrero Island and Anilao.''Boat Tour Price''(Eagle Point Resort): P2500 (good for 8 pax)''Masasa Beach''You can reach Masasa Beach from Anilao. You can catch the public boat to Tingloy or charter a private boat.''Masasa Beach''BY PUBLIC BOAT''Option 1'': Go to Anilao Port (or Talaga Port during Habagat season) and catch the boat to Tingloy Port. This is the cheapest option because the fare is only P80. Travel time: 45 minutes – 1 hour. At the port, rent a tricycle to your homestay or to the start of the hiking trail to Masasa Beach.''Option 2'': Go straight to Masasa Beach. There are public boats that go directly to Masasa Beach, but they are fewer and even more unpredictable. Fare: P100.''Note'': The last public boat back to the mainland at Tingloy Port leaves at 2:30pm. But you can also rent a private boat at Masasa Beach, which will set you back P3000 (or P2500 if you haggle). There are also other boats that ferry passengers back to the mainland at smaller docks, but we can’t hold of any official schedule. But they sometimes pick up passengers at Masasa Beach at around 12nn on weekends.''BY PRIVATE BOAT''The usual rate is P4500 per boat. Pretty steep! But this can accommodate up to 10 passengers. If you’re a group, this is something to consider.''You might also want to drop by''Anilao Public Market''located just beside the port to shop for lunch ingredients.''Sample Anilao Itinerary''Below is a sample weekend itinerary for non-divers. Tweak this according to your schedule and needs.''Day 1: GULUGOD BABOY''07:00 am – ETD JAM Bus Terminal''10:00 am – ETA Batangas Grand Terminal''10:30 am – ETD Batangas Grand Terminal (Jeepney to Anilao)''11:20 am – ETA Anilao, Lunch, Rest, Prep for Hike''01:40 pm – Take tricycle to Philpan Dive Resort''02:00 pm – Start climb''04:00 pm – Set up camp, explore summit, sunset viewing''06:30 pm – Dinner''10:00 pm – Lights out''Day 2: ISLAND HOPPING''05:30 am – Wake up, sunrise viewing''06:45 am – Breakfast preps''09:00 am – Break camp, start descent''10:40 am – ETA Philpan Dive Resort''11:00 am – Back at Anilao Port for island hopping tour''11:15 am – Buy lunch ingredients at Anilao Public Market''11:40 am – TOUR! Sombrero Island, etc.''05:00 pm – Back at Anilao Port''06:00 pm – Leave for Batangas City (Grand Terminal)''07:00 pm – ETD Batangas Grand Terminal''09:30 pm – ETA Manila''Summary of Expenses''Here’s a summary of the possible expenses. This should give you a ballpark figure of how much to prep for this trip but in no way perfect.\xa0This should only serve as a guide.''Note that you would not encounter everything on the list. For example, if you don’t plan on going to Masasa Beach, then ignore the boat fare to Tingloy.''Transportation''Bus fare to Batangas Grand Terminal:''Fare: P165 from Cubao, P157 from LRT-Buendia, P127 from Alabang.''Jeepney fare to Anilao:''P37''Diving''Day Tour Dive (for experienced divers): P1500''Day Tour Dive (for experienced divers) with meal and gear rental: P2500''Intro Diving (with instructor): P3500''Sombrero Island''Sombrero Island Entrance Fee:''P200''Boat Tour: P2500 (good for 10pax)''Masasa Beach''Boat rental (island hopping tour) from Anilao:''P4500''per boat (10pax max)''Boat rental (island hopping tour) from Masasa Beach:''P1500''per boat (3pax max)''Public boat fare to Tingloy:''P80''Tricycle ride to Masasa Beach:''P30''Environmental Fee:''P30''Masasa Beach: FREE''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''First of all, please don’t be an asshole.''Don’t leave trash on the beach. Whatever you bring to the place, take them with you when you leave.''Use coral-friendly sunscreen.''A study conducted by Archives of Environmental Contamination and Toxicology revealed that most sunscreen products contain chemicals like oxybenzone, parabens and benzophenone that are harmful to marine life. Most, not all. Choose brands that are reef-friendly and do do not contain the said chemicals.''Eat at carinderias near Anilao Port that offer a meal from P30-P60''. If you’re a group, you might also want to consider buying ingredients from the market before your island tour and just prepare the food yourselves.''The bigger the group, the cheaper the tour''. The boat rental for the island hopping tour is P2500 per boat. Boats in Anilao usually can carry up to 10 passengers. Just divide the cost by how many you are in the group. The bigger the group, the smaller the per person expenses.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Masasa Beach and Anilao: Travel Guide''Anilao, Batangas: Above the Surface of an Underwater Eden''MASASA BEACH ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''SEPOC ISLAND, BATANGAS: Budget Travel Guide & Itinerary''NASUGBU BATANGAS ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itineraries''12 MUST-VISIT BEACHES IN BATANGAS, PHILIPPINES''I remember seeing my mom almost in tears, cradling in her lap what used to be an elegant-looking pearly-white cover of a wedding album. She scanned the drenched pages that seemed to cry a river of colors. When the typhoon left our house submerged in knee-deep flood, it also took with it a beautiful reminder of my parents’ wedding. It may just be a set of photos, but it meant so much to her that losing it broke her heart.''These days, there’s a booming market not just for wedding photo and video coverage, but also prenuptial shoots. For some, these are necessary in making wedding announcements and invitations special and in sharing their happiness with friends and family. Various themes and unique ideas make a prenup shoot something that — although it can get pretty stressful too — can be exciting and fun for the couple and their creative team.''Over the past few years, mounting a prenup shoot in a tourist destination has been growing more popular. While some can claim it is just a trend, the practice has always been there since forever. The only difference today is that because of the cheaper costs of travel, couples now have a wider range of locations to choose from. Plus, it’s now much easier to share these images via social media.''Before I became a travel blogger, I worked in production design in movies. Sometimes I can’t help but see destinations as locations, not just for movies but also prenup shoots. We asked our Facebook community for what they think are the best prenup locations in the Philippines and combined their answers with our take, and here’s the result: the 10 best destinations for a prenup shoot!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Batanes''Batangas''Bataan''Biri Island''Ilocos''Coron & El Nido''Anawangin Cove & Nagsasa Cove''Camiguin''Baguio & Sagada''Rizal''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Batanes''The name itself holds power. Batanes was once the stuff of fantasy. Most people could only imagine or see it in photos. But because airline companies are slowly warming up to Batanes, more travelers get to see its splendor in person. A bucket list-worthy place, Batanes’ charm is clearly visible in its rugged landscapes! The fantastic views offer a perfect background for pre-wedding photos and videos. Its rolling hills make for an epic setting, and its lighthouses add a rustic and romantic vibe!''Batangas''Batangas has always been one of the top, if not''the''top, weekend and summer holiday destinations near Manila. Its beaches have enticed so many revelers wanting a quick escape from the hustle and bustle of the metro. Aside from the beaches, the mountains of Batangas have herded flocks of hiking enthusiasts. Hotels and resorts abound, and the healthy competition has led to many different types of accommodations – from beach resorts to mountain resorts to spa and wellness resorts.''Cintai Corito''and''The Farm at San Benito''are two favorites among the prenup market. The two provide relaxing and refreshing backdrop for prenuptial photo and video shoot.''If you want to give it a historical feel, Fortune Island has the perfect Grecian pillars that will add a sprinkle of romantic antiquity to your prenuptial shoot.''Bataan''A post shared by luminance imaging (@bhokramos)''on''Apr 10, 2018 at 11:21pm PDT''Speaking of antiquity, Bataan is another place that is rich in history. Aside from the numerous old churches, mountains, and dive sites, one attraction making waves now is''Las Casas Filipinas de Acuzar''in Bagac. It is a themed resort showcasing a number of restored and re-assembled mansions dating back to the Spanish colonial era. Couples who like a dash of Philippine history in their wedding theme can do their prenuptial shooting here.''Biri Island''Although hard to reach, Biri Island will reward those who take the extra mile to get to her. This breathtaking result of nature’s skillful hands can be a perfect setting for a prenuptial shoot. The rock pools of Biri in Northern Samar have captured the hearts of many with its crystal clear turquoise water. Not to be outshone by the pools are the breathtaking rock formations, adding texture to every photo you take.''Ilocos''A post shared by roger maristela rodriguez jr (@rrj.images)''on''Mar 21, 2018 at 8:06am PDT''The provinces of Ilocos Norte and Ilocos Sur give a double treat. Both offer a trip down memory lane with their shared history and culture. Unforgettable sites include Ilocos Norte’s Paoay Church, Bangui Windmills, Kapurpurawan Rock Formations, Blue Lagoon, and the sand dunes, among others. Refusing to be left out, Ilocos Sur boasts the UNESCO-recognized Heritage City of Vigan: Calle Crisologo, Santa Maria Church, Plaza Salcedo, and Plaza Burgos, just to name some.''Ilocandia is also home to diverse landscapes: sand dunes, beaches, farms. Depending on the theme, these two provinces present a wealth of options for prenuptial shoot location.''Coron & El Nido''A post shared by Mary Grace Petil – Rivera (@graceypets)''on''Jun 3, 2017 at 8:57pm PDT''Having a paradise as your location for a prenuptial shoot? How can you go wrong with Coron or El Nido? The raw beauty of the place will give you that honest vibe; it’s like a breath of fresh air. Pick an island and snap away. Just mind your timing and try to dodge the crowd. In Coron, the top of Mt. Tapyas looks great for a memorable shoot especially at sunset, when the grass looks golden and the ridges appear as a walkway to a magical paradise.''Anawangin Cove & Nagsasa Cove''A post shared by Jes Manalaysay-Javate Saf (@santiagoalfonsofotografia)''on''Nov 16, 2016 at 6:03pm PST''Embraced by mountains and the ground covered in volcanic ash, Anawangin and Nagsasa Cove stand out. The tall and willowy Agoho trees add to the whimsical feel of the place that is different from other beaches in the country. The inland creek, whether dry or filled with water, offers a good photo session spot with the wooden bridge as one of the props and the view of the mountain as the background.''Camiguin''A post shared by Guz Rasty Galacio (@rastygalaciophotography)''on''Feb 11, 2018 at 12:53am PST''The island province of Camiguin is the second smallest in the country, BUT don’t be fooled by its size. The province is laden with seven volcanoes, one of which, Mount Hibok Hibok, is still considered active. But fear not! It’s still safe to go there. In fact, the volcanic activities gave birth to and set the foundation of this island. Camiguin has  waterfalls, mountains, beaches, and a sandbar, all of which are easily accessible and require little effort. These make for a pretty diverse and outdoorsy type of prenuptial shoot location.''Baguio & Sagada''A post shared by rey fortuna (@vistadelentephoto)''on''Mar 17, 2018 at 8:23am PDT''For more rustic feels! Its pine forests and foggy mornings give Baguio and Sagada romantic countryside . These highlands foster a serene, almost mystical atmosphere that are ideal for dramatic backdrops.''Rizal''A post shared by Arvin Simbulan Photography (@arvinsimbulanphotography)''on''Mar 30, 2018 at 7:23pm PDT''Rizal is underrated. This mountainous province is home to many challenging peaks, waterfalls, caves, and geological wonders. Taking advantage of its proximity to Metro Manila, various attractions such as Pinto Art Museum, Pililla Windmills, Daranak Falls, art galleries and restaurants, are enjoying more attention. Rizal provides good prenuptial shoot spots for those who fancy artsy and quirky theme as well as nature-inspired theme.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Get Inspired: 8 Viral Videos that Will Inspire You to Travel''Top 12 Long Weekend Destinations from Manila (No Flights Needed)''I Found My Childhood at Casa San Pablo: Laguna, Philippines''Top 5 Signs Your Friends Will Back Out of Your Group Trip''How Travel Helped Me Quit Smoking''The Majestic MAYON VOLCANO: Albay, Philippines''As budget travelers, we depend on a lot of apps and websites to find great deals and make sure we get our money’s worth. Before booking, we make sure that we have compared the rates with other airlines, hotels, tour operators, or online travel agencies. It’s been an important, unskippable step in our travel planning process.''This post is brought to you by Traveloka.''We agreed to be Traveloka ambassadors because we actually love their app. And we love their app because it is packed with features that we have proven useful in our pre-trip rituals time and time again. Some of these are ingenious, things that we had been wishing for until Traveloka finally made it happen. Some are just simple touches but they make a big difference in making the whole travel planning process a lot easier. Here are five of them.''DOWNLOAD THE TRAVELOKA APP HERE'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Final Price''2. Best Price Finder''3. Price Alerts''4. Multiple Payment Options''Bonus: 24/7 Customer Support''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''1. Final Price''One of the things I despise when planning a trip is getting surprised. Surprises are good if we’re talking about a party but not when we’re budgeting for a trip. And one of my biggest pet peeves about most online travel agencies is hiding additional fees in the deeper layers of the booking journey. You know, it’s when you see a cheap hotel, like its published rate, decide to book it, and as soon as you hit the next page — *surprise, surprise* — the price is much higher. Apparently, they have yet to add the taxes, service charges, and admin fees.''Suddenly, the hotel isn’t as cheap as you thought just a minute ago.''You might think it’s not a big deal. It wasn’t for me in the beginning. But a couple of years ago, when I started planning a much longer trip for which I had to book multiple hotels, these seemingly insignificant hidden fees racked up until they weren’t insignificant anymore.''The same would happen if you’re booking a pricier hotel or resort. When I decided to splurge on a resort for the first time in my life — in the Maldives — the published rates are too far from the real prices. These hidden fees are considerable, and it will be extremely helpful if you see their real cost upfront.''Traveloka isn’t like that. With Traveloka, what you see is what you get. The price that you see on page one IS the final price. They also don’t collect a processing fee or admin fee for credit card and debit card transactions. (If via other third-party payment channels, merchant fees apply, though.) You don’t need to worry about being sort of deceived.''Being able to see the final price right away makes planning and budgeting a lot faster and easier, which is why we’ve been using Traveloka not just for actually booking flights or hotels but also just simply scanning or comparing prices. What you see is what you get, and you don’t need to go through a couple of pages more to see what the real price is.''2. Best Price Finder''When searching for flights, Traveloka’s Best Price Finder enables you to immediately see the lowest fares in a calendar format. This is perfect for bargain-hunters who know the destination they want to fly to but don’t have fixed travel dates.''Some airlines, like JetStar and PAL, employ this kind of display. However, what makes this Traveloka feature much more interesting is that it doesn’t search just one airline. It rummages through all the airlines in their network and shows you the cheapest tickets from all of them.''How to use it'': Simply download the app and when it’s time to pick a departure date, just turn on the “Find Lowest Price Estimates” toggle on the bottom bar.''3. Price Alerts''I’ve said this many times before: This is my fave feature of the Traveloka app. It’s great for those who always miss airlines’ seat sales!''Traveloka’s Price Alerts allows you to get notified on your phone when the price of certain flights you’re eyeing drops or go on sale! It’s not random. You will have to set the parameters beforehand so the app knows what to alert you of. For example, if you’re planning to visit Boracay, just enter that specific route and your budget limitations into the app, and when there are flights that match those, you’ll get alerts. Technology!''Here’s how to do it:''STEP 1. On your Traveloka app, tap on PRICE ALERTS. STEP 2. Enter the route you want to monitor.''STEP 3. Enter your travel dates and budget.''STEP 4. That’s it! You’ve just set up price alerts for that route!''4. Multiple Payment Options''Many airlines leave customers with no choice when it comes to online payment. There’s usually just one way: credit cards.''But not everyone has a credit card, and those that do own one don’t always have high credit limits. Thankfully, there’s a workaround. If you book your flights (or hotels) with Traveloka, you are given a much wider set of payment options. You may choose to settle via online bank transfer, via PayPal, or over the counter at Cebuana Lhuillier branches or 7-Eleven stores. But we’ve barely scratched the surface here. There are many other options and you can choose what is the most convenient for you.''More information here:''How to Pay via Traveloka''Bonus: 24/7 Customer Support''In the event that you need something changed or you simply have questions, you can easily get in touch with them 24/7. Just call  246-9057 or chat with a friendly agent through their''Live Chat''.''Disclosure: The Poor Traveler is a Traveloka ambassador.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''IS TRAVELOKA LEGIT? Yes! And Here are 7 Reasons Why We Use It''TRAVEL HACK: How to Get CHEAP FLIGHTS Alerts on Your Phone''How to Book Cheap Flights Successfully''How to Find the Cheapest Flights Using Traveloka App''FIRST TIME ABROAD: Tips and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)''8 INSIDER TIPS: How to Book PISO FARE Flights Successfully''Here’s our latest budget travel blog about Port Barton in San Vicente, Palawan! In this travel guide, you’ll find sample itineraries, breakdown of expenses, and recommendations on hotels and tours. Please note that this covers only Barangay Port Barton. We’ll be creating a separate travel guide for San Vicente’s poblacion and Long Beach area.''We landed in Part Barton that late afternoon and found the resort we booked on the far end of the stretch. On the way there, we crossed a wooden bridge straddling a creek that seemed to fade even before it could touch the sea. Fronting the resort was a highly uneven terrain with a singular boat in the middle, far from the water. “Weird,” I mumbled to myself, struggling to see why people are raving about this place. “Maybe the sun is to blame.” It was hiding like a thief behind a thick curtain of clouds, stealing the fun from the air, the vibrance from the sea, the sheen from the shore, and the energy from my soul. Because of the dreary atmosphere and my even drearier attitude, I spent the rest of the day in my room. I had been traveling across Palawan for days now and the exhaustion had begun creeping in.''The next morning, as soon as I emerged from my room, I was greeted by a gorgeous view. The tides had reclaimed much of the beachfront. The uneven shore that I saw the day before was unrecognizable. Its valleys were flooded, and its crest now a long, white sandbar. The boat that I previously thought was recklessly abandoned was now flirting with the gentle waves. The sun had returned, surrendering the light and the vibrance to what I was seeing now as a truly idyllic beach paradise.''Hello there, Port Barton. It’s nice to finally meet you.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Port Barton''Best Time to Visit Port Barton''How to Get to Port Barton''Puerto Princesa to Port Barton''By Bus''By Van''El Nido to Port Barton''San Vicente Town Proper to Port Barton''Where to Stay in Port Barton''Things to Do in Port Barton''Island Hopping Tours''Camping at Inaladelan Island (German Island)''Pamuayan Waterfalls''Other Attractions''Sample Port Barton Itinerary''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Port Barton''Port Barton is just a small village along the western coast of northern Palawan. Contrary to popular belief, it is NOT a town. It is simply one of the barangays of the municipality of San Vicente. The confusion probably stems from the fact that when locals say “San Vicente,” they usually refer to the town proper (near Long Beach). Because Port Barton is 3 hours away from the poblacion (town proper) by land, it is always mistaken as a separate municipality.''Port Barton spans not only a jagged coastline punctuated with pockets of small beaches but also a dozen islands dotting the Port Barton Bay including Albaguen Island, Cagnipa Island, Cagsalan Island, and Inoladoan Island (Inaladelan Island, German Island).''It’s a small, quiet village. It’s so tiny, you can walk from one end to another in a matter of minutes. Unlike its more famous neighbor El Nido, it is not that popular among tourists. There are no luxury hotels here. No fancy restaurants. No crowds. But that’s exactly why the few tourists it manages to attract come here in the first place, its precious silence. Although tourism is beginning to grow, it barely makes a beep compared to all the roars of the usual juggernauts like Boracay, El Nido or Cebu.''More info you need to know:''Language'': Tagalog is spoken by the majority. But English is widely understood and spoken.''Currency'': Philippine peso (PHP, ₱). PHP100 is around USD1.92, EUR 1.56, SGD2.52 (as of April 2018).''Mode of payment'': CASH!''Money Exchange & ATM''. There are no banks or ATMs in Port Barton, so make sure you’re stuffed with pesos before you arrive. Exchange while you’re in Puerto Princesa or Manila.''Safety'': Palawan in general has a very low crime rate. But common safety practices should be observed. Don’t leave your belongings just anywhere and make sure you lock your room doors especially if you’re leaving. There are also no hospitals here, only a small clinic, so please be very careful. The nearest major medical center is in Puerto Princesa. And no, there are no terrorists in Port Barton.''Electricity Info'': 220V, 60Hz. Socket Type A, mostly. Electricity supply in Port Barton is limited. Power runs only between around 5pm until midnight, unless your hotel/inn has their own generator.''Best Time to Visit Port Barton''December to April''. These months are the driest and sunniest. Thanks to its location and isolation, mainland Palawan isn’t hit by typhoons as often as the other parts of the Philippines, but the rest of the year still catches a lot of rain especially in August and September.''Source: World Bank Climate Portal''Port Barton is not popular among domestic tourists, who mostly flock in El Nido and Puerto Princesa. The majority of visitors in Port Barton (and San Vicente in general) comes from other countries, mostly Europe. Hence, peak season here is from''December to February'', when foreign tourists from the north go on tropical vacation to escape the winter cold.''How to Get to Port Barton''The closest operational commercial airport is the Puerto Princesa International Airport, which is located around 3.5 hours away. As a major tourist destination, the city is served by all major local airlines. But the cheapest flights are operated by AirAsia.''Below is a quick random scan of Manila-Puerto Princesa flights on Traveloka.''AirAsia flies to Puerto Princesa from Manila, Cebu, Clark, and Davao.''Puerto Princesa to Port Barton''Years ago, getting to Port Barton from Puerto Princesa can take as long as 5 hours on a mostly uneven dirt road cutting across the forest. We even experienced having to alight in the middle of the rain one time because the bus got bogged down. But that’s all in the past.''These days, the journey from the city to Port Barton is more like a treat than a torture. The road is now paved and wide, and the trip lasts only 3-4 hours, depending on whether you’re taking the bus or the van.''By Bus''This is my preferred mode of transportation. The buses look old but, I dunno, I just enjoy buses more than compact vans. These buses are NOT air-conditioned, but it’s not a bad thing at all in Palawan. Enjoy the fresh air and the scenes of Palawan countryside. I have fond memories of it because on one of my trips, I became friends with other passengers.''To take the bus, you need to get to San Jose Terminal first. At the airport, walk to the gate of the airport, where the tricycles are stationed. Hire a driver and ask to be taken to San Jose Terminal. Fare is P120 per ride. Split the cost if you’re a group. Alternatively, you can take a trike+jeepney combo, which is cheaper. But since I’m guessing you have heavy bags in tow, just go straight to the San Jose Terminal.''At San Jose Terminal, board the bus bound for Port Barton. As far as I know,''there is only one bus per day, scheduled to leave at 9am.''I’m not sure if they have added more buses.''Travel time'': around 4 hours''Fare'': P250''By Van''The faster option! The van can take you to Port Barton in only 3 hours, sometimes even 2.5 hours. (I noticed over the years that many drivers from Puerto Princesa drive ridiculously fast. It’s nerve-racking sometimes.)''Also, there are multiple van trips per day, so you can travel in the morning or in the afternoon. You also have a choice between going to San Jose Terminal and getting picked up at the airport (or your hotel) for an additional fee.''Two van operators ply the Puerto Princesa-Port Barton route: SBE and Recaro.''RECARO''Departure times'': 7:30am, 9am, 11am, 1pm, 2pm, 4pm, 6pm''Contact number'': 09054858597, 09093513037''SBE''Departure times'': 6:30am, 9:30am, 11:30am, 1:30pm, 4pm''Contact number'': 09194455021, 09951629155''Travel time'': 3 hours''Fare'': P350 from San Jose Terminal, P500 from the airport''El Nido to Port Barton''If you’re coming from El Nido, the van is the only way you can reach Port Barton directly overland. There are two trips per day, scheduled to leave El Nido at 8am and 1pm.''Travel time'': 4-5 hours''Fare'': P600''Another way is to ride the van to Roxas (3 hours) and then hop into a jeepney to Port Barton (2 hours). But here’s the catch, there is only one jeepney ride to Port Barton per day and it’s set to leave Roxas at 11am, so make sure you leave El Nido early.''San Vicente Town Proper to Port Barton''The easiest way to reach Port Barton from the poblacion of San Vicente (Long Beach) is by boat. There is a boat called Magdalena that ferries passengers to Port Barton. However, the schedule isn’t consistent so it would be best to consult the tourism office at least a day before your trip.''Travel time'': 1 hour''Fare'': P150''Alternatively, you can charter a private boat good for up to 4 pax. Price is between P1500 and P2000.''You may also travel by land. Unfortunately, I haven’t tried it yet so I have absolutely no clue.''Where to Stay in Port Barton''The biggest concentration of lodging options is in the main settlement of Port Barton, along Itaytay Beach (also known as Port Barton Beach). It is where bus, van, and jeepney trips terminate, and where restaurants are also located. Everything is within walking distance here.''Lodging options here range from homestays to inns to resorts, but again, none of these are luxurious. Only few offer air-conditioning, which is often unnecessary, and have generators. As mentioned above, electricity is only available from 5:30pm to 12 midnight.''Rooms usually cost P500-P2000 per night.''Cassandra’s Cottages''Port Barton doesn’t get too crowded, so that’s one thing you don’t have to worry much about. But in the peak season, it’s still best to make sure you have reserved accommodations before your arrival because options are quite limited too. The problem is, many of these properties are not on your usual hotel comparison websites, so I’m providing the email addresses and Facebook pages instead.''These are the properties I was able to try:''Besaga Beachfront Cottages''Email: besagabeachresort@gmail.com, besagabeachresort@yahoo.com''Facebook:''@besagabeachresort''Cassandra’s Cottages''Mobile Number: +639167408409''Facebook:''@cassandrasbeachcottages''Room Rate: P1400 per night (room for 2)''Both of these properties lie on the northern end of the beach. Although Port Barton in general is quiet, it’s even more peaceful in this part of the village, detached from most establishments.''Here are other places where you can stay:''Ferranco Tourist Inn''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''El Dorado Sunset Resort''. +63 915 177 6023.''Greenview Resort''. +63 916 403 7788.''Deep Moon Resort''. +63 919 322 3054.''Hashtag Tourist Inn''. +63 921 358 5212.''Ausan Cottages''. +63 929 444 0582.''Le Cou De Tou''. +63 927 615 5739.''JBR Tourist Inn''. +63 939 596 2197.''You can also go camping! You can pitch tents in some parts of the beach. Or you can camp in''Inaladelan Island Resort''. Inaladelan Island, also called German Island, is a private resort that can be reached after a 15-20- minute boat ride. Here, you can camp out overnight. They provide the tents with foam bed, meals, kayak, and roundtrip boat transfers. They also have basic toilet facilities. Rate: P2500 per person (minimum of 2 pax).''Things to Do in Port Barton''To be honest, Port Barton does not have as many activities to offer as the other Palawan destinations like Coron, El Nido, or Puerto Princesa. Its main draw is its serenity, something that has been slowly slipping away from the others. Don’t go to Port Barton to party or to ride an ATV or to zipline or to see massive limestone cliffs. Go because you want the most relaxing getaway. Go because you want to get away from all the chaos. Go because you seek some peace of mind.''That said, it doesn’t mean that you won’t have anything to do here. You can still fill your day with exciting hours with nature.''Island Hopping Tours''Vins and I in Port Barton''The most popular activity here is going on a boat tour to some nearby islands and reefs. Tours are tagged from A to D, each with their own stops. They’re pretty similar to each other.''Duration'': 9am-4pm''Standard rate'': P700-800 per person''Lunch''is included in all tours''Here are the stops per tour.''TOUR A''Exotic Island''German Island (Inaladelan Island)''Twin Reef''Fantastic Reef''TOUR B''Paradise Island''German Island (Inaladelan Island)''Aquarium Reef''Wide Reef''TOUR C''Exotic Island''German Island (Inaladelan Island)''Paradise Island''Fantastic Reef''TOUR D''Exotic Island''Marine Sanctuary''Bigaho Waterfalls''Sandbar''If you want to mix them up, you can charter a private boat instead, which costs P3000-P4000 per boat. (Or you can talk to the boat captain.)''Note that Inaladelan Island (German Island), being a private resort, collects an additional P100 entrance fee per person. Speaking of Inaladelan Island…''Camping at Inaladelan Island (German Island)''This is my favorite beach in the entire Port Barton area. Locals call it German Island because it used to be owned by a German guy, according to our boatmen. But now, the new owners have converted it into a private resort and switched to its old name, Inaladelan.''Inaladelan Island can be visited as part of an island hopping tour, but if you want to stay longer, you can camp out too. There are no rooms or cottages here, but you can rent a tent with foam bed for a more comfortable stay.''Here are the rates and inclusions:''DAY TRIP''Rate: P1500 per person, minimum of 5 pax.''Includes: round trip boat transfers from Port Barton, entrance fee, light snack, and lunch.''OVERNIGHT STAY''Rate: P2500 per person, minimum of 2 pax.''Includes: round trip boat transfers from Port Barton, tents with foam bed, meals (lunch, breakfast), and kayak rental.''They also have basic toilet facilities.''Pamuayan Waterfalls''A post shared by AdventureMan (@angelguerrero_7)''on''Jan 26, 2018 at 9:08pm PST''This small cascade can be reached after a 1.5-hour trek through the forest and across some streams. But because this is off the beaten path, the trail isn’t conspicuous and can be confusing. It’s best to have a local guide for P300. Its cold water is perfect for a refreshing dip! If you decide to bring food, please take the trash back with you.''Other Attractions''Irawan Beach (near Long Beach) in San Vicente''Itaytay Beach''. Although Port Barton’s main beach, called Itaytay Beach, pales in comparison to the sand strips cradled by the islands, it’s still a pretty good place to just laze around. My favorite part is the northern end with a sandbar sticking out to the sea.''Secret Paradise Resort & Turtle Sanctuary''. This eco-tourism destination takes pride in being “the only turtle sanctuary in the Philippines endorsed by WWF-Philippines”. I’m not sure if they’re open to day-trippers, but confirmed guests (those with room reservation) can access this 77-hectare nature reserve and its four beaches. Some green sea turtles, hawksbill turtles, and Olive Ridley turtles are also known to lay eggs at the site from October-March, the turtle season.''Sunset watching''. Port Barton faces west, which makes it a front row for watching spectacular sunsets! Nothing is more soothing!''Long Beach''. You can also visit Long Beach, the longest stretch of sand in Palawan, located near the poblacion of San Vicente, which is 1 hour away by boat. There are no regular boat trips, but you can charter a private boat for P2000 one-way or P4000 for a tour. If you’re backpacking alone, try to find other travelers to join you and split the cost. Another way to do it is to catch the Magdalena boat that usually sails to San Vicente at around 8am. Fare is around P150. However, since Magdalena only travels once a day, you will need to arrange a private boat to ferry you back to Port Barton.''Sample Port Barton Itinerary''Here’s a sample weekend itinerary. Feel free to adjust to match your preferences. Also included is the breakdown of expenses.''This itinerary assumes the following:''You’re a party of 2'', splitting some expenses.''Your hotel budget is P1200 per night.''Divide that by 2 pax so prepare to shell out P600 per night.''You’re coming from Puerto Princesa Airport''and traveling by bus to Port Barton on your first day.''You’ll be paying the standard rates of tours''. You can haggle, of course. But if you can afford it, don’t. Port Barton isn’t a touristy place, so locals don’t have much to earn money from.''Anyway, here it is.''Day 1: PUERTO PRINCESA TO PORT BARTON''07:20 am – Arrival at Puerto Princesa Airport''08:00 am – Ride tricycle to San Jose Terminal, P60 (P120/2pax)''08:30 am – Buy food for the road, P120''09:00 am – Board Bus to Port Barton, P250''01:00 pm – Arrival in Port Barton''01:10 pm – Pay environmental fee at tourism booth, P50''01:40 pm – Hotel check-in''02:30 pm – Merienda, P100''04:00 pm – Walk along the beach, book tours''05:30 pm – Watch the sunset''06:30 pm – Dinner, P200''08:30 pm – Back to Hotel, chill''09:00 pm – Good night!''Day 2: ISLAND HOPPING''07:30 am – Wake up call''09:00 am – Start Island Hopping Tour, P800''05:00 pm – Change clothes, rest''06:00 pm – Dinner, P200''08:00 pm – Back to hotel''09:00 pm – Good night!''Day 3: PAMUAYAN FALLS''05:30 am – Wake up''06:00 am – Start trek to Pamuayan Falls, P150 (P300/2pax)''07:30 am – Enjoy the waterfall!''09:30 am – Trek back to the village''11:00 am – Back to hotel, freshen up''12:00 pm – Check out''12:30 pm – Lunch, P200''01:30 pm – Bus to Puerto Princesa, P250''05:30 pm – Trike to Airport, P60 (P120/2pax)''06:00 pm – Airport Check-in, Terminal Fee: P200''07:40 pm – Fly back to Manila''This itinerary will set you back around''PhP3900 (USD75, EUR60, SGD100)'', excluding airfare.''You can still bring down the cost by staying in a cheaper inn or homestay and slashing a bit from your food budget.''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Pay the P50 environmental fee'', good for 10 days. You need to register and pay this at the tourism center. Don’t lose the slip/card that will be given to you. Sometimes, before island hopping tours, guests are checked whether or not they have settled payment for this.''Bring insect repellent lotion'', especially if you plan to go trekking or island hopping. Protect yourself from mosquitoes. Watch out for sand flies too.''Bring your own reusable water bottle'', so you don’t need to buy bottled water over and over again. Just have the bottle refilled at your hotel or at your lunch/dinner stops. Not only will you save money, you also get to reduce waste.''Electricity is available only from 5:30pm to 12 midnight''. If we haven’t highlighted that enough, here we are reminding you again. If you plan on taking work with you and you need power, choose a hotel with generator. Bring power banks (mobile batteries) for your phone!''Puerto Princesa Airport collects a P200 terminal fee''. Make sure you don’t spend every single peso you have before your flight out.''Drone Photos by: Vins Carlos''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Snapshot: Waking Up to Paradise in PORT BARTON, PALAWAN''Uncovering Irawan Beach: San Vicente, Palawan, Philippines''Long Beach, San Vicente, Palawan: The Longest White Beach in the Philippines''EL NIDO PALAWAN ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itineraries''Coron and Busuanga: Budget Travel Guide''CORON ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''If you trace my history as a travel blogger, you’ll probably find the very roots of it in Puerto Princesa City.''It happened over 10 years ago. My grandfather had passed away and I needed to fly to Puerto Princesa to attend the wake and the funeral. In the middle of mourning, I was captivated by the city. I had never seen one as clean, green, and organized as the Palawan capital. Prior to this trip, I had never traveled far for leisure, not counting the Boy Scout jamborees I joined as a child. I was already keeping a blog then, not this travel blog but just an online personal journal for my random musings. After that trip, I found myself writing about a place for the first time. I planned to return just to explore the city, something I wasn’t able to do that time, but it didn’t happen soon enough, for financial reasons. It would take more than two long years before I set foot in the city again; thanks to a company outing. That was the first of the many times I would find myself''Since then, Puerto Princesa has been my favorite city in the country. Even when I’m bound for another Palawan destination like El Nido or San Vicente, I would find time to stop and stay longer in the city, not just for personal, sentimental reasons. The city has a wealth of attractions, topped with good food, outstanding cleanliness, and friendly, disciplined people.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Puerto Princesa''Best Time to Visit Puerto Princesa''How to Get to Puerto Princesa''Puerto Princesa Airport to City Center''Where to Stay in Puerto Princesa''Top Budget Hotels Below P2000''Top Puerto Princesa Hostels, Inns, & BnBs Below P1000''Search for more: Puerto Princesa Hotels''Puerto Princesa Tours: Places to Visit''Puerto Princesa Underground River Tour''Honda Bay Tour''Puerto Princesa City Tour''Iwahig Firefly Watching Tour''Kamia Bay Inflatable Island''Nagtabon Beach''Other Attractions''Where to Eat in Puerto Princesa''Sample Puerto Princesa Itinerary with Expenses Breakdown''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Puerto Princesa''Puerto Princesa City is the capital of and the only city in Palawan, Philippines. While it is considered a highly urbanized city, it still looks and feels more like a big town. And in the past few years, more like a boomtown. The city has been transforming, developing at a rate faster than I gain weight. Haha. A few new malls and several new big hotels now stand in what used to be a virtually flat city proper.''Yet, tourism here is highly organized and synchronized. Almost all sectors of the industry — from the tour guides to tricycle drivers to boatmen — have their own associations, working collaboratively with each other. This combination of infrastructure, organization, policy, and natural wonders make Puerto Princesa an ideal destination even for first-timers, seniors, and children.''A post shared by VINS & YOSH 🇵🇭 (@thepoortraveler)''on''Apr 7, 2018 at 4:27am PDT''By land area, Puerto Princesa is the second largest city in the Philippines. It is also the least densely populated. In 2012, it gained more international attention when the Puerto Princesa Underground River was declared one of the New 7 Wonders of Nature, pushing the number of tourist arrivals to skyrocket and cementing the city’s place as a tourism powerhouse.''It is also a convenient gateway to other parts of the province. El Nido, San Vicente, and even Balabac can be easily accessed from here.''More info you need to know:''Language'': Tagalog is spoken by the majority. But English is widely understood and spoken. A significant fraction of the population also speaks Cuyonon and other Visayan languages.''Currency'': Philippine peso (PHP, ₱). PHP100 is around USD1.92, EUR 1.56, SGD2.52 (as of April 2018).''Modes of payment'': Cash! While some accept credit card transactions, most establishments prefer cash.''Money Exchange'': There are money changers and banks aplenty all around the city. The most popular is probably AS Money Changer along Rizal Avenue. If you’re uncomfy, there’s always the banks. For example, BDO Rizal Avenue Branch exchange major currencies to Philippine pesos. You can also withdraw from ATMs. Speaking of ATMs…''ATM''. The city is littered with banks and ATM machines, so it’s not a problem. Many accept visa/mastercard withdrawals.''Electricity Info'': 220V, 60Hz. Socket Type A, mostly.''Best Time to Visit Puerto Princesa''January to April''. These dry months are the sunniest. However, this period is also the peak season, especially March and April, which are widely considered the “summer” months in the Philippines. For me, the most ideal time to visit Puerto Princesa is January-February. Weather’s still fine but the place isn’t that crowded.''Source: World Bank Climate Portal''Palawan is located in the western extreme of the country, isolated from most other main islands. It is not in the usual typhoon track (yay). But because it is sandwiched by two major seas, the West Philippine Sea to its north and Sulu Sea to the south, its weather system is a bit different. November sees the start of the dry season for the rest of the country, but it’s still pretty damp in Palawan. Short and passing rain showers are also expected in the afternoon even on some summer days. In fact, on our most recent trip a week ago — and I’m writing this in April, the middle of the supposedly dry season — rain was pouring. So yeah, you can’t really tell, most of the time.''How to Get to Puerto Princesa''Puerto Princesa (PPS) has an international airport that is now much bigger and more equipped. As a major tourist destination, the city is served by all major local airlines. But the cheapest flights are operated by AirAsia.''Below is a quick random scan of Manila-Puerto Princesa flights on Traveloka.''AirAsia flies to Puerto Princesa from Manila, Cebu, Clark, and Davao.''Puerto Princesa Airport to City Center''First of all, the Puerto Princesa International Airport is''in''the city center. It’s smack at the center of the poblacion, so yay! (I have even tried walking from here! It was a loooong walk, though.)''Second, most big hotels and resorts offer free airport transfers so you might want to check with them first. If not, then the cheapest option is the tricycle.''Here are the tricycle fares for journeys from the airport to various parts of the city.''To any part of the area surrounding the airport (Bancao-Bancao): P50''To Rizal Avenue: P50''To the pier: P50''To A&A Plaza Hotel: P50''To Immaculate Conception Cathedral: P50''To Brg. San Pedro: P70''To San Jose Terminal: P120''To Honda Bay (Sta. Lourdes): P350''The tricycles are stationed outside the airport vicinity, so you’ll have to walk a little bit to get to them.''Where to Stay in Puerto Princesa''The biggest concentration of accommodations in Puerto Princesa is in the city center. Unless you want to spend the night on an island, then I strongly recommend staying in the city proper so you could also experience the sedated urban vibe. This will expose you to the many restaurants, bars, and shops that the city can offer.''Top Budget Hotels Below P2000''These are the top-rated accommodations on Traveloka as scored by their users.''Grande Vista Hotel. Image provided by Traveloka.''Grande Vista Hotel.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Palawan Uno Hotel.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Citystate Asturias Palawan.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Villa Manuel Tourist Inn.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Top Puerto Princesa Hostels, Inns, & BnBs Below P1000''By the Bay Jacana. Image provided by Traveloka.''By The Bay Jacana.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Marianne Home Inn.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Marie Ville Bed and Breakfast.''Check Rates & Availability''.''La Belle Pension.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Search for more:''Puerto Princesa Hotels''.''Puerto Princesa Tours: Places to Visit''Tourism operations in the city are highly organized. The guides are professionally trained, itineraries thoughtfully composed, and boatmen compliant to both environmental and security guidelines. While it is possible to pull a DIY in Puerto Princesa to lower the costs, most tourists just avail of packaged tours for a more convenient, hassle-free experience.''Below are the best attractions and activities in Puerto Princesa. I also added some links to Klook, where you can book tours easily. If you book with Klook, we’ll earn a little bit at no extra cost to you, so please book using the links below. *wink, wink*''Puerto Princesa Underground River Tour''Puerto Princesa Underground River''The city’s very own world wonder and UNESCO World Heritage Site!''If you can only avail of one packaged tour, make it this one. The number of visitors allowed per day is limited, and guests must register in advance. I suggest arranging with a tour operator for this one if you don’t want to go through the hassle of doing the paperwork and securing a vehicle to Sabang Beach and back.''This tour will take you on a two-hour drive to Sabang Beach, which is the takeoff point to the Subterranean River National Park. Arranged tours cost P1750 to P2200 per person inclusive of a buffet lunch, audio guide, and round trip land and boat transfers.''Klook’s tour is only at P1750 per person, which is a good deal!''RESERVE A SLOT HERE''Honda Bay Tour''Honda Bay''Travel agencies and hotels usually offer this tour for P1450 per person. Pull a do-it-yourself and you’ll end up saving a lot especially if you’re part of a big group. Take a trike to Lourdes Wharf and ask the driver to pick you up hours later. One-way journey costs from P350.''At the wharf, you can join a group tour or rent a private boat. The boatman will take you to at least 3 islands.  Here are the rates:''Group Tour'': P250 per person''Private Boat''(good for 20 pax): P1500 per boat''You will also have to settle the environmental fees, entrance fees, and cottage rental costs on your own. Here are the rates:''Environmental Fee:''P150''per head''Starfish Island Entrance Fee:''P50''per head''Cowrie Island Entrance Fee:''P50''per head''Luli Island Entrance Fee:''P60''per head''Pambato Reef:''P50''per head''Starfish Island Cottage Rental:''P50''per cottage''Cowrie Island Cottage Rental:''P250''per cottage''Snorkeling Gear Rental:''P150''per set''Aqua Shoes Rental:''P150''per pair''Of course, you can also just join a packaged tour if you want to just relax and not deal with these transfers and fees on your own. Honda Bay Tour rates are usually between P1400 and P1500.''Klook’s Honda Bay Tour costs only P1400.''RESERVE A SLOT HERE''Puerto Princesa City Tour''Puerto Princesa City Tour''A half-day tour that will show you around some attractions within the city. Tour operators’ price tag on this tour is at''P600 per person''but you can hire a tricycle instead for''P600 per tricycle'', which can accommodate up to 4 peeps.''The itinerary usually includes the following:''Palawan Wildlife Rescue and Conservation Center''. Formerly known as Crocodile Farming Institute. There are two types of crocodiles here: the Saltwater Crocodile or Indo-Pacific Crocodile (Crocodylus Porosus) and the Philippine Freshwater Crocodile or Mindoro Crocodile (Crocodylus Mindorensis).''Plaza Cuartel''. Plaza Cuartel is the site of Palawan Massacre. The tunnels were where 150 American prisoners of war were kept during World War II.  But on December 14, 1944, the Japanese decided to kill them all by burning them alive. Many perished but eleven prisoners were able to survive and escape the mass execution.''Mitra’s Ranch''. Owned by the family of the late Senator Ramon Mitra, this piece of land is perched on Sta Monica Heights, which offers a stunning view of the city.''Bakers’ Hill''. Pasalubong stop!''If you prefer exploring in a van than in a tricycle, you can book below.''BOOK THIS TOUR''Iwahig Firefly Watching Tour''A post shared by NIINA (@nkjm_nin)''on''Mar 26, 2018 at 12:51pm PDT''A night of watching fireflies and the stars. A small boat will take you deeper into the mangrove forest in pitch darkness and the boatman will help you spot these incandescent creatures and identify the constellations above. Pre-arranged tours cost P1000-P1500 per person.''JOIN THIS TOUR''Kamia Bay Inflatable Island''Kamia Bay’s Inflatable Island''The newest attraction in Puerto Princesa, Kamia Bay is home to the biggest inflatable water park in Asia! Nestled in Binusalian Bay, it can be reached after a 40-minute ride from the city proper. Aside from the giant wipe-out-ish set, you can also join their eco-tours or ride down their bike trails.''The waterpark (aqua park) can be enjoyed for 1 hour for only P300. But you can book a tour package too. Here are the rates:''1-hour Aqua Park pass:''P300''1 hour Aqua Park pass, eco-tour, and buffet lunch:''P788''1 hour Aqua Park pass, eco-tour, and buffet lunch + roundtrip transfers:''P1188''Unlimited Aqua Park pass, eco-tour, and buffet lunch + roundtrip transfers:''P1788''To book, contact Amika Travels by emailing amikatravels@yahoo.com.''Nagtabon Beach''Nagtabon Beach''Lacing a hidden cove 45 minutes from the Puerto Princesa City Proper, it can be reached by taking the bus going north (Taytay/Roxas/El Nido). Alight in Bacungan (P50) then hail a tricycle to get you to Nagtabon Beach (P250, max 3 pax).''However, there’s not that many buses or tricycles passing by the area, so doing it this way can prove challenging. If you’re a group, you can rent a van for only P3500 or a motorbike for P700.''You can also have this included in your usual Puerto Princesa City Tour for an additional fee. Just talk to your driver.''Other Attractions''A post shared by Kats Gonzalez (@katsgonz)''on''Nov 15, 2017 at 9:08pm PST''Tibag Falls''. This spectacular waterfall is tucked away in Bacungan, around 40 minutes from the city center. To get here, you may board a north-bound bus at San Jose Terminal and get off near Bacungan Bridge (P50). It’s going to be a 2-hour walk from there. You can also join a Klook tour, but it’s pricier.''BOOK THIS TOUR''Ugong Rock Adventures''. Enjoy trekking, spelunking, and ziplining in this adventure park located in Brgy. Tagabinet, north of the city. Travel agencies usually charge P600 per person for a day tour here.''Sabang X-Zipline''. This facility is located near the Underground River and is usually packaged with it. If there is some significant waiting time prior to the underground river tour, this is a good way to kill some time. Rate: P550 per person.''Where to Eat in Puerto Princesa''If traveling on a shoestring, you can always count on the ever reliable carinderias (eateries) throughout the city. Your P100 has a lot of purchasing power and can get you more than a full meal with a drink.''If you’re willing to splurge a little bit, there’s no running out of options. Many big hotels in the city have their own flagship restaurant that highlights their take on a cuisine. For example,''Hue Hotel''houses''Matiz Restaurant and Tapas Bar'', which boasts a mostly Spanish menu.''Princesa Garden Island Resort and Spa''has a dining complex featuring four restaurants including the''Golden Elephant Seafood Village'', which specializes in Thai food.''Balayong Restaurant’s Bagnet''But of course, when in Palawan, stuff your face with Filipino dishes. If you’re looking for a modern twist on your Pinoy favorites, go to Best Western Plus the Ivywall Hotel, home to Balayong Restaurant, an open-air dining place with a bar and grill. My teammate Glenn recently had the pleasure of dining there and he’s been raving about it. “Balayong offers interesting new takes on classic Palaweño and Philippine dishes. Under the guide of celebrity chef Sau Del Rosario, some of the restaurant’s must-try offerings include:  sinuglaw, the classic kilawin (ceviche) made from grilled pork belly, raw fish, vinegar, chilis, and cucumbers; ‘deconstructed’ pochero; and crispy pork bagnet.”''If you’re after Puerto Princesa classics, head over to Rizal Avenue, which is flanked with a number of must-try restaurants, including the following:''Ka Lui''. Arguably the most famous in the city, Ka Lui offers Pinoy seafood specialties. They also give a complimentary fruit salad served on a halved coconut. You need to have prior reservation to secure a seat. Book in advance.''Suggested budget: P400 per pax''.''Kinabuch’s''. This is where you should head for if you want beer to go with your dinner. And in case you miss sampling the notorious tamilok, a wood-dwelling mollusk best eaten raw, this is the place for that last chance to try it!''Suggested budget: P300 per pax''.''Balinsasayaw Restaurant''. An unassuming restaurant offering cheap to mid-range Pinoy dishes. The place has this island vibe, thanks to the nipa and bamboo huts! A value meal costs around P100.''Suggested Budget: P150 per pax''You’ll find them all lined up along Rizal Avenue. You might also want to try those barbeque stalls along the road and have some isaw!''Sample Puerto Princesa Itinerary with Expenses Breakdown''Ready to fly to Puerto Princesa now? Not quite. It’s time to build an itinerary. If you’re gunning for only a weekend trip, you’re in luck. We have already done the dirty work for ya. Here’s a sample itinerary for a 3D/2N getaway, with breakdown of expenses.''Note that this itinerary assumes the following:''You’re a party of 2, splitting some expenses.''You’ll be spending P1200 per night on accommodations. Divided by 2 people, that’s only P600 per night.''You’ll be booking most of the tours via Klook. Their tour rates are competitive.''Here goes!''Day 1: CITY TOUR, IWAHIG FIREFLIES''08:20 am – Arrival in Puerto Princesa''09:00 am – Tricycle to hotel, P25 (P50/2pax)''09:20 am – Hotel check-in''11:00 am – Early lunch''12:30 pm – City Tour (Tricycle), P300 (P600/2pax)''05:00 pm – Iwahig Fireflies Tour, P1050 (''BOOK IT HERE'')''09:30 pm – Back to hotel''10:30 pm – Lights out''Day 2: UNDERGROUND RIVER''06:00 am – Wake up''07:00 am – Underground River Tour, P1740 (''BOOK IT HERE'')''04:00 pm – REST, FREE TIME''07:00 pm – Dinner at Ka Lui or Kinabuch’s, P400''10:00 pm – Lights out''Day 3: HONDAY BAY''06:00 am – Wake up, early check out, leave bags''07:00 am – Honda Bay Tour, P1400 (''BOOK IT HERE'')''02:00 pm – Ask to be dropped off at the public market''02:10 pm – Pasalubong Shopping, FREE TIME''04:30 pm – Back to hotel, pick up bags, freshen up''06:00 pm – Tricycle to airport, P25 (P50/2pax)''06:30 pm – Airport Check-in, Terminal Fee: P200''07:40 pm – Fly back to Manila''This itinerary will set you back only around''P6500 (USD125, EUR101, SGD164)'', excluding airfare and pasalubong.''You can bring the cost down by doing the Honda Bay Tour on your own, which can save you around P500 per person.''If you have more time and funds, I strongly recommend paying San Vicente or El Nido a visit, too.''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Cowrie Island in Honda Bay''Walk when you can''. I find joy in walking around Puerto Princesa. Trees are everywhere, so it doesn’t get as hot as the other “highly urbanized” cities.''Tricycle fare is only P8 for the first 2 km and P1.25 per succeeding km''if you’re going around the city center except the airport. Airport tricycles are operated by a separate TODA and cost more than the usual city trikes.''Bring insect repellent lotion'', especially if you plan to go trekking or island hopping. Protect yourself from mosquitoes.''Bring your own reusable water bottle'', so you don’t need to buy bottled water over and over again. Just have the bottle refilled at your hotel or at your lunch/dinner stops. Not only will you save money, you also get to reduce waste.''Puerto Princesa Airport collects a P200 terminal fee''. Make sure you don’t spend every single peso you have before your flight out.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''PUERTO PRINCESA, PALAWAN: Budget Travel Guide''Casa Linda Inn: Where to Stay in Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''The Tamilok at Kinabuchs: Where to Eat in Puerto Princesa, Palawan''Palawan Butterfly Garden: Beauty and the Bugs in Puerto Princesa, Philippines''Plaza Cuartel and the Puerto Princesa Cathedral, Palawan, Philippines''Ka Lui Restaurant: Where to Eat in Puerto Princesa, Palawan (Splurge Option)''Hokkaido’s kitchens have, for a long time, offered a warm refuge from the region’s famously harsh winters, and out of those havens of heat, some of the most iconic Japanese dishes emerged. For a region that gets buried in snow for half the year, Hokkaido enjoys a reputation as one of Japan’s food meccas, a major destination for local and foreign foodies.''Many of its native dishes have found popularity throughout the rest of Japan and beyond. Even for non-native dishes, Hokkaido locals have found ways to bring in something new and interesting, making each dish distinctly their own.''Aside from climate, geography also plays a huge role in Hokkaido cuisine. As an island with vast fields of fertile land, Hokkaido isn’t wanting for fresh ingredients and assorted flavors.''If you’re planning a trip to Hokkaido, consider this food and beverage guide for the region’s top eats. Along with a brief description of each dish, we’ve included some affordable recommendations, as well as their price range.''Click here''for our multi-city Hokkaido travel guide''Click here''for our budget travel guide for Sapporo, the region’s largest city'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Ramen''Soba''Soup Curry''Ishikari-nabe & Kani-nabe (Hot Pot)''Seafood''Crabs (Kani)''Sea Urchin (Uni)''Hokke''Genghis Khan''Sapporo Beer and Sake''Hokkaido Ice Cream''Yubari melons''Foodie tips for Hokkaido travelers''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Ramen''Sapporo-style Ramen''Ramen''is as Japanese as noodles can get, and every region in Japan has their own take on this classic dish. For its part, Hokkaido contributed not just one but three well-received varieties: The Sapporo, Hakodate, and Asahikawa styles.''Of the three,''Sapporo-style ramen''is the most familiar. Sapporo ramen is defined by its soup base (made from''miso'', or fermented soybean paste), combined with chicken or fish broth and liberal amounts of butter. This rich soup is accompanied by thick, chewy noodles, and topped with pork (''tonkotsu''), corn, cabbage, and seafood.''By contrast,''Hakodate-style ramen''is a relatively simpler variety. It has a salt (''shio'') base with a clear broth and light flavor. Hakodate ramen has thin, stringy noodles, and topped with tonkotsu, spring onions, boiled eggs, and bamboo shoots.''Not to be outdone by Sapporo and Hakodate,''Asahikawa ramen''is characterized by its soy sauce (''shoyu'') base. Rich, fatty, and often spicy, with wavy noodles and a thin film of oil that traps the heat, it is food specially designed for Asahikawa, Japan’s coldest city.''Where to eat:''There’s an unlimited number of fine ramen restaurants in Hokkaido, but for each ramen variety the following are good places to start:''Sapporo ramen: Ganso Ramen Yokocho (Original Ramen Street) in Susukino (3 min walk from Susukino Subway Station in Sapporo)''Hakodate ramen: Seiryu-ken (5 min walk from Hakodate JR Station in Hakodate)''Asahikawa ramen: Asahikawa Ramen Village (5 min walk from Minami-Nagayama JR Station in Asahikawa)''Cost for each bowl is between JPY 700 – 900.''Soba''In addition to ramen, another popular noodle dish in Hokkaido is''soba''or buckwheat noodles. Buckwheat is a common crop in Hokkaido, and the region accounts for about a third of Japan’s buckwheat production. As such, many renowned soba restaurants come from this region. Soba noodles are thick and chewy, but also soft and springy. It is a flexible dish that can be served hot or cold, depending on the season.''Cold soba is regularly served with''tsuyu'', a dipping sauce made from soy sauce, sake and mirin. Once you’re through eating the noodles, you can mix the remaining tsuyu with hot soba water for a flavorful wash-down.''Hot soba is served primarily as a soup, capped with seafood tempura and fresh vegetables.''Where to eat:''Shinoya Handmade Soba Noodle if you’re in Sapporo (5 min walk from Nishi Juitchome Subway Station), price at JPY 500 – 1000 per serving.''Soup Curry''Soup Curry''is a popular soup dish made from classic curry spices, but instead of being thick and oily, as is typical of curry dishes, soup curry is light and watery. The dish is often topped with chicken or pork, seafood, or vegetables. Actually, the toppings vary per restaurant, as each has their own preferences and styles.''Where to eat:''RAMAI, a restaurant chain with several branches throughout Sapporo. The central branch is a 5-minute walk from Shiseikanshogakko-Mae Tram Station. Soup Curry dishes here start at JPY 1000.''Ishikari-nabe & Kani-nabe (Hot Pot)''Ishikari-nabe''is a hot pot that took its name from the longest river in Hokkaido. It has a fish-based broth, usually Hokkaido salmon (hokke). Like Sapporo ramen, Ishikari-nabe uses miso as a base, which makes it distinct from other hot pots. Mixed with the stew are ingredients originating from the Ishikari region, like salmon, cabbages, mushrooms, and tofu.''Another local hot pot dish,''kani nabe'', uses crab as its primary ingredient, with additional toppings of seaweed (kombu), fish flakes, and winter vegetables.''Where to eat:''Takara Sushi at Ishikari City, or Shabu Shabu Dining Youzen in Sapporo, where buffet prices start at JPY 2900 per person.''Seafood''Surrounded by three major bodies of water (the Sea of Japan, the Sea of Okhotsk, and the Pacific Ocean), Hokkaido enjoys a year-round bounty of fresh seafood. Hokkaido is the leading producer of seafood products in Japan, and the local cuisine reflects its significant contribution to the industry.''Crabs (Kani)''Crabs''are a major delicacy in Hokkaido. Even airports have their own crab markets! You can order crabs directly at the New Chitose Airport, and have it packaged, ready for check-in. Preferred crab varieties include king crabs, snow crabs and horsehair crabs. Crabs are either eaten raw as part of a sashimi or donburi bowl, boiled in salt water, or grilled.''Where to get:''The New Chitose Airport has its own crab market. The Sapporo Seafood Market and the Hakodate Morning Market are also great for buying and eating crabs. Crabs, however, aren’t cheap. To satisfy your crab craving, be ready to shell out at least JPY 5000 per meal.''Sea Urchin (Uni)''Uni''or sea urchin is another esteemed seafood in Hokkaido. Hokkaido’s uni tastes almost fruit-like, while still maintaining a briny sea flavor. Harvesting uni is a meticulous process, and should be eaten within the day of harvest.''Where to eat:''Most supermarkets sell uni, often packed in thin plastic boxes, but the freshest uni can be found in the seafood markets, like Sapporo’s Nijo Market or Hakodate’s Morning Market. Fresh uni is around JPY 1000 per pack.''Hokke''The ports of Hokkaido, specifically Hakodate and Otaru, are known as primary sources of mackerel (locally known as hokke) in the region, and''smoked mackerel''is a favorite dish in these areas. Smoked mackerel is a bit like our own''tinapa'', but not as salty or dry. The mackerel is smoked to the point that the flesh can be peeled easily from the skin.''Where to eat:''Minshuku Aozukashokudo restaurant, overlooking the Otaru coast. Aside from smoked mackerel, you can also try out their grilled fish, squid, oysters, and crabs. Meals are around the JP 1000 – 1500 range.''As for mixed seafood dishes, a must-try is''kaisendon'', or sashimi rice bowl. It’s essentially a rice bowl topped with various raw seafood. Popular at lunchtime as a light meal, kaisendon toppings vary from place to place. In Hokkaido, kaisendon usually comes with regional specialties, like crab, uni, salmon roe and shrimp, with pickled vegetable sides.''Where to eat:''Kita no Ryoba in Sapporo, right next to the Chuo Wholesale Market, or, if you’re in Hakodate, Ekini Ichiba at the Hakodate Morning Market. Prices range from JPY 500 – 1500.''Genghis Khan''A post shared by 정재훈 (@hoon_ganzi)''on''Jan 7, 2018 at 5:41pm PST''Genghis Khan''(''Jingisukan'') is a grilled mutton dish endemic to Hokkaido. Lamb meat is grilled on its own fat, cooked on a metal dome, with vegetables on the side. Its name is derived from the fact that, for the Japanese, any mutton dish is associated with Mongolian cuisine. Also, it helps that the domed grill resembles the helmet of a medieval Mongolian warrior.''Coupled with beer, jingisukan is a favorite dish in group or family night-outs.''Where to eat:''Sapporo Beer Garden in Sapporo. It’s right next to the Sapporo Beer Museum and a 15-minute walk from Higashi-kuyakusho-mae Subway Station. An all-you-can-eat buffet costs JPY 2900.''Sapporo Beer and Sake''Of course, a Hokkaido food guide is incomplete if we don’t mention''Sapporo Beer''. Sapporo is the home the oldest breweries in Japan, with continuous production since the 19th Century. If you’re new to Sapporo Beer, the best version to start is their Premium and Light varieties. As for taste, Sapporo beer is sweet and crisp, with a clear hoppy aroma.''Hokkaido also prides itself with their locally-brewed''sake''. Chitosetsuru, the first sake brewery in Hokkaido, is located in downtown Sapporo. Sapporo is noted for its cool, pristine groundwater, perfect for sake brewing.''Nikka whisky'', the famous Japanese brand, also has a brewing factory in the Hokkaido city of Yoichi.''Where to drink:''Sapporo beer: The Sapporo Beer Museum provides an in-depth look at the brewing process, its history and impact in Japanese culture. Plus, for a JPY 500, you get to sample three different brews at the end of the tour.''Sake: Chitusetsuru has its own sake museum where one can take samples of their many brews, as well as enjoy sake-flavored products like ice cream and pastries.''Hokkaido Ice Cream''The cold is no deterrent to the local sweet tooth, and it’s interesting that''soft-serve ice cream''is such a popular treat in a place as cold as Hokkaido. Hokkaido leads Japan in dairy production, so it’s not uncommon for Hokkaido locals to include a lot of dairy in their food, especially in desserts.''The rich, smooth texture is what defines Hokkaido ice cream. While classic flavors like vanilla, chocolate and cheese remain popular, it’s the local flavors you need to try. Each city or town has its own unusual flavor based on local produce, like lavender (Furano), sake (Sapporo), rose (Eniwa), as well as the world-famous Yubari melon.''Where to eat:''Soft-serve ice cream: The New Chitose Airport has more than 20 varieties of soft-serve ice cream available within its vicinities. Major department stores and transport terminals also have ice cream kiosks. Price will range between JPY 200 – 400 per cone/cup.''Yubari melons''A post shared by Lady M. Mumu (@m.ladybehindthekitchen)''on''Jul 21, 2017 at 1:26am PDT''Yubari melons''got its name from the resort city of Yubari east of Sapporo, where most of the esteemed fruit is cultivated. These melons are noted for their sweetness, their almost perfect roundness, and their smooth, thin rind.''While us Filipinos are used to having tropical fruits all the time, the Japanese consider them as luxury, so much that a pair of flawless Yubari King melons were once sold at an auction for a whopping JPY 3,000,000, dubbing it “the most expensive fruit in the world”.''Where to eat:''Yubari melons: A Yubari melon, if bought as one whole fruit, is EXPENSIVE. Typically, Vendors will just sell them per slice, at around JPY 200 – 400. Fresh melons are often sold in morning markets.''Foodie tips for Hokkaido travelers''Sapporo Autumn Festival''. If you happen to travel in Autumn, Sapporo holds a food festival showcasing the best in Hokkaido cuisine. Held in Odori Park, the Sapporo Autumn Fest features food and products from almost every city and municipality in Hokkaido. It’s a great way to try out most of the region’s delicacies, all in one venue.''Major transport hubs frequently have adjacent food markets and restaurants.''Examples include the New Chitose Airport and the Sapporo JR Station.''If you have some leeway to splurge, you can try out a few of the izakaya pubs and shabu-shabu places''found in Sapporo, Otaru, and other major cities. Must-try food places include the Sapporo Beer Garden and Ramen Yokocho in Susukino District.''On the flipside, if your budget is limited, convenience stores (konbini), supermarkets, and vending machines offer delicious food at affordable prices.''My personal favorites are the various''onigiri''(rice balls) found in Lawson and Family Mart.''Special thanks to our friends from''Jetstar Japan''for making our trip to Hokkaido happen. Jetstar offers the only low cost option for travel to Sapporo from Manila, via Tokyo or Osaka. Other than Sapporo, Jetstar Japan also flies to 11 domestic destinations from Tokyo (Narita), including Miyazaki, Fukuoka, and Kumamoto.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Donguri Okonomiyaki Dining: Where to Eat in Kyoto, Japan''10 Food Delights to Try in Japan''Trying Fugu, Japan’s Deadly Delicacy''SAPPORO ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary 2017''Singapore Food Trail: Where to Eat at the Singapore Flyer''OSAKA AND KYOTO: Budget Travel Guide''Here’s our latest budget travel blog about El Nido, Palawan! In this travel guide, you’ll find sample itineraries, breakdown of expenses, and recommendations on hotels and tours.''When I was a child and conjured up an image of a tropical paradise in a daydream, this looked exactly like this world.''When our boat glided through the waves, it was as though we sailed into a karst world straight from a fantasy film. As we moved closer, the cliffs appeared to magically part, as if ushering us in, inviting us to come in and see what the island had to offer. As we moved, these magnificent giant rocks slowly revealed white, sparkling beaches adorned with coconut trees. In this world,  “ugly” is either banned or non-existent. (Then I thought, “Holy eff, what am I doing here?”)''“This is my Narnia,” I mumbled to myself, thinking that the many years I had spent in the closet finally paid off. I chuckled.''How I got here was a matter of fate. El Nido was nowhere under my radar at the time. I was under a foolish impression that only the filthy rich could afford it. But as I was simply browsing the web, I chanced upon a piso sale. I wasn’t enslaved by travel then. A full-time corporate job had the whip in a tight grip. But it was the perfect moment. A classic corporate-slave-meets-freedom moment. Every stress that work had brought me over the past few weeks was blown away by the wind, washed away by the waves of El Nido.''Back then, El Nido was a bit different. It wasn’t as crowded or as developed. I could walk down the length of the town’s main street without running into another tourist. Back then, it wasn’t easy to reach. There weren’t that many flights, and the ride from Puerto Princesa would eat up over seven hours on a half-unpaved road.''My friends enjoying the beach, the sea, and the view!''But as I stood in the middle of it, I knew this would be the first of my many affairs with El Nido. Over the next few years, El Nido would be my go-to place whenever I needed a little bit of uplifting, even despite not being easily accessible. I returned almost every year. That’s the thing about El Nido: it’s playing hard-to-get. But it’s the kind of destination you’d want to marry.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding El Nido''Best Time to Visit El Nido''How to Get to El Nido''Manila to El Nido (Direct Flight)''Manila to Puerto Princesa''Puerto Princesa Airport to El Nido''By Van''By Bus''Coron to El Nido''Where to Stay in El Nido''Top Budget Hotels & Hostels in El Nido''Search for more: El Nido Hotels''El Nido Tours''Tour A''Tour B''Tour C''Tour D''Tour E: Nacpan Beach & Nagkalit-kalit Falls''Taraw Cliff''Where to Eat in El Nido''Sample El Nido Itineraries''4-Day Itinerary''3-Day Itinerary''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding El Nido''The municipality of El Nido encompasses the northernmost tip of the main island of Palawan and the 45 rocky islands dotting Bacuit Bay. A protected area, El Nido is a treasure trove of marine life and spectacular seascape, earning it a consistent place among the best beach destinations in the world.''Although a first-class municipality, El Nido remains a quiet town. The town proper is tiny, with very few big establishments other than small travel agencies, hotels, restaurants, and stores. The nearest city is Puerto Princesa, the capital of Palawan, which is five hours away.''Together with Coron and Puerto Princesa, El Nido is part of the popular tourism triumvirate in Palawan. These are the three most visited destinations in the province. El Nido sits in the middle, accessible from both Coron to its north and Puerto Princesa to its south.''More info you need to know:''Language'': Tagalog is spoken by the majority. But English is widely understood and spoken. A significant fraction of the population also speaks Cuyonon and other Visayan languages.''Currency'': Philippine peso (PHP, ₱). PHP100 is around USD1.92, EUR 1.56, SGD2.52 (as of April 2018).''Modes of payment'': Cash! Most establishments prefer cash. Only a few resorts and restaurants accept credit card transactions. Many tour agencies are on cash-only basis.''Money Exchange''. Some restaurants and pawnshops exchange major currencies to Philippine pesos. However, it is best practice to already have pesos before you arrive because they’re not always available. Exchange while you’re in Puerto Princesa or Manila.''ATM''. There is only one ATM in El Nido (BPI), but don’t count on it. Withdraw cash while you’re in Puerto Princesa or Manila, before coming to El Nido.''Connectivity'': Most hotels offer free wi-fi but they can be slow. Both Globe and Smart have good reception in main settlements like the town proper, so it’s better to just use cellular data.''Safety'': El Nido has a very, very low crime rate. But please don’t leave your belongings just anywhere. There are also no hospitals here, so please be very careful. The nearest major medical center is in Puerto Princesa. Also, there are no terrorists in El Nido.''Electricity Info'': 220V, 60Hz. Socket Type A, mostly. Electricity supply in El Nido can be erratic. Power outages are not uncommon. Ask your hotel if they have a backup generator so you’re not in the dark in case of blackout.''Best Time to Visit El Nido''January to April. These dry months are the sunniest. However, this period is also the peak season, especially March and April, which are widely considered the “summer” months in the Philippines. For me, the most ideal time to visit El Nido is January-February. Weather’s still fine but the place isn’t crowded.''Source: World Bank Climate Portal''Thanks to its location (and isolation), mainland Palawan isn’t hit by typhoons as often as the other parts of the Philippines. It’s wired differently. November sees the start of the dry season for the rest of the country, but it’s still pretty damp in El Nido. Short and passing rain showers are also expected in the afternoon even on some “dry season” days.''How to Get to El Nido''Manila to El Nido (Direct Flight)''AirSwift''is the only airline that flies from Manila directly to Lio Airport in El Nido. They operate up to four flights per day.''An off-peak one-way fare is at P5100 (including taxes, a meal in Manila, and welcome snacks El Nido). An additional P200 is collected for 10kg baggage allowance.''At the airport, you can travel by tricycle to the city center. Travel time: 30 minutes. Fare: 200.''Manila to Puerto Princesa''If Airswift’s rates are a bit taller than your budget, you can fly to Puerto Princesa instead. Then travel by land from there.''Puerto Princesa (PPS) has an international airport that is now much bigger and more equipped. Flights to PPS are generally cheaper than direct flights to El Nido. And they can go extremely low during seat sales.''Below is a quick random scan of flights on Traveloka.''AirAsia and Cebu Pacific Air offer the lowest fares but the published rates don’t include baggage allowance, seat selection, and meals. Philippine Airlines’ have all these add-ons included in their published rates.''Puerto Princesa Airport to El Nido''To reach El Nido from Puerto Princesa International Airport, you have two options: by van and by bus.''By Van''This is probably the most popular option among tourists because it’s slightly faster. If you book in advance, the van can pick you up at the airport and take you straight to El Nido in 5-6 hours.''Here are the companies offering this service:''Eulen Joy Express''Contact No.: +63 915 829 3735''Facebook page''Lexxuss Shuttle''Contact No.: +63 917 686 1118''Facebook page''Fort Wally Travel & Tours''Contact No.: +63 917 276 2875''Facebook page''DayTripper Palawan''Contact Numbers: +63 917 8488755, +63 920 4966975''Email: hello@daytripperpalawan.com''Website:''www.daytripperpalawan.com''There are a lot more van companies plying the Puerto Princesa-El Nido route, but the four above are the most prominent.''Travel time is usually 5-6 hours''. Based on experience, these vans are fast. That’s both a good thing and a bad thing. I sometimes find myself saying a silent prayer in the middle of the journey. And I’m not even religious!''Fare is usually between P550 and P600''. However, Fort Wally sometimes brings the cost down to P450 when they have a promo. Locals usually get a discount.''Some of these vans don’t leave until they’re full''. But it doesn’t take that long these days.''DayTripper charges more''. At''P875-P975''per trip, DayTripper goes the extra mile by picking up and dropping off passengers in front of their hotel, instead of the terminal. They are also known for their excellent service (with seatbelts!), and they only need 5 passengers to go.''All van journeys stop halfway for a quick restroom and snack break.''By Bus''The bus is another option. It’s my preferred option, actually. Buses are more comfortable now than before, more comfortable than the vans (at least in my opinion). Wider legroom, cooler temperature, and just bigger breathing space overall. Haha. The downside: it’s slower, taking 6-7 hours. And there are fewer journeys per day. But if you’re not in a big hurry, it’s a great option.''Here’s how to take the bus to El Nido.''Walk to the gate of the airport.''Hail a tricycle and ask to be taken to San Jose Terminal. Fare is P120 per ride. Split the cost if you’re a group. Alternatively, you can take a trike+jeepney combo, which is cheaper. But since I’m guessing you have heavy bags in tow, just go straight to the San Jose Terminal.''Board a bus to El Nido.''Two bus companies to choose from: RoRo Bus and Cherry Bus.''RoRo Bus''Ordinary: P290''Airconditioned: P380''Operating hours: 5am-9pm''Frequency: Every 2 hours''Cherry Bus''Ordinary: P385''Airconditioned: P480''Operating hours: 4am-10pm''Frequency: Every 2 hours''Both buses will make several stops along the way to pick up more passengers, the longest will be in Roxas.''The bus will terminate at the station in El Nido. From there, you can take a tricycle to your hotel or resort. Fare is P50.''Coron to El Nido''Montenegro Fastcraft launched in September 2016 a new Coron-El Nido (and vice versa) route, which cuts the travel time to only 4 hours. Schedule and rates below.''Where to Stay in El Nido''El Nido’s poblacion is composed of four barangays (villages): Buena Suerte, Corong-Corong, Maligaya, and Masagana. Together, they occupy two small peninsulas that jut out into Bacuit Bay.''What most people refer to as the “Town Proper” is actually the settlement parallel to the beach in Brgy. Buena Suerte. Just next to it is Brgy. Masagana, best known for several more resorts and Calaan Beach. Corong-corong lies on the southern cape, with its nooks and crannies filled with fine sand.''There are four main areas where you can stay:''Town Proper (Buena Suerte)''. This is where most of the action is. Its streets are flanked with tour offices, small hotels, and restaurants. Of all these areas, it was the first to be developed. It also has a teensy bit of nightlife.''Corong-Corong''. Tucked in the southern beaches of the poblacion, it has that isolated tropical paradise feel. It’s the area nearest the bus terminal.''Calaan Beach (Masagana)''. Resorts have also begun flourishing in the area, but just like Corong Corong, it doesn’t feel crowded either.''The Islands''. Accommodations on the islands are mostly luxury resorts, which are totally expensive, so let’s pretend they don’t exist. LOL''If you’re in El Nido for some peace and quiet, stay in either Corong-Corong or Calaan. But if you just want convenience, the town proper is still the best choice.''Top Budget Hotels & Hostels in El Nido''My favorite place to stay in El Nido is''SPIN DESIGNER HOSTEL''. It’s clean and well-maintained, has friendly service, and an environment that is conducive to forging friendships with other travelers. Because it’s in the town proper, almost everything I need is within easy reach.''Coincidentally, SPIN HOSTEL is also the #1 top-rated property on Traveloka, so I guess I’m not the only fan. Here are the rest of the highest ranking budget accommodations as scored by online users.''Spin Designer Hostel''. Town Proper. Our best hostel experience in El Nido. Perfect for backpackers and solo travelers. Offers dorms and private rooms, with fantastic common areas.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Ricgem Place''. Maligaya.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Mina Grande Beach Cottage''. Corong Corong.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Sheryl May Inn''. Corong Corong.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Garnet Hotel El Nido''. Town Proper.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Balay Paragua''. Town Proper.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Aside from these, you can find basic, no-frills dormitories that offer beds for P800 and below per night. One of these is''At The Moment Hostel''in the town proper and''Dormitels.ph''in Corong-corong (P800 per night), but I haven’t tried either.''Search for more:''El Nido Hotels''El Nido Tours''One great thing about El Nido is that most key attractions, especially the islands and beaches, are grouped into tour packages. For example, the lagoons of Miniloc Island and Seven Commandos Beach are bundled together and marketed as''Tour A''.''The tours are also regulated and standardized. Boatmen and travel agencies must abide by the rules and guidelines that they set in order to provide a smoother and more consistent service to tourists. A price ceiling is in effect, which means tour operators cannot sell tours at rates higher than what has been set by the government.''If you’re alone or a small group, you will be merged with other smaller groups to fill a boat. If you want a private boat, you can charter one too.''These rules apply to group tours:''All group tours start at 9am and end between 4pm-5pm.''Lunch is included. The boatmen will prepare lunch on one of the stops during the tour. Lunch must be composed of the following: grilled fish, grilled pork or chicken, rice, vegetables, and fruits (usually bananas, watermelons, or pineapples). WATER is usually not included, so bring your own.''Here are the details of each tour. I’ve been fortunate enough to try all of these tours!''I also included Klook links for Tours A, B, and C below.''Klook’s offers are lower than the standard rates and include hotel pickup and drop-off.''Tour A''If it’s your first time in El Nido, choose''Tour A''.''Tour A''Tour A takes you around the limestone paradise of Miniloc Island and its iconic lagoons. The sights at Miniloc are usually the ones perfectly captured in postcards. There are a couple of beach stops: one in Simizu Island and another at the 7 Commandos Beach in mainland El Nido.''Simizu Island is the usual lunch stop. But if it gets too crowded, the boatman picks an alternative, usually Payong-Payong Beach. But if you really want to see Simizu (or Payong Payong), just let the boatman know so he wouldn’t skip it.''You can go kayaking around Small Lagoon or Big Lagoon! Let the boatman know beforehand that you intend to kayak so they can prepare the units for you before you leave town.''Stops'': Small Lagoon and Big Lagoon on Miniloc Island, Simizu Island, Entulala Island, Payong Payong Beach, and 7 Commando Beach.''Usual Price'': P1200/person''BOOK THIS DISCOUNTED TOUR''Tour B''Although half of the stops of this tour are caves, its most well-known attraction is Snake Island, which is actually a narrow sandbar that connects mainland Palawan to neighboring Vigan Island.''Stops'': Snake Island, Cudugnon Cave, Pinagbuyutan Island, Cathedral Cave,''Usual Price'': P1300/person''BOOK THIS DISCOUNTED TOUR''Tour C''If you’re powder-chasing, sun-worshipping beach bum, Tour C might be a better bet. Its main attractions are its fine, white beaches that hug the jagged coastline of Matinloc Island and Helicopter Island.''Vins enjoying Tour C''The highlight of the trip is the''Secret Beach'', a hidden pocket of fine sand enclosed by towering karst cliffs, which is widely believed to have inspired author Alex Garland to write his novel''The Beach'', at least according to legend.. It is accessible only via a small opening that requires visitors to swim through it. Some of my friends got injured on the way.''Note, however, that Matinloc Island is a bit farther, which is why it costs more. Also, it faces the violent West Philippine Sea, exposing the passengers to bigger waves. If your time allows you to multiple tours,''make sure to do Tour C first if the weather is pleasant''. Boatmen are more likely to cancel Tour C during inclement weather. The waters circled by Tours A, B and D remain calm most of the time.''Stops'': Matinloc Shrine, Matinloc Island, Secret Beach, Hidden Beach, Tapuitan Island, Helicopter Island''Usual Price'': P1400/person''JOIN THIS DISCOUNTED TOUR''Tour D''Tour D was the last that I tried because I had always treated it as a last resort. Tour D explores the beaches of Cadlao Island and a few on mainland El Nido.''Stops'': Nat Nat Beach, Pasandigan Cove, Paradise Beach, Ubugon Cave, Bukal Island, Cadlao Lagoon''Price'': P1200/person''Tour E: Nacpan Beach & Nagkalit-kalit Falls''Nacpan Beach''Aside from the island attractions, El Nido has a lot of treasured hidden inland. This time, no need to hop onto a boat. You can simply hail a tricycle or rent a van. Here are the rates:''Tricycle tour'': P1500, good for up to 4 pax''Van rental'': P3000, good for up to 12 pax''Motorcycle rental'': P500 per day''The rates above cover transportation only. Food is not included. Rates are PER TRIP, not per person. If you’re a group of four sharing a tricycle ride, each should only pay P375.''Stops'': Nacpan and Calitang Twin Beach, Nagkalit-kalit Falls, Las Cabanas or Marimegmeg Beach''To book, contact Northern Hope Tours at +63 927-735-3221 (Globe) and +63 939-902-2216 (Smart).''Taraw Cliff''One of the things I haven’t done in any of my visits is to climb Taraw Cliff, famous for what many consider the most breathtaking view of El Nido. With steep and knife-like rocks, the original trail is also notorious for being dangerous. I have never mustered enough courage to do it. Maybe a few years ago, when I was young, nimble and healthy, I would do it without batting an eyelash, if I had the chance. But now that I’m a walking gelatin, maybe not. That’s not cowardice. That’s just being self-aware. Hahaha''Anyway, apparently, there exists a SAFER trail! If you approach the mountain through''Ferrata Nature’s Canopy Walk''. The jump off point is within the town proper so it shouldn’t be hard to find.''They also provide guides and helmets to guests. The viewpoint isn’t as high as the one at the end of the other trail, but it is said to be close enough. But it’s far safer. Yeah, I said that before. Just reiterating.''Hours open:''Daily, 8am-5pm''Price'': P500''Where to Eat in El Nido''El Nido seems to not have a distinct, world-famous cuisine, but it has an emerging food scene, led by boutique restaurants. I can’t count the number of food places that I have tried here over the past several years. Those fostering a unique vibe win in El Nido. Whether it’s a spectacular view or the character-filled interiors, the most popular dining places in El Nido are those that go beyond food and adds a little something to the experience. Sadly, however, most of them are overpriced, charging P350-P450 for a meal that is forgettable at best.''Two restaurants stand out in my memory: Trattoria Altrove and Artcafe.''Trattoria Altrove''is an Italian restaurant in the town proper (a short walk from Spin Hostel, but they have another branch in Corong-corong). I was with a group of friends when I dined here. Everyone on our group ordered something different and we loved every single dish served to us, from the wood-fired oven pizza to the risotto. A pizza costs somewhere between P320 (margherita) and P650 (with truffles), while pasta between P300 and P350.''Artcafe''is one of the oldest restaurants (and shops) in town, best known for their view of Cadlao Mountain and the beach. I’ve only dined here once and when I did, I got drunk. I don’t remember what I ordered anymore or whether it was good or not. But I remember the beer. Artcafe serves local craft beers from Palaweno Brewery. I tried all the varieties available that night, which explains why I don’t remember anything. Sorry about that. Haha''Not all restaurants in El Nido cater to the aspirational Instagram-influencer in you. Your practical side would be glad to know that there are cheaper options too. Typical carinderias serve dishes for less than P100. Places like IBR Fast Food may not be IG-worthy (LOL) but they serve a filling meal for P90-P150. Tapsilog and pansit, anyone?''Sample El Nido Itineraries''Below are two sample El Nido itineraries, which you can use as basis for your own. Just make the necessary adjustments to match your preferences. Also included is the breakdown of expenses.''This itinerary assumes the following:''You’re a party of 2'', splitting some expenses.''You’ll be staying at SPIN HOSTEL dorm''or any room in the town proper for P1000 per night.''You’re coming from Puerto Princesa Airport''and traveling by bus to El Nido on your first day. This means that much of your Day 1 will be spent in transit. You’ll arrive in El Nido in the early afternoon and give you plenty of free time after that. Use this time to scan, compare, and book tours.''You’re taking the overnight bus to Puerto Princesa on your journey back''. This way, you get to maximize your last day and save one hotel night. Your flight should be in the early morning of the next day.''You’ll be paying the standard rates of tours''. You can haggle for much lower rates especially if you’re a big group. But for this itinerary, I decided to just use the standard rates so you have extra budget allowance.''4-Day Itinerary''For me, this is an ideal itinerary. Given everything that I know now, if I would be visiting El Nido for the first time, this is how I would do it. This itinerary won’t give you the cheapest trip, but it will allow you to experience the best of El Nido at a relaxing pace.''Day 1: PUERTO PRINCESA TO EL NIDO''07:20 am – Arrival at Puerto Princesa Airport''08:00 am – Ride tricycle to San Jose Terminal, P60 (P120/2pax)''08:30 am – Buy food for the road, P120''09:00 am – Board Bus to El Nido, P480''03:00 pm – Arrival at El Nido Terminal''03:10 pm – Trike to Hostel, P25 (P50/2pax)''03:30 pm – Hostel check-in''04:30 pm – Pay environmental fee at tourism office, P200''05:00 pm – Walk around town, book tours''06:30 pm – Dinner at Altrove, P400''07:30 pm – Back to Hostel, chill''09:00 pm – Good night!''Day 2: TOUR A''06:00 am – Wake up call''07:00 am – Breakfast, FREE''09:00 am – Start TOUR A, P1200''05:00 pm – Change clothes, rest''06:00 pm – Dinner at IBR Fast Food, P150''08:00 pm – Back to hotel''09:00 pm – Good night!''Day 3: TOUR C''06:00 am – Wake up call''07:00 am – Breakfast''09:00 am – TOUR C, P1400''05:00 pm – Change clothes, rest''06:00 pm – Dinner and booze at Artcafe, P500''09:00 pm – Good night!''Day 4: TOUR E, DEPARTURE''06:00 am – Wake up call, early check out''07:30 am – TOUR E, P750 (P1500/2pax)''11:00 am – Early lunch, P250''12:00 pm – Continue Tour E''04:30 pm – Freshen up, pick up bags''07:00 pm – Dinner, P150''09:00 pm – Trike to Bus Terminal, P25 (P50/2pax)''10:00 pm – Bus to Puerto Princesa, P480''04:00 am – Trike to Airport, P60 (P120/2pax)''05:00 am – Check in, Airport Terminal Fee: P200''07:20 am – Flight out''If you follow this itinerary, prepare to shell out''P9500 (USD183, EUR149, SGD240)''excluding airfare and kayak rental.''Much of the budget is eaten up by the tours and the food. You can still bring the total cost down by limiting your meal budget.''3-Day Itinerary''This is a budget itinerary. In this case, you’ll be spending only 3 days in El Nido and limiting your food expenses to only P150 per meal.''This also combines Tours A and C in one day. This is a great way to save money and make the most out of your short stay, but I personally don’t like this because it feels rushed and you don’t get to spend much time per stop.''Day 1: PUERTO PRINCESA TO EL NIDO''07:20 am – Arrival at Puerto Princesa Airport''08:00 am – Ride tricycle to San Jose Terminal, P60 (P120/2pax)''08:30 am – Buy food for the road, P120''09:00 am – Board Bus to El Nido, P480''03:00 pm – Arrival at El Nido Terminal''03:10 pm – Trike to Hostel, P25 (P50/2pax)''03:30 pm – Hostel check-in''04:30 pm – Pay environmental fee at tourism office, P200''05:00 pm – Walk around town, book tours''06:30 pm – Dinner, P150''07:30 pm – Back to Hostel, chill''09:00 pm – Good night!''Day 2: TOURS A & C''06:00 am – Wake up call''07:00 am – Breakfast, FREE''09:00 am – Start COMBO TOUR, P2000''05:00 pm – Change clothes, rest''06:00 pm – Dinner, P150''08:00 pm – Back to hotel''09:00 pm – Good night!''Day 4: TOUR E, DEPARTURE''06:00 am – Wake up call, early check out''07:30 am – TOUR E, P750 (P1500/2pax)''11:00 am – Early lunch, P250''12:00 pm – Continue Tour E''04:30 pm – Freshen up, pick up bags''07:00 pm – Dinner, P150''09:00 pm – Trike to Bus Terminal, P25 (P50/2pax)''10:00 pm – Bus to Puerto Princesa, P480''04:00 am – Trike to Airport, P60 (P120/2pax)''05:00 am – Check in, Airport Terminal Fee: P200''07:20 am – Flight out''This itinerary will set you back around P7100 (USD137, EUR111, SGD179) excluding airfare and kayak rental.''You can even reduce the total cost by taking an ordinary bus instead of an air-conditioned one, or by staying at a much cheaper dorm.''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Pay the P200 environmental fee and keep the receipt''. You only need to settle this once so don’t lose the receipt. Someone sometimes checks if visitors have paid for this before boarding the boat for the tour. If you can’t prove it, you might be asked to pay again.''Puerto Princesa Airport collects a P200 terminal fee''. Make sure you don’t spend every single peso you have in El Nido.''Tip your boatmen''. What they do isn’t easy. If you enjoyed their service, show your appreciation. When I have successfully negotiated down the cost of tours, I usually just give the amount that I saved to the boatmen as tip.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''EL NIDO, PALAWAN: Budget Travel Guide''The Secret Lagoon of Miniloc Island: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''Talisay Beach: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''The Secret Beach of Matinloc Island: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''How to Get to El Nido from Puerto Princesa Airport, Palawan, Philippines''SPIN Designer Hostel El Nido: Our Best Hostel Experience in Palawan''If you have travel plans later this year, you might want to be familiar with the newly proposed terminal assignments for airlines using Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA).''According to PTV, the government-owned television network, the changes will be''effective August 31, 2018''. You can watch the video of the report at the end of this post. It is unclear, however, whether this is the final list or there will be further updates to it. But as of now, here are the planned terminal assignments:'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'NAIA Terminal 1''NAIA Terminal 2''NAIA Terminal 3''NAIA Terminal 4''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''NAIA Terminal 1''Philippine Airlines''Etihad Airways''Japan Airlines''Saudia Airlines''Thai Airways''NAIA Terminal 2''Cebu Pacific Air (Domestic Flights)''Philippine Airlines (Domestic Flights)''NAIA Terminal 3''Air Asia (international flights)*''Air China''Air Niugini''Asiana Airlines''Cathay Pacific''Cebu Pacific Air (international flights)*''China Airlines''China Eastern Airlines''China Southern Airlines''Delta Air Lines''Emirates''EVA Air''Gulf Air''Jeju Air''Jetstar Airways''KLM Royal Dutch Airlines''Korean Air''Kuwait Airways''Oman Air''Qantas Airways''Qatar Airways''Royal Brunei Airlines''Tiger Air''Xiamen Air''+ All Other International Carriers (Except for the 5 assigned to Terminal 1)''NAIA Terminal 4''All Other Domestic Flights (except PAL and Cebu Pacific)''It’s always good practice to contact the airline before your flight to confirm the right terminal because there could be further changes.''Here’s the full video report by PTV:''*Recently added. Info from Rappler’s report.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''NAIA Terminal 3: What to Do Before an International Flight''Clark Airport Guide: How to Get There, What to Do Before Flight''P2P BUS CLARK & MANILA: Schedule, Stops & Fares''Do You Need to Bring the Credit Card You Used to Airport Check-in?''How to Get to Paris City Center from Charles de Gualle Airport by Train''How to Get from CLARK AIRPORT to MANILA: The Easiest Way (P2P Bus)''When the Portuguese landed on the shore near A-ma Temple over 400 years ago, they asked the locals what the name of the land was. The locals misunderstood and thought that they were asking about the name of the bay. “A-ma-gao,” they said. It means Bay of A-ma, named after the goddess revered at the nearby temple. The Portuguese translated it to “Macau.”'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Macau''Best Time to Visit Macau''Macau Visa and Immigration Requirements''How to Get to Macau''Manila to Macau''Macau Airport to City Center''Hong Kong to Macau''Taipa Ferry Terminal to City Center''Where to Stay in Macau''Top Budget Hotels in Macau''Search for More: Macau Hotels''How to Get Around Macau''By Public Bus''By FREE Hotel Shuttle''By Open Top Bus Tour''By Taxi''Places to Visit''Senado Square''Ruins of St. Paul’s''Macau Tower''A-Ma Temple''City of Dreams: The House of Dancing Water''The Venetian: Gondola Ride''The Parisian Macao: Eiffel Tower''Studio City: Batman Dark Flight 4D Ride''Studio City: Golden Reel Ferris Wheel''Wynn Macau: Dancing Fountain''Camoes Square''Macau Museum''Other Attractions''Sample Macau Itineraries''Itinerary #1: Macau Only''Itinerary #2: Macau + Hong Kong''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Macau''Over the next centuries, more Portuguese set foot on the beaches of Macau. Many of them were allowed to settle and establish an enclave after protecting the inhabitants from endemic pirates. Eventually, the land fell under their rule. As one of Portugal’s link to Asia, Macau absorbed much of the great flood of European influences that passed through it. Their architecture wrapped the land’s structures. Their language snuck into the locals’ mouths. Their laws and culture dominated their way of life. It witnessed several wars and revolutions, pacts and treaties. And then, the Portuguese power declined. The Chinese regained control of the region. Macau was given certain autonomies. Industrialization took over. Its skylines grew taller. Its cityscapes evolved faster. Macau became a city-wide playground, a melting pot of two hemispheres, a bastion of relentless development.''General Post Office Building next to Senado Square''Today, Macau (澳門) is formally known as Macao Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China. It is an autonomous territory, so even though it is officially part of China, it has its own currency and immigration policy, separate from that of mainland China or Hong Kong. In fact, even visitors from the mainland and HK will have to pass through immigration and customs check upon entering Macau.''Geographically, Macau is composed of four districts: the Macau peninsula, two islands (Taipa and Coloane), and the reclaimed land between the two (called Cotai).''Macau Peninsula''. This is where the historical core of Macau is located. Most of the tourist spots are here. It’s also the most populated district.''Taipa Island''. Although the airport is here, it is mostly a residential island.''Coloane Island''. The least developed of the four areas. For tourists, places of interest here include hiking trails, old temples, and a couple of beaches.''Cotai Strip''. The reclaimed land between Taipa and Coloane, occupied mostly by hotels and gaming buildings.''More info you need to know'':''Language'': Cantonese and Portuguese are the official languages. Around 90% of the population speaks Cantonese. Although an official language, Portuguese isn’t widely spoken by locals. However, most signs and tourism brochures have Portuguese translations. Mandarin and English are not common, but some locals, especially in the tourism industry, understand them a little.''Currency'': Macanese pataca (MOP). MOP 100 is around USD 1.3, EUR 10, PHP 645, SGD 16.2 (as of April 2018). Hong Kong dollar (HKD) is often accepted at 1:1 rate.''Money Exchange''. There are a lot of money changers throughout Macau. The most reputable companies are Soi Cheong Money Changer and P&W Casa de Cambio (aka Parkway Exchange), both of which have a branch in Senado Square.''Modes of payment'': Most establishments prefer cash payment, but many of them also accept credit card transactions.''Electricity Info'': 220V, 50Hz. Types D, M, G, and F are used.''Best Time to Visit Macau''October to December''! The Macanese autumn sees fine weather, comfortable temperatures, and no threats of typhoons.''January and February are generally dry, too! But it can get chillier.''Image courtesy of Climate Portal Index''April is when the level of rainfall starts to rise, peaking in June and slowly subsiding in September. The rain can put a damper on your plans because most of Macau’s attractions are outdoor, unless you’ll be there for shopping or hotel-hopping, which aren’t a bad idea.''If you’re traveling on a budget, you might also want to avoid November, because that’s when the''Macau Grand Prix''happens, which pushes hotel rates to skyrocket. If you insist or you’re visiting for the race, book as early as possible because hotel rooms sell out even faster than the racers. Don’t search for accommodations at the last minute. I made that mistake once. I had a tough time looking for cheap rooms because most are sold out and the ones that had vacancies were super expensive. I ended up staying in Hong Kong instead and just visited Macau on a day tour.''Macau Visa and Immigration Requirements''Macau allows citizens of numerous countries to enter and temporarily stay in Macau without a visa. These include the following:''Philippines (30 days)''Hong Kong (1 year)''Indonesia (30 days)''Malaysia (30 days)''Thailand (30 days)''Singapore (30 days)''United Kingdom (6 months)''United States (30 days)''European Union states (90 days)''For more info, visit''this page''.''How to Get to Macau''Macau has its own airport,''Macau International Airport''(MFM) on Taipa Island.''Okay, here’s the thing. Hong Kong is so close to Macau, if you have the time and money, it would be a shame to visit one without the other. Hence, what I recommend is to book and entry flight to Macau and exit from Hong Kong. Or you can do it the other way around, enter Hong Kong and exit Macau. This way, you get to discover and experience both of these''amazing cities.''If there really is no way that you can do a Hong Kong entrance-Macau exit (or vice versa), you can also book a roundtrip ticket to either. That means you’re gonna have to take the 1-hour ferry ride to the other.''Manila to Macau''From Manila, the cheapest flights are operated by AirAsia and Cebu Pacific Air, with the fares within the P2000-P3500 range, if you book in advance. Note, however, that these are just the basic fares and do not yet include check-in baggage allowance and other add-ons. Philippine Airlines’ all-in ticket starts at P6500. It already includes baggage allowance, meals/snacks, and seat fee.''Macau Airport to City Center''You have four options:''By Free Hotel Shuttles''. You can board any of the free shuttles provided by hotels to get to the city center. You don’t need to have a reservation at that hotel to be let in. Even if you have no plan on staying there, you can get on. Just pick the hotel closest to your destination. For example, here are the bus schedules for''the Venetian'',''Wynn Hotel'', and''City of Dreams''.''By Free Airport Shuttle''. The airport has its own free shuttle service. At the Arrival Hall, find the north exit and travel on foot to the parking lot, where you’ll find the buses. There’s a bus every 15-20 minutes. Available from 11am-9pm.''By Public Bus''. Fare is between MOP 4.2 and MOP 5. Here’s the''public bus schedule''.''By Taxi''. There are parts of the city that are not easily accessible by bus. In these cases, taking the taxi makes the most sense. The flagdown rate is MOP 19 + MOP 2 for every 240 meters or every minute it’s not in motion. Additional MOP 3 charge for each piece of baggage in the compartment. The usual fare from the airport to the city center is''MOP 70-90'', depending on which part of the city you’re going.''Hong Kong to Macau''If you’re coming from Hong Kong, you can take the ferry to Macau. The journey takes only around an hour. Rates vary depending on the operator. Fares are also higher during the night.''Image provided by Klook''Two of the main ferry companies plying the Hong Kong-Macau route are''CotaiJet''and''TurboJet''. You can board the ferry at any of these 3 terminals in Hong Kong:''China Ferry Terminal''. Situated next to Harbour City Mall in Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon. One-way fare: HKD 132 to 172 (in daytime) and up to HKD 211 (at night).''Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal (aka Sheung Wan Terminal)''. Located on the third floor of Shun Tak Centre (next to the IFC Towers) on Hong Kong Island. One-way fare: HKD 132 to 172 (in daytime) and up to HKD 211 (at night).''Sky Pier''. Located at Hong Kong International Airport. Exclusive to tourists only. One-way fare: HKD 159 – 172, during the day.''In Macau, there are two terminals where ferries from Hong Kong can dock.''Macau Outer Harbour Ferry Terminal'', located on the Peninsula. This is closer to the city center.''Taipa Terminal'', sometimes called Cotai Terminal, just a short walk from the airport and closer to the big hotels.''You can buy tickets at the terminal itself. However, if you want to score some discounts, you can book in advance online visa Klook! For example, the regular one-way TurboJet fare is somewhere between HKD 170 and 200. But with Klook, it’s only at HKD 165. And you can save even more if you purchase roundtrip tickets at once.''Images provided by Klook''For Discounted tickets, book below:''Please take note of the date and time of your trip because rates of sailing on weekends and at night are higher. Just click on any of the following links:''Hong Kong (Sheung Wan) to Taipa Terminal via CotaiJet (ONE-WAY)''.''RESERVE DISCOUNTED TICKET HERE''.''Hong Kong (Sheung Wan) to Macau Outer Harbour Terminal via TurboJet (ONE-WAY)''.''RESERVE DISCOUNTED TICKETS HERE''.''Hong Kong/Kowloon to Macau Outer Harbour Terminal via TurboJet (ROUNDTRIP)''. You can board either in Hong Kong Macau Terminal (Sheung Wan) or in China Ferry Terminal (Kowloon).''RESERVE DISCOUNTED TICKETS HERE''.''Hong Kong/Kowloon to Taipa Terminal via CotaiJet (ROUNDTRIP)''. You can board either in Hong Kong Macau Terminal (Sheung Wan) or in China Ferry Terminal (Kowloon).''RESERVE DISCOUNTED TICKETS HERE''.''Taipa Ferry Terminal to City Center''By Free Hotel Shuttle''. At the terminal, you can board any of the free shuttles provided by hotels to get to the city center. You don’t need to have a reservation at that hotel to be let in. Even if you have no plan on staying there, you can get on. Just pick the hotel closest to your destination.''By Taxi''. The flagdown rate is MOP 19 + MOP 2 for every 240 meters or every minute it’s not in motion. Additional MOP 3 charge for each piece of baggage in the compartment. The usual fare from the airport to the city center is''MOP 70-90'', depending on which part of the city you’re going.''By Public Bus''. I haven’t tried this personally. I always used the free shuttle bus. LOL. And taxi once. I have no information about this yet.''Where to Stay in Macau''While Macau is best known for its 5-star hotels, it also harbor cheaper forms of accommodations. These options are concentrated in the Macau peninsula, around the city center. Budget hotels, guesthouses, and hostels can be found within and in the outskirts of the historic core.''However, their rates usually increase on weekends and surge during peak seasons. Take my two  trips for example. In February, I booked a room with''Fu Hua Hotel''for only HKD668. In November, in the middle of Macau Grand Prix, the rates more than doubled to almost HKD1500 per night. That’s a big jump!''Top Budget Hotels in Macau''If you ask Traveloka users, here are the top budget hotels and hostels in Macau.''Fu Hua Hotel, image provided by Traveloka''5footway.inn Project Ponte 16''.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Ole Tai Sam Un Hotel''.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Ole London Hotel''.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Macau Masters Hotel''.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Hou Kong Hotel''.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Fu Hua Hotel''.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Search for More:''Macau Hotels''.''How to Get Around Macau''The Historic Center of Macau harbors the most popular attractions. This includes the Ruins of St. Paul’s, the Senado Square, and A-ma Temple. Macau is a very walkable city, and most interesting sites are within walking distance of each other. So yep, WALK WHEN YOU CAN.''If you feel like your knees are not up for some great stroll, a good option is to take advantage of the free shuttle bus services provided by luxury hotels.''When I’m in Macau, I hardly pay for transportation, haha. I always either just walk or take the free shuttles.''Here are the modes of transportation you can take to get around Macau.''By Public Bus''Although they can get crowded during rush hours, public buses in Macau are generally comfortable. There are screens displaying the name of the next bus stop and announcements done in English, Portuguese, Cantonese, and Mandarin.''Here are the fares:''Within the Macau peninsula'': MOP3.20''Macau to Taipa'': MOP4.20''Macau to Coloane'': MOP5.00''Using the bus system can be confusing and intimidating at first. I still am confused and intimidated by it, to be honest. Haha. The timetables posted at the bus stop are not easy to understand and the Portuguese names of the streets hard to keep in mind. But there are ways to make our lives easier. Take note of the following:''Download the''MacauMap app''.''It is equipped with a map and a directory of all the bus lines.''When using Google Maps, hover at the nearest bus station you’ll see''and it will display the bus lines that will stop at that station. I usually use it in conjunction with MacauMap app to double check.''Fares are cheaper if you have a MacauPass'', an electronic pre-paid travel card that you can hover above the reader upon boarding.''You can also pay in cash, but make sure you have the exact amount.''Buses have a strict NO CHANGE policy. To pay in cash, just drop your coins into a box right after the entrance, beside the driver.''Board using the front doors of the bus''and exit through the rear.''By FREE Hotel Shuttle''Most of the time, you won’t have to take the public buses because you can use the hotel shuttle for free. Again, here are the bus schedules for''the Venetian'',''Wynn Hotel'', and''City of Dreams''.''There are a few more hotel shuttles available.''By Open Top Bus Tour''Image provided by Klook''You can also try Macau’s hop-on-hop-off sightseeing bus, which stops at 16 of the city’s key tourist attractions. After visiting a tourist spot, you can hop back into the bus to your next stop.''This bus operates from 9:30am-4:15pm. Personal guided commentary in English or Mandarin and headphones are provided. Insurance is also included.''To use this bus, you need an unlimited 1-day pass which costs HKD 125. You can book one via Klook below:''RESERVE AN UNLIMITED PASS HERE''By Taxi''The flagdown rate is MOP 19 + MOP 2 for every 240 meters or every minute it’s not in motion. Additional MOP 3 charge for each piece of baggage in the compartment.''Places to Visit''You can classify Macau attractions into two categories: the historic and the crazy-psychedelic. At the heart of the city is its historic core, littered with UNESCO-listed landmarks. Under the sun, Macau bares its soul in its mosaic-art cobblestone streets flanked with historical Portuguese colonial buildings, calming parks, and long-standing temples.  Many of these can be enjoyed for FREE. We also indicated below the entrance fee rates for those who require it and info on how to reach these places.''But as soon as the sun starts hiding under the horizon, Macau transforms into a totally different creature — more alive and definitely kicking! At nightfall, the city is ruled by neon lights that hypnotize and draw the crowd towards the vibrant and energetic resort hotels.''Macau‘s luxury hotels provide not only accommodations but also a wide variety of entertainment forms. From its exhibits and shows, these world-class hotels have become attractions on their own. After all, Macau is home to the biggest hotels in the world, even dwarfing their counterparts in Las Vegas and Atlantic City. They also house boutiques of several high-end brands where you can shop for clothes, jewelry, and accessories.''Senado Square''Senado Square''Senado Square is a giant outdoor museum. It is the centerpiece of the extensive Historic Center of Macau, a''UNESCO World Heritage Site''. “Macau represents an outstanding example of an architectural ensemble that illustrates the development of the encounter between the Western and Chinese civilizations over some four and half centuries,” UNESCO explains the site’s inscription on the list. “Leal Senado Square is the main public square of the town with the Leal Senado Building, a two-storeyed neoclassical structure.”''Brisk walking on the wave-patterned mosaic floor around the site is virtually impossible, for you would be compelled to stop to gawk at the fine architecture of the surrounding buildings.''More about it here:''Senado Square Walk''How to get there:''Take Bus No.\xa03, 3A, 4, 8A, 10, 10A, 11, 18, 19, 21A, 26A or 33.\xa0You may also board a free shuttle bus to Metropole Hotel then walk from there.''Ruins of St. Paul’s''Probably the most famost landmark in Macau, the Ruins of St. Paul’s (Ruinas de Sao Paulo) attracts droves of tourists all year round. It is also part of the city’s Historic Center. “Company of Jesus Square has the Ruins of St Paul’s, which represent the remaining front elevation of the Church of Mater Dei and Na Tcha Temple,” UNESCO describes the site.''The Iconic Ruins of St. Paul’s''Built in the 16th century, the site was actually a complex of a church and an academic institution. The church itself was constructed later in the 17th century. Today, only the facade remains the only structure standing after being battered by a typhoon and three fires.''Also worth your time is the Museum of Sacred Art and Crypt at the bottom of the ruins. It presents religious artifacts including Sino-Portuguese crucifixes.''More about the site here'':''Ruins of St. Paul’s''How to get there'': Board\xa0Bus No. 10, 10A, 11, 21A, 2, 3, 3A, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8A, 26A, 33, 17, 18, 8A or 26''Macau Tower''Macau’s famous skyscraper! You can take the lift to the tower’s 360-degree observation deck for a spectacular view of the Pearl River Delta, which is more fantabulous at night.''You’ll find links to where you can book tickets in advance not just for the observation deck but also for other activities.''Photos provided by Klook''Macau Tower Observation Deck Entrance''.''RESERVE DISCOUNTED TICKETS HERE''.''Bungy Jump''. Experience the highest commercial bungy jump in the world!''CHECK RATES HERE''Skyjump''. More controlled than the bungy jump.''CHECK RATES HERE''Skywalk X''. Walk on the roof of Macau Tower!''CHECK RATES HERE''Tea Delights & Sky High Views''. Have an afternoon tea at the 360-degree rotating restaurant.''RESERVE HERE''A-Ma Temple''A-Ma Temple''Built in 1488 under the Ming Dynasty, the A-Ma Temple is the oldest in Macau. It was erected in honor of A-Ma, the goddess of the sea. Legend has it that the goddess helps seafarers and guides them during their journey, especially during a storm.\xa0Located at Largo do Pagode da Barra\xa0in the southeastern tip of the peninsula, it is a bit isolated, making it a tiny isle of silence in the bustling, ravaging ocean that is the city center.''More about it here:''A-Ma Temple''How to get there'': Take Bus No. 6, 8, 9 or 28B''Opening Hours'': 7am-6pm''City of Dreams: The House of Dancing Water''This is the world’s largest water show. See this spectacular world-class act performed only at the City of Dreams. It’s incredibly popular and sells out fast, so best to book online.''RESERVE DISCOUNTED TICKETS HERE''The Venetian: Gondola Ride''See the impressive interior of the Venetian Hotel in style: on a boat while being serenaded by a gondolier!''BOOK THIS RIDE''The Parisian Macao: Eiffel Tower''Image provided by Klook''If you feel like you won’t be seeing the real Eiffel Tower in Paris anytime soon, visit this replica at the Parisian Macao. Don’t miss the fantastic lights show that mesmerizes viewers every 15 minutes starting 6:15pm to midnight.''You can also climb to the top and see the city lights from its observation deck. You can purchase your tickets from Klook.''RESERVE A TICKET HERE''Studio City: Batman Dark Flight 4D Ride''Image provided by Klook''Join Batman fight the villains of Gothan in this 4D multi-sensory ride that the whole family will enjoy!''RESERVE A TICKET HERE''Studio City: Golden Reel Ferris Wheel''Image provided by Klook''Located at Studio City, this is the world’s first figure 8 ferris wheel. At 425ft above the ground, it allows breathtaking views of the Macau cityscape and the surrounding South China Sea.''RESERVE A SLOT HERE''Wynn Macau: Dancing Fountain''The Dancing Fountain starts mesmerizing guests at 7pm and ends at 12midnight in 15-minute intervals. This means it plays every 15 minutes and the cool thing about it is that it does not do the same number twice, at least not within the day!  Inside Wynn Tower is the Tree of Prosperity.''Camoes Square''Macau’s oldest park, the Camoes Square was named after legendary Portuguese poet Luis de Camoes. It is also the largest, covering an area of 20,000 square meters. Three separate areas comprise the square: the Camoes Garden, where the poet composed many of his sonnets; the Casa Garden, a\xa0parkette built in 1770 in front of the residence of Portuguese merchant Manuel Pereira and is now an art gallery; and the Protestant Cemetery, the final resting place of some prominent figures including Robert Morrison (the first Protestant missionary in China) and\xa0Anders Ljungstedt (Sweden’s first consul general in China).''Camoes Garden''More about Macau’s relaxing parks here:''5 Must-Visit Gardens in Macau''How to get there'': Take Bus 8A, 17, or 26''Opening Hours'': Daily, 6am-10pm''Macau Museum''The Museum of Macau isn’t as eye-catching as its neighbor, the iconic Ruins of St. Paul’s, but it lodges significant artifacts narrating the history of Macau as a small settlement, as a Portuguese colony, and now as one of two Administrative Regions of China.''Its content isn’t the only thing worth admiring here. The location itself is of historical significance. The museum is set inside Mount Fortress (Fortaleza do Monte), Macau’s most important defense. Seated regally atop Mount Hill, the fortress affords gorgeous panoramic vistas of the city in all directions.''Macau Museum at Mount Fortress''Entrance fee is waived every 15th of the month (MOP15 the rest of the month).''Opening Hours'': Tuesday-Sunday, 10am-5:30pm''Official Website'':''www.macaumuseum.gov.mo''Other Attractions''Lou Lim Loc Garden''GUIA FORTRESS''Standing proud at the tallest peak of the Macau Peninsula, Guia fortress provides beautiful panoramic views of the metropolis, nearby islands, and even mainland China. The 15-meter-tall lighthouse takes most of the attention as the most arresting structure that tourists can see even from a great distance. The Guia Cable Car is a popular means of reaching the site (Fare: MOP 3), but walking is a great alternative for the physically fit and''extremely''budget-conscious.''How to get there'': Take Bus 2, 17, or 25 \xa0and alight at Flora Garden stop''Opening hours'': 9am-5.30pm''MACAU FISHERMAN’S WHARF''A first of its kind, Macau Fisherman’s Wharf is the only cultural-oriented theme park in the city. It is a theme park, yes, but it is also a shopping and dining destination, perfect for families and''barkadas.''How to get there'':\xa0Take bus no. 1A, 3 ,3A, 8, 10, 10A, 10B, 17, 28A, 28B, 28BX, 28C, or 32''Open 24 hours''MACAU WINE MUSEUM''Learn the history of wine and be familiar with the tools used in the production of this highly prized alcoholic beverage. The 1400-square-meter site is composed of a Historical section, a Museum and Exhibitions area, and a Wine Cellar.''Address'':\xa0Rua Luis Gonzaga Gomes''Opening Hours'': Wednesday-Monday, 10am-8pm.''JARDIM DE LOU LIM IOC''It is a public park that has become a sanctuary to tourists and locals looking for some peace and quiet. Victorian and traditional Chinese structures stand in between ponds that are carpeted by lotuses all over.''More about it here:''Lou Lim Ioc Garden''Address'': 10\xa0Estrada de Adolfo Loureiro, Macau. Board Bus 12 or 16''Opening Hours'': Daily 6am-9pm''Sample Macau Itineraries''Below are two sample itineraries. The first covers Macau only, while the other spans both Macau and Hong Kong. Both itineraries assume the following:''You’re a group of 2'', splitting much of the expenses.''You have a budget of MOP 70-100 per meal''(lunch/dinner). You’ll find meals much lower than this, but better to overestimate than under.''You’re skipping breakfast''. It’s overrated, according to intermittent fasters. And healthy too. Haha.''You’re staying in a hotel in Macau Peninsula''. Hotels here are much cheaper than in Taipa or Cotai strip. And because it’s where the city center is, you also save on transportation. I’m using 5footway.inn Project Ponte 16 as sample here. If you’re staying in another, like Fu Hua Hotel, just find the nearest bus station.''Itinerary #1: Macau Only''Duration'': 3 days, 2 nights''DAY 1: ARRIVAL, MACAU TOWER''03:45pm – Arrival in Macau''04:30pm – Taxi to Hotel, MOP 50 (100/2pax)''05:10pm – Hotel Check-in''06:00pm – Dinner, MOP 70''07:00pm – Bus to Macau Tower, MOP 3.2''07:30pm – Macau Tower, MOP 87 (''DISCOUNTED'')''09:00pm – Bus Back to Hotel, MOP 3.2''Day 2: HISTORIC SITES''09:00 am – Walk to Ponte Cais n. 14 Bus Stop''09:15 am – Ride Bus No. 2, MOP 3.2''09:30 am – Alight at Jardim da Flora''10:00 am – Take cable car to Guia Fortress, MOP 3''11:40 am – Walk to Macau Museum''12:10 pm – Lunch, MOP 70''01:30 pm – Macau Museum, MOP 15''03:00 pm – St. Paul Ruins''03:45 pm – Stroll to Senado Square''06:00 pm – Dinner, MOP 70''07:00 pm – Walk to Wynn Hotel''07:30 pm – Dancing Fountain at Wynn Hotel, FREE''08:00 pm – See Tree of Prosperity''08:40 pm – Walk to Praca Ferreira Amaral Bus Terminal''09:00 pm – Take Bus 3A to Ponte Cais n. 14 Bus Stop, MOP 3.2''09:50 pm – Alight bus and walk to Hotel''Day 3: LUXURY HOTEL HOPPING''07:00 am – Walk to A-ma Temple''07:30 am – A Ma Temple, FREE''09:00 am – Walk back to Hotel''09:30 am – Hotel Check-out''10:00 am – Walk to Ponte Cais n. 14 Bus Stop''10:30 am – Ride FREE Shuttle to the Venetian''11:00 am – The Venetian, Leave luggage at Concierge, FREE''11:15 am – Explore the Venetian, shop around''12:00 pm – Lunch, MOP 100''01:00 pm – Cross the street to City of Dreams, explore, shop''03:00 pm – Walk to Studio City, enjoy rides if budget permits''06:00 pm – Move to the Parisian and take photos''07:00 pm – Pick up luggage at Venetian''07:15 pm – Board the FREE shuttle to the airport''08:00 pm – Airport Check in, dinner at airport, MOP 100''10:15 pm – Flight out''If you spend MOP 310 per hotel-night per person, this itinerary will set you back''MOP1200 (USD150, EUR120, SGD195, HKD1165, PHP7760)''.''This does NOT include airfare and gaming expenses or hotel attractions (4D rides, shows). Just add the cost to the figure above.''Itinerary #2: Macau + Hong Kong''Duration'': 5 Days, 4 nights''If you enter Hong Kong and exit in Macau, everything should go smoothly. Experience Hong Kong first and then spend the last two days in Macau. This was my itinerary for one of my trips.''For the Hong Kong leg of this itinerary, read this first:''HONG KONG TRAVEL GUIDE''.''DAY 1: ARRIVAL, MACAU TOWER''03:45pm – Arrival in Macau''04:30pm – Taxi to Hotel, MOP 50 (100/2pax)''05:10pm – Hotel Check-in''06:00pm – Dinner, MOP 70''07:00pm – Bus to Macau Tower, MOP 3.2''07:30pm – Macau Tower, MOP 87 (''DISCOUNTED'')''09:00pm – Bus Back to Hotel, MOP 3.2''Day 2: HISTORIC SITES''09:00 am – Walk to Ponte Cais n. 14 Bus Stop''09:15 am – Ride Bus No. 2, MOP 3.2''09:30 am – Alight at Jardim da Flora''10:00 am – Take cable car to Guia Fortress, MOP 3''11:40 am – Walk to Macau Museum''12:10 pm – Lunch, MOP 70''01:30 pm – Macau Museum, MOP 15''03:00 pm – St. Paul Ruins''03:45 pm – Stroll to Senado Square''06:00 pm – Dinner, MOP 70''07:00 pm – Walk to Wynn Hotel''07:30 pm – Dancing Fountain at Wynn Hotel, FREE''08:00 pm – See Tree of Prosperity''08:40 pm – Walk to Praca Ferreira Amaral Bus Terminal''09:00 pm – Take Bus 3A to Ponte Cais n. 14 Bus Stop, MOP 3.2''09:50 pm – Alight bus and walk to Hotel''Day 3: LUXURY HOTEL HOPPING''07:00 am – Walk to A-ma Temple''07:30 am – A Ma Temple, FREE''09:00 am – Walk back to Hotel''09:30 am – Hotel Check-out''10:00 am – Walk to Ponte Cais n. 14 Bus Stop''10:30 am – Ride FREE Shuttle to the Venetian''11:00 am – The Venetian, Leave luggage at Concierge, FREE''11:15 am – Explore the Venetian, shop around''12:00 pm – Lunch, MOP 100''01:00 pm – Cross the street to City of Dreams, explore, shop''03:00 pm – Walk to Studio City, enjoy rides if budget permits''06:00 pm – Move to the Parisian and take photos''07:00 pm – Pick up luggage at Venetian''07:15 pm – Board the FREE shuttle to Taipa Ferry Terminal''08:00 pm – Board Ferry to Kowloon (Hong Kong), HKD 160''09:15 pm – Walk to Guesthouse''09:50 pm – Check-in''10:30 pm – Late dinner (fast food), HKD 50''11:30 pm – Lights out''Day 4: NGONG PING & VICTORIA PEAK''09:00 am – Take MTR to Tung Chung Station, HKD19.5''10:00 am – Take bus to Ngong Ping, HKD17.5''10:30 am – See Tian Tan Buddha, Po Lin Monastery''012:30 pm – Bus back to Tung Chung Station, HKD17.5''01:00 pm – Lunch, HKD70''03:00 pm – Take MTR to Hong Kong Station, HKD 25.5''03:30 pm – Walk to Peak Tram, Roundtrip fare: HKD95''04:00 pm – Explore Victoria Peak, wait for sunset''06:00 pm – Go down via tram, walk to Central Station''06:50 pm – MRT to Tsim Sha Tsui Station, HKD10.5''07:00 pm – Walk to Avenue of Stars''07:15 pm – Explore Avenue of Stars, FREE''08:00 pm – Watch the Symphony of Lights, FREE''08:30 pm – Dinner, HKD 70''09:00 pm – Walk back to hotel''Day 5: DISNEYLAND, DEPARTURE''09:00 am – Wake up, check out''10:15 am – MTR to Disneyland Resort, HKD23''11:00 am – Store luggage in lockers, HKD 110''11:10 am – Explore Disneyland Hong Kong, HKD 519 (''DISCOUNTED'')''12:00 nn – Lunch, HKD 100''06:30 pm – MTR to Airport, HKD15.5''07:15 pm – Check in, dinner, HKD 70''10:05 pm – Flight out''If you spend only HKD300 per night on accommodations (divided by 2 pax), the Hong Kong leg of this itinerary will cost you an additional''HKD1800 (USD230, EUR187, SGD300, MOP1854, PHP12,000)'', excluding the airfare.''More than a third of the total cost is used on Disneyland expenses alone, so if you’re traveling on a shoestring or you’re not interested in Disneyland, the total cost is down to only''HKD1280 (USD163, EUR133, SGD214, MOP1320, PHP8480).''This places the total Hong Kong and Macau expenses to:''With Disneyland:''MOP3000''(USD371, EUR302, SGD487, HKD2913,''PHP19,300'')''Without Disneyland:''MOP2500''(USD310, EUR252, SGD406, HKD2430,''PHP16,100'')''Of course, you can even reduce the costs even further by keeping the food expenses to a minimum. Like I mentioned, I added a big allowance to the food budget because it’s better to overestimate than under. You can also sleep at cheaper accommodations.''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Walk when you can''. I enjoy walking around Macau. If just within the peninsula, I always opt to just travel on foot. And when I need to go to the islands, I gallop to the nearest station where I can board a FREE shuttle service. This way, I don’t get to spend anything on transportation and reallocate the savings to other attractions.''Download the''MacauMap app''.''It is equipped with a map and a directory of all the bus lines, which will help you understand the bus system better.''Try Macanese egg tarts and pork buns'', the city’s favorite street foods! You’ll see them at many restaurants and stalls, especially at touristy areas.''If you can’t find a place to stay in Macau that is within your budget range and you’re also going to Hong Kong, you can just visit Macau on a day tour''. Macau is small and if you’re planning on just sightseeing, you can cover almost every major point of interest within the day. Make sure you have the energy.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''A-Ma Temple: Tracing the Roots of Macau''10 FREE Things to Do in MACAU''HONG KONG and MACAU: Budget Travel Guide''A Famosa Fortress: Unearthing and Rebuilding Malacca’s History''MACAU: The Ruins of St. Paul’s and the Three Fires''4 Must-See Hotel Attractions in Macau''It was mid-summer when I set foot in Kyoto for the first time. The deciduous forest of the Arashiyama district was very lush and green, awfully green. Green is great; I love green. But as a guy who hailed from a tropical island carpeted in evergreen rainforests, it was not really the color I was excited to feast my eyes on. The longer I walked, the more I realized that it was a mistake booking June tickets to Japan.''What was I thinking? Was I even thinking when I booked it?''But kicking myself in the butt lasted for only a minute. Summer may not be the best time to be here, but the proverbial silver lining appeared amidst the greenery. There were fewer tourists, and the weather was pleasant, perfect for a long afternoon walk.''That or I was just mastering the art of sweet lemoning.''Before that trip ended, I did what every other typical travel blogger does when writing about a place they enjoyed tremendously: make a solemn pledge to return. And return I did. Multiple times. Because I’m typical like that. LOL.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'What You Need to Know''When is the Best Time to Visit Kyoto?''How to Get a Japan Visa''How to Get to Kyoto''Manila to Kyoto''Search for cheap flights here''Kansai Airport to Kyoto''By Train''By Bus''Where to Stay in Kyoto''Internet Connection in Kyoto''Pocket Wifi Rental''Local SIM''How to Get Around Osaka''JR Pass''JR West Kansai Rail Pass''ICOCA Card''Places to Visit in Kyoto''Kimono Rental''Fushimi Inari Shrine''Arashiyama''Kinkaku-ji: Temple of the Golden Pavilion''Gion''Kyoto Tower''Toei Studio Park''Other Attractions''Sample Itinerary''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''What You Need to Know''Kyoto is the capital of Kyoto Prefecture, which is part of Japan’s Kansai Region (along with Osaka, Nara, Hyogo and a few others).''This post is co-presented by Cebu Pacific Air.''For over a thousand years, Kyoto was the Imperial capital of Japan, the main reason why it is teeming with structures and customs from the bygone times. This makes the city an attractive choice for foreigners who are interested to dig deeper into traditional Japanese culture.''Today, Japan’s seat of power is Tokyo. Yet, Kyoto is still the cultural core of the archipelago. Kyoto remains home to impressively maintained and restored ancient temples and shrines. When most major cities in Japan have shifted to highlighting its modern and futuristic attractions, Kyoto remains steady in its dwelling in the past and flaunting its cultural heritage. Kyoto pulsates at its own pace, a bit slower but curiously mesmerizing.''Yosh and Vins in Kyoto''Other info you need to know:''Language:''Japanese (Nihongo). The majority of the locals seldom speak English, but most of the signs and other tourist promotional materials have English translations.''Currency:''Japanese Yen (JPY, ¥). JPY 1000 is around USD 9.36, EUR 7.60, PHP 484 (as of February 2018).''Money Exchange.''There are a lot of money changers throughout Osaka and Kyoto, but save yourself the trouble and just exchange currencies before your trip. SANRY’S has good rates. You can also withdraw from ATMs when you’re there, but they’re pretty hard to find. Most of the ATMs we saw didn’t accept international cards.''Modes of payment:''Most establishments prefer cash payment, but many of them also accept credit card transactions.''Electricity Info'':  100V. Type A sockets. Plugs have two flat pins. Type B is sometimes used but not that common.''When is the Best Time to Visit Kyoto?''Every season highlights a different side of Kyoto: clad in the fiery colors of autumn, dressed in white snow in winter, adorned with the pink glow of cherry blossoms in spring, and, finally, drowned in a sea of verdancy in summer. Each has its own pros and cons, but if you’re after visual spectacle, these two will be your best bets:''Late March to early April for the cherry blossoms''Mid- to late November for the colors of fall''Sakura in Kyoto''Spring''is also the beginning of peak season, when cost of flights and hotel rooms begin to rise. Yes, the sakura experience is magical, but prepare to shell out more dough and share the place with a bigger crowd.''Summer''is also part of the peak season. If you’re from the tropics like me and you want to explore in an atmosphere different from what you’re used to, stay away from the summer months. Not only are these months crowded, they can also be too hot. Longer days also mean you have more hours of daylight, more time to explore, and more opportunities to take wonderful photos.''Autumn''is a great time to be in Kyoto because this is when the prices drop, crowds thin, and foliage turns fiery orange and red. Temperature is also pleasant and comfortable for sightseeing.''Winter''is great for budget travelers because airfares are lowest at this time. However, establishments tend to open later and close earlier.''You might also want to avoid these dates:''Golden Week (April 29 – May 5)''Obon Festival (August 13–15)''Cherry Blossoms Season (Late March-Early April)''These dates bring the biggest crowds and steepest prices.''How to Get a Japan Visa''If you’re from the Philippines, the posts below will help you get through the application process.''How to Apply for TOURIST Japan Visa''How to Apply for a Visa for VISITING FRIENDS or RELATIVES''How to Apply for a MULTIPLE Entry Japan Visa''Japan Visa Frequently Asked Questions''How to Get to Kyoto''Manila to Kyoto''Kyoto Prefecture doesn’t have its own airport, but the regions’s primary gateway, the Kansai International Airport (KIX), is just 1.5 hours away.''A lot of airlines fly from Manila to Kansai Airport. If you book way in advance, you’ll get the best deals from Cebu Pacific Air. Cebu Pacific flies to Osaka five times a week. Their lowest year-round fare is at P6399, which is a great deal already.''You can also wait for a SEAT SALE! For one of our trips, I was able to score a roundtrip Cebu Pacific ticket from their P20 SALE. The base fare per leg was only P20, but including all the taxes, I only paid PHP 5984 for the roundtrip ticket (PHP 2992 per way). That includes a prepaid baggage allowance of 20 Kg. Not bad. Not bad at all.''Search for cheap flights here''.''Kansai Airport to Kyoto''Kyoto is only 1.5 hours from Kansai Airport by train, longer by bus.''By Train''There are many routes you can take to get to Kyoto from Kansai airport, but many of them entail multiple transfers. What I recommend is taking the''Limited Express Haruka Train''that will take you straight to Kyoto from the airport.''Limited Express Haruka''Travel time: 80 minutes''Regular Fare: ¥1880 + ¥970 (seat fee)''You can save a lot of money in two ways:''JR West Kansai Pass''. If you’re planning on visiting multiple cities within Kansai Region in a few days, this is great for you because you can enjoy unlimited rides to most JR lines''including the Haruka train to Kyoto''.''More info about the Kansai Pass here''.''ICOCA + HARUKA''. If you’re itinerary is restricted in Kyoto and/or Osaka only, the best option for you is getting an ICOCA card. ICOCA isn’t really a pass; it’s more like a stored value card. You still pay for every time you use the train, but you don’t need to purchase a single journey each time. Moreover, JR West has an ongoing promo: If you present your ICOCA card upon purchase, you can grab a Haruka ticket for only''¥1600''. That’s a significant discount!''RESERVE AN ICOCA CARD HERE''If you decide to purchase either the West Kansai or ICOCA via Klook, here’s how to use them.''Book a ticket with Klook.''When the transaction is complete, you will be emailed a mobile voucher. Print it out or save it on your phone.''On the day of your trip, upon arrival at Kansai Airport, find the''HIS Counter''at the Arrival Hall. There is usually a small KLOOK logo displayed in front of the counter. Show your mobile voucher to the staff.''– If you booked an ICOCA Card, you will be given the actual ICOCA card.''– If you booked a JR Kansai Pass, you will be given a physical voucher.''Proceed to the Train Station on the second floor of the building opposite the Arrival Hall. Find the JR Ticket Counters.''– If you booked an ICOCA Card, tell the staff you’re booking a Haruka Train and show your ICOCA card to avail of the discount. Prepare to pay ¥1600.''– If you booked the JR Kansai Pass, exchange the voucher given to you for the ACTUAL JR KANSAI PASS.''Enter through the JR Gates of the Station.''There are 2 gates; the other one is for Nankai Line.''– If you’re using the JR Kansai Pass, just approach the staff at the counter and show your pass. They will stamp it with the last date you can use it. You don’t have to use it immediately. The count will begin on the day of first use. For example, if you purchase a 2-day pass and you claim it on Monday, it doesn’t mean that you have to use it on Monday and Tuesday. You may choose to use it any day before expiration. If you use it for the first time on Thursday, you can use it on that day and Friday. When you use it for the first time, approach the staff at the counter at any of the station and he will stamp the final date you may use the pass.''– If you’re using your Haruka ticket, just feed the ticket to the machines and pick it up on the other side of the gate.''Melbourne, one of Australia’s most famous city – and rightly so. With a plethora of things to do and places to explore, you’re bound to love this city from the moment you step out of that plane or vehicle.''Wondering how you can make the most out of your upcoming Melbourne vacation or holiday? Worry no more, we’ll show you some of the best destinations and activities in this''fantastic part of the world''.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Melbourne’s Festivals''Queen Victoria Market''Astor Theatre''Nightlife''Yarra Valley''Finding the right accommodation in Melbourne''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Melbourne’s Festivals''See all the wonders at one of Melbourne’s many festivals''. This well-curated arts festival makes its city’s residents experience familiar spaces in all new light. Tourists will find Melbourne’s festivals to be truly festive and exhilarating. Never is this more evident than with the brilliant White Night festival in February, or the famed Comedy Festival every April, the grand Melbourne Fringe in September or Melbourne Festival in October.''Queen Victoria Market''Go and experience Queen Victoria Market''. Sydney has Paddy’s, in Melbourne, it’s the splendid Queen Vic. The open-air Queen Victoria Market is something you won’t see every day, packed with stallholders who are zealous about fresh produce. The market is very popular with locals as their go-to for fruits, vegetables, meat and a fantastic variety of dairy and smallgoods. It has also become a ‘must visit’ for tourists. With a huge number of stalls selling anything from clothes, accessories and others, the markets have grown into more than just the place to get the necessities.''Astor Theatre''Visit the Astor Theatre and see a classic''. The Astor is an Art Deco place that’s been opened back in 1936. It’s, in fact, the last single-screen cinema of its kind in operation in Melbourne. You’ll find beautiful gold curtains framing the screen, plus the entire experience will make you go back to old Hollywood. The theatre offers a program of new and classic films in 35mm, 70mm as well as digital formats, plus it’s a cultural hub for movie fans, with remastered classics, double features, new and independent movies, film festivals and other unique events.''Nightlife''Get your nightlife on and dance until dawn''. Sydneysiders might fight the good fight against the nightlife-crushing lockouts, but you’ll find Melburnians dancing until the small hours nearly every night of the week – no joke. Do yourself a favour and visit one of the many nightclubs while in Melbourne. On a Saturday night, go to Laundry Bar for an awesome hip-hop party, or dance to some old-school disco at the Toff in Town. Check out which Melbourne DJs are playing at Boney, Howler and Ferdydurke if you’ll be outside the city.''Yarra Valley''Take a day trip to the Yarra Valley''. With its serene rolling green hills, swaying vineyards and timeworn farmhouses, it can be easy to forget that the Yarra Valley is less than an hour’s drive from the CBD. You’ll have the time of your life visiting cellar doors of the region’s famous wineries that are open every weekend, and the winery restaurants have become perhaps one of the most sought-after dining destinations here in Melbourne. Our picks are Tarrawarra Estate, Giant Steps and Yering Station, and don’t forget to fill up on some cheese from Yarra Valley Dairy while you’re at it.''Finding the right accommodation in Melbourne''What better way to rest up after a day’s worth of adventure than to cosy up on a luxurious hotel that fits your wants and budget. There are many awesome accommodations in Melbourne so be sure book one nearest your chosen destinations.''As some of our top picks above are far from each other, it’ll be wiser to book your own car as well, which will also serve to maximise your stay in Melbourne. DriveNow offers affordable cars with quick booking process to boot. Their website also offers quick tips and articles about the accommodations in Melbourne. You can''know more about DriveNow here''.''About the writer:''Kimpy Olivar is a writer who loves to travel. He dreams of writing a book about all his adventures and misadventures in life.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''7 Most Fun and Free Things to Do in Sydney, Australia''Cairns Central YHA Hostel: Where to Stay in Cairns, Australia''Sunset Walk with the Kangaroo Dundee: Alice Springs, Australia''Aboard the Derwent Hunter: Sailing Around the Whitsunday Islands, Australia''Passions of Paradise: Michaelmas Cay and the Great Barrier Reef, Australia''AUSTRALIAN VISA: REQUIREMENTS + How to Apply Online''We were about the approach the platform when we noticed a woman running after us. At first, we didn’t think it was us she was chasing, but she stopped and motioned that we follow her. She couldn’t speak English, but we recognized just one word — ticket — as she pointed in the direction of the gates.''We were at Kansai Airport Train Station, and it was our first time in Japan. As newbies in this country, we foolishly thought we would just feed our ticket to the machines at the gate and that was it. We didn’t think that the machine would spit it our on the other end and that we were supposed to pick it up. The woman chasing us apparently saw our mistake so she ran after us and tried to get our attention. She then led us to the staff at the gate and explained to them what happened in Japanese. The machine had already eaten our tickets so they fished them out and returned them to us. We thanked the woman profusely, who responded with, “It’s okay.” Her smile never faded.''Barely an hour in Japan and we already witnessed firsthand the hospitality and helpfulness of the people of Kansai. It wasn’t the last time. In the four times we have visited the city over the past few years, we have met locals who would go out of their way to help: a shopkeeper who left her store to accompany us to the start of a walking trail, a food vendor who brought us to the bus stop, a passerby who helped when he saw I couldn’t understand the writings on a vendo.''Osaka doesn’t have the breathtaking landscapes and spectacular sights that other destinations in Japan are known for, but it has the warmth and kindness of its people. And that’s always something to return to. That and the food. Oh yes, the food.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'What You Need to Know''Best Time to Visit''How to Get a Japan Visa''How to Get to Osaka''Search for cheap flights here''Where to Stay in Osaka''Top Capsule Hotels''Top Hotels and Apartments Under $85''How to Get from Kansai Airport to Namba''By Train''By Bus''Internet Connection in Osaka''Pocket Wifi Rental''Local SIM''How to Get Around Osaka''Osaka Amazing Pass''JR West Kansai Rail Pass''ICOCA Card''JR Pass''Places to Visit in Osaka''Universal Studios Japan''Osaka Castle Park''Dotonbori''Kuromon Ichiba Market''Shitenno-ji Temple''Umeda Sky Building''Places to Visit Outside Osaka''Organized Day Tours''Kyoto Day Tour from Osaka''Nara Afternoon Tour from Osaka''Where to Eat in Osaka''Sample Itinerary''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''What You Need to Know''Osaka is the third largest city in Japan in terms of population, next only to Tokyo and Yokohama. But because Yokohama is part of the greater Tokyo metropolitan area, Osaka is widely regarded as Japan’s “second city.” It is the capital of Osaka Prefecture which — together with Kyoto, Nara, Hyogo (Kobe) and a few others — is part of Kansai Region.''This post is co-presented by Cebu Pacific Air.''Osaka is considered the culinary capital of Japan, boasting several signature dishes including okonomiyaki and takoyaki. Because of its location, its food and culture in general have influences from adjacent prefectures. Shabu-shabu, for example, is always attributed with the city but actually originated in Tottori. Kobe beef is also available at countless restaurants in Osaka, but the beef is supplied by its neighbor. It’s also one of biggest port cities, ensuring a steady supply of ocean bounty and products from other parts of the country.''Osaka also has something to offer to almost any type of traveler. For tourists seeking family-friendly fun, one of the most popular attractions is Universal Studios Japan, which is one of the most visited theme parks in the world. Historic and cultural landmarks also dot its tourism map, including the enormous Osaka Castle and Shitennoji. For the shopaholic, there’s always the Dotonbori-Shinsaibashi area.''Osaka is also a great base if you want to explore other parts of Kansai Region. From here, you can easily travel to other cities within the region including Kyoto, Kobe, and Nara. If you want to go farther, you’ll find plenty of transportation options that can take you to Himeji, Hiroshima, and Tottori. There are also buses that can connect you straight to Tokyo.''Other info you need to know:''Language:''Japanese (Nihongo). The majority of the locals seldom speak English, but most of the signs and other tourist promotional materials have English translations.''Currency:''Japanese Yen (JPY, ¥). JPY 1000 is around USD 9.36, EUR 7.60, PHP 484 (as of February 2018).''Money Exchange.''There are a lot of money changers throughout Osaka and Kyoto, but save yourself the trouble and just exchange currencies before your trip. SANRY’S has good rates. You can also withdraw from ATMs when you’re there, but they’re pretty hard to find. Most of the ATMs we saw didn’t accept international cards.''Modes of payment:''Most establishments prefer cash payment, but many of them also accept credit card transactions.''Electricity Info'':  100V. Type A sockets. Plugs have two flat pins. Type B is sometimes used but not that common.''Best Time to Visit''When is the best time to visit Osaka?''Early April for the cherry blossoms and mid to late November for the autumn foliage.''Kansai enjoys a temperate climate with strong seasonal variations. Spring and autumn are perfect if you’re after fantastic views.  During spring (specifically last week of March to first week of April), cherry blossoms adorn the otherwise plain green canopies.''Autumn (specifically mid- to late November) is ideal because the crowd begins to thin and the prices drop. It’s also interesting as the foliage turns fiery orange and red. Temperature is also pleasant and comfortable for sightseeing.''If budget is a concern, look away from peak season: late March to August, especially the following dates:''Golden Week (April 29 – May 5)''Obon Festival (August 13–15)''Cherry Blossoms Season (Late March-Early April)''These dates bring the biggest crowds and steepest prices.''How to Get a Japan Visa''If you’re from the Philippines, we created three dedicated posts for the visa application process.''How to Apply for TOURIST Japan Visa''How to Apply for a Visa for VISITING FRIENDS or RELATIVES''How to Apply for a MULTIPLE Entry Japan Visa''Japan Visa Frequently Asked Questions''How to Get to Osaka''Kansai International Airport (KIX) is the primary gateway to Osaka and the rest of Kansai Region. A lot of airlines fly from Manila to Kansai Airport. If you book way in advance, you’ll get the best deals from Cebu Pacific Air. CEB flies to Osaka five times a week. Their lowest year-round fare is at P6399, which is a great deal already.''You can also wait for a SEAT SALE! For one of our trips, I was able to score a roundtrip Cebu Pacific ticket from their P20 SALE. The base fare per leg was only P20, but including all the taxes, I only paid PHP 5984 for the roundtrip ticket (PHP 2992 per way). That includes a prepaid baggage allowance of 20 Kg. Not bad. Not bad at all.''Search for cheap flights here''.''Where to Stay in Osaka''I highly recommend staying in the Namba area''because it’s in a central, most convenient and most accessible location.''Staying in Namba means Dotonbori and Shinsaibashi are within walking distance. There are also direct trains from the airport, which means you won’t be transferring multiple times with heavy luggage in tow. The area is also bursting with restaurants, food stalls, markets, shops, and convenience stores. When you stay in Namba, you’re at the very center of all the action.''Top Capsule Hotels''First Cabin Midousuji-Namba''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Y’s Cabin Osaka Namba''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Capsule Hotel ASTIL Dotonbori''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Top Hotels and Apartments Under $85''Alex Place Namba.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Hotel Kelly.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Nissin Namba Inn.''Check Rates & Availability''.''How to Get from Kansai Airport to Namba''Kansai Airport is almost an hour from downtown Osaka, so make sure you take that into consideration when building your itinerary. Fortunately, there are plenty of transportation options that you can take to reach the city center. But where in the city center?''By Train''There are two railway operators ferrying passengers from the airport: JR and Nankai. But it is only Nankai that goes straight to Namba. You can take JR too, but it will involve a transfer. Nankai is what we usually take.''The train terminals are on the second floor of the building next to the Arrival Hall. Just take the escalator and use the bridge to get to the other side.''There are two main types of Nankai trains running from the airport:''NANKAI AIRPORT EXPRESS''This is the regular train. It looks like your regular subway train. It is cheaper but slower. You can’t reserve seats on this train. Just hop in and find a spot.''Travel time'': 45 minutes''Fare'': 920''NANKAI LIMITED EXPRESS RAPI:T (Rapit)''This is the premier train. It’s the deep blue train that looks like it came from the future. LOL. It’s a little bit faster than the Airport Express, but much more comfortable. If you want to make sure you’re seated comfortably throughout the journey, book this train.''Travel time'': 38 minutes''Fare'': ¥920 + ¥510 seat fee''If you decide to go with the Limited Express Rapi:t, you can reserve a seat via Klook. Here’s how to use it:''Book a ticket with Klook.''Reserve a ticket here''When the transaction is complete, you will be emailed a mobile voucher. You can print it out or save it on your phone.''On the day of your trip, upon arrival at Kansai Airport, find the HIS Counter at the Arrival Hall. There is usually a small KLOOK logo displayed in front of the counter. Show your mobile voucher to the staff. You will be given a physical voucher.''Proceed to the Train Station (in the other building), find the Nankai Ticketing Counter, and exchange your voucher with the actual train ticket. Do it at least 30 minutes before your schedule.''Enter the Nankai train station using the ticket.''RESERVE A TICKET HERE''By Bus''You can also take the bus to Osaka City Air Terminal (OCAT), which is located in the Namba area. Note that the first bus leaves Terminal 1 at 6:10am, last train at 10:40pm.''Travel time is about 1 hour, but varies depending on the traffic conditions.''At the Arrival Hall, approach the counter for AIRPORT BUS to OCAT.''Purchase a ticket to OCAT. Fare: ¥1050. They will need your passport so make sure you have it ready. You will be given both the ticket (white) and a receipt (green).''Proceed to Departure Platform 11 (or whatever platform number you’re told).''Wait for the bus at the platform. If you have big bags, the staff will take them and tag them. You will be given a slip that you’ll need to claim your bags upon arrival at OCAT so don’t lose them.''Board the bus when it arrives. The driver will check your ticket. Find your seat number and get comfy. The travel time is around 1 hour, depending on traffic.''Alight at OCAT.''That’s it! You’re at OCAT. From here you can walk to your hotel.''Internet Connection in Osaka''Pocket Wifi Rental''You will find wi-fi rental booths at the Arrival Area of Kansai Airport. Rates are usually between JPY 800-900 per day. However, they are very in demand so there might not be any more available if you arrive in the late afternoon or evening. Some establishments accept only credit card transactions.''If you really want to make sure you get a mobile wifi, you can reserve one in advance via Klook for only PhP 389 per day for unlimited 4G access. That’s a lot cheaper than those you will find at Kansai airport. The best part, if you’re a group, you can connect multiple devices hassle-free. You can then split the cost with your friends. You can pick up the device at the airport.''No deposit is required''.''RESERVE THIS NOW''Local SIM''If you opt with a 4G Data SIM, you can choose between two packages: unlimited 4G data for 8 days (around ¥3360) and 3GB data for 8 days (around ¥2160). If you’re a heavy data user, best to go with the Unlimited Plan. You can pick up the SIM card at Kansai Airport.''RESERVE A LOCAL SIM NOW''How to Get Around Osaka''The easiest way to get around Osaka is by train or subway.''Osaka is linked to the rest of the island by an expensive (and expensive) train system. In theory, traveling around is easy and hassle-free. In practice, however, it is difficult. Besides the language barrier, these train lines are as complicated and challenging as your previous relationship. You might think you’re on the right side of the right platform at the right station, but there’s still a chance that you board the wrong train and in some cases the wrong car. Some trains even split into half at one point, and they choo choo in separate directions.''But thank heavens for the Internet. So here’s a tip. If you own a smartphone or a tablet, do yourself a favor and get connected to the Internet!''You will need access to''Hyperdia'', a web-based search engine that would tell you train schedules and routes instantly. Just make sure you know the closest train station to your destination and let Hyperdia do the rest.''Here’s more info'':''How to Use Hyperdia''If you want to score some savings, you can use any of the train passes available. Just pick one that best matches your itinerary. The two passes that you will most likely use are Osaka Amazing Pass and JR West Kansai Rail Pass:''Osaka Amazing Pass''I strongly recommend this!''The ultimate all-inclusive Osaka sightseeing pass, available in 1-day and 2-day versions! It gives the holder''unlimited use of the subway, tramway, and bus systems''in Osaka. It also gives FREE access to certain attractions including the following:''Osaka Castle Main Tower''Umeda Building’s Floating Garden Observatory''HEP FIVE Ferris Wheel''Natural Hot Spring Naniwa no Yu''Tombori River Cruise''Dotombori Tour''You can reserve one via Klook. However, know that there are two types on Klook, depending on where you wish to pick it up. Make sure you book the one that is more convenient for you.''If you want to pick up the pass at Kansai Airport,''RESERVE HERE''.''If you want to pick it up at Kuromon Market in Namba,''RESERVE HERE''.''JR West Kansai Rail Pass''This pass offers unlimited rail and bus rides to and in many cities in Kansai Region including Osaka, Kyoto, Kobe, and Nara. You can also use this to travel from Kansai Airport to Osaka and back. Available in 1-, 2-, 3- and 4-day validity variants.''Note that this pass is only accepted on JR Trains. This won’t work on Nankai lines or subway lines.''Do you need this pass?''If you plan on staying within Osaka and not visiting other cities, this is not for you. Get the''Amazing Osaka Pass''instead.''If you plan to visit Kyoto, Nara, Kobe or other cities in Kansai, this could be great for you.''IMPORTANT! You can’t buy this pass in Japan. You have to purchase ONLINE.''This pass is meant for foreign nationals traveling as a temporary visitor (tourist) in Japan. Hence, you can’t buy this pass in Japan. Thankfully, there’s Klook. You can book below:''1-Day Pass''.''RESERVE HERE''2-Day Pass''.''RESERVE HERE''3-Day Pass''.''RESERVE HERE''4-Day Pass''.''RESERVE HERE''How does it work? How do you use it? Oh, easy, easy.''Book a ticket with Klook.''When the transaction is complete, you will be emailed a mobile voucher. You can print it out or save it on your phone.''On the day of your trip, upon arrival at Kansai Airport, find the HIS Counter at the Arrival Hall. There is usually a small KLOOK logo displayed in front of the counter. Show your mobile voucher to the staff. You will be given a physical voucher.''You don’t have to use it immediately. The count will begin on the day you first use it. For example, if you purchase a 2-day pass and you claim it on Monday, it doesn’t mean that you have to use it on Monday and Tuesday. You may choose to use it any day before expiration. If you use it for the first time on Thursday, you can use it on that day and Friday.''When you use it for the first time, approach the staff at the counter at any of the station and he will stamp the final date you may use the pass.''For succeeding uses, simply show the stamp on the pass at the staff at every JR station.''You can use it together with Osaka Amazing Pass too! On my last trip, I used an Osaka Amazing Pass when roaming within the city and then used my JR Kansai Pass on days when I traveled to Kyoto and Kobe.''ICOCA Card''The ICOCA Card isn’t a pass. It’s a prepaid IC card. It’s sort of Kansai’s version of Tokyo’s SUICA or PASMO Card.''When you use an ICOCA card, you still pay for every trip. (Again, it’s NOT a pass.) You can also use it to snag some discounts, but the real convenience is that you don’t need to get a ticket each time you’re using the train. You just need to quickly hover the card over the reader and you’re through. It functions like an MRT stored-value ticket (because that’s exactly what it is, a stored-value ticket).''You can also use it not just on trains but also on buses, lockers, vending machines, and even convenience stores. Yep, lockers. The ICOCA card works on lockers at train stations!''To get one, you just need to approach one of the ICOCA machines at the station. There’s no use for me to enumerate the steps here because it’s so easy. Just choose ENGLISH on the welcome screen and follow the instructions.''But if you want a discount, you can get an ICOCA card from Klook, which is already preloaded with ¥1500 + the deposit of ¥500. You can get the deposit when you return the card.''RESERVE NOW''JR Pass''If you’re visiting Osaka, Nara and Kyoto ONLY, you don’t need a JR Pass''. It’s only for those who will make multiple long-distance journeys. If you’re staying within the Kansai Region,''get a JR KANSAI RAIL PASS INSTEAD.''When is it wise to purchase a JR Pass?''If you’re visiting multiple cities in Japan and you’re staying for at least 7 days. If your itinerary is more like that, purchase a pass before your trip. Klook offers the cheapest JR Passes available. If you live in the Philippines, the pass will be delivered to you in 7 days.''IMPORTANT! The JR Pass is NOT available in Japan, so you have to purchase online!''CHECK JR PASS RATES HERE''Places to Visit in Osaka''Universal Studios Japan''Nearest Station: Universal City Station (JR Yumesaki/Sakurajima Line)''As you already know, it’s a movie theme park that could bring a lot of fun to kids and adults alike. USJ is the first US branch in Asia, but it has been given a new life when they opened the''Wizarding World of Harry Potter''and''Despicable Me Minion Mayhem''.''The problem with USJ is that it can get a bit too crowded especially on weekends. You can waste over an hour falling in line for just one attraction. If you want to get the most out of your time, an''Express Pass''is recommended. It costs extra, but it is worth it, in my experience. Express Passes sometimes sell out especially during peak season so it’s best to reserve online.''Are there DISCOUNTED TICKETS?''YES! Klook sells so-called''1.5 Day Pass''. Basically, this pass will allow you to visit Universal Studios Japan at 3pm on Day 1 and then you can still use it for the entire day the following day. This gives you enough time to try more rides and enjoy more of the park.''And guess what,''it is even cheaper than 1-Day Passes!''A standard 1-Day pass costs ¥7900 while Klook’s 1.5 Day Pass is only ¥7100. That’s much more value for a much lower price. The 1.5 Day Pass must be picked up at Kansai International Airport or Namba OCAT (Osaka City Air Terminal).''WHERE TO BUY TICKETS''Book online! Here are the links to where you can get tickets:''Get Discounted 1.5 Day Pass Here''Get Regular 1-Day Pass Here''Get Your Express Pass Here''Osaka Castle Park''Nearest Stations'':''Tanimachiyonchome (4-chome) Station (Tanimachi Subway Line, Chuo Subway Line)''Osakajokoen (JR Loop Line)''Opening hours'':''9am-4:30pm from November to February''9am-9pm during Cherry blossoms season''9am-5pm the rest of the year''More info:''Osaka Castle''Dotonbori''A shopping and food district in Namba where you can get lost in a maze of countless restaurants and stores! You can also hop onto a boat and cruise down the river.''Nearest Station'': Namba Station''More info here'':''Dotonbori''Kuromon Ichiba Market''Open'': Daily, 9am-6pm''How to get there'': Closest stations are Nippombashi and Namba''For over 190 years, Kuromon Market has been known as Osaka’s kitchen for its almost endless array of gastronomic options, ranging from rare fruits to mouth-watering seafoods that you can eat or have prepared on the spot. Compared to other markets I have visited in Japan, Kuromon is actually a bit pricier, but the experience make up for it. They sell items in small servings, which allows visitors to get a taste of a wide variety of products, something that a regular restaurant can’t give you. There’s just so much to see and taste here. If you want to try Kobe beef but not flush enough to afford a proper cut, you can get hold of small slices here. Even the deadly fugu (pufferfish) is sold in one of the corners.''Shitenno-ji Temple''Nearest Station'': Shitennoji-mae-Yuhigaoka Station (Tanimachi Subway Line)''Open Hours'': 8:30am-4:30pm''Admission Fee'': 300 yen''Umeda Sky Building''Nearest Station'': Osaka and Umeda Stations''Opening Hours'': 10am-10pm''Admission Fee'': 1000 yen''Places to Visit Outside Osaka''Osaka is a great base for travelers who plan on exploring other parts of Kansai Region. From Osaka, you can easily travel to Kyoto, Kobe, Nara, Himeji, and even as far as Tottori and Hiroshima.''We created a separate post for that, with information on how to get there by taking public transportation.''Read it here:''PLACES TO VISIT NEAR OSAKA''Organized Day Tours''This section wasn’t in the original version of this guide because we often advocate DIY Travel, but we’ve been receiving a lot of inquiries from people who will be traveling with kids or seniors (parents). Here are some tours that Klook has tested and is offering.''Kyoto Day Tour from Osaka''Photo provided by Klook''Stops:''Kiyomizu-dera Temple, a UNESCO World Heritage site''Kinkaku-ji and its gardens''Fushimi Inari Shrine and its thousands of orange tori gates''Inclusive of:''Traditional Japanese meal for lunch (optional)''Tour bus transportation to and from Osaka (Meet up with guide at assigned location, usually at Hearton Hotel Nishi Umeda)''English-speaking guide''JOIN THIS TOUR''Nara Afternoon Tour from Osaka''Photo provided by Klook''Stops:''Nara Park and meet the famous deer''Todai-ji Temple''Kasuga Taisha Shrine''Nara Nagomikan, the largest souvenir shop in Nara''Inclusive of:''Hotel pick up (hotel drop-off not included. Tour ends at Osaka Namba Station, near Dotonbori)''English speaking guide''Admission fees''Transportation''BOOK THIS TOUR''Where to Eat in Osaka''We created a separate post dedicated to the best cheap restaurants in Osaka. You can find that here:''OSAKA CHEAP RESTAURANTS''.''Sample Itinerary''In a perfect world, I would exhaust all the 15 days I was allowed. But you know, this world has shortcomings, much like my wallet.''Below is a sample 4-day 4-night itinerary which involves spending 2 nights in Osaka and another 2 nights in Kyoto.''To better understand the Kyoto leg of this itinerary, read this first:''KYOTO TRAVEL GUIDE''.''It assumes the following:''You’re taking Cebu Pacific flight scheduled to arrive in Osaka at 8:10pm.''IMPORTANT!''In this case, make sure that the first thing you do after going through Immigration and picking up your bags is to head straight to the HIS Office to collect the passes and/or mobile wifi that you booked with Klook because it closes at 10pm.''You have an Osaka Amazing Pass, from hereon shall be referred to as OA Pass (¥2397), to save some yen''. Having the Osaka Amazing Pass will waive the entrance fees to some of the attractions and unlimited access to the subway. It costs ¥2397 if you book with Klook.''RESERVE HERE''You have an ICOCA card''to make it easier for you to go through train gates and use lockers.''RESERVE HERE''You DON’T need a JR Pass or Kansai Pass for this itinerary''. The OA Pass for the Osaka leg and ICOCA Card for Kyoto are enough. Using the JR Pass will cost much more.''You’re staying in a capsule hotel in Namba, like Capsule Hotel ASTIL Dotonbori or Y’s Cabin Osaka Namba''(¥3250 per night)for the Osaka leg, and at a dorm near Kyoto Station like''K’s House''(¥2500 per night) for the Kyoto leg.''You’re skipping breakfast''. It’s healthy (according to intermittent fasting advocates, hehe) and you’re poor!''Make the necessary adjustments to match your schedule and preferences.''Day 0''08:10pm – Arrival at Kansai Airport''09:10pm – Collect Klook passes at Arrival Hall''09:54pm – Board Nankai Airport Express to Namba, ¥920''10:30pm – Check-in at the hotel''Day 1: OSAKA''07:00am – Wake up''08:30am – Subway to Tanimachiyonchome Station (Osaka Castle), FREE (OA Pass)''09:00am – Osaka Castle, FREE (OA Pass)''12:00nn – Subway to Nakatsu Station (Ramen Yashichi), FREE (OA Pass)''12:30nn – Lunch at Ramen Yashichi,  ¥730''02:30pm – Subway to from Nakatsu to Umeda, FREE (OA Pass)''03:00pm – Umeda Sky Building Observatory, FREE (OA Pass)''04:30pm – Subway from Umeda to Namba, FREE (OA Pass)''05:00pm – Early dinner at Tokisushi, ¥1134''06:00pm – Dotonbori Tour, FREE (OA Pass)''09:00pm – Back to hotel, sleep''Day 2: ENDO SUSHI, TRANSFER TO KYOTO''05:00am – Wake up''06:00am – Subway to Tamagawa Station (Endo Sushi), FREE (OA Pass)''07:00am – Breakfast at Endo Sushi,  ¥1242''08:30am – Subway Tamagawa to Namba Station, FREE (OA Pass)''09:00am – Start packing''10:30am – Hotel check out''11:10am – Subway to Shin-Osaka, FREE (OA Pass)''12:05nn – Transfer to a JR Local or Special Rapid train to Kyoto, ¥560''12:30pm – Arrival at Kyoto Station''12:40pm – Find lockers to store luggage, ¥700''01:00pm – Quick lunch (onigiri, etc), ¥500''01:27pm – Train to Saga-Arashiyama, ¥240''02:00pm – Explore Arashiyama, Tenryuji Fee: ¥500''05:32pm – Train to Kyoto Station, ¥240''05:45pm – Dinner at Kyoto Ramen Street, ¥900''07:00pm – Collect bag from locker''07:30pm – Walk to hotel''08:00pm – Hotel check-in''08:30pm – Sleep''Day 3: KYOTO''07:00am – Wake up''08:00am – Take Bus 101 or 205 to Kinakuji, ¥230''09:00am – Kinkakuji Temple, ¥400''11:00am – Bus to Kyoto Station, ¥230''12:00nn – Lunch, ¥1000''01:07pm – Train to Inari Station, ¥140''01:12pm – Fushimi Inari Shrine, FREE''03:20pm – Train to Gion-Shijo, ¥270''03:50pm – Explore Gion''06:30pm – Back to Kyoto Station''07:00pm – Dinner, ¥900''Day 4: UNIVERSAL STUDIOS''07:00am – Check out''08:06am – Train to Universal City, ¥800''08:55am – Store luggage in locker, ¥700''09:00am – Universal Studios Japan, ¥7900''12:30pm – Lunch, ¥1500''04:00pm – Train to Airport, ¥1190''05:30pm – Check in''08:30pm – Flight out''If you follow this itinerary, prepare to shell out around''¥40,000 (USD 380, PHP19,750)''including possible miscellaneous expenses like bottled water and some snacks but excluding airfare.''Universal Studios Japan eats up the biggest chunk of the budget. You can save a lot by skipping it, if it’s not your priority anyway. A fantastic alternative is''Toei Studio Movie Park''in Kyoto. This is my most-loved theme park in Japan because it’s uniquely Japanese. (More info about that here:''Toei Kyoto Studio Park''.) This way, the cost goes down to only''¥31,000 (USD 295, PHP15,300)''Another way to further reduce the cost is by limiting your food budget to only ¥500 per lunch/dinner. Convenience stores and supermarkets offer cheap meals for much lower. But you’re in Japan! It would be such a shame to visit Osaka and not eat out!''You can also find an early morning flight so you can save one hotel night.''This itinerary may also be too dense for you. It was for me, haha. In fact, I skipped a few of these because my legs were this close to falling off. That’s because I’m old and lazy. Again, that’s me.''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Here are more tips to help make your trip go smoothly.''Lockers''. In major stations in Osaka and Kyoto, you’ll find them in many corners. There are two types: electronic and coin lockers. Electronic lockers require an ICOCA card to work, which will serve as the key. If you use your ICOCA card, don’t lose or return the card before you collect your bags. Coin lockers are better choices because you just need to take note of the locker number. Take a photo of your locker details and the surrounding shops so you could easily find them again. Locker rental costs ¥300-¥700 depending on the size.''Lockers, again.''In Kyoto, if your hotel is far from Kyoto Station (which is the focal point of everything touristy in the city) and your flight is scheduled at night, you may choose to store your baggage at one of the many lockers scattered at the lower levels of the station. This way, you save a hotel night and does not need to travel back to the hotel just to get your things.''Tipping''is unusual in Japan. Most restaurants have the cashier stationed by the exit so you pay after your meal, on your way out.''When in doubt, ask''. The people of Osaka and Kyoto are some of the friendliest I have ever met. When we were lost and asked for direction, they went out of their way to help us. Some even walked us to our destination. And when we expressed our gratitude, they would just smile at you as if it was nothing. They really were the nicest!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''HOW TO GET FROM OSAKA TO TOKYO: The Cheapest Way''10 Food Delights to Try in Japan''WHERE TO EAT CHEAP IN OSAKA''OSAKA AND KYOTO: Budget Travel Guide''JAPAN MULTI-CITY TOUR: How to Plan a Budget Trip''Osaka has something to offer to almost any type of traveler. For tourists seeking family-friendly fun, there’s Universal Studios Japan, which is one of the most visited theme parks in the world. History buffs will find a visit to its cultural landmarks like the enormous Osaka Castle an enlightening experience. Foodies can dig into its rich and insanely delicious cuisine. How about the inner shopaholic in all of us? Well, the Dotonbori-Shinsaibashi area can certainly take care of that.''Osaka is also a great base if you want to explore other parts of Kansai Region. From here, you can easily travel to other cities within the region including Kyoto, Kobe, and Nara. If you want to go farther, you’ll find plenty of transportation options that can take you to other regions in Japan.''After you’ve exhausted everything Osaka can offer, here are our favorite destinations that can be easily accessed from Osaka!''5. Nara''A post shared by Rikki (@rikki_0405)''on''Apr 11, 2018 at 12:57am PDT''Nara is one of Kansai Region’s popular tourist stops alongside Osaka and Kyoto. It is the capital of Nara Prefecture. Apart from being less than an hour away from Osaka, Nara’s charm comes from its bountiful historical and cultural sites. Being the ancient capital of Japan more than a thousand years ago, the city is dotted with numerous UNESCO-recognized historical and cultural sites and Japan’s National Treasures. Most of these attractions are ancient shrines and temples with strong Buddhist influence.''Nara Park is the usual go-to place for those who want to experience not only the temples and shrines but also the famous Nara deer! Among other favorite attractions in Nara are Naramachi, Todai-ji Temple, Heijo Palace, Isuien Garden, and Sarusawa Pond.''How to Get There:''By Train:''Option 1: From Namba Station, take the Kintetsu Nara Line going to Kintetsu Nara Station. Travel duration is around 40 minutes. The fare is ¥560.''Option 2: From JR Osaka Station, take the JR Yamatoji Rapid Service for Nara. Travel duration is around 50 minutes. The fare is ¥800.''You can also take the Nara Day Tour from Osaka offered by Klook. The tour covers English-speaking guide, admission fees, transportation, and hotel pick up (drop off at Osaka Namba Station). The itinerary includes Nara Park, Todai-ji Temple, Kasuga Taisha Shrine, and souvenir shop stop.''BOOK THIS TOUR''4. Kobe''Kobe is one of those cities in Japan bustling with life and diversity. It is the capital of Hyogo Prefecture. This port city, nestled between the sea and mountains, was one of the first to open their ports to Western traders, welcoming not only an active exchange of products but also of culture. The business hub and most of Kobe’s attractions are located near Sannomiya Station. The current state of the city is the result of the dynamic exchange between the East and the West.''The city made its mark internationally with its signature premium grade beef product. Kobe beef is king here! For those who love food, Kobe is also famous for its Chinatown, also called Nankinmanchi, which is a short walk from Sannomiya Station. Other attractions in Kobe include Earthquake Museum, Mount Rokko, Sorakuen Garden, Kitano Foreign Houses, Kobe Harborland, and Akashi Kaikyo Bridge.''How to Get There:''By Train:''Option 1: From either Hankyu-Umeda Station or Hanshin-Umeda Station, take the Tokkyu Express going to Sannomiya Station. Travel duration is around 30 minutes. The fare is ¥310.''Option 2: From JR Osaka Station, take the JR Kobe Line Rapid Service or JR Special Rapid Service going to JR Sannomiya Station. Travel duration is around 25 minutes. The fare is ¥390.''3. Himeji''Himeji is another city which can be easily accessed from Osaka. The city used to be the capital of then Himeji Prefecture until its merger with Hyogo Prefecture. In the past, the city was a prosperous castle town, which gave Japan one of its national treasures and UNESCO World Heritage Site – the Himeji Castle. This four-century old castle, which withstood the test of time, is the most popular landmark of the city.''Other attractions in Himeji include Mount Shosha, Kokoen Garden, Engyo-ji Temple, Yukata Matsuri Festival (in June), and Asago Art Village.''How to Get There:''By Train:''Option 1: From JR Osaka Station, take the JR Special Rapid Service for Himeji. Travel duration is more or less 60 minutes. The fare is ¥1490.''Option 2: For holders of the multiple-day pass for Kansai’s private railway system, take either the Hanshin Railway or the Sanyo Railway going to Himeji. Travel duration is around 90 minutes. The fare is ¥1250.''By Bus:''From Kansai International Airport Terminal 1 or 2, take the hourly bus service bound for Himeji Station. Travel duration is more or less 2 hours and 30 minutes. The fare is ¥3300.''2. Kyoto''Kyoto is one of Japan’s tourism sacred trinity alongside Tokyo and Osaka (well, Nagoya too, since Osaka and Kyoto are oftentimes considered one destination). It is brimming with history and serves as the cultural landmark of the country, preserving and, at the same time, spreading Japan’s heritage and identity. Once the seat of imperial power for more than a thousand years, Kyoto is dotted with many important ancient temples, shrines, palaces, and other historical structures; hence, it gained the UNESCO World Heritage Site Historic Monuments of Ancient Kyoto recognition.''Some of the many attractions in Kyoto aside from the 17 UNESCO-recognized locations, are the Imperial Palace, Katsura Imperial Villa, Shugakuin Imperial Villa, Nijo Castle, Nishiki Market, Higashiyama, Fushimi Inari Shrine, Arashiyama, and the several museums and festivals.''How to Get There:''By Train:''Option 1: From JR Osaka Station, take the JR Special Rapid Service and alight at Kyoto Station. Travel duration is more or less 30 minutes. The fare is ¥560.''Option 2: Coming from Kansai International Airport, take the JR West Haruka Kansai Airport Limited Express train going to Himeji. Travel duration is around 70 minutes. The fare is ¥2850 (inclusive of ¥970 unreserved seat fee).''For foreign visitors, getting a one-day JR West Kansai Area Pass will lessen the fare cost as it is given at a discounted price of ¥2300. Passports and return flight tickets are required in purchasing the pass.''Note: Kyoto has a vast transportation system, so these are just two of the many ways to reach the city from Osaka via train.''By Bus:''From Kansai International Airport arrival lobby, purchase a limousine bus ticket bound for Kyoto. Limousine buses run twice per hour, stopping and picking up guests at Bus Stop #8. Travel duration is more or less 2 hours. The fare is ¥2500 for adults and ¥1250 for children.''You can also take the Kyoto Day Tour from Osaka offered by Klook. The tour covers English-speaking guide, traditional Japanese meal, and tour bus transportation. The itinerary includes Kiyomizu-dera Temple, Kinkaku-ji, and Fushimi Inari Shrine.''JOIN THIS TOUR''1. Tottori''Of the cities listed here, Tottori is the farthest from Osaka, over 3 hours away. But it is worth every journey!''Tottori city is the capital of Tottori Prefecture in Chugoku Region, Western Honshu. Unlike other destinations, Tottori is not crowded or touristy at all. But there’s a lot to see in the city and the prefecture as a whole. While other items on this list can offer history and culture in big doses, Tottori has chunks of everything that can make your trip a well-rounded one.''It is best known for its sand dunes, one of the largest in Japan. Nature lovers can also gawk at the beaches and rock formations along Uradome Coast. Foodies will certainly enjoy its abundant fresh seafood catch, 20th-century pears, Tottori beef, and the gyukotsu ramen, a unique and rare type of ramen which uses beef bone soup. The otaku will want to get lost in the worlds of Detective Conan, GeGeGe no Kitarō, and Spirited Away, which were all inspired by the place. In fact, not far from the city is the town of Hokuei, also known as Conan Town. This town is the birthplace of the father of the popular manga and anime series, Detective Conan, so fans of Conan will enjoy a quick visit to this quirky town.''Other interesting attractions are the Tottori Castle Ruins, Kawahara Castle, and Watanabe Museum. Even the historically worshipped Mt. Daisen and Misasa Onsen are easily accessible from Tottori.''How to Get There:''By Bus:''From Kansai International Airport, take the limousine bus bound for OCAT-Namba. Once at OCAT-Namba, purchase a bus ticket going to Tottori Bus Station. Travel duration is more or less 4 hours. The fare is ¥2050, which covers Kansai Airport to OCAT-Namba fare (¥1050) and OCAT-Namba to Tottori Bus Station fare (¥1000).''By Train:''From Kansai International Airport, take the JR Kansai Airport Rapid Service train to Osaka Station. From Osaka Station, take the Limited Express Super Hakuto train to Tottori. Travel duration is more or less 2 hours and 30 minutes. The fare ranges from ¥3000 to ¥6000.''For more information about getting to Tottori from Osaka/Kansai Airport, check''How to Get to TOTTORI from OSAKA or KANSAI AIRPORT: The Cheapest Way''How to Get to Osaka''Kansai International Airport (KIX) is the primary gateway to Osaka and the rest of Kansai Region. A lot of airlines fly from Manila to Kansai Airport. If you book way in advance, you’ll get the best deals from Cebu Pacific Air. CEB flies to Osaka five times a week. Their lowest year-round fare is at P6399, which is a great deal already.''You can also wait for a SEAT SALE! For one of our trips, I was able to score a roundtrip Cebu Pacific ticket from their P20 SALE. The base fare per leg was only P20, but including all the taxes, I only paid PHP 5984 for the roundtrip ticket (PHP 2992 per way). That includes a prepaid baggage allowance of 20 Kg. Not bad. Not bad at all.''Search for cheap flights here''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''OSAKA AND KYOTO: Budget Travel Guide''How to Get to UNIVERSAL STUDIOS JAPAN''Tempozan Ferris Wheel: Sunny Surprises in Osaka, Japan''UNIVERSAL STUDIOS JAPAN: Guide for First-timers''Osaka Castle Park, Japan: Toyotomi’s Dream''The first batch of tourists whom Sipalay City captivated was composed of divers. Facing Sulu Sea, which is a big part of the famed and naturally rich Coral Triangle, Sipalay is a giant treasure trove of underwater attractions. In fact, when seen from above, its reefs resemble a kaleidoscope world painted in blue, green, and every shade in between.''But it was only a matter time before what used to be the diving community’s best kept secret got revealed to the public at large. For non-divers, however, the beaches and coves are the highlight of any stay in Sipalay. You can hop from one attraction to another in two ways:''By tricycle''. The tricycle is the main mode of transportation in the city. But they are not as common as you might think. In areas outside the city proper, it’s seldom to find a passing tricycle. You will have to ask a hotel or resort staff to call one or arrange a trip for you. From the poblacion to anywhere outside, prepare to shell out P150-P200 per person. Some drivers agree to P250-P350 per 2 pax. Hence, it’s best to hire a tricycle for an entire day.''A whole-day Tricycle Tour of the city costs P1500 (max. 4 pax).''By boat''. From Poblacion Beach, you can charter a boat to take you to the same spots as the tricycle tour. Cost is the same: P1500.''We recommend staying for at least three days in Sipalay to properly experience all its wonders at a relaxed pace. But anything shorter will do too. In fact, most of the key beaches and resorts in the area can be visited in one day.''Whatever you take, you will be able to visit the following destinations. Here are some places to visit and things to do in Sipalay!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Tinagong Dagat''Perth Paradise Resort''Punta Ballo''Sugar Beach''Poblacion Beach''Bonus: Danjugan Island''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Tinagong Dagat''Tinagong Dagat''This is a small, private cove peppered with rocky islets, with some connected by wooden bridges. The area is managed by a resort that is easily accessible from the main road.''They don’t have a decent stretch of white sand here, but the views alone easily make up for it. There are also swimming pools around.''From the mainland, you can cross the long bridge and skirt around the islet on the other side and you’ll find the base of a concrete staircase (of around 100 steps). Climb to the park atop to get a wonderful view of the surrounding islands.''Entrance fee'': P30''Perth Paradise Resort''We learned about Sipalay through a photo featuring Perth Paradise Resort. Their iconic pool and the view from it were just too hard to resist. The resort occupies an isolated hillside, with the pool crowning one. To get to the pool, you will have to climb another staired path. Be warned though: It’s not an infinity pool, and it’s very small. But yes, the view is spectacular.''Perth Paradise Resort''We actually spent one night here (P2500), but you can also visit on a day tour. If you’re visiting just for the pool,''we recommend a day tour visit. Note that the hill where the pool and the rooms are perched on are pretty steep and can be quite exhausting.''But if you want an escape and a time away from everything, this might be a good place. It’s tucked in the far corner of Sipalay. There’s no cellular signal in most parts so you can’t be haunted by work or whatever it is you’re running away from.''Entrance Fee'': P80 for adults, P50 for kids.''Pool use'': P100 per person''Punta Ballo''Punta Ballo Beach''Another stretch of golden sand. This is where more upscale resorts, such as Easy Diving, Robinson Cruse Beach Resort, and Artistic Dive Center, are located.''Sugar Beach''Sipalay’s most popular beach. It’s a long strip of, uhm, sugary sand cut in half by a stream estuary. Sugar Beach most often refers to the half north of the river, cloistered from the rest of Sipalay. Directions to this beach can be quite overwhelming at first.''Sugar Beach''If you’re on a boat tour, no problem; you will be taken directly to the beach.''If you’re on a tricycle tour, the tricycle is going to take you to the jump-off point near the mouth of the stream (far from the highway). From here, you will have to ride a boat to the other side of the stream (Boat fare: P50) then walk to the resort area. You can also charter a boat to take you straight to the resort area (Fare: P300).''Poblacion Beach''The beach fronting Sipalay City Center. Make sure you end your tour here for two reasons. First, it faces west, making it a fantastic spot to watch the sunset. We did it on two consecutive nights and it was magnificent both times. Such a relaxing sight!''Poblacion Beach''Second, running parallel this beach is''Sipalay Food Park'', which is composed of several inasal and barbeque places and small food kiosks. Have your dinner here!''Bonus: Danjugan Island''Danjugan Island''This one isn’t in Sipalay but in Cauayan, but it’s so easily accessible from Sipalay, it’d be a sin not to include it here. And it’s also one of our favorite islands in the Philippines!''Danjugan Island is a 43-hectare strip of land carpeted with dense rainforest and secluded in the middle of a marine sanctuary. It is privately managed by the Philippine Reef and Rainforest Conservation Foundation (PRRCF), who bought and saved the island from possible destruction back in the 1990s.''More info about that here:''Danjugan Island''All photos by Vins Carlos''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Crystal Beach Resort and Anawangin Cove, Zambales: Our Itinerary and Budget (Rainy Season)''Danjugan Island, Negros Occidental: Budget Travel Guide''BACOLOD AND SIPALAY SAMPLE ITINERARIES''Budget Holiday Options in Majorca''San Sebastian Cathedral from Outside the Gates: Bacolod City, Philippines''Punta Bulata Resort: Where to Stay in Cauayan, Negros Occidental (Splurge Option)''When we think of Negros Occidental, we think about Bacolod, its capital city. That can’t be helped, I guess. Bacolod has successfully made a name for itself as an attractive tourist destination. The Masskara Festival is one of the most well-known and most highly anticipated cultural events in the country. And don’t get us started with Bacolod’s influence to the Filipino culinary landscape. Bacolod and its neighboring cities, Talisay and Silay, have long been on the tourist map.''But the rest of the province also has a lot to offer to those who seek a sweet escape. Negros Occidental’s economy may be largely driven by sugar, but tourism is beginning to keep up too. Farther south of the province are hidden wonders like Danjugan Island, a protected area that you can visit on a day trip or an overnight stay.''Not far away from it is Sipalay City, a laid-back city devoid of skyscrapers and popular fast food chains. Interact with the locals at Poblacion Beach, just a few meters walk from the city center and the wet market. Taste the local food from the food stalls running parallel to the beach as you let the sunset embrace your weary mind and body. From the city center, you can start your beach hopping tour or stay in one of the resorts lining the coast of Sipalay.''Sipalay islets as viewed from Perth Paradise Resort''From food tripping in Bacolod to nature tripping in Cauayan to laid-back beach hopping in Sipalay, you will thank yourself for choosing the province as the place to rejuvenate yourself. To help you with your trip, here are sample itineraries for you. Just choose what fits your budget and preference.''Please note that all these itineraries assume you’re a group of two and will be staying in a double/twin room and split the costs. Public transportation fares (jeepney, bus) are overestimated (rounded off).'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Option A: Metro Bacolod Only''Option B: Bacolod + Sipalay''Option C: Sipalay + Danjugan Island''Option D: Sipalay Only (Budget)''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Option A: Metro Bacolod Only''Duration'': 3 days, 2 nights''Hotel'': Stay 2 nights in Bacolod. Another option is to stay 1 night in Bacolod and another night in Silay. Ideal budget: P1500 per night (P750 per person)''Day 1: BACOLOD CITY TOUR''09:00 am – ETA Bacolod-Silay Airport''09:30 am – Take cab to city center – P130 (P260/2pax)''10:15 am – Early check-in or drop baggage''11:00 am – Brunch at Sharyn’s Cansi House – P200''12:30 pm – Travel to Mambukal – around P50''01:30 pm – Mambukal Resort – P50''05:30 pm – Travel back to Bacolod – P50''07:00 pm – Dinner at Manokan Country – P200''09:00 pm – Calea – P150''10:30 pm – Back at hotel''Day 2: TALISAY & SILAY''09:00 am – San Sebastian Cathedral/Capitol Lagoon – FREE''11:30 am – Lunch at Aboy’s – P300''01:00 pm – Jeepney to Silay – P50''01:45 pm – Tour Silay City – P120''04:30 pm – Transfer to The Ruins''05:00 pm – Explore The Ruins – P100''07:00 pm – Back to Bacolod''07:30 pm – Dinner at 21 Restaurant – P300''Day 3: DEPARTURE''07:00 am – Hotel check out''07:30 am – Taxi to airport – P130 (P260/2)''08:00 am – ETD Bacolod-Silay Airport – P200 Terminal Fee''This itinerary will set you back''P3500-P4000''per person. Note that much of the budget is spent on food as you will be trying the most popular dining places in the city. If you’re on a shoestring budget, you may opt to just have your meal at cheaper eateries for less than P100.''More info:''Bacolod Travel Guide''.''Option B: Bacolod + Sipalay''Duration'': 5 days, 4 nights''If you want to get out of the city and see more of the Negros countryside, this itinerary is for you.''Hotel arrangement'': Stay 2 nights in Bacolod (Ideal budget: P1500/night) and 3 nights in Sipalay (Ideal budget: P1200/night).''Day 1: BACOLOD CITY TOUR''09:00 am – ETA Bacolod-Silay Airport''09:30 am – Take cab to city center – P130 (P260/2pax)''10:15 am – Early check-in or drop baggage''11:00 am – Brunch at Sharyn’s Cansi House – P200''12:30 pm – Travel to Mambukal – around P50''01:30 pm – Mambukal Resort – P50''05:30 pm – Travel back to Bacolod – P50''07:00 pm – Dinner at Manokan Country – P200''09:00 pm – Calea – P150''10:30 pm – Back at hotel''Day 2: TALISAY & SILAY''09:00 am – San Sebastian Cathedral/Capitol Lagoon – FREE''11:30 am – Lunch at Aboy’s – P300''01:00 pm – Jeepney to Silay – P50''01:45 pm – Tour Silay City – P120''04:30 pm – Transfer to The Ruins''05:00 pm – Explore The Ruins – P100''07:00 pm – Back to Bacolod''07:30 pm – Dinner at 21 Restaurant – P300''Day 3: TRANSIT TO SIPALAY''05:00 am – Hotel check out''05:30 am – Taxi to South Terminal''06:00 am – Bus to Sipalay – P209''11:00 am – Arrival in Sipalay''11:30 am – Hotel check in''12:00 pm – Lunch – P100''02:00 pm – Rest''06:00 pm – Sunset at Poblacion Beach''06:30 pm – Dinner at Sipalay Food Park  – P150''08:00 pm – Back at hotel''Day 4: SIPALAY TOUR''08:00 am – Start Sipalay Beach-hopping – P750 (1500/2pax)''09:00 am – Sugar Beach – Boat: P250''11:00 am – Early lunch – P200''12:30 pm – Punta Ballo''02:00 pm – Perth Paradise Beach – P80 Entrance + P100 Pool Use''04:30 pm – Tinagong Dagat – P30''06:30 pm – Dinner at Sipalay Food Park  – P150''Day 5: DEPARTURE''07:00 am – Hotel check out''08:00 am – Bus to Bacolod – P209''01:00 pm – Lunch – P150''02:00 pm – Taxi to airport – P130 (P260/2)''02:40 pm – Bacolod-Silay Airport – P200 Terminal Fee''For this itinerary, prepare to shell out P8000-P8500 per person. There are many other ways of bringing down the cost of the Sipalay leg, but we’ll discuss that in a separate Sipalay Travel Guide post (which we will be publishing very soon).''More info:''Sipalay Travel Guide''.''Photo by Vins Carlos''Option C: Sipalay + Danjugan Island''Duration'': 4 days, 3 nights''This also involves a visit to Danjugan Island in the neighboring town of Cauayan, which makes up a bulk of the budget.''Hotel arrangement'': Stay 3 nights in Sipalay City Center (Ideal budget: P1400/night).''Day 1: BACOLOD-SIPALAY''09:00 am – ETA Bacolod-Silay Airport''09:30 am – Take cab to South Terminal – P130 (P260/2pax)''10:00 am – Early lunch – P100''11:00 am – Bus to Sipalay – P209''04:30 pm – Arrival in Sipalay''05:00 pm – Hotel check in''05:30 pm – Sunset at Poblacion Beach''06:30 pm – Dinner at Sipalay Food Park – P150''08:00 pm – Back at hotel, rest''Day 2: DANJUGAN ISLAND DAY TOUR''07:00 am – Bus to Crossing Remollos – P30''08:00 am – Arrival at Remollos/Bulata beach''08:30 am – Begin Danjugan Island Tour''06:00 pm – End Tour (P1950)''06:30 pm – Travel to Sipalay''08:00 pm – Dinner – P150''09:00 pm – Lights out''Day 3: SIPALAY TOUR''08:00 am – Start Sipalay Beach-hopping – P750 (1500/2pax)''09:00 am – Sugar Beach – Boat: P50''11:00 am – Early lunch – P200''12:30 pm – Punta Ballo''02:00 pm – Perth Paradise Beach – P80 Entrance + P100 Pool Use''04:30 pm – Tinagong Dagat – P30''06:30 pm – Dinner at Sipalay Food Park – P150''Day 4: DEPARTURE''07:00 am – Hotel check out''08:00 am – Bus to Bacolod – P209''01:00 pm – Lunch – P150''02:00 pm – Taxi to airport – P130 (P260/2)''02:40 pm – Bacolod-Silay Airport – P200 Terminal Fee''This itinerary will set you back''P7500 – P800''per person, excluding airfare.''As mentioned, the biggest bulk of the budget goes to the Danjugan Island tour. Yes, the tour is indeed a bit expensive, but it is absolutely be worth it. But if you’re not interested in it, it will bring down the cost significantly.''Option D: Sipalay Only (Budget)''Duration'': 4 days, 3 nights''This itinerary is the budget version. Instead of going to Danjugan, spend an entire day just relaxing on Sugar Beach instead.''Hotel arrangement'': Stay 3 nights on Sugar Beach (Ideal budget: P650/night, fan-only room).''Day 1: BACOLOD-SIPALAY''09:00 am – ETA Bacolod-Silay Airport''09:30 am – Take cab to South Terminal – P130 (P260/2pax)''10:00 am – Early lunch – P100''11:00 am – Bus to Sipalay – P209''04:30 pm – Arrival in Sipalay City Hall''04:40 pm – Trike to Jump off Point – P50 (P100/2 pax)''05:00 pm – Boat to the other side – P50''05:10 pm – Walk to resort''05:30 pm – Hotel check in''07:00 pm – Dinner – P200''08:30 pm – Back at hotel, rest''Day 2: SIPALAY TOUR''08:00 am – Start Sipalay Beach-hopping – P750 (1500/2pax)''09:00 am – Perth Paradise Resort – P80 Entrance + P100 Pool Use''11:00 am – Early lunch – P200''12:30 pm – Tinagong Dagat – P30''02:00 pm – Punta Ballo''04:30 pm – Back at Sugar Beach''06:30 pm – Dinner – P150''Day 3: SUGAR BEACH CHILL''07:00 am – Swim/Laze on the beach''12:00 nn – Lunch – P150''02:00 pm – Rest/relax''04:00 pm – Swim again''07:00 pm – Dinner – P150''09:00 pm – Lights out''Day 4: DEPARTURE''06:00 am – Hotel check out''07:00 am – Boat to Poblacion Beach – P150 (P300/2pax)''08:00 am – Bus to Bacolod – P209''01:00 pm – Lunch – P150''02:00 pm – Taxi to airport – P130 (P260/2)''02:40 pm – Bacolod-Silay Airport – P200 Terminal Fee''This itinerary will cost you''P4500-P5000''per person.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Bacolod and Negros Occidental: Budget Travel Guide''SIPALAY ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Preparing a Bacolod Itinerary – Negros Occidental, Philippines''The Ruins in Talisay City: Negros Occidental, Philippines''Danjugan Island, Negros Occidental: Budget Travel Guide''Punta Bulata Resort: Where to Stay in Cauayan, Negros Occidental (Splurge Option)''My most recent trip to Osaka was my fourth time in the city. But I still vividly remember the first.''Osaka was the first destination in Japan that we set foot in. We were travel newbies back then: lacking in knowledge, wisdom, and confidence. Every single day of that trip, we spent a loooong time deciding where to eat because we were so intimidated by everything.''We were on a super tight budget that if we overspent on something, we would risk giving up another activity. There was this restaurant near the train station that we both wanted to try, but there was no menu outside. Every time we passed by, we stopped and stood in front of it, discussing whether or not we should go in. We were so afraid we won’t be able to afford it that we ended up eating at a convenience store each time. (We were able to try only 3 restaurants on that trip, but they were all originally part of our itinerary.)''Of course, after several Japan trips, we know better. We now know that there are a lot of cheap but wonderful food spots in every city, and we have gathered enough confidence (and money) to find and try them.''I guess that’s why I like visiting cities over and over again. When the streets and lights bombard you with old memories, you’re reminded that after each journey, people, like places, are never the same. This trip is different because this time, it was all about the food. We sought out the restaurants and stalls that could give us cheap but unforgettable eats. And here’s what we found.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Endo Sushi''Tokisushi''Ramen Yashichi''Okonomiyaki Kiji''Aizuya Takoyaki''Kuromon Ichiba Market''Bonus: Supermarkets''Where to Book Cheap Flights to Osaka''Search for cheap flights here''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Endo Sushi''What to try'': Sushi Set 1''Price'': ¥1150 + 8% tax''I eat at Endo Sushi every time I’m in the city. EVERY. SINGLE. TIME. That should tell you how much I enjoy this small and unassuming sushi shop. That, despite being located far from the city’s many popular tourist spots. It is almost an attraction in itself with tourists going out of their way to have their own plateful.''Endo Sushi has been serving what many consider “Osaka’s best” for over a century. Yep, more than 100 years, and they’re here to stay, despite being so small. The place has only five tables and a short bar, so expect to queue up a bit. Immediately upon taking a seat, you wull be served a cup of hot green tea together with a hot towelette. On the table are two small porcelain bowls that cradle shoyu (soy sauce) and pickled ginger. Don’t go looking for wasabi because it’s already mixed with rice. Aside from the toppings, this wasabi mixture sets Endo apart from other sushi places. It’s a perfect blend of saltiness and spice. If you’re not a fan, tell the chef or waiter upon ordering so they can create wasabi-less pieces for you.''Endo’s menu has only a few choices. You get to pick among four sets only, each priced at ¥1150 + 8% tax. Every set is made up of five pre-selected pieces (omakase), but you can have a piece replaced if you like.''I have tried all four sets, and Set 1 — composed of anago (sea water eel), uni (sea urchin), tai (sea bream), toro (fatty tuna), and hamachi (yellowtail) — is, by a mile, the best. Many of these pieces have premium toppings including toro and uni. If you want to try the other plates, don’t be shy to order more. It’s perfectly normal to have a rack of multiple plates because every piece is glorious. Because it’s located just next to the fish market, they get first dibs on the freshest ingredients, and you can taste the freshness with every bite.''Operating hours'': Monday-Saturday, 5am – 2pm (closed on Sunday and Holidays)''How to get there'': The closest stations are Noda and Tamagawa. They’re very close to each other so just take whatever is more convenient. From Noda Station, cross the street and turn left until you hit an intersection. Turn right and walk along that road until you see Aji River. Turn right onto the road just before the bridge. The big building to your right is Osaka Fish Market. Walk towards the market and keep left — Don’t climb the overpass — and you’ll see Endo Sushi after the parking lot.''Tokisushi''What to try'': 12-piece Assorted Sushi Set''Price'': ¥1050 + tax''If ¥1150 can treat you to 5 pieces at Endo Sushi, an even smaller amount, ¥1050, can give you a dozen at Tokisushi (Toki Sushi).''Toki Sushi. Photo by Vins Carlos''We love Toki Sushi for two things. First, its location. If you’re staying around Namba, then this should be within walking distance of your hotel.''The other, its affordability. A standard plate here, with 2 pieces of nigiri sushi, costs only ¥150. A more premium sushi — like fatty tuna and sea urchin — are at ¥150 apiece. But most diners get their assorted sushi plates, which cost ¥730 for 8 pieces and ¥1050 for a dozen.''We ordered the dozen-platter. The waitress served a wooden board that looked almost overflowing with sushi, all twelve of them topped with big cuts of seafood. However, most are crowned with regular toppings like squid, tamago, and regular tuna. If you have more dough to burn, we highly encourage you to try their premium sushi set (¥2100), which will give you all the awesome pieces like uni, Japanese eel, and fatty tuna.''I would choose Endo Sushi over Tokisushi any day, but that’s expected because the former is way pricier. But I still encourage you to try both. If you do, however, try Tokisushi first so you won’t be underwhelmed.''Operating hours'': 11am – 11pm''How to get there'': The closest stations are Namba and Nippombashi.''Ramen Yashichi''What to try'': Shoyu Ramen''Price'': ¥730''Like most best-kept secrets in Japan, Ramen Yashichi is housed in a humble, compact, dingy hole in a wall that is easy to walk past. We almost did, since there was no queue outside it, pretty unusual for a ramen place that is supposedly one of the best in Osaka. But there is a perfect, sensible explanation for it.''As soon as we started queueing, we were approached by one of the staff, who gave us a number with a small message telling us to come back at the specified time. That’s their way of avoiding creating a long line in front of the shop (perhaps because it could block the entrance to its neighboring stores). But it was mid-afternoon of a weekday so we didn’t get to wait much. In 10 minutes, we were inside, trying to figure out the all-Japanese vending machine that takes customers orders. The staff, though, was gracious enough to assist us.''In no time, we were seated at one of the only two tables and served a big bowl of ramen. There are three main types of ramen here: shoyu (soy sauce), shio (salt), and tsukemen (noodles are served separately for dipping). Online consensus highly favors shoyu so both Vins and I ordered the same thing.''Cost:''.''Shoyu: ¥730''Shio: ¥780''Tsukemen: ¥880''Ramen Yashichi. Photo by Vins Carlos''This was the first time I stuffed my body with a ramen in a chicken-based broth. I’m used to pork bone (tonkotsu) and have tried beef bone (gyukotsu) before, but this one was different. I was afraid I’d be disappointed because I assumed that, since it is chicken-based, it would taste light. I like my soup like I like my men, rich and strong. However, it was anything but light. It was heavy, almost like tonkotsu, but creamy. Think of it as the lovechild of a tonkotsu ramen and a chicken macaroni soup. It’s one of those broths that get more flavorful with every spoonful, complementing the sweet marinade of the chashu toppings. Before I knew it, my bowl was empty.''Operating Hours'': Monday-Friday 10:45am-4pm (Closed: Saturday, Sunday)''How to get there'': Closest train station is Nakatsu. Ramen Yashichi is only 3 blocks from there.''Okonomiyaki Kiji''What to try'': Okonomiyaki''Price'': ¥850''We had just finished checking out the view from Umeda Sky Building’s observatory, when our grumbling tummies and a quick Google search led us to the door of Okonomiyaki Kiji, at the tower’s basement food court called Takimi Koji. We were greeted by the staff, who gladly ushered us in. Spotting our cameras, he asked if we wanted to sit by the bar (perhaps so we could get better angles).''We were there for okonomiyaki, but he highly recommended the yakisoba. We ended up with both. The chef began creating the dish in front of us. The more they took form, the more we realized that these would be HUGE pieces, maybe bigger than we can handle. When it was all done, he split both the okonomiyaki and yakisoba in two, and evenly distributed the pieces.''Okonomiyaki is Osaka’s famous traditional pancake usually made of wheat flour, cabbage, and eggs. Kiji allows you to choose the protein components of the dish, so we opted for a mixture of everything: bacon, beef, squid. The last piece was a shiso, a perilla leaf. (I’m not a fan of perilla, but Vins is.) Kiji’s was everything you could hope for in an okonomiyaki: big, filling, flavorful, and well-seasoned. And because our order sat on the grill the entire time, it remained warm throughout the meal.''Cost: ¥850''.''But that yakisoba totally upstaged the okonomiyaki. The yakisoba had a soft, juicy but non-soggy texture that was punctuated by the squid, meat and veggie bits.''Operating Hours'': Friday-Wednesday 11:30am-9pm (Closed: Thursdays)''How to get there'': Closest train stations are Osaka and Umeda.''Aizuya Takoyaki''What to try'': Takoyaki Set''Price'': ¥500''Aizuya is widely believed to be the birthplace of takoyaki, Osaka’s most popular street food. Yep, they are credited for inventing takoyaki. Their takoyaki is served without any sauce, which shows just how confident they are with the taste of their product. And it must be pretty darn awesome because they got a recommendation from Michelin’s Bib Gourmand 2016 Guide. All these made us visit. Unfortunately, it was still closed when we arrived and we didn’t have the luxury of time. Boohoo.''Anyway, if you want to try it, a 12-piece plate is only ¥500, 15-piece ¥620.''Aizuya has a few branches including one in Umeda and another in Namba.''Kuromon Ichiba Market''For over 190 years, Kuromon Market has been known as Osaka’s kitchen for its almost endless array of gastronomic options, ranging from rare fruits to mouth-watering seafoods that you can eat or have prepared on the spot. We stumbled upon it by accident. We didn’t realize that the shop where we would be picking up our Amazing Osaka Pass is located here, so we were delightfully, unexpectedly bombarded by sensory treats. The scent of grilled food and the greetings from sellers filled the air. Although not part of the plan, we ended up digging into some of the delicacies sold here including seared scallops and sweet potatoes.''Compared to other markets I have visited in Japan, Kuromon is actually a bit pricier, but the experience make up for it. They sell items in small servings, which allows visitors to get a taste of a wide variety of products, something that a regular restaurant can’t give you. There’s just so much to see and taste here. If you want to try Kobe beef but not flush enough to afford a proper cut, you can get hold of small slices here. Even the deadly fugu (pufferfish) is sold in one of the corners.''Open'': Daily, 9am-6pm''How to get there'': Closest stations are Nippombashi and Namba''Bonus: Supermarkets''If you’re traveling on a shoestring, a good way to save on food is by shopping at a friendly neighborhood supermarket. I do it all the time when I’m staying in Japan for a long time. Supermarkets in Japan sell fresh and cooked food, and they are goooooood. Not as good as what you would have at a proper restaurant, but waaaay better than what you would expect from supermarkets.''Tip'': Shop for food past 8pm because most perishable products (like sushi and other cooked meals) are put on sale! You can save up to 50%!''Where to Book Cheap Flights to Osaka''Cebu Pacific Air flies to Osaka five times a week. Their lowest year-round fare is at P6399, which is a great deal already.''Search for cheap flights here''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''How to Get to UNIVERSAL STUDIOS JAPAN''HOW TO GET FROM OSAKA TO TOKYO: The Cheapest Way''OSAKA ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''SAMPLE OSAKA-NARA-KYOTO ITINERARY (with Costs)''SAMPLE JAPAN ITINERARIES (with Estimated Budget)''There was a time when the phrase “beach near Manila” was synonymous with a place in Zambales. Subic, a coastal municipality, was the go-to destination for beach-lovers. It had almost everything a Manila urbanite seeking a quick escape could ask for: a seaside hideaway, top-notch resorts, and a chance to go shopping in peace. On top of all that, it is just an easy drive away.''Today, one could say that Subic is so last decade. Yes, many other hidden gems have been uncovered and other concealed coves have been revealed, but Zambales never left the radar of sun-worshipping weekend warriors. Here are 10 beaches in Zambales that prove that when it comes to beaches, Zambales just keeps on giving.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Anawangin Cove''Nagsasa Cove''Talisayen Cove''Silanguin Cove''Camara Island''Capones Island''Potipot Island''Crystal Beach Resort''Liwliwa Beach''Halfmoon Beach, Subic''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Anawangin Cove''Over the past few years, Anawangin Cove has captivated more visitors, which has also sparked a growing interest in nearby beaches. Almost in an instant, the village of Pundaquit has transformed from a sleepy fishing village into a tourist town.''Anawangin Cove Inlet''But tourism isn’t the only thing that changed it. When Mt. Pinatubo erupted in 1991, it dumped tons of ash to the shore of San Antonio. What used to be a rocky coast became a supple, shining piece of paradise that seems to have come out of a crazy beach-lover’s fantasy. Over time, agoho trees (sea pine trees) began growing in its ashen slopes, creating a surreal Boracay-meets-Baguio landscape.''How to get there'': Ride a bus to Iba or Sta. Cruz, Zambales and get off at the San Antonio Public Market near the Municipal Hall (P270-300). Alternatively, you can travel by bus to Olongapo and another bus to San Antonio, and get off at the same market. Look for a tricycle to take you to Pundaquit (P60 per 2 pax) and then rent a boat to Anawangin Cove (P1000, good for 4 pax).''Fore more info, read:''Anawangin Travel Guide''Nagsasa Cove''Nagsasa Cove''Like Anawangin, Nagsasa Cove is strewn not with your regular sand but volcanic ash spewed by Mt. Pinatubo and carpeted by a forest of sea pine trees. It has all the good things Anawangin is famous for — including a natural viewpoint on a hill and a postcard-worthy inlet — but retaining the more laidback atmosphere that has started to slip away from the other. But unlike its more popular stepsister, Nagsasa doesn’t get too overcrowded, although it’s starting to attract more and more tourists each year.''How to get there'': Ride a bus to Iba or Sta. Cruz, Zambales and get off at the San Antonio Public Market near the Municipal Hall (P270-300). Alternatively, you can travel by bus to Olongapo and another bus to San Antonio, and get off at the same market. Look for a tricycle to take you to Pundaquit (P60 per 2 pax) and then rent a boat to Anawangin Cove (P1000, good for 4 pax).''Fore more info, read:''Nagsasa Cove Travel Guide''Talisayen Cove''Talisayin Cove is the quiet type.''Of all the ashen coves patching the coastline of Zambales, Talisayen (or Talisayin) is the quietest. It’s like that one guy back in high school who sat at the very back of the class, not saying a word unless asked. Often overlooked because he wasn’t as popular as his seatmates.''But Talisayen, Nagsasa and Anawangin are cut from the same cloth, made of the same volcanic stuff. But what sets Talisayen apart is that it appeals to a completely different set of travelers, those who make their own trail. Even after all these years, Talisayen has managed to avoid the crowd.''How to get here'': From Pundaquit, boats (good for 4 pax) can be rented for P2000-P2500. Alternatively, you can also get here by boat from Subic, but entails a longer travel time.''Silanguin Cove''Silanguin Cove''Silanguin is the least crowded of all the newly rediscovered beaches of San Antonio; thanks to its remoteness. Be warned: the sand here isn’t white, not even off-white. It is light gray, at best. But don’t judge a beach by its color. Unlike the other coves, the water here is much shallower and less violent, making it more ideal for swimming (soul searching, if you’re into that thing). The reddish soil of the surrounding mountains combined with the bright greenery also makes for the best view in San Antonio.''If you have more time: Go fishing! The waters of Zambales are so rich that fishing tours are starting to make waves. Ask your boatman about it before the trip.''How to get here'': From Pundaquit, boats (good for 4 pax) can be rented for P2000-P2500. Travel time: 5-6 hours. Alternatively, you can also get here by boat from Subic, but entails a longer travel time.''Camara Island''Camara Island harbors a short stretch of sand that is easily accessible from Pundaquit. In fact, it is the closest to the mainland and is visible from the village.''Capones Island''Capones Island. Photo by Vins Carlos.''Capones Island is covered in rocks on one end and strewn with fine sand on the other. You can easily recognize it by its sharp cliff that overlooks a glittering beach and is crowned by the historic Capones Lighthouse. Together with Camara Island, it is a popular island-hopping sidetrip destination. Visitors may enter the building and climb to the top of the tower. The lighthouse guides vessels to and from Subic Bay and Corregidor.''How to get there'': From Pundaquit, you can ride a boat to Capones Island. Entrance fee: P350.''Potipot Island''Before the beaches of San Antonio were “rediscovered,” there was Potipot Island in Candelaria, a secret that was known only to a few travelers.''A post shared by Potipot Gateway Resort (@potipotgateway)''on''Jun 16, 2017 at 12:34am PDT''Potipot Island is privately owned, but it’s one of those islands you should visit to seek some peace of mind or just a quiet, more intimate moment with nature.''How to get here'': Hop into a Victory Lines bus to Sta. Cruz (P450) and get off in Uacon, Candelaria. Then, travel by tricycle to the port going to Potipot (P15) and hire a boat to the island (P400, up to 4 pax).''Crystal Beach Resort''I’ll let my teammate Karlo Jose Pineda describe the place: “If you’ve ever read a list of the best surf spots in the Philippines, chances are, Zambales will be featured. And as soon as we stepped out to prepare for our surfing lessons, I understood why. The sea made huge, rolling waves with perfectly curled tips, like those I liked to draw in blue crayon when I was a kid. It was breathtaking.”''Surfing at Crystal Beach. Photo by Camz Co''Crystal Beach Resort, in San Narciso, offers surfing lessons with Quiksilver Surf School for P400 per hour, inclusive of the surfboard, rash guard, and Quiksilver instructor’s fee.''For non-surfers, Crystal Beach has something for you too. It’s one of those resorts where “you have the beach practically to yourself; it’s cleaner, and you don’t have to talk to anyone if you don’t want to. You can just sit under an open hut and listen to the rain’s patter on the roof while you read a good book, or listen to your favorite Spotify relaxation playlist.”''How to get there'':''Crystal Beach Resort''Liwliwa Beach''Liwliwa is a fishing village in San Felipe, Zambales. “But when the waves come, which, according to the grapevine, are impressively consistent, this sitio becomes a haven for surfers and surfer-wannabes alike,” shares Karlo.''“Unlike other staple surfing spots, Liwliwa isn’t usually crowded. Perhaps because finding it is a bit tricky since the road leading to ‘Liwa is hidden from the main highway. The place may have taken the off-the-beaten-path adage quite literally, but getting there is worth the journey. Not only because of the uncluttered setting it offers for a good surf, but also its natural features, which are interestingly picturesque (the beach sand is said to be mixed with lahar that ensued from the 1991 eruption of Mt. Pinatubo).''Halfmoon Beach, Subic''And of course, we end with Subic. It may not be as fair as Boracay or any other beach you frequent, but Halfmoon Beach is a decent beach getaway with grayish sand hugged by gentle waves.''Photo by Vins Carlos''The best part: after a day of beach bumming, you can put on your bagain-hunter hat and go duty-free shopping! Aside from the beaches, you might want to take a look at the stores on your way back to Manila. Beach + retail therapy. No other formula is more effective in relieving stress.''How to get there'': Travel by bus to Olongapo City (P207 via Old Olongapo-Gapan Road, P235 via SCTEX, P280 via SCTEX non-stop). Travel time is around 4 hours. Take a jeepney to the freeport.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''ANAWANGIN COVE ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itineraries''10 Exciting Things to Do in SAN ANTONIO, ZAMBALES''The Silence of Talisayen Cove, Zambales''NAGSASA COVE ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''ANAWANGIN COVE & NAGSASA COVE: Budget Travel Guide''Crystal Beach Resort and Anawangin Cove, Zambales: Our Itinerary and Budget (Rainy Season)''Nagsasa Cove bears many similarities to its more famous stepsister. Anawangin’s popularity, however, is also her weakness. Anawangin can get too overcrowded especially during peak season. Nagsasa, although beginning to draw in more and more tourists each year, offers more moving and breathing space. It has all the good things Anawangin is famous for but retaining the more laidback atmosphere that has started to slip away from the other.''Like neighboring Anawangin and Talisayin, Nagsasa Cove used to be a typical rocky coast fronted landward by a rich rainforest that was home to small groups of Aetas. Until the first grain of ash fell.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'What You Need to Know''Best Time to Visit''How to Get to Nagsasa Cove''From Manila''From Clark Airport''From Pundaquit''Boat Tour Rates''Small Boat''Big Boat''Where to Stay in Nagsasa Cove''Day Tour or Overnight Stay?''Things to Bring for an Overnight Stay''Things to Do''More tips for the Poor Traveler''Sample Itineraries & Budget Breakdown''Itinerary A: Nagsasa Cove Day Tour''Itinerary B: Overnight Anawangin-Nagsasa Trip''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''What You Need to Know''On 12 June 1991, Mt. Pinatubo spewed tons of volcanic ash in a cataclysmic eruption and transformed the site into something completely unrecognizable. Over time, the wind (or maybe the birds) might have brought with it the seeds of agoho trees, a type of casuarina which thrives in seashores in remarkable speed. With their slender trunks and pin-like leaves, Agoho trees resemble conifers, which is why people often mistake them for pine trees. The surrounding landscape is not as fertile as it probably was before the eruption. Many of the nearby hills are bald, carpeted only with bushes that occasionally catch fire. One of them serves as a good point to catch fantastic views of the cove.''Photo by Vins Carlos''But Nagsasa Cove is just one of the beaches that the 1991 Pinatubo eruption breathed new life to. Like Nagsasa, nearby bays were blanketed by ash, creating Anawangin and Talisayen Coves. These are not islands but part of mainland Zambales. People just easily assume they’re islands because the easiest way to reach them is by boat. They’re tucked away in the far corners behind mountains, which make them difficult to be accessed by land. But it’s possible.''These coves are accessible from many other seaside villages like San Miguel, but the closest settlement is Barangay Pundaquit, which makes it the most usual jumpoff point. From Pundaquit, you can easily ride a boat to the following natural attractions:''Nagsasa Cove''Anawangin Cove''Silanguin Cove''Talisayin Cove''Camara Island''Capones Island''You can go straight to Nagsasa Cove from Pundaquit, but you can also go island-hopping (or beach-hopping) to see the other sited. You just need to make an arrangement with a boatman. And yes, you can visit all five on a day tour, provided that you arrive early!''And oh,''Nagsasa Cove has no electricity and no mobile signal''. If you’re looking for the usual resort comforts, this may not be the beach for you. But if you’re after some peace of mind or just an intimate moment with nature, then pack your bags and head to Nagsasa Cove.''Best Time to Visit''Like most destinations in the Philippines, Nagsasa Cove is best enjoyed between December and April, when the skies aren’t trying to rain on your parade. See the graph below by Climate Change Knowledge Portal.''However, if you want to escape the crowds, avoid the weekends. Nagsasa is relatively close to Manila, which means it can get packed easily. If you must visit on a weekend, do so before “summer.” The number of arrivals begins rising steadily in March and peaks in April and May.''In my opinion, the best time to visit is November to February.''How to Get to Nagsasa Cove''There are two ways to reach Nagsasa Cove: by land and by sea. It is possible to reach Nagsasa Cove after hours of trekking, but I haven’t tried it myself so I have no idea how it’s done.''The easier and more common way is taking a boat from Brgy. Pundaquit. So yep, the first step is getting to Pundaquit. Below are directions on how to get there from Manila or Clark Airport.''From Manila''Catch a Victory Liner bus bound to Iba or Santa Cruz, Zambales, and get off at San Antonio Public Market''. Travel time: 4-5 hours. Fare is between P270 and P305, depending on which part of Manila you’re coming from. \xa0Alternatively, you may also travel by bus to Olongapo City (P218 from Pasay; P207 from Cubao), and then board another bus to San Antonio (P58).''Take a tricycle to Pundaquit''. Travel time: 20 minutes. Fare: P60 if you’re alone; P30 per person if you’re part of a group.''Rent a boat to Nagsasa Cove''. Travel time: 30-40 minutes. Boat rates below.''If they’re charging you way over P300 for the bus ride to San Antonio, it could be because they think you’re getting off in Iba. Make sure it’s clear that you’re alighting in San Antonio.''From Clark Airport''The nearest commercial airport is Clark (Diosdado Macapagal International Airport). From here, Pundaquit is roughly only 3 hours away.''Ride a shuttle (P100) to Dau Bus Terminal''. A cheaper alternative would be taking the jeepney from the main gate, but since it will involve a transfer, the direct shuttle to Dau makes more sense.''Ride the bus to Olongapo''. Travel time: 1.5 hours. Fare: P140.''Ride another bus to San Antonio, Zambales''. Travel time: 1 hour. Fare: P59.''Take a tricycle to Pundaquit''. Fare: P60 if you’re alone; P30 per person if you’re part of a group.''Rent a boat to Nagsasa Cove''. Travel time: 30-40 minutes. Boat rates below.''From Pundaquit''Upon entering Pundaquit, you will be stopped by officials to collect a''P20 municipal/environmental fee''.''Once you reach the beachfront in Pundaquit, find a boatman that will take you to Nagsasa Cove. Pricing is a bit complicated, so we have created a separate section below.''This guide is for applying for a VISIT VISA. If you’re traveling to Japan as a tourist, we have a separate visa guide for that. Read:''Japan Visa Requirements for Tourists''When my sister moved to Japan as an OFW, I found another reason to return to Japan over and over again. Before that, I had only traveled to Japan as a tourist. But now that I have a close relative living there, I no longer have to worry about the accommodations and spend any dough on hotels. (Hotels in Japan are expensive!)''However, the documents needed for visiting a friend or relative is different from those required of tourists. Most travel agencies also charge a slightly higher price for it because it’s a little bit more complicated. But no worries, this visa guide will help you go through the entire visa application process.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Japan Visit Visa Requirements''If Visiting a Close Relative''Without Guarantor''With Guarantor''If Visiting a Friend or Distant Relative''Without Guarantor''With Guarantor''How to Apply for a Japan Visit Visa''Frequently Asked Questions (with Answers)''How to renew a Japan visa?''2. How to apply for a multiple-entry visa?''Do I really need a travel agency to apply? Can’t I apply on my own?''Are flight and hotel bookings required to apply?''How long does it take to process the application?''How long is the validity of the visa?''How much money should I have in the bank to get approved?''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Japan Visit Visa Requirements''Below is a list of the documents you need to gather for your visa application. Note that documents that need to be printed out (e.g. application form, itinerary) must be done on an A4-size paper.''Philippine passport.''Must have a signature and at least 2 blank pages. Broken passports are not accepted. Must have at least 6-month validity.''A duly accomplished visa application form.''Don’t leave any blank. Just put N/A if not applicable. You may\xa0download it from''here''.''ID picture.''4.5cm x 4.5 cm. Write your name and birthdate on the back side. Paste it on the application form.''Birth certificate from PSA.''Must be issued within the past one year from PSA Main Office or Serbilis Outlet Center (Nationwide). If the birth certificate is marked LATE REGISTRATION, you must also submit Baptismal certificate, School Record (Form 137), and School Yearbook (if applicable). The address of the church or school must be indicated in the documents.''Marriage certificate from NSO''. Only if you’re married. If not, ignore this one. Must be issued within the past one year from PSA Main Office or Serbilis Outlet Center (Nationwide).''Daily schedule''. Your itinerary in Japan. It doesn’t have to be complicated. Download the format''here''. Here’s what mine looked like:''Sample Japan Itinerary''The list above are just the basic requirements. But there are additional documents needed depending on your relationship to the person you will visit in Japan.''There are two types of visit visas. The first type is for visiting a Close Relative. The other is for visiting a friend or distant relative. The requirements are different.''If Visiting a Close Relative''Emphasis on CLOSE. This applies to close relatives — parent, child, brother, sister, nephew, niece, aunt, uncle. Everything else falls under the distant relative category.''Birth certificates to prove your relationship''. Must be issued within the past one year from PSA Main Office or Serbilis Outlet Center (Nationwide).''–''Parent-child''– BC of both applicant and relative in Japan''–''Siblings''– BC of both applicant and relative in Japan''–''Aunt/Uncle -> Niece/Nephew''– BC of applicant + relative in Japan + parent of relative in Japan.''–''Niece/Nephew -> Aunt/Uncle''– BC of applicant + parent of applicant + relative in Japan.''Invitation letter from your guarantor''. Must be issued within the past 3 months. This must explain why you will be visiting and must have a signature. A template is available right''here''.''Family Registration Certificate(Koseki Tohon)''. Only if relative in Japan has a Japanese Spouse or relative. Must be issued within three months. Ignore if not applicable to you.''Residence certificate''(Juminhyo) if your guarantor is Japanese OR''Foreign Registration Certificate''from City Hall if guarantor is not Japanese. Must be issued within the past 3 months.''Copy of Residence Card or Special Permanent Resident certificate''of relative in Japan. Copy of both sides must be submitted.''Without Guarantor''If you will shoulder part or all of your trip expenses:''Income tax return''(ITR Form 2316). They need a clear photocopy of it.''Bank certificate.''Must be issued within the past 3 months. I’m not sure if they require a receipt, but I submitted the receipt too. To be safe, when you get your bank certificate, ask for a receipt too. There’s no telling how big a fund is “enough” to get approved, but (in case you’re wondering) my account had only a bit north of P100,000. I planned on staying for a week. I didn’t encounter any problem.''Gifu Prefecture is fondly called''the Heartland of Japan''because of its location and, coincidentally, its shape. Right at its core is the city of Takayama. You could say that Takayama is the heart of the heart of Japan. And if that alone doesn’t strike a romantic chord in you, brace yourself. Takayama is quite the charmer. It does not woo. It does not beg for attention. It just stands there in the cold. Beating quietly. Staying unnoticed. But beware: when you give this heart a chance, it’s gonna steal yours just like that.''I know. Takayama still has mine.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Hida-Takayama''How to Get to Hida-Takayama''From Manila''From Chubu Airport''From Nagoya''From Tokyo''From Osaka''From Kyoto''Where to Stay in Hida-Takayama''Search for more: Takayama Hotels''Getting Around Hida-Takayama''Things to Do in Hida-Takayama''The Old Merchant Houses (Sanmachi or Old Town)''Takayama Festival''Takayama Jinya''Morning Markets''Crafts Experience Center''Sake Brewery Tour''Museum-Hopping''Other Attractions''Attractions Near Hida-Takayama''Shinhotaka Ropeway''Okuhida Onsen-go Villages''Hida Furukawa Old Castle Town''Shirakawa-go''Gokayama''What to Eat in Hida-Takayama''Sample Itinerary''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Hida-Takayama''Because there are many other places in Japan called Takayama, many refer to Gifu’s Takayama as Hida-Takayama, in reference to the old Hida Province.''Takayama lives up to its name “tall mountain”. Perched high above the mountains of Central Japan, it is enclosed and guarded by the Northern Alps. The isolation did the mountain city good as it established a unique fusion of culture molded and influenced by its very rich history.''Takayama is one of the major cities in Gifu offering various transport services, making it an ideal transportation hub and the jump-off point to other nearby tourist attractions.''The old merchant houses reflect the flourishing livelihood and economy of the city during the Edo Period under the Tokugawa shogunate rule. These longstanding traditional structures and architecture are reminiscent of Kyoto, prompting many to call the city “Little Kyoto”. The rich history and culture groomed Takayama to become one of the tourist destinations in Gifu, contributing largely to its economy, besides carpentry and agriculture.''The city is also in the process of making the community senior-friendly and tourist-friendly with efforts such as building wheelchair-ready restrooms, installing benches, constructing bump-free roads, and improving communication materials and directional signs for tourists and visitors.''Lastly, the city of Takayama had been awarded by the prestigious tour guidebook Michelin three-star rating twice for its old streets or''Sanmachi''and the biannual festivals with the traditional floats.''(Reference: 2007 Michelin Voyager Pratique Japon; 2009 Michelin Green Guide Japon)''Other information you need to know:''Language:''Japanese (Nihongo). The majority of the locals seldom speak English, but most of the signs and other tourist promotional materials have English translations.''Currency:''Japanese Yen (JPY, ¥). JPY 1000 is around USD 8.81, EUR 7.43, PHP 443 (as of December 2017).''Modes of payment:''Most establishments prefer cash payment, but many of them also accept credit card transactions.''Electricity Info:''100V. Plugs have two flat pins.''How to Get to Hida-Takayama''The nearest international airport is the Toyama Airport, but there are no direct flights from Manila to Toyama. The nearest major international airport with direct flights from Manila is Chubu Centrair International Airport via Nagoya. In addition, fares offered by different company airlines are cheaper.''From Manila''Chubu Centrair International Airport is a first class multi-awarded airport (Airports Council International and Skytrax). It serves Central Japan area including Nagoya, its principal city. Several airline companies offer direct flights from Manila to Nagoya via Chubu Airport. Travel time is four hours and 15 minutes.''Nagoya is the capital of Aichi Prefecture and is also the usual jump-off point to different destinations in Central Japan, providing a good number of transportation terminals.''Note: Some of the train lines, especially Shinkansen, collect seat fees on top of the train fares.''From Chubu Airport''From the airport, you can walk to Chubu Centrair International Airport Station of Meitetsu Line.''Take the Meitetsu-Limited Express train bound for Meitetsu Nagoya Station. Travel Time: 31 minutes''Fare: ¥1,230''Alight at Nagoya Station. Meitetsu Nagoya Station and Meitetsu Bus Center are both located at Meitetsu Department Building beside JR Nagoya Station.''Go to JR Nagoya Station.''Take the JR Limited Express Wide View Hida train. Travel Time: 2 hours, 20 minutes. Fare: ¥3,350 + ¥2,160 for unreserved seat or ¥2,480 for a reserved seat.''Alight at JR Takayama Station.''From Nagoya''By Train''Go to JR Nagoya Station.''Take the JR Limited Express Wide View Hida train.''Alight at JR Takayama Station.''Travel Time:''2 hours 20 minutes''Fare:''¥3,350 + Seat Fee''Seat Fee:''Unreserved, ¥2,160; Reserved, ¥2,480''By Bus''Go to Meitetsu Bus Center (located at Meitetsu Department Building next to JR Nagoya Station).''Take a bus via Takayama-Nagoya Line (Meitetsu Bus, Nohi Bus, or JR Tokai Bus)''Alight at Takayama Hida Bus Center.''Travel Time:''2 hours 40 minutes''Fare:''¥2,980''From Tokyo''By Train''From Tokyo Station, take a JR Tokaido Shinkansen train (preferably Hikari if you have JR Pass) to JR Nagoya Station.''From JR Nagoya Station, transfer to JR Limited Express Wide View Hida train going to Takayama.''Alight at JR Takayama Station.''Travel Time:''4 hours''Fare:''¥8,750 + Seat Fees''Tokyo to Nagoya Seat Fee:''Unreserved, ¥4100; Reserved, ¥4,630''Nagoya to Takayama Seat Fee:''Unreserved, ¥1,080; Reserved, ¥1240''By Bus''Go to Shinjuku Bus Terminal.''Take a Nohi bus or Keio bus going directly to Takayama.''Alight at Takayama Hida Bus Center.''Travel Time:''5 hours, 30 minutes''Fare:''¥6,690''From Osaka''By Train''From Osaka, take the JR Kyoto Line going to Shin-Osaka Station.''From Shin-Osaka Station, take the JR Tokaido Shinkansen train (preferably Hikari if you have JR Pass) to JR Nagoya Station.''From JR Nagoya Station, transfer to JR Limited Express Wide View Hida train going to Takayama.''Alight at JR Takayama Station.''Travel Time:''3 hours''Fare:''¥6,260 + Seat Fees''Shin-Osaka to Nagoya Seat Fee:''Unreserved ¥2,480; Reserved, ¥2,800''Nagoya to Takayama Seat Fee:''Unreserved, ¥1,080; Reserved, ¥1,240''By Bus''Go to Osaka Bus Station (Higashiumeda).''From Osaka Station (Higashiumeda), take a Nohi bus going to Takayama.''Alight at Takayama Hida Bus Center.''Travel Time:''4 hours''Fare:''¥4,700''From Kyoto''By Train''From Kyoto Station, take the JR Tokaido Shinkansen train (preferably Hikari if you have JR Pass) to JR Nagoya Station.''From JR Nagoya Station, transfer to JR Limited Express Wide View Hida train going to Takayama.''Alight at JR Takayama Station.''Travel Time:''3 hours''Fare:''¥5,620 + Seat Fees''Kyoto to Nagoya Seat Fee:''Unreserved, ¥2,480; Reserved, ¥2,800''Nagoya to Takayama Seat Fee:''Unreserved, ¥1,080; Reserved, ¥1,240''By Bus''Go to Kyoto Bus Station (Hachijoguchi).''From Kyoto Bus Station (Hachijoguchi), take a Nohi bus going to Takayama.''Alight at Takayama Hida Bus Center.''Travel Time:''3 hours, 30 minutes''Fare:''¥4,200''Where to Stay in Hida-Takayama''There are numerous hotels, hostels, inns, and guesthouses in Takayama. You can even stay at a ryokan, but if you choose to spend a night or two, it’s recommended to do it in a rural setting or those near the hot springs, like in Okuhida. For the budget hotel, here are the top options under $60/night according to Traveloka users as of January 2018.''Quality Hostel K’s House Takayama''Quality Hostel K’s House Takayama''.''Check Rates & Availability''Guest House Ouka – Hostel''.''Check Rates & Availability''Pension Good Luck Takayama''.''Check Rates & Availability''Country Hotel Takayama''.''Check Rates & Availability''If you are willing to spend more on your accommodation and want to experience onsen bath at the same time but don’t have the luxury of time to travel to Okuhida,''Hida Hotel Plaza''boasts two communal onsen baths for those who want to relax amid the urban setting. For those who are not pressed for time and are also planning to go to Shinhotaka Ropeway in Okuhida,''Hotel Hotaka''is located just beside the Shinhotaka Ropeway’s Shinhotakaonsen Station; it’s actually less than a minute walk. The hotel has an open-air bath, separate onsen for men and women, and barrier-free family bath.''Search for more:''Takayama Hotels''.''Getting Around Hida-Takayama''JR Takayama Station and Takayama Hida Bus Center are conveniently located near the most famous old merchant houses or the old town, known as''“Sanmachi”''. From either spot, you can explore the city on foot as the popular attractions are mostly located in the city center. You also have the option to rent a bicycle from the Tourist Office and some hostels if you want to maximize your time (around ¥600 per day). Machinami Sightseeing Bus runs between Takayama Station and the Sanmachi every hour for ¥100 per ride (adult and children). Note that there’s no operation during weekends and holidays.''If you want to go a little bit further to Hida no Sato (Hida Folk Village) and Matsuri no Mori, you can also take the Sarubobo Sightseeing Bus for convenience. It runs every 20-50 minutes from Takayama Station to both destinations and back. The fare is ¥210 per ride for adult and ¥110 per ride for children.''Machinami Bus Route:''Takayama Bus Terminal / Takayama Station Hakusan Gate / Kusakabe Folk Museum / Takayama Historical Government House (Takayama Jinya) / Back to Takayama Bus Terminal''Sarubobo Bus Route:''Takayama Bus Terminal / Hida Folk Village / Matsuri no Mori / Hida Folk Village / Back to Takayama Bus Terminal''Things to Do in Hida-Takayama''The Old Merchant Houses (Sanmachi or Old Town)''Nationally Recognized Important Historical Building Preservation Area''Takayama’s main charm is its well-preserved old merchant houses that mirror the olden castle town days of Edo Period. It’s very accessible from the train station; in fact, it will only take 10 minutes on foot to reach the old town from Takayama Station. Enjoy exploring the shops and restaurants lining the old streets.''Entrance Fee:''FREE''Opening Hours:''24 hours''Location:''Ichinomachi Street, Ninomachi Street, Sannomachi Street (Kamisannomachi, Takayama, Gifu Prefecture 506-0846, Japan)''Takayama Festival''The Takayama Festival is a biannual celebration where beautifully-crafted floats, representing each district of Takayama, are paraded around town. The first festival is held during springtime in April (Sanno Festival) while the second one is during autumn in October (Hachiman Festival). The Takayama Festival is included in the list of Japan’s Three Most Beautiful Festivals.''Entrance Fee:''FREE''Festival Schedule:''Sanno Festival (April 14 – 15); Hachiman Festival (October 9 – 10)''Location:''Takayama, Gifu Prefecture, Japan''Takayama Jinya''The only remaining Edo-Period Government Office in Japan, a national historic site.''One of the most prominent features of the Tokugawa Shogunate during the Edo Period in the 1600s up to the 1800s is the Takayama Jinya, which served as a government office and residence of the government of that time. Its main duties are collecting taxes and conducting legal trials. It consists of staff offices, courtrooms, guest room, conference room, pantry, kitchen, garden, and a huge storehouse for the rice barrels as the tax payment.''Entrance Fee:''Adult, ¥430; FREE admission for highschool students and children''Opening Hours:''8:45 AM – 5:00 PM (March – October); 8:45 AM – 6:00 PM (August); 8:45 AM – 4:30 PM (November – February)''Location:''1-5 Hachiken-machi, Takayama, Gifu, Japan (15-minute walk from Takayama Station)''Morning Markets''Morning markets had become an integral part of Takayama community throughout time. There are two popular morning markets in Takayama – Miyagawa Morning Market and Jinya-mae Morning Market. Miyagawa is located parallel the Miyagawa River while Jinya-mae is in front of the Takayama Jinya. The products sold are from the local farmers and artisans. Enjoy your morning stroll and interact with the locals. I had fun sampling products and shopping here!''Entrance Fee:''FREE''Time:''7:00 AM – 12:00 NN (April – October); 8:00 AM – 12:00 NN (November – March)''Location:''Shimo-sannomachi, Takayama City (Miyagawa Market); 1-5 Hachiken-machi, Takayama City (Jinya-mae Market)''Crafts Experience Center''Experience hands-on activities here and test your skills in one or two crafts. There are ten different activities available – Sarubobo-making, rabbit doll-making, baking rice crackers, hanging charms, snow dome-making, Hida pottery-painting, Sarubobo bead strap-making, Sarubobo clay bell-painting, photo frame-making, and kaleidoscope-making. Walk-ins are welcome; no reservations needed.''Admission Fee:''It depends on your chosen activity; fees range from ¥600 to ¥1,600''Opening Hours:''10:00 AM – 4:00 PM; closed on Thursdays''Location:''1-436 Kamioka Motomachi, Takayama City, Gifu, Japan''How to Get There:''Take the Sarubobo bus from Takayama Nohi Bus Center. Alight at Hida no Sato bus stop.''Sake Brewery Tour''Takayama has the ideal conditions for sake-brewing: cold climate, the abundance of clean water, and the perfect kind of rice. For adults and sake-enthusiast, grab the opportunity to join the sake brewery tours for free! From January to March, six local sake breweries participate and share their craft with the visitors. A guide will explain the process of brewing sake, and then you may sample the products after.''Admission Fee:''FREE''Event Period:''January 19 – March 3, 2018''Opening Hours:''10:00 AM – 12:00 NN & 1:00 PM – 4:00 PM''Location:''Takayama City, Gifu, Japan''Museum-Hopping''Being one of the historic places in Japan, Takayama City is laden with museums of many kinds – traditional festival floats, model traditional merchant houses, and arts and history.''Hida Folk Village (Hida no Sato)''An open-air museum showcasing about 30 different old houses designs throughout the history of Hida Region. There are also hands-on activities such as stitching, painting on pottery, sarubobo-making, rabbit doll making, and many more.''Airline promos are legit. They’re not trying to fool you when they announce a sale but you can’t find any promo seats. The problem is, it’s getting tougher and tougher to snag them because thousands of people are gunning for a limited number of seats.''If you’ve been trying to score Cebu Pacific promo fares but always fail to pin down any, it’s time to sit down and check if you’re doing it right. Here are some tips!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Promos and Piso Fare Sales''Be the First to Know about Seat Sales''Things to Prepare Before the Sale''How to Book''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Promos and Piso Fare Sales''While AirAsia is widely credited for revolutionizing air travel in mainland Southeast Asia, in the Philippines, that honor has always been held by the country’s largest airline,''Cebu Pacific Air''.''For the longest time, the phrase low-cost carrier had been synonymous with Cebu Pacific. They might have even coined the term “piso fare,” any mention of which is sure to get any budget traveler excited. For years, Cebu Pacific has brought flying closer to more Filipinos. We know this because our blog, in its early years, was powered mostly by these piso fares!''In fact, we flew Cebu Pacific on our very first trip as bloggers. We were able to snag a roundtrip ticket from one of their seat sales. Back then, there weren’t that many additional fees. Promo tickets back then cost no more than P100. Today, Cebu Pacific continues their tradition of making air travel more affordable. Although I sometimes find their year-round fares pricier than other airlines’, what I like about CEB is that when they say they’re giving away big discounts,''they mean it''. They don’t slash just a few hundred pesos and call it a massive sale for PR. When they do it, they do it with a BANG.''If you’ve been trying to score Cebu Pacific promo fares but always fail to pin down any, it’s time to sit down and check if you’re doing it right. But first, understand how these sales work.''Only a limited number of seats are put on sale''. If it’s not obvious, the number of seats on a plane is not infinite. And as much as we would love for airlines to put all of them on sale, it’s just not gonna happen because they need to make a profit too! If you’re a big group and you want to be on the same flight, good luck with that.''Published rates often refer to BASE FARES only''. Base fares are the costs of the seat, minus all the government taxes, terminal fees, and other surcharges. Base fares are the biggest chunk of the price that are actually within the airline’s control. When Cebu Pacific says PISO FARE, what they mean is that the base fare is only P1. Add all the taxes and other fees, and that’s the total amount that you need to settle to complete your booking.''You need to be early''. It’s first come, first served. Even when the selling period lasts several days, don’t expect to see promo fares on the last few days. Chances are, others might have already booked those precious seats way before you. The good news is, Cebu Pacific now makes SOLD OUT announcements.''You need to be fast''. Each customer is given only a limited time to book per session. The specific seat you’re eyeing might be gone in a matter of minutes (or seconds).''Be the First to Know about Seat Sales''The first step to grabbing a promo fare is knowing when the sale is going to be.''Like Cebu Pacific Air on Facebook''. Seat sales are usually announced on Facebook first.''Like THE POOR TRAVELER on Facebook''. Yep! We always announce major seat sales and promos not just by Cebu Pacific but other airlines as well. If you really want to make sure you don’t miss the sale, prioritize our posts on your News Feed. To do that, simply visit''The Poor Traveler FB page'', hover on the''FOLLOWING''button. On the list of options that will be revealed, choose''SEE FIRST''.''Things to Prepare Before the Sale''Booking a promo fare is like going to war. Haha. Thousands of hungry bargain-hunters will be fighting for a very limited number of seats. Prepare for battle!''A fast, reliable internet connection''. The faster the connection, the better. Airline’s websites slow down during sale because of the sheer number of people and having a sucky connection would make matters worse. Fortunately, Cebu Pacific’s website has improved drastically over the past few years. It’s actually much easier to book now and you can see multiple dates at once, unlike before. Even at peak moments, downtimes rarely happen.''A Cebu Pacific Air/GETGO account''. GetGo is Cebu Pacific’s loyalty/rewards program, and being a member has its own perks. If you have a GetGo account, you won’t need to type your personal and credit card details when booking a flight. Time is very important during a seat sale. Having an account will save you time and effort. Some sales are also exclusive to GetGo members; some give them early access or early notification.''Your travel details''. Your target destination, travel dates, and preferred time.''Your PLAN B details''. In case your first choice isn’t available anymore, having an alternative destination or date ready will make the process go more smoothly. It will help to check the number of promo seats available. The list is usually posted on the promo page of the website hours before the actual sale. This will help you see which routes have more discounted seats, hence more chances of getting promo tickets.''Your companion’s personal details''. These include their full name and birth date. Usually, passport number isn’t a required field. You may also ask your companion their seat (aisle or window) and meal preferences beforehand.''Lots of patience''. Booking promo flights isn’t easy. It takes a lot of patience and determination, hahaha. When the site crashes or your connection fumbles, don’t give up easily. Just keep your game face on!''How to Book''Visit Cebu Pacific Air’s official website'':''www.cebupacificair.com''.''Choose your origin, destination, travel dates, and number of travelers''. Book by small batches. This is one thing I have proven so many times. When you book for so many people at once, the site doesn’t display promo fares. But when you book for just one or two people, you can have that same flight (same plane, same day, same time).''Click SEARCH''. If there are too many people accessing the site, you will be asked to wait.''Choose your flights''. Once you make it through to the results page, you can choose the flight. You can also scan other dates. The lowest fare is displayed just below the date (tab label). Once you find a promo fare on a date that you want, click on the price and choose your add-ons. You may choose to add a check-in baggage allowance and/or meals. Then click CONTINUE (the blue button on the lower right corner of the screen).''Enter the details of each traveler''. They will need your full names, birth dates, and nationality. Click CONTINUE.''Choose your add-ons.''(optional). These include additional baggage allowance, seat preference, meals, and insurance (TravelSure). Click CONTINUE.''Review the booking details''.''Pay''. You can pay via credit card, debit card, Paypal, or AliPay.''That’s it! Once the payment is accepted, you’ll receive the itinerary and confirmation in your email.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''8 INSIDER TIPS: How to Book PISO FARE Flights Successfully''How to Book Cheap Flights Successfully''How to Book AIRASIA PROMO FLIGHTS''Air Vanuatu: Facts and In-Flight Information''FIRST TIME ABROAD: Tips and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)''JAPAN VISA: REQUIREMENTS & APPLICATION PROCESS FOR TOURISTS 2018''Any conversation about low-cost carriers in Asia isn’t complete without a mention of AirAsia.''Staying true to their “Now everyone can fly” slogan, this Malaysian airline has long dominated the Southeast Asian region when it comes to competitive pricing. Not only are their year-round fares relatively cheap, they also hold massive promotions multiple times within a year. And we’re not talking about teeny, tiny discounts here. When AirAsia slashes the cost of their flights, they mean business. ZERO base fare flights are not uncommon, attracting thousands and thousands of bargain-hunters.''If you always try to snag cheap plane tickets during sale but end up empty-handed all the time, you might be doing something wrong. Understanding how the AirAsia booking process and how seat sales work is important in order to successfully score insanely low fares. This post might be able to help.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Seat Sales''Be the First to Know about Seat Sales''Things to Prepare Before the Sale''How to Book''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Seat Sales''First of all, SEAT SALES ARE REAL. They’re not deceiving you when they say there’s a sale and you can’t find any discounted seats. It’s just that, it’s getting increasingly difficult to get those lately because more and more people are becoming more aware of seat sales. But that’s not the only reason.''Only a limited number of seats are put on sale''. The number of seats on a plane is finite and the airline CANNOT put all of them on sale because they need to earn too. If you’re a group of 20 and you want to be on the same flight, forget about it.''Published rates often refer to BASE FARES only''. What are base fares? These are the actual costs of the seat, minus all the government taxes, terminal fees, and other surcharges, that are out of the airline’s control. When AirAsia says ZERO FARE, don’t expect to really get these tickets for free. You will still need to shell out a little bit of money.''You need to be early''. It’s first come, first served. Even when the selling period lasts several days, don’t expect to see promo fares on the last few days. Chances are, others might have already booked those precious seats way before you.''You need to be fast''. Each customer is given only a limited time to book per session. The specific seat you’re eyeing might be gone in a matter of minutes (or seconds).''Be the First to Know about Seat Sales''The first step to grabbing a promo fare is knowing when the sale is going to be. Back in the day, we relied on email blasts and broadsheet print ads. But now, it’s much easier.''Like AirAsia on Facebook''. Promos are usually announced on Facebook first. If you really want to make sure you don’t miss the sale, you may choose to prioritize AirAsia posts on your News Feed. To do that, visit''AirAsia’s FB page'', hover on the''FOLLOWING''button. On the list of options that will be revealed, choose''SEE FIRST''.''Like THE POOR TRAVELER on Facebook''. Yep! On our page, we always announce major seat sales and promos not just by AirAsia but other airlines as well.''Things to Prepare Before the Sale''Booking a promo fare is like going to war. Haha. Thousands of hungry bargain-hunters will be fighting for a very limited number of seats. Prepare for battle!''A fast, reliable internet connection''. The faster the connection, the better. Airline’s websites slow down during sale because of the sheer number of people and having a sucky connection would make matters worse.''An AirAsia account''. Sign up for an AirAsia account before the sale so you won’t need to type your personal and credit card details when booking a flight. Time is very important during a seat sale. Having an account will save you time and effort. They sometimes launch sales exclusive to members or give members 24-hour early priority access!''AirAsia App''. Sometimes, app users get first dibs on seats on sale. Booking through the app is sometimes prioritized and app users get early access to promo fares. Using the app can also make the booking process easier.''Your travel details''. Your target destination, travel dates, and preferred time.''Your PLAN B details''. In case your first choice isn’t available anymore, having an alternative destination or date ready will make the process go more smoothly.''Your companion’s personal details''. These include their full name and birth date. Usually, passport number isn’t a required field. You may also ask your companion their seat (aisle or window) and meal preferences beforehand.''Lots of patience''. Booking promo flights isn’t easy. It takes a lot of patience and determination, hahaha. When the site crashes or your connection fumbles, don’t give up easily. Just keep your game face on!''How to Book''Visit AirAsia’s official website'':''www.airasia.com''.''Choose your origin, destination, travel dates, and number of travelers''. Book by small batches. This is one thing I have proven so many times. When you book for so many people at once, the site doesn’t display promo fares. But when you book for just one or two people, you can have that same flight (same plane, same day, same time).''Click SEARCH''. If there are too many people accessing the site, you will be asked to wait.''Choose your flights''. Once you make it through to the results page, you can choose the flight or scan other dates. Once you find a promo fare on a date that you want, click on the price and choose your add-ons. Then click CONTINUE (the green button on the lower right corner of the screen).''Enter the details of each traveler''. They will need your full names, birth dates, and nationality. Click CONTINUE.''Choose your baggage, seat, and meal''(optional). You may also add travel insurance and travel tax.''Review and pay''. You may pay via credit card, debit card, or through an offline partner (Cebuana Lhuillier, M Lhuillier, 7-Eleven, Bayad Center).''That’s it! Once the payment is accepted, you’ll receive the itinerary and confirmation in your email.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''8 INSIDER TIPS: How to Book PISO FARE Flights Successfully''CEBU PACIFIC PROMO FLIGHTS 2018 (And How to Book Successfully)''How to Book Cheap Flights Successfully''TRAVEL HACK: How to Get CHEAP FLIGHTS Alerts on Your Phone''How to Find the Cheapest Flights Using Traveloka App''How to Book Safe Airport Transfers with KiwiTaxi''When my sister and her husband decided to work abroad to provide for their family, they left their son and many of their affairs in my care. But before that, they made sure that the paperwork was done neatly. Because they planned on having their underage son visit them, one of the documents they left is an''Affidavit of Consent and Support''.''An Affidavit of Consent and Support is a document that proves and declares that the affiants, the parents in this case, are giving someone else consent to do something and guaranteeing (financial) support to carry out the action. Having this document allows me to travel with and make travel arrangements for my nephew (their son), including application for passport, visa, and DSWD travel clearance.''In the first few times that I applied for a DSWD Travel Clearance, I was never asked for this document. The staff would just look for a simple signed letter from the parents, no notarization needed. But it seems that this affidavit is already listed as a requirement. Many of those planning to apply for a DSWD travel clearance are confused about this document, so we decided to create a separate post about it. The top questions are: Where do we get this affidavit? What does it look like?''Well, here it is. Here’s a sample Affidavit of Consent and Support. You can also download a Microsoft Word (DOC) version below. Feel free to replace the highlighted text with your own information.''Affidavit of Consent and Support PDF''Download DOC File''After accomplishing the form, have it''notarized''.''Important note:''The Affidavit of Consent and Support is an important and powerful document and concerns your children and who get to travel with them. Please take this document seriously. Consult a lawyer if you can. For parents, please only grant travel consent to people you trust.''For more info about how to secure a DSWD Travel Clearance, read:''DSWD Clearance''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''JustFly Reviews: 5 Excellent Ways to Survive a Road Trip''HOW TO GET A DSWD TRAVEL CLEARANCE FOR MINORS''How to Apply for a Philippine Passport''JAPAN VISA: REQUIREMENTS & APPLICATION PROCESS FOR TOURISTS 2018''HOW TO APPLY FOR A SCHENGEN VISA & Other Frequently Asked Questions''HOW TO GET FLIGHT RESERVATIONS for Schengen, Canada and Other Visas''This travel guide covers cities of Tottori and Kurayoshi and the towns of Hokuei and Misasa. You’ll find a sample itinerary and budget breakdown towards the end of the post. We’ll be creating a separate travel guide of Yonago City, Daisen, and Sakaiminato.''All thanks to Detective Conan!''Detective Conan (aka''Case Closed''in many Western countries) was one of the many anime shows that I grew up watching, and even after two decades, it remains one of my absolute favorites. The young detective embodies two of the virtues that I value the most in life: truth and justice.''But truth be told, when the tourism office of Tottori Prefecture invited us to come visit, the primary reason we said yes immediately was an animated little boy in a suit and bowtie. We’ve always known about the prefecture being the hometown of Detective Conan, but it’s one of those places that would likely take a long time for us to locate on the map. And as far as tourism is concerned, we’ll be the first to admit that we don’t know much about it. And we’re sure we’re not alone in this. Tottori Prefecture isn’t a major tourist destination, even for domestic travelers. In a world obsessed with giant metropolitan hubs, it’s quite easy to overlook something as out-of-the-way as Tottori.''You don’t need detective skills to see that Tottori is brimming with attractions that can be enjoyed by all types of travelers. Families can choose between frolicking in its famed sand dunes and skiing down the slopes of Mt. Daisen. Backpackers can get lost in the old world charm of Misasa. Traveling friends can go on a food marathon, stuffing their faces with the freshest, tastiest seafood they will taste in their lives. And of course, the otaku can witness their Detective Conan and even Studio Ghibli dreams come to life. That’s barely scratching the surface.''The truth is, Tottori has a world to offer. And if there’s any justice in the world, it will get the attention it deserves.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Tottori: What You Need to Know''When is the Best Time to Visit Tottori?''Tottori Weather''Tottori per Season''How to Get a Japan Visa''How to Get to Tottori''From Manila''From Kansai Airport''From Osaka City Center (Namba, OCAT)''Where to Stay in Tottori''Tottori City Hostels (Budget)''Tottori City Mid-Range Hotels''Tottori City Japanese-Style Hotels (Splurge Option)''Misasa Onsen''How to Get Around Tottori''By Bus''Loop Kirinjishi Bus''Kukuri (Circular Bus)''Unlimited Bus Pass''By Taxi''By Bicycle''By Train''Places to Visit''Tottori Sand Dunes''Uradome Coast Boat Tour''Karo Port and Market''Sanbutsuji Temple''Watanabe Art Museum''Conan Town''Gosho Aoyama Manga Factory''Itogaki Strawberry Farm''Shirakabe Storehouses''Akagawara Crafts Shops''Ishitani Family Residence''Other Attractions''Where to Eat in Tottori''Sample Tottori Itineraries''Itinerary 1: Overnight Trip from Osaka''Itinerary 2: 4-Day, 3-Night Stay''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Tottori: What You Need to Know''With only 500,000 residents, Tottori is the least populated prefecture in Japan. It’s composed of four cities — Tottori City, Yonago, Kurayoshi, and Sakaiminato — and 15 towns, many of which lie in the foothills of its iconic mountains, including the historically worshipped Mt. Daisen.''This isn’t Mt. Fuji. This is Tottori’s Mt Daisen!''This travel guide focuses on the eastern half of the prefecture, spanning the Tottori City and Kurayoshi, and the towns of Hokuei and Misasa.''Tottori''. Tottori City is the prefectural capital. Bound by Japan Sea to the north, Tottori City takes pride in its ocean bounty including the incredibly tasty matsuba crabs, widely sought-after in the country. The sea has also created the city’s most recognizable tourist attraction, the Tottori Sand Dunes, one of the largest in Japan, and the Uradome coast.''Kurayoshi''. Although a city, it feels more like a small suburban town. Kurayoshi is rich in traditions and restaurants serving the rare gyukotsu ramen.''Misasa''. An idyllic town famous for its onsen (hot springs) and Sanbutsu-ji, a Buddhist Temple perched on a cliff of Mt. Mitoku, 900m above sea level.''Hokuei''. Aka Conan Town, this is the birth place of the author of Detective Conan, Gosho Aoyama. The town is littered with monuments paying tribute to the manga/anime.''Tottori enjoys a relatively low cost of living. Compared to Tokyo or even Osaka, you’ll find your yen having more purchasing power in Tottori, mainly because much of the produce and catch is sourced locally, a testament to the richness of the area in natural resources. The best part is, things are cheaper but the quality is often better. For example, one of the prefecture’s key products is Tottori beef, a premium-grade melt-in-your-mouth precursor to other highly revered but insanely expensive Kobe beef, Matsusaka beef, and Omi beef.''Other info you need to know:''Language:''Japanese (Nihongo). The majority of the locals seldom speak English, but most of the signs and other tourist promotional materials have English translations.''Currency:''Japanese Yen (JPY, ¥). JPY 1000 is around USD 9.36, EUR 7.60, PHP 484 (as of February 2018).''Modes of payment:''Most establishments prefer cash payment, but many of them also accept credit card transactions.''Electricity Info'':  100V. Type A sockets. Plugs have two flat pins. Type B is sometimes used but not that common.''When is the Best Time to Visit Tottori?''This is a tough question. Even our guides could not give a straight answer mainly because Tottori is one those destinations that has so much to offer any day of the year. Moreover, the key tourist spots in Tottori are widely diverse. Tottori City’s sand dunes and Mt. Daisen are best experienced in very different seasons. Each season also brings a different bounty, creating a gastronomic atmosphere unique to each period.''Tottori Weather''Like most of Japan, Tottori enjoys a temperate climate, which means four distinct seasons. The summer months of June and July are the wettest and hottest, while the winter months of January and February the driest and coldest.''That said, compared to that of other key Japan destinations, Tottori’s summer isn’t really that hot, and winter not that harsh. Check out the graph by the Climate Change Knowledge Portal below.''The “best” season depends on what you want to experience the most. For example, if you want to see the Tottori Sand Dunes in all its golden glory, visit any time in March-November. During this period, you can go paragliding or ride a camel. These activities are NOT available in winter, when the dunes are blanketed in thick snow. But you know what, snow-clad dunes are a sight to behold too!''Tottori per Season''Here’s what’s in store for you per season.''Tottori Sand Dunes in summer (left) and winter (right)''SPRING''The most magical of seasons, spring is when Tottori regains its vibrant color and attitude.''Hanayu Festival''! The most interesting festival in the prefecture, happening in Misasa Town on May 3-4, when locals tug giant tree ropes for good harvest and fortune.''Strawberry picking''is also best and cheapest in spring!''Cherry Blossoms!''Tottori’s sakura spots don’t get as crowded as in other cities.''Seafood'': Sea bream (madai)''SUMMER''Pear-picking''! One of Tottori’s most prized exports are 20th Century Pears, and visitors can go pear-picking from August-September.''Tottori Shan Shan Festival''(2nd week of August), an event wherein over 3000 residents dance with their umbrellas in synchronization, makes for a visual spectacle.''Kaike Triathlon''(late July), the oldest triathlon in Japan.''Seafood'': flounder, swordtip squid (shiroika), tuna, sea urchin (uni), Japanese horse mackerel (aji), sardines, squid (ika), eel (unagi)''AUTUMN''Mt. Mitoku Festival of Fire''(last Sunday of October), a fire-walking ritual held at Sanbutsuji Temple''Seafood'': Stalwart shrimp (mosa-ebi), yellowtail (buri/hamachi), salmon, Pacific saury''WINTER''Visiting in winter has its perks too!''Not only does airfare go down, you also get to see the sand dunes covered in snow and enjoy a feast of the highly sought-after matsuba crabs (snow crabs).''You can even go to Mt. Daisen for some skiing or snowshoeing.''Seafood'': Snow Crab (Matsuba-kani), Japanese spanish mackerel (sawara), Olive flounder (Tottori’s prefectural fish), Stalwart shrimp (mosa-ebi)''How to Get a Japan Visa''If you’re from the Philippines, we created three dedicated posts for the visa application process.''How to Apply for TOURIST Japan Visa''How to Apply for a Visa for VISITING FRIENDS or RELATIVES''How to Apply for a MULTIPLE Entry Japan Visa''Japan Visa Frequently Asked Questions''How to Get to Tottori''Tottori City has its own airport, and it’s a cool one! The Tottori Sanyu Conan Airport is named after its claims to fame: the sand dunes and Detective Conan.''The airport looks like it came straight from an otaku’s fantasy! It’s Conan themed: everywhere you look, you see a Detective Conan character. There are also games and puzzles in every corner. The best part, you can even play a game that will allow you to explore the airport vicinity while waiting for your flight or transfer. I’ll talk about that later. But yep, this is a real and fully operational airport! Tottori Airport currently serves flights to and from Tokyo.''From Manila''There are no direct flights from Manila to Tottori. One option is to connect at Tokyo Haneda Airport, which means you will need to take two separate flights.''But the easier and cheaper option is to fly to Osaka instead. Osaka is the closest megacity from Tottori, just 2 hours and 45 minutes away from its city center. Because Kansai International Airport (KIX) serves a lot more airlines, you can use this as your gateway to Tottori.''Cebu Pacific Air''flies to Osaka (Kansai Airport) daily. Below are some of their year-round fares, but it can go much lower during seat sale!''Search for CHEAP FLIGHTS here:''Manila-Osaka Flights''.''From Kansai Airport''The first thing to do is to get to Osaka City Air Terminal (OCAT) located in the Namba area in the city center. The easiest way is to travel by bus. The train is faster, but the problem with it is that you’ll have to walk for over 10 minutes from the Namba train station to OCAT. Taking the bus means you’ll get off at the exact terminal where you’ll catch another bus to Tottori.''Note that the first bus leaves Terminal 1 at 6:10am, last train at 10:40pm.''Travel time is about 1 hour, but varies depending on the traffic conditions.''At the Arrival Hall, approach the counter for AIRPORT BUS to OCAT. OCAT stands for Osaka City Air Terminal, which is located in Namba area.''Purchase a ticket to OCAT. Fare: ¥1050. They will need your passport so make sure you have it ready. You will be given both the ticket (white) and a receipt (green).''Proceed to Departure Platform 11 (or whatever platform number you’re told).''Wait for the bus at the platform. If you have big bags, the staff will take them and tag them. You will be given a slip that you’ll need to claim your bags upon arrival at OCAT so don’t lose them.''Board the bus when it arrives. The driver will check your ticket. Find your seat number and get comfy. The travel time is around 1 hour, depending on traffic.''Alight at OCAT. The arrival area is the same area where you’ll be boarding the bus to Tottori.''That’s it! You’re at OCAT. From here you will need to board another bus to Tottori City. I’ll enumerate the steps below.''From Osaka City Center (Namba, OCAT)''Find the Tottori bus ticket counter. See photo above for how it looks.''Purchase a ticket for Tottori.''Fare is only ¥1000''. Yepppp! Only ¥1000! This special price is only for foreigners.''Proceed to Departure Platform 7. This might change sometimes, but it’s generally at Platform 7. To be sure, always ask the staff.''Board the bus. Show the driver your ticket. Travel time is roughly 3.5 hours, depending on traffic conditions. Based on our own experience though, we left Osaka at 5pm and arrived in Tottori at around 8pm, 30 minutes earlier than schedule.''And voila! You’re in Tottori!''There are many other ways. If you have a JR Pass, you can travel by train all the way from the airport to the Tottori. For the step-by-step guide, read this post:''How to Get to Tottori from Osaka''Note though that traveling to Tottori by train can be costly.''But if you’re planning on purchasing a JR Pass anyway, this is definitely the best choice because you won’t need to shell out any more money. The whole journey will be covered by the pass.''Read Related Post:''Is the JR Pass Worth It?''Where to Stay in Tottori''Tottori City''is the best base if you want to explore the prefecture. Most of the key tourist attractions are within the city, and those that are not are easily accessible from here. The number of accommodations in the city, however, is pretty limited (compared to other main cities). Yet, every type of traveler would be able to find something that suits their style here.''Where in Tottori City? The most ideal is the area surrounding Tottori Station. For tourists, this station is the heart of the city. Trains and buses stop here, which will be the veins and arteries of your journey. Even discounted taxis can be easily hailed from here. When looking for accommodations, check how close it is to Tottori Station.''Here are some of the places where you can stay.''Tottori City Hostels (Budget)''Image provided by Traveloka''Only a few hostels dot the map of Tottori, but all of them are good choices. The most well-known of them is''Drop Inn'', a cozy capsule hostel located just a short walk from Tottori Station. It’s great for backpackers and budget travelers.''I’m not a fan of capsule hotels primarily because I need ample space to work (and because I snore scandalously), but I didn’t mind staying at Drop Inn. You know how most capsules feel like a coffin? Drop Inn doesn’t feel like that at all. Each guest is given more than enough headroom and the bed is wider than expected.''.''Tottori City Mid-Range Hotels''Toyoko Inn''For families and friends, accommodations are aplenty. Budget hotels stand at the very heart of the city, including''Toyoko Inn'', which is just a couple of blocks away from Tottori Station. We spent our first night in Tottori here and we loved its central location. It’s also surrounded by convenience stores, which is great for late-night munchies.''To check rates,''click here''.''Tottori City Japanese-Style Hotels (Splurge Option)''If you’re on a honeymoon or celebrating something special and you have a bigger budget, consider staying at a Japanese-style hotel furnished with''tatami''rooms. These hotels provide yukata, multi-course meals, and buffets. Some even have an onsen.''The one we tried was''Hotel Kansuitei Kozeniya''. Each booking comes with multi-course traditional breakfast and access to both public and private onsen. Yep, private onsen! And that’s fantastic if you’re on a romantic getaway! If you have a tattoo and you’ve always wanted to try an onsen, this is perfect because you have the entire onsen all to yourself. Its central location also ensures easy access to many iconic restaurants in the area.''To know more about Kozeniya Tottori,''click here''.''Misasa Onsen''Aside from Tottori City, we strongly encourage you to spend at least one night in the idyllic town of Misasa. The place is enchanting, to say the least. It has inspired many artists including the great Hayao Miyazaki, who incorporated many features of the town in his works including Spirited Away, Princess Mononoke, and My Neighbor Totoro.''The most popular lodging option here is the''ryokan'', the oldest tourist accommodation type in Japan, dating back to as early as 705 AD. A ryokan is basically a traditional inn. There are lots scattered throughout Japan, but what makes those in Misasa special is the easy access to onsen. Misasa Onsen is believed to have healing and even miraculous properties.''.''How to Get Around Tottori''Tottori is the least populous prefecture in Japan, so transportation options are quite limited. But it’s still easy to get around if you know your way.''Public transportation is much cheaper for foreigners too because much of the cost is subsidized by the government. For instance, a 3-hour cab ride in reality should probably cost over ¥7500 but in Tottori, it’s only''¥2000''. That’s also the reason why the fare from Osaka to Tottori is unbelievably inexpensive. The government shoulders more than half of the costs.''For more information about transportation options, timetables, and updated fares, drop by the Tourism Office at Tottori Station and just ask for the transpo brochures. They have several references that you can use throughout your stay in the prefecture.''By Bus''When traveling within Tottori City, the bus is an excellent mode of transportation. Most bus routes going to key tourist spots start and end in Tottori Station.''For tourists, there are two main buses to remember:''Loop Kirinjishi Bus''This bus makes a loop around the city and takes passengers to Tottori Castle Ruins, Tottori Sand Dunes, Sand Museum and Tottori Port.''This bus is operational every day from July 20-August 31, and only on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays (except January 1) the rest of the year.''Fare'': ¥300''1-Day Unlimited Pass'': ¥600''Kukuri (Circular Bus)''Kukuri buses are known for their super low fares: only ¥100 yen per ride. Kukuri plies three circular routes that begin and end at Tottori Station. Here some points of interest that are along the routes.''Red Course''. Ouchidani Shrine, Kannon-in, Genchuji Temple, Tottori Folk Crafts Museum, Hijiri Shrine, Tottori History Museum.''Green Course''. Jinpukaku Mansion, Tottori Castle Ruins, Tottori Folk Crafts Museum, Warabekan (Children’s Museum)''Blue Course''. Takasagoya (Tottori Castle Town Exchange Center), Tottori Crafts Museum''A whole course takes 33 minutes to complete.''There’s a bus every 20 minutes. For all these courses, the first bus leaves Tottori at around 8:05am and the last bus at around 06:00pm.''Fare'': ¥100''1-Day Unlimited Pass'': ¥300''Unlimited Bus Pass''If you’re spending 3 days in Tottori Prefecture, you can score big savings if you purchase an Unlimited Ride Pass, which will allow you to take as many bus rides as you can around the prefecture. Yep, it’s NOT limited to Tottori City. You can use this pass even in cities in the western side of the prefecture.''Fare'': ¥1800''Validity'': 3 days''Below is a list of buses that accept this pass:''Fixed-route buses serving Tottori Prefecture (i.e. Nihon Katsu, Hinomaru Bus)''Loop Kirinjishi Bus''Kukuri Bus (Tottori City Circular Bus)''Iwami-cho Town Bus''Yonago City Circular Bus (Donguri Koro-koro, Dandan Bus)''Tottori Airport Shuttle Bus (Tottori Airport-Tottori Station Loop Kirinjishi Bus)''Yonago Airport Shuttle Bus (Yonago Stion-Tottori Station)''You can get one at the following spots.''TOTTORI CITY''Bus terminal in front of Tottori Station''Tottori City Information Desk''Tottori Airport''KURAYOSHI/MISASA''Nihon Kotsu Kurayoshi Bus Center''Misasa Hot Springs Tourism Association''Bus Plaza''Hotel St. Palace Kurayoshi''YONAGO CITY''Bus Terminal in front of Yonago Station''Yonago City Tourist Information Center''Yonago Airport Information Center''Hakuho no Sato''Kaike Onsen Ryokan Union''DAISEN''Daisen Tourist Information Center''By Taxi''Perfect for travelers who don’t have the luxury of time or who just want to get comfortable! Taxi rides in Tottori are discounted for foreign tourists, only ¥2000. To avail of this, visit Tottori City International Tourist Support Center (next to Tottori Station).''TOURIST TAXI''Fare'': ¥2000 per person for 3 hours.''Business Hours'': Every day, 8:30am-5:30pm (except December 31 and January 1)''Capacity'': Up to 4 pax''If you avail of this, you’ll also receive a coupon that would entitle you to discounts or free souvenir at some tourist spots.''However, the number of cabs available is limited so be an early bird.''By Bicycle''There’s a sightseeing bus rental shop under the viaduct of Tottori Station (2nd bicycle parking lot) and another in Katahara Parking Lot.''Fare'': Regular bike, ¥500 per day; Electric bike, ¥1000 per day.''Business hours'': 8:30am – 06:30pm''By Train''For intercity travel (Tottori to other towns), the train is your best bet.''JR San’in Main Line''connects Tottori City to the rest of the prefecture.''Just make sure you know the closest train station to your destination and let Hyperdia do the rest. Hyperdia is a web-based search engine that would tell you train schedules and routes.''Here’s more info'':''How to Use Hyperdia''Places to Visit''Tottori Sand Dunes''Location'': Tottori City''Tottori Sand Dunes in summer (left) and winter (right)''The city’s most iconic attraction, Tottori Sand Dunes is a 16-km stretch of sand formed over a period of 30,000 years. The site is considered a Natural Treasure in Japan and is part of the San’in Kaigan Geopark.''From spring to autumn, you can enjoy sandboarding and paragliding. You can also ride a camel across the dunes. In winter, it is covered by snow. Most activities are halted, but you can still walk across for a fantastic view of the beach!''Entrance Fee'': FREE''Camel ride across the dunes'': ¥2500''Photo with camel'': ¥500 if you ride, ¥100 if you stand next to it''How to Get There'': At Tottori Station, ride the Sakyu bus or the Kirinjishi Loop Bus and alight at Tottori Sakyu stop.''Open'': All year''Uradome Coast Boat Tour''Location'': Tottori City''Take a boat tour to see the jagged Uradome coast that is punctuated by captivating rock formations, sharp cliffs, and fine beaches. Prepare your camera because there’s no running out of picturesque spots here. The tour lasts 50 minutes.''The shore faces west so try doing this in the afternoon so you could see its beauty in full bright glory. We did the tour in the morning and it was a bit against the light.''Admission Fee'': Adult, ¥1300; Child, ¥650.''How to Get There'': From JR Iwami Station, take the bus bound for Tottori Station and get off at Shimameguri-Yuransennoriba-mae Bus Stop.''Open'': March-November''Karo Port and Market''Location'': Tottori City''The second biggest fish port and market in Tottori Prefecture, Karo Port is where you can shop for tasty matsuba crabs! Don’t miss the CRAB MUSEUM (Tottori Karo Kanikkokan) next to the market and see a giant Japanese spider crab, the largest of its kind, up close! If you’re hungry, visit the nearby''Hamashita Fishery & Restaurant''and stuff your face with matsuba crabs, prepared on the spot!''How to get there'': At Tottori Station, take the Karo-yuki Hinomaru bus and alight at Karo Kaigan or Kanikkokan mae. It’s a short walk from there.''Sanbutsuji Temple''Location'': Misasa''The inner hall of Sanbutsuji Temple, called Nageiredo Hall, is perched on a cliffside 520 meters above the ground. It was built 1300 years ago as the training site for priests. The hall is closed to tourists during winter because the hike can be risky.''Temple Entrance Fee'': Adult, ¥400; Child, ¥200.''Climb to Nageiredo Hall'': Adult, ¥600; Child, ¥300.''How to get there'': From Tottori Station, take the train to Kurayoshi Station then take the Mitoku Bus. Alight at Mitoku. Travel time from Kurayoshi: 40 minutes.''Watanabe Art Museum''Location'': Totori City''Me becoming a samurai for half an hour''This unique museum houses a 15,000-piece collection of authentic antiques including samurai armors, swords, and other cultural artifacts. You can also transform into a samurai by trying on a complete set (for an additional fee)!''Entrance Fee'': Adult, ¥900; Student, ¥500; Child, ¥300.''Closed'': Tuesdays and December 29-January 1''How to get there'': At Tottori Station, take the Sakyu Bus and get off at Watanabe Bijutsukan Mae''Conan Town''Location'': Hokuei''Conan Train photo by Asta Alvarez''Hokuei Town is the birth place of the author of Detective Conan, Gosho Aoyama. The town is littered with monuments paying tribute to the manga/anime, which made it earn its nickname Conan Town. If you’re arriving by train, you’ll be using CONAN STATION, a train station completely illustrated with characters from the beloved manga. Drop by Conan’s House, Beika Shopping Street, and the Gosho Aoyama Manga Factory.''Entrance Fee'': FREE (most sites, except the Manga Factory)''How to Get There'': From Tottori Station, board the train to Yura Station (Conan Station)''Gosho Aoyama Manga Factory''Location'': Hokuei''Photos by Astrid Alvarez''Still part of Conan Town, this museum tells the story of Conan creator and manga artist Gosho Aoyama from his humble beginnings as a student in Hokuei to his big break in Tokyo. If you’re an avid Conan or Yaiba fan, this is not to be missed! References to their popular episodes are all over, and some tricks done by culprits are recreated!''Entrance Fee'': Adult, ¥700; Student, ¥500; Child, ¥300.''Open'': Daily''How to Get There'': From Tottori Station, board the train to Yura Station (Conan Station)''Itogaki Strawberry Farm''Location'': Tottori City''Strawberries grown in Tottori are known for being big in size and sweetness! And you can go strawberry picking! For 30 minutes, you can pick and eat as many strawberries as you want. We’ve got a taste of these berries, and they’re really something. Some are even as long as an iPhone and even the non-red ones are also very sweet.''Price'': ¥1500 in May, ¥2000 in April, and ¥2500 for the rest of the year.''How to get there'': To follow.''Shirakabe Storehouses''Location'': Kurayoshi City''Listed as National Important Historical Buildings for Preservation''These warehouses have become the symbol of Kurayoshi City. In fact, the name Kurayoshi comes from kanji characters that mean “warehouse” and “good fortune.” These historic red-roofed, white-walled storehouses were built during the Edo and Meiji periods.''How to get there'': From Tottori Station, board the train to Kurayoshi Station. Take the Park Square bus and alight at Shirakabe-dozogun.''Akagawara Crafts Shops''Location'': Kurayoshi City''My friend Asta trying on a kimono and showing off her newly discovered pottery skill.''Situated just next to Shirakabe Storehouses, the Akagawara Crafts Shops also used to be warehouses and sake refineries. Today, it houses small stores selling souvenirs and other items. You can also learn pottery or dress up in full kimono in some shops.''How to get there'': From Tottori Station, board the train to Kurayoshi Station. Take the Park Square bus and alight at Shirakabe-dozogun.''Ishitani Family Residence''Location'': Chizu''Photo by Asta Alvarez''The ancestral home of a well-known Japanese architect and wood tycoon, the Ishitani Family Residence is an example of 20th century Japanese architecture. The site is declared an Important Cultural Asset by the government.''Entrance Fee'': Adult, ¥250; Student, ¥200; Child, ¥150.''Closed'': Wednesdays and holidays, December 28-January 2''How to get there'': 7-minute walk from Chizu Station''Other Attractions''TOTTORI CASTLE RUINS''Tottori Castle was a yamashiro or “mountain castle,” which means it was built into the mountain and using it as its natural fortification, making it impregnable. However, in 1581, during a 200-day siege led by warlord Toyotomi Hideyoshi, the people of Tottori that took shelter here were starved, forcing them to surrender. Today, the castle is no longer standing, but its baileys are still there. The surrounding areas have been transformed into parks and are perfect spots for cherry blossoms!''–''Entrance fee'': FREE''–''How to get there'': From Tottori Station, take the Loop Kirinjishi Bus to the Tottori Castle Ruins. Alternatively, you can board the Kukuri bus (green course) to Jinpukaku Mansion. It’s a short walk from there.''SAND MUSEUM''The first indoor sand sculpture museum in the world. The showcased pieces change every year.''–''Entrance Fee'': Adults, ¥600; Students, ¥300.''–''Open'': mid-April to early January''–''How to Get There'': At Tottori Station, ride the bus to Sakyu-Higashiguchi then travel on foot for 3 minutes.''AMEDAKI FALLS''Cascading down 40 meters, it is Tottori’s tallest waterfall.''–''How to Get There'': From Tottori Station, take the Hinomaru Bus and alight at Amedeki bus stop.''MISASA ONSEN''Misasa is most well-known for its hot springs that are believed to have healing properties. The town itself has a quirky, irresistible charm. It has inspired many artists including the great Hayao Miyazaki, who incorporated many features of the town in his works including Spirited Away, Princess Mononoke, and My Neighbor Totoro. You can walk down Onsen Street and check out ryokan, cafes, and shops. If you’re up for it, you can also take a dip in a public onsen set on the bank of the Misasa River.''–''Entrance Fee'': Public onsen, FREE''–''How to get there'': From Tottori Station, take the train to Kurayoshi Station and then hop into the Misasa Onsen bus.''Where to Eat in Tottori''My best ramen so far! Tottori Prefecture’s signature ramen, Gyukotsu Ramen uses cattle bone for its broth.''Tottori has a rich culinary history! It is where the idea of shabu-shabu was born, where the tastiest crabs and shrimps are caught, and where 20th century pears are harvested. It is home to gyukotsu ramen, a rare type that uses cattle bone for its broth (and it’s the best ramen we’ve ever had)! Tottori also produces top-grade melt-in-your-mouth but inexpensive wagyu beef, the Tottori beef, which is believed to be the precursor to other highly revered but insanely expensive Kobe beef, Matsusaka beef, and Omi beef.''It has so many gastronomic delights to offer that we’re creating a separate post for it. So yep, this section is coming soon.''Sample Tottori Itineraries''Below are sample Tottori itineraries. The first is for an overnight stay from Osaka, the other for a longer 4-day/3-night trip. Feel free to make the necessary adjustments to match your preferences.''But please take note that both itineraries assume the following:''You’re a group of 2, splitting the cost.''You’re traveling on a weekend.''You’re coming from Osaka.''Your entry point to Japan is Kansai International Airport.''Airfare is not included in the cost estimates.''Itinerary 1: Overnight Trip from Osaka''This itinerary is a great option for those who are spending most of their travel days in Osaka but would like to see the best that Tottori has to offer. You can simply squeeze these overnight stay into your longer, full itinerary.''Day 1: ARRIVAL, TOTTORI CITY''07:00am – Bus to Tottori, ¥1000''09:52am – Arrival in Tottori, walk to hotel''10:00am – Purchase Kirinjishi Bus 1-Day Pass, ¥600''10:20am – Walk to Hotel''10:40am – Hotel check-in or baggage drop''11:00am – Walk back to Tottori Station''11:25am – Kirinjishi Bus to Karo Port''12:00nn – Seafood Lunch at Hamashita, ¥1000-2000''01:30pm – Explore Market & Crab Museum''02:00pm – Bus to Sand Dunes''02:20pm – Tottori Sand Dunes''04:30pm – Back to Tottori Station''05:00pm – Tottori beef dinner at Turudaya/Tsurutaya Coffee, ¥2000''07:00pm – Back to hotel, catch some sleep''Day 2: CONAN TOWN, DEPARTURE''07:00am – Early checkout''07:30am – Walk to Tottori Station''08:04am – Train to Yura Station, ¥840''09:32am – Deposit bags in locker, ¥500''09:45am – Walk around Conan Town''12:00nn – Quick bite – ¥800 budget''12:30nn – Walk to Gosho Aoyama Manga Factory''12:45pm – Gosho Aoyama Manga Factory, ¥700''02:30pm – Walk back to Yura Station''02:50pm – Train to Tottori, ¥840''03:52pm – Arrival at Tottori Station''04:40pm – Bus to Osaka, ¥1000''08:05pm – Arrival in Osaka''If you stay at Drop Inn (capsule) or Toyoko Inn (double room), this itinerary will set you back around''¥14,000 (USD130, EUR106, PHP6800)''.''Itinerary 2: 4-Day, 3-Night Stay''Day 1: ARRIVAL, TOTTORI CITY''11:35am – Arrival at Kansai Airport''01:00pm – Bus to OCAT, ¥1050''02:00pm – Quick bite, ¥500''03:00pm – Bus to Tottori, ¥1000''04:31pm – Arrival in Tottori, walk to hotel''05:00pm – Hotel check-in, rest''07:00pm – Dinner, ¥1000''DAY 2: TOTTORI SAND DUNES''07:00am – Walk to Tottori Station''07:30am – Purchase Unlimited Bus Pass, ¥1600''08:00am – Kirinjishi Bus to Karo Port''09:00am – Explore Market & Crab Museum''10:30am – Seafood Bruch at Hamashita, ¥1000-2000''12:00nn – Bus to Uradome Coast Boat Pier''12:30pm – Uradome Coast Tour, ¥1300''02:00pm – Bus to Sand Dunes''02:20pm – Tottori Sand Dunes''04:30pm – Back to Tottori Station''05:00pm – Tottori beef dinner at Turudaya/Tsurutaya Coffee, ¥2000''07:00pm – Back to hotel, catch some sleep''Day 3: CONAN TOWN''05:00am – Early checkout''05:30am – Walk to Tottori Station''06:30am – Bus to Kurayoshi City''07:35am – Arrival in Kurayoshi City''08:00am – Hotel check-in or baggage drop''09:19am – Train to Yura Station, ¥200''09:32am – Walk around Conan Town''12:00nn – Quick bite – ¥800 budget''12:30pm – Walk to Gosho Aoyama Manga Factory''12:45pm – Gosho Aoyama Manga Factory, ¥700''03:40pm – Walk back to Yura Station''04:21pm – Train to Urayasu, ¥190''05:30pm – Eat Gyukotsu Ramen at Takauna, ¥800''06:39pm – Train to Kurayoshi, ¥320''06:50pm – Arrival at Kurayoshi Station''08:00pm – Pack up, sleep''Day 4: KURAYOSHI CITY, DEPARTURE''07:00am – Early checkout''08:00am – Tour Shirakabe Storehouses''11:44am – Kurayoshi to Tottori City, ¥670''12:48am – Arrival in Tottori, Quick bite, ¥500''01:40pm – Bus to Osaka Namba/OCAT, ¥1000''04:32pm – Arrival at Osaka Namba/OCAT''05:10pm – Bus to Kansai Airport, ¥1050''06:00pm – Arrival at Kansai airport''08:45pm – Departure''This itinerary will set you back around''¥25,000 (PHP12,200, USD235, EUR191)''excluding airfare.''Of course, it also depends heavily on your spending habits. It’s always best practice to pad this budget and give it wiggle room so you won’t be strapped for cash just in case something comes up or you decide to try something not on the itinerary. Feel free to make changes according to your preferences.''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Drop by Tottori Tourism Office just next to Tottori Station''or any other official tourism offices. This was how we learned the 2000-yen tourist taxi promo and other unlimited bus passes. There might be other promos you may not heard of yet. You can also take free brochures or ask the staff if you have questions or in need of recommendations. They’re a big help and always eager to assist.''Tipping is not practiced in Tottori''. To settle your bill, you are expected to approach the cashier on your way out. The cashier is usually stationed by the entrance/exit.''Spend your 1-yen coins when paying at supermarkets or convenience stores''. You won’t be able to use them at vendo machines. I always end up going home with a pocketful of 1-yen coins and now I don’t know what to do with them. Hahaha.''Many vending machines serve both cold and hot drinks''. Most people are surprised to learn about the hot options. Really helpful when you’re out in the cold.''Japanese bills look alike (same color)''. What varies is the size of the bill. The ¥1000 and ¥10,000 can be confusing so be careful. However, the Japanese are highly UNLIKELY to take advantage. They will even be the first to tell you.''When using the escalator, keep left''if you’re not moving.''If you have a cold or cough, wear surgical masks in public''. Locals wear those not because they don’t want to get sick but because they don’t want to pass on the illness to others.''Learn a few Japanese phrases''. The most useful would be Sumimasen (Excuse me, sorry) and Arigatoo gozaimasu (Thank you).''Save this “quick translation” image on your phone''. Just point to the Japanese phrase that corresponds to what you want to say when asking locals.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to TOTTORI from OSAKA or KANSAI AIRPORT: The Cheapest Way''TAKAYAMA ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''NAGOYA ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''MANILA ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''JAPAN MULTI-CITY TOUR: How to Plan a Budget Trip''OSAKA ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''There’s a weird reason why I associate Hokkaido with my childhood. Back when I was a kid, if you were to ask me what Hokkaido is, I’ll probably give the same answer any other oblivious Pinoy child would’ve thought of first: canned mackerel.''Let me explain. Back in the day, canned seafood in the Philippines were dominated by Japanese-sounding brands. Any well-stocked sari-sari store can teach a lesson or two on Japanese syllabication. But for some reason, Hokkaido stuck with me. Maybe because the other brands are for canned sardines, which are common fare. But Hokkaido, now, Hokkaido is a leading brand for mackerel. It’s an unconventional delicacy, reserved only for the cool, slightly drunk uncles. Served as pulutan, it’s a special dish for special occasions, like a Pacquiao fight or the PBA Finals.''As I matured (superficially, at least), I eventually came to know that Hokkaido represents an entire region in Japan, and an important region at that, known for its natural beauty, its winter destinations, and of course, its seafood industry. Little did I know that Hokkaido will be the place I’ll experience winter firsthand, a dream for every Filipino kid. Young me would’ve picked his jaw off the floor.''It’s a little surprising, really, that Hokkaido is rarely in the conversation when Pinoys talk about winter holidays. For one, if you’re out to experience snow, you won’t find any as fine as what’s found in this region. Secondly, Japan is probably the most accessible country for Filipinos to enjoy winter. The cost of traveling to Japan has significantly gone down: it’s fairly easy to secure a visa, and budget flights and hotels are becoming more common. In addition, the Japanese National Tourism Organization (JNTO), along with low-cost carriers like''JetStar Airways'', are making a push in promoting Hokkaido as a major destination for Filipino travelers.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Hokkaido: What You Need to Know''When to Visit Hokkaido''How to Get a Japan Visa''How to Get to Hokkaido''Where to Stay''Sapporo''Otaru''Asahikawa''Furano''How to Stay Connected in Hokkaido''Pocket Wifi with 7GB Data: Reserve Here''Pocket Wifi with Unlimited Data: Reserve Here''How to Travel to Hokkaido Cities from New Chitose Airport''To Sapporo''To Otaru''To Asahikawa''To Hakodate''To Niseko''To Furano''To Biei''How to Get Around Hokkaido''By Train''By Bus''By Taxi''By Streetcar''By Subway''Sample Hokkaido Itineraries''Sample Hokkaido Summer Itinerary''Sample Hokkaido Winter Itinerary''Breakdown of Expenses''Summer Trip''Winter Trip''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Hokkaido: What You Need to Know''You can say Hokkaido represents Japan’s frontier. It is the country’s largest and northernmost prefecture, second only to Honshu in size, and comparable to our own island of Mindanao. The name Hokkaido literally means “Northern Sea Circuit”: it’s so far up north that it’s nearer to Russia than Tokyo. Hokkaido is also Japan’s coldest region, with January temperatures averaging −6 °C. Three major bodies of water surround the island: The Sea of Japan in the west, the Sea of Okhotsk in the northeast, and the Pacific Ocean in the southeast.''The island was known historically as Ezo or Yesso, and has been largely unsettled by the Japanese until the 19th Century. The Ainu, Japan’s indigenous people, has been on the island longer; Hokkaido is their traditional homeland, and there are still parts of the island where Ainu culture is prevalent. In the late 1940’s, when the island became a full-fledged prefecture, the name Hokkaido was chosen to represent its entire government unit. Because of its size (it makes up 22% of Japan’s total landmass), Hokkaido is further divided into 14 sub-prefectures, with Sapporo as the capital.''Among the prefectures, Hokkaido is Japan’s least developed, and most of the island remains untouched by urbanization. There are currently six natural parks in the island recognized and protected by the Japanese government.''Here are the major cities and towns.''Sapporo''is Hokkaido’s capital and largest city, and the cultural and economic center of the region. The city is well-known for its beer, ramen, and the annual Snow Festival in early February. Sapporo was also the venue of the first Winter Olympic Games held in Asia (in 1972). Because streets in Sapporo are based on grids, navigating around Sapporo is easier than other Japanese cities of the same size. Attractions in the city include the Sapporo Beer Museum, Odori Park (where most of the Snow Festival activities are held), and Susukino, the entertainment district.''We’ve created a more detailed travel guide focusing on Sapporo:''Sapporo Travel Guide''Otaru''is a city located at the western coast, facing the Sea of Japan. It played an important factor in the region’s fishing and maritime industry, and is still a major port city in the region. Many of the city’s old establishments, especially around the Otaru Canal, are still intact, and visiting these make for a nice day stroll. Popular attractions include the Music Box Museum and the Otaru Art Base, a complex of art museums and studios. Also, your visit won’t be complete if you don’t partake in the Otaru Canal Cruise.''Hakodate''is a city in Hokkaido’s southern coast and one of the region’s main gateways by sea. Located in Hokkaido’s southern coast, Hakodate was one of the first Japanese cities to open to international trade, and many old structures with western architecture still dot the city. Mount Hakodate, Onuma Park, and Fort Goryukaku, a western-style fortress, are key attractions in the city.''Asahikawa''is located in central Hokkaido and currently owns the record as the coldest city in Japan. It holds its own popular winter festival that rival Sapporo’s.''Niseko''is a resort town where some of Japan’s finest powder snow can be found. Located at the foot of Mt. Annupuri (“the Mt. Fuji of the North”), the town has a total of six world-class ski areas, connected by a broad transit system.''Furano'', Hokkaido’s “belly button”, is a picturesque city smack-dab in the center of the island, well-known for its lavender fields and panoramic rolling hills. Biei, a nearby town, contains The Blue Pond, Shiragane Falls, and the Daisetsuzan Natural Park. Because of the area’s natural beauty, many Japanese movies, commercials and dramas have used Furano as the setting for their stories.''Here’s additional practical info about the region:''Language'': Japanese (Nihongo). English is not widely used, if at all. Signs on streets, businesses, and tourist spots may include English translations, but not all.''Currency'': Japanese Yen (JPY, ¥). JPY 1000 is roughly USD 9.3, EUR 7.6, PHP 484 (as of Feb 2018).''Modes of payment'': Cash is preferred.''Electricity Info'': 100V, Type A sockets. Plugs have two flat pins.''When to Visit Hokkaido''Hokkaido has long, cold winters and short, mild summers. For four months every year, the average temperature is in the negatives, and even in August, during the height of summer, the temperature rarely goes north of 20°C.''Hokkaido is both a major winter and summer destination. During January and February, several cities simultaneously celebrate their own winter festivals, which draw millions of domestic and foreign tourists. In the summer, travelers are enticed by the natural beauty of Hokkaido’s heartland, with its rolling hills, flower farms and scenic waterways. Festivals occur year-round, and the cities often has a holiday to celebrate for all four seasons.''Sapporo Snow Festival, February''Sapporo Snow Festival''– The Snow Festival in Hokkaido’s capital is one of the most popular winter events in Japan, usually happening during the first two weeks of February. During the festival, the streets are illuminated by lanterns and electric lights, while hundreds of ice sculptures decorate key places like Odori Park, Susukino District, and the Sapporo Community Dome (Tsu Dome). The festival also hosts a yearly ice sculpting competition, with participants from all over the world.''Asahikawa Winter Festival''– Asahikawa’s own winter festival occurs almost the same time as Sapporo’s. While smaller in scope, Asahikawa’s festival is no lesser in grandeur. Gigantic ice sculptures, fortresses, and play parks (boasting some of the longest snow slides in the country) are common fare in an event that lasts two weeks.''Otaru Snow Light Path Festival''– During this ten-day festival, major streets and structures in Otaru are decorated with lanterns and miniature snow statues. The highlight of the festival occurs at the Otaru Canal, where hundreds of floating lanterns are set adrift on the canal at nighttime, creating a vivid, romantic winter atmosphere.''Cherry Blossom Season''– Spring in Hokkaido arrives much later than the rest of Japan. This means that every year, Hokkaido is one of the last places to experience the cherry blossom season. If you’re eager to witness the blooming of sakura in Hokkaido, be sure to visit the region in early- to mid-May.''Lavender Season''– Furano and Biei’s rolling farm fields are a sight to behold, and even more so in the summer. During this time, the fields are rife with color, as lavender and other flowers are in full bloom. To catch the best view, visit Furano and Biei between mid-July to mid-August.''Yosakoi Soran Festival''– Yosakoi is a dance festival celebrated throughout Japan. In Hokkaido, various cities take part in the festivities, the biggest of which happens in Sapporo. Up to 30,000 performers from across Japan and abroad participate in this region-wide parade of color and choreography.''Hakodate Port Festival''– Usually occurring during the first week of August, this summer festival is Hakodate’s most popular, with fireworks displays, parades, and dances celebrating the city’s status as a port city and gateway to Hokkaido.''Belly Button Festival''– This lighthearted festival is a summer event in Furano, around the same time when the lavender fields are in full bloom. For comedic effect, participants paint their bellies with colorful, comical faces, so that the parade resembles an army of large heads trooping and dancing to the beat.''When traveling to Hokkaido, do take note of the following periods:''Winter Festival Season: Late January to early February''Cherry Blossom Season/Golden Week: Mid-April to early May''Furano/Biei Lavender Season: Mid-July to mid-August''Fall Foliage peak (When foliage is at its most colorful): Early- to mid-October''During these times, tourist spots and attractions will be at their peak capacity, which mean longer queues, slower traffic, and noisier crowds. It will also be harder to secure hotel or resort reservations. This can affect not just your budget, but also your schedule, your mood, and overall experience, so plan your holiday well in advance.''How to Get a Japan Visa''As long as you have the required documents, it’s now fairly easy to secure a Japan visa. Also, if you’ve been to Japan several times already, your chances of getting a multi-entry visa is higher, though you need to formally request for one. We’ve prepared more detailed guides – and an FAQs – on how to secure a Japan visa in separate articles:''How to Apply for a SINGLE Entry Japan Visa''How to Apply for a MULTIPLE Entry Japan Visa''Japan Visa Frequently Asked Questions''How to Get to Hokkaido''The most efficient method of travel is via plane, and the New Chitose Airport, located near Sapporo, is Hokkaido’s largest and busiest. All international flights to Hokkaido land here. If you’re traveling to Hokkaido for a holiday, most likely you’ll start your itinerary here. The New Chitose Airport is a modern, well-designed hub, complete with shops, a hotel, and cinemas. It even has its own seafood market and hot spring baths! For convenient transits, the airport also has a JR train station and bus terminals within the vicinity, to quickly take you to Otaru, Asahikawa, and other cities.''Jetstar Airways''offers the only low cost option for air travel to Sapporo. From Manila, Jetstar travels to Sapporo via Tokyo or Osaka, up to seven times daily. A regular round-trip, four-flight ticket from Manila to Sapporo (via Tokyo) can be as low as JPY 32,000 (PHP 17,000). You can also get even cheaper tickets during Jetstar’s regular promo sales.''Take note that when you arrive in your first stop, you’ll need to go through Customs and Immigration first, then proceed to the designated terminal for your Sapporo flight. This may involve retrieving your luggage, then checking it in again for the domestic flight.''Where to Stay''As a major tourist destination, Hokkaido is not lacking in comfortable, affordable hotels and hostels. If you’re point of entry is the New Chitose Airport, most likely your main base of operations will be Sapporo. For a multi-city tour, you’ll probably also going to spend a night or two in Otaru or Asahikawa. For nature or winter sports buffs, Furano or Niseko are ideal places to stay as well, though room rates might be slightly higher in these resort cities.''Here are the top-rated budget hotels and hostels in major destinations in Hokkaido as scored by Traveloka users.''Sapporo''The STAY SAPPORO''1008-10 Minami 5 Nishi 9, Chuo-ku, Chuo-ku, Sapporo-shi, Hokkaido, Japan, 064-0805''Check Rates & Availability''.''Swanky Hotel Otomo''6 Chome Minami 6 Jonishi, Chuo Ward, Chuo-ku, Sapporo-shi, Hokkaido, Japan, 064-0806''Photo provided by Traveloka''Check Rates & Availability''Our''Sapporo Travel Guide''provides additional information when staying in Hokkaido’s capital.''Otaru''Hotel Nord Otaru''1-4-16 Ironai, Otaru-shi, Hokkaido, Japan, 047-0031''Image provided by Traveloka''Check Rates & Availability''.''Smile Hotel Otaru''3-5-14 Inaho, Otaru-shi, Hokkaido, Japan, 047-0032''Image provided by Traveloka''Check Rates & Availability''.''Asahikawa''Court Hotel Asahikawa''9-50-1 Ichijo-dori, Asahikawa-shi, Hokkaido, Japan, 070-0031''Photo provided by Traveloka''Check Rates & Availability''.''Premier Hotel CABIN Asahikawa''1 Jodori-7 Chome, Asahikawa-shi, Hokkaido, Japan, 070-0031''Photo provided by Traveloka''Check Rates & Availability''.''Furano''Furano Natulux Hotel''1-35 Asahi-cho, Minamifurano-cho, Sorachi-gun, Hokkaido, Japan, 076-0026''Photo provided by Klook''Check Rates & Availability''.''Hotel Naturwald Furano''14-46 Kitanomine-cho, Minamifurano-cho, Sorachi-gun, Hokkaido, Japan, 076-0034''Image provided by Traveloka''Check Rates & Availability''.''How to Stay Connected in Hokkaido''Like the rest of Japan, Hokkaido has FREE public Wi-Fi hotspots, and FREE private ones in places like coffee shops or malls. However, if you prefer to get connected regardless of place and time, or you depend on a more secure connection, you can either rent a pocket Wi-Fi or get a 4G sim. Better if you make the reservation with Klook before the trip, so you can pick up your sim or pocket Wi-Fi once you arrive at the airport.''Here’s where you can book pocket 4G wifi:''Pocket Wifi with 7GB Data:''Reserve Here''Pocket Wifi with Unlimited Data:''Reserve Here''How to Travel to Hokkaido Cities from New Chitose Airport''To Sapporo''There is a direct train service from the airport to Sapporo. At NEW CHITOSE AIRPORT Station, board either the Rapid Airport or JR Chitose line bound for SAPPORO (JR) or TEINE. The JR Chitose line stops at more stations, and is only available from 6 to 8 AM. The Rapid Airport line is open from 8 AM to 10 PM, with fewer stops. Disembark at SAPPORO Station. Depending on the line, the trip usually takes 40 minutes to one hour.''Cost'': JPY 1,070; optional fees for Reserved Seats''To Otaru''There is also a direct service from the airport to Otaru. From the NEW CHITOSE AIRPORT Station, board a Rapid Airport train bound for OTARU Station. The trip will take 83 minutes. Disembark at OTARU.''Cost'': JPY 1,780; optional fees for Reserved Seats''To Asahikawa''There is no direct train service and you need to transfer trains. From the NEW CHITOSE AIRPORT Station, board either the Rapid Airport or JR Chitose line bound for SAPPORO or TEINE. Upon arrival at SAPPORO Station, get off the train and transfer to either the Kamui or Lilac Limited Express trains. These trains will stop at ASAHIKAWA Station. The trip will take around 130 minutes.''Cost'': JPY 5,180; optional fees for Reserved or Green Seats''To Hakodate''You need to transfer once in this trip. From the NEW CHITOSE AIRPORT Station, board the Rapid Airport line bound for OTARU. At MINAMI-CHITOSE Station, get off the train and transfer to the Super Hokuto Limited Express line. This line will stop at HAKODATE Station. Travel time is at 203 minutes.''Cost'': JPY 7, 590; optional fees for Reserved or Green Seats''To Niseko''Two transfers are needed for this trip. At NEW CHITOSE AIRPORT Station, board a Rapid Airport train heading for OTARU. Disembark in OTARU, then board the JR Hakodate line bound for KUTCHAN. Once in KUTCHAN, get off the train once more, and board the JR Hakodate line bound for OSHAMAMBE. This line will make a stop at NISEKO Station. Travel time is at 200 minutes.''Cost'': JPY 3,470; optional fees for Reserved Seats''To Furano''Two transfers are needed for this trip. Starting at NEW CHITOSE AIRPORT Station, board a Rapid Airport train bound for SAPPORO. Step off once you arrive at Sapporo, then take the Lilac or Kamui Limited Express to ASAHIKAWA. Disembark at ASAHIKAWA Station and transfer to the JR Furano line, the last stop of which is FURANO Station. Travel time is 206 minutes.''Cost'': JPY 6,260; optional fees for Reserved or Green Seats''To Biei''No direct service is available, and you need to transfer twice. From the NEW CHITOSE AIRPORT Station, board a Rapid Airport train bound for SAPPORO (JR) Station. Disembark once you arrive in SAPPORO, then take the Lilac or Kamui Limited Express train heading for ASAHIKAWA. Once you’re at ASAHIKAWA Station, get off the train once more and transfer to the JR Furano line. This train will stop at BIEI Station. Travel time: at least 172 minutes.''Cost'': JPY 5,610; optional fees for Reserved or Green Seats''How to Get Around Hokkaido''By Train''The Hokkaido Railway Company, better known as JR Hokkaido, is the primary railway operator in the island. JR Hokkaido’s network is not as extensive as those in the mainland, but it is adequate enough to connect major cities and towns in the region.''If you feel you’ll be using JR trains significantly, you may consider getting a JR Hokkaido Rail Pass. It allows you to conveniently ride all JR trains in the region. Ride-all-you-can, if you will. However, at JPY 16,500 for the basic 3-day pass, you may want to determine first if the expense is worth it for your trip. Also, the pass doesn’t cover certain rides, like subways and the Shinkansen, for example.''The following provides a quick guide on how to travel to key Hokkaido cities by train, if your starting point is the New Chitose Airport. Take note that the New Chitose Airport JR Station can be found below the airport’s main terminal building.''By Bus''Buses solve the problems trains can’t. They often go to places where trains can’t reach, including scenic spots and hotels. They are also comparatively cheaper than trains. New Chitose Airport has an adjacent bus station, with shuttles that will take you directly to key locations in Sapporo and other cities.''One drawback is that Hokkaido has so many bus networks and operators, and enumerating them all in one travel guide would be one Herculean task. One way to deal with confusing schedules is to get an Inter City Bus Pass. Like the JR Hokkaido Rail Pass, the Inter City Bus Pass allows you to use the bus transport system to get to 20 cities and over 100 attractions with just one pass. It costs JPY 8000 for 5 days of unlimited use. You need to apply online, and when you retrieve it, you need to present your passport and booking confirmation.''If a Bus Pass is a little too expensive for you, I recommend a couple of tools to make navigating bus and train schedules much easier: Hyperdia.com and Google Maps. It’s as easy as typing your starting point and destination, and watching as these two work their magic. I often use the two concurrently: Hyperdia provides more accurate prices and stops, while Google Maps allow me to check my exact location along the way. For a more comprehensive guide on how to navigate Hyperdia, you can check out our article below.''READ'':''How to Use Hyperdia''By Taxi''Taxis are ever-reliable choices to get you where you need to go, especially if you’re pressed for time, or if you only have an address to show. Japan taxis are renowned for their efficiency, and Hokkaido taxis are no different. They are quite expensive, though, and I only personally use them as a last resort.''By Streetcar''Sapporo and Hakodate were designed like a grid, with wide and long streets, perfect for streetcars. While I’ll probably ride a streetcar just for the novelty of it, it can still be viable way to get from point A to B, especially in cities as large as Sapporo.''By Subway''If the roads above are heavy with traffic, why not opt for the underground? Sapporo has a subway system as extensive as the rails above it, and is a fine addition to your arsenal of transport choices in this chilly city. Note the JR Hokkaido does not operate the subway system, so you can’t use your unlimited Rail Pass here.''Sample Hokkaido Itineraries''A Hokkaido holiday has admittedly more nuances than the usual Japan trip, and with each additional step there’s going to be expenses involved. A well-planned itinerary can help reduce unwanted expenses, while amplifying the experience for each attraction. Here’s a couple of sample itineraries, both a summer and a winter holiday. Note that this is designed for two persons, so some of the expenses can be divided between two.''Let me tell you this early — just to manage your expectations — that a multi-city tour across Hokkaido will still end up relatively expensive''FOR A SIGHTSEEING TOURIST''even after using whatever travel hack you have in the bag. The mere idea of hopping from one city to another will entail costs. And in Japan, transportation can cost more than what you’re probably used to.''Sample Hokkaido Summer Itinerary''Day 0: ARRIVAL AT SAPPORO''5pm – Arrive at New Chitose Airport, travel to hotel (JPY 1070 + 200)''6pm – Check in at hotel, Dinner''8pm – Rest''Day 1: ODORI PARK & SAPPORO BEER MUSEUM''8am – Breakfast at hotel''9am – Odori Park''11:30am – Lunch''1pm – Sapporo TV Tower, Sapporo Clock Tower, and Hokkaido Government Building''4pm -Sapporo Beer Museum (JPY 500 for beer samples)''6:00pm – Dinner at Sapporo Beer Garden (JPY 2900 for all-you-can-eat)''9pm – Return to hotel''Day 2: SHIROI KOIBITO PARK & SUSUKINO''8am – Breakfast at hotel''9am – Shiroi Koibito Park & Ishiya Chocolate Factory''12pm – Lunch''3pm – Susukino Entertainment District''6pm – Dinner at Ganso Sapporo Ramen Street (JPY 800)''8pm – Return to hotel''Day 3: FURANO''7am – Breakfast at the hotel, checkout''8am – Travel to Furano''11am – Check in at hotel, rest''12pm – Lunch''1pm – Farm Tomita, Tomita Melon House, Choei Lavender Farm, and Saika no Sato''6pm – Dinner and return to hotel''Day 4: BIEI''6am – Breakfast at hotel, Checkout, Leave luggage''7am – Travel to Biei Station''8am – Arrive at Biei Station, reserve seats for Biei View Bus* (JPY 2000)''9:45am –  Biei View Bus Tour (Blue Pond, Shiragane Falls, Panorama Road)''12:30pm – End of tour, Travel back to Furano''1: 30pm – Lunch and shopping at Furano Marche, retrieve luggage from hotel''3:45 – Travel to Otaru Station''7pm – Arrive at Otaru, check in at hotel, Dinner''*The Biei View Bus is only available in the summer, between mid-June to late-October (the yearly schedule varies). You need to make a reservation in any JR Hokkaido station 2 days in advance, or at Biei Station the day of the tour.''Day 5: OTARU''7am – Breakfast at hotel''9am – Shopping at Don Quijote''12pm – Lunch''2pm – Otaru Canal Cruise''3pm – City walking tour''4pm – Sakaimichi Shopping Street''5pm – Otaru Music Box Museum''7pm – Dinner and return to hotel''Day 6: RETURN''6am – Breakfast, checkout at hotel''8:30am – Travel from Otaru to New Chitose Airport''Sample Hokkaido Winter Itinerary''Day 0: ARRIVAL AT SAPPORO''5pm – Arrive at New Chitose Airport, travel to hotel''6pm – Check in at hotel, Dinner''7pm – Susukino District (Susukino Ice World)''8pm – Return to hotel''Day 1: SAPPORO BEER MUSEUM & ODORI PARK''8am – Breakfast at hotel''9am – Shiroi Koibito Park & Ishiya Chocolate Factory''11am – Lunch''2pm – Sapporo Beer Museum''5pm – Early Dinner at Sapporo Beer Garden''6pm – Odori Park''9pm – Return to hotel''Day 2: TSUDOME & SHIROI KOIBITO PARK''8am – Breakfast at hotel''9am – Tsu Dome Community site – Snow Festival Celebrations''12pm – Lunch at Tsudome''1pm –  Shiroi Koibito Park & Ishiya Chocolate Factory''6pm – Dinner''8pm – Return to hotel''Day 3: NISEKO''7am – Breakfast at hotel, checkout''9am – Travel to Niseko 2160''1pm – Check in at hotel, lunch 12000''1:30pm – Lunch''2pm – Skiing and other snow activities''5pm – Onsen''7pm – Return to hotel, dinner''Day 4: NISEKO-OTARU''7am – Breakfast''8am – Snow Activities/Onsen''11am – Early lunch, checkout''12pm – Travel to Otaru (JPY 1450)''2pm – Check in at Hotel (JPY 7000 for 2 pax)''3pm – Otaru Canal Cruise (JPY 1500)''4pm – City walking tour''5pm – Early dinner''6pm – Otaru Snow Light Path Festival Activities''9pm – Return to hotel''Day 5: OTARU''8am – Breakfast''10am – Shopping at Don Quijote Otaru''12pm – Lunch''1pm – Sakaimichi Shopping Street''3pm – Otaru Music Box Museum''6pm – Dinner''7pm – Return to hotel''Day 6: RETURN''6am – Breakfast, checkout at hotel''8:30am – Travel from Otaru to New Chitose Airport''Breakdown of Expenses''Please note of the following:''The total cost estimates are per person.''The estimates do not include airfare.''The estimates assume you are a group of 2, splitting a cost.''Make the necessary adjustments depending on the season and other factors.''Summer Trip''Total travel expenses (excluding airfare): JPY 13,960''Total hotel expenses: JPY 40,500''Food 6 days x 1000: JPY 6000''Sapporo TV Tower: JPY 700''Biei View Bus: JPY 2000''Otaru Canal Cruise: JPY 1500''Sapporo Beer Museum samples: JPY 500''Sapporo Beer Garden All-You-Can-Eat: JPY 2900''Shiroi Koibito Park: JPY 600''Ganso Ramen Street: JPY 800''Allowance for souvenirs and snacks: JPY 2000''TOTAL: JPY 71, 460 or PHP 34,915 or USD 669''Winter Trip''Total travel expenses (excluding airfare): JPY 10,840''Total hotel expenses: JPY 54,840''Food 6 days x 1000: JPY 6000''Otaru Canal Cruise: JPY 1500''Sapporo Beer Museum samples: JPY 500''Sapporo Beer Garden All-You-Can-Eat: JPY 2900''Shiroi Koibito Park: JPY 600''Allowance for souvenirs and snacks: JPY 2000''TOTAL: JPY 79,180 or PHP 38,692 or USD 741''If you want to further reduce the total cost, you may skip Niseko and go straight to Otaru. This will place the total cost at around''JPY 62,000 or PHP 30,200 or USD 578.''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Get the lowest fares by signing up to mail or mobile notifications''. Because low-fare promos can get congested fast, mail notifications help me personally to get ahead of the pack. Jetstar, for example, has Jetmail that lets you receive first-hand news when the latest sales and promos are launched.''You’ll probably spend your first and last days traveling''. Currently there are no direct flights to Sapporo from Manila, so traveling time can take up to ten hours between two flights. This include stopping over either Osaka or Tokyo, going through immigration and customs, and transferring between international and domestic terminals.''Tourists Information Centers will make your life easier''. There’s almost always a tourist information center in any major train station. Whether you need maps, passes for local tours or recommendations on where to eat, these little oases of information will make the nuances of budget traveling much more bearable.''Wear appropriate clothing''. It’s no joke how cold Hokkaido can get, and the amount of snowfall can escalate to blizzard levels with little or no warning, so overdressing for this occasion is actually better. A multi-layered shell of thermal underwear, sweaters, a jacket, and a parka will keep your tender bits snug and warm even if its below zero outside.''Beware of slippery snow''. Shiny and dark surfaces, especially on concrete, scream of an accident waiting to happen. To prevent a literal pain in the butt, best to keep an eye on slippery areas on the walkway. Use sturdy, heavy-duty shoes with excellent grip, and when walking, make sure that your steps are flat and your weight evenly spread out on your foot.''Wear glasses, sunscreen, and lip balm''. Too much snow can reflect large quantities of sunlight, which might induce snow blindness. Wearing polarized lenses like shades and ski goggles helps prevent this condition. Skin dryness and chapped lips can also be a problem; counter these by applying sunscreen and lip balm with moisturizing qualities.''Bring a Japanese phrasebook''. It won’t hurt to know a few Japanese phrases to ease communications with locals, particularly if you need help looking for directions or buying something. If you don’t feel like carrying a phrasebook everywhere, several free apps are available for download online.''Don’t tip''. You may feel generous after a good meal, but tipping someone for their service may actually trigger the opposite of what you’re expecting. It’s a no-no.''Vending machines serve hot drinks as well''. This may prove beneficial when you find yourself stuck in the cold while in a long queue or waiting for the bus to arrive.''Special thanks to Jetstar Japan for making this trip possible. As the largest domestic low-cost carrier in Japan, Jetstar flies to other destinations like Miyazaki, Fukuoka and Kumamoto, in addition to Sapporo.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''SAPPORO ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary 2017''12 JAPAN WINTER TRAVEL TIPS: What to Pack, Where to Buy''Kakigori: The Grandmama of Halo-halo''Countries Filipinos can Visit with a Japan Visa''JAPAN VISA: REQUIREMENTS & APPLICATION PROCESS FOR TOURISTS 2018''If I could give only one tip to someone traveling to Japan for the first time, it would be this: Use Hyperdia.''Hyperdia is a web-based search engine for transportation timetables and routes in Japan. Think of it as the Google of Japan transpo. Japan has some of the most expansive, most extensive, and most impressive railway and highway networks in the world, reaching the remote corners of the country. Of course, there are exceptions, but it’s safe to say that moving around in Japan won’t be as problematic as in other destinations.''For tourists, Hyperdia is highly reliable because most key attractions are located within close proximity of a train station. Whenever I’m in Japan, this is my go-to site when I want to know how to get to a certain place. All I need to do is enter my origin and destination and it will tell me options on how to get there including travel time, fares, and transfers involved.''But for newbies, Hyperdia can be intimidating. We get inquiries about Japan travel on a daily basis and many of them are about navigation. When we refer Hyperdia to them, they often find themselves at a loss, so we decided to make this simple tutorial. However, in this article, we’re focusing on trains. We’ll just create a separate post for other modes.''Without further ado, here’s how to use Hyperdia.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Use Hyperdia''1. Get connected.''2. Visit the Hyperdia Website.''3. Enter your origin and destination.''4. Enter the date and time.''5. Click ‘MORE OPTIONS’.''6. Click ‘SEARCH’.''How to Use the Train in Japan''How to Buy and Use IC Cards''SUICA & PASMO''ICOCA''Should You Buy a JR Pass?''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Use Hyperdia''1. Get connected.''Hyperdia is a web-based search engine, so it requires an internet connection to function. I heard there is an Android app version of this site, but it’s not available in most countries so I have no idea if it has an offline version.''But for now, let’s go online.''2. Visit the Hyperdia Website.''The address of the English version is:''www.hyperdia.com/en/''.''3. Enter your origin and destination.''At the very least, you should know the train stations closest to your location and your destination. If you have no idea, do a quick Google search. If you’re using a''The Poor Traveler Travel Guide'', you’ll find the nearest train station indicated per tourist spot in the''Places to Visit''or''Things to Do''section.''Another way is to check Google Maps and scan the place for the closest train station.''Once you know the station name, type it in the designated field. Often, you just need to type the first few letters and it will reveal a list of possible options. Choose the right station. However…''IMPORTANT NOTES:''Include the punctuation marks''. Some station names have a hyphen, slash, parentheses, and even spaces. In such cases, make sure you include them when you type. Otherwise, the station you’re looking for might not appear on the list.''Double check the station name''. Some people usually enter the wrong name to begin with. KANSAI AIRPORT STATION is NOT the same as OSAKA AIRPORT STATION. These are at separate airports, 1.5 hours apart!''Make sure you choose the right station''. SHIN-OSAKA Station is different from OSAKA Station. NISHI-OJIMA is NOT the same as OJIMA. Some are used by different operators. JR NAMBA is a separate station from NAMBA (NANKAI) or OSAKA NAMBA or simply NAMBA. Although they are close to each other, these are all different stations. UENO is not the same as KEISEI-UENO.''Some stations share the same name''. Good news is, Hyperdia usually has a differentiating tag. For example, there is a KOBE STATION in Hyogo Prefecture and there is another station of the same name in Nagasaki. Both stations will automatically appear when you type KOBE but they are marked as (HYOGO) and (NAGASAKI) respectively.''4. Enter the date and time.''If you have just loaded the page, the current time is loaded automatically. If you’re checking the timetables or routes for another day or time, make sure you adjust these fields.''5. Click ‘MORE OPTIONS’.''Normally, I skip this step. But if you want a more specific search, this is a useful too.''Using MORE OPTIONS, you can fine-tune your results by choosing a possible detour or route.''You can also include or exclude a transportation type. By default, all transportation modes are checked including airplanes and buses. If you just want train options, you can deselect them. You can also exclude Shinkansen if you think it’s too expensive for you.''6. Click ‘SEARCH’.''If everything looks fine, click SEARCH. The next page will reveal five (5) routes that best match your description.''Note that the routes are arranged by the earliest time you will arrive in your destination, but that’s not always the BEST route. You also have to consider the following:''Travel Time''. Being the first to arrive doesn’t mean traveling the fastest. Sometimes, Route 1 actually takes more time because the train leaves the origin much earlier.''Fare'': The total fare is indicated on the top section of every suggested route. The breakdown of this fare is in the FARE column (right side).''Number of Transfers''. Some routes may be faster but might include multiple transfers, which can be problematic if you’re carrying luggage or traveling with children or elderly. Walking times are also indicated so make sure you take that into consideration.''Train Type''. Trains are not created equal. Some trains are faster, some go straight to specific destinations, other make a stop at EVERY station along the way. The four main types of trains are: LOCAL, RAPID,''EXPRESS, and LIMITED EXPRESS (LTD EXP), which I’ll explain further below.''Seat Fee''. Fares are different from SEAT FEE. Most journeys only require you to settle the fare, but some (usually premium) trains will collect an extra seat fee. Yep, on some trains, even unreserved seats have to be paid for.''It would also help if you know the different railway companies operating in the city where you’re going because they often use separate stations or at least separate entrance gates. For example, in Osaka, Nankai and JR; in Tokyo, JR Lines are different from the subway lines of Toei and Metro.''Aside from the lines, you also might need to know the different train types:''Local Trains''are those that stop at every single station of the line. EVERY. SINGLE. STATION. If your stop is 20+ stations away, it can take a lot of time.''Rapid Trains''are those that skip some stations. Same price as local trains. Same platforms, too.''Express Trains''skip even more stations.''Limited Express''stop only at major stations. Additional fee is usually required.''If it entails waiting only a few minutes on the platform, I would usually just choose a rapid or express train even when the a local train is already approaching. WARNING, though: Board the non-local trains only if you’re sure it will make a stop at your station. You don’t wanna skip your stop. True story. Hahaha.''How to Use the Train in Japan''Once you have done your Hyperdia search, it’s time to put it into practice. If you’re using single-journey tickets, here’s how to do it.''Approach the ticket machines''. By default, these machines display everything in Japanese characters. But there is a button there that reads ENGLISH. Press that button and you will hear a voice saying “All train information will be displayed in English.” (I said it out loud in the right intonation when I typed that. Totoo.)''Follow the steps onscreen''. Usually, you will need to press the button (next to the screen) that displays how many passengers you are and then press the corresponding price on the screen. Yep, you should know how much you should be paying before using these machines, hence the first two steps. It will then ask you to confirm your booking.''Get the tickets that the machine will release''. (If after getting the ticket you realize you made a mistake or you just change your mind, don’t worry. Just use the same ticket. Fare adjustment machines are installed at every station. Make the adjustment at the destination.)''Feed your ticket to the ticket slots at the gate''. It will emerge at the end of the gate. Pick it up again. The ticket is small so try your best not to lose it.''Go to the right platform''. Although the platform/track number is displayed on Hyperdia,  it is best practice to double check the display when you’re already at the station. To check if you’re in the right direction, check the list of stations usually displayed on a wall before the platforms. There is also a more detailed timetable in the middle of the platform.''Wait for the right train''. The estimated time of arrival of the next few trains and the train type (Rapid, Local, etc) are displayed on electronic screens above the platform.''Follow the route that Hyperdia suggested''. Make sure you make the right transfers! There are usually plenty of signs around the station. When in doubt, you can always ask the staff at the gate. They’re usually very accommodating.''Of course, if you have a commute card like PASMO or SUICA or ICOCA or a pass like JR PASS or OSAKA AMAZING PASS, you can skip steps 1-4 above.''You might be thinking, “Oh cool. That looks easy.” Wrong. It seems easy to understand now, but if you’re in a big city like Tokyo, it’s a lot more difficult in practice. These lines are so entangled, and when they meet in major stations like Shinkuku or Tokyo Stations, things get even more complicated. Even I, who have been to Tokyo five times, and my sister, who has been living in Tokyo for years, sometimes get awfully lost.''How to Buy and Use IC Cards''Prepaid IC Cards are available in most cities. It sometimes offers discounts, but the beauty of it is that you don’t need to get a ticket each time you’re using the train. You just need to quickly hover the card over the reader and you’re through.''These cards can also be used on buses. An increasing number of shops and other establishments are also accepting these cards as mode of payment. You can even use it to buy drinks or snacks from vending machines.''SUICA & PASMO''These two cards are used primarily in Tokyo.''What’s the difference between Suica and Pasmo? The companies offering it, mainly. Suica is sold by JR while Pasmo by Toei and Tokyo Metro. However, both cards work in any Tokyo Metro, Toei, or JR line. As far as the user experience is concerned, it’s very similar.''To get one, you just need to approach one of the PASMO or SUICA machines at the station. There’s no use for me to enumerate the steps here because it’s so easy. Just choose ENGLISH on the welcome screen and follow the instructions.''ICOCA''Image provided by Klook''The ICOCA card is used for the JR West network, which covers Kansai (Osaka, Kyoto), Hyogo (Kobe) and even Hiroshima and Tottori.''If you’re arriving at Kansai Airport and you want to purchase an ICOCA Card, you can get one in advance from Klook. The card is preloaded with ¥1500 and ¥500 deposit. You can also use this card and your passport to get a discounted Haruka Rail Ticket for the Kansai Airport Express (which can take you to Tennoji, Shin-Osaka or Kyoto).''Reserve a Card''.''Should You Buy a JR Pass?''It depends on your itinerary. Before you purchase one, know that the JR Pass can only be used on JR line rides. You can’t use it on Toei or Tokyo Metro rides. So if you will be staying in Tokyo the entire trip, a JR Pass isn’t really worth it.''It only makes sense to get a JR Pass if you’re on a multi-city journey around Japan. For example, if you will be visiting three cities in 7 days, it could be a great deal.''If your itinerary involves taking long-distance trains often and you’re staying for 7 days, you can save money by getting a Train Pass.''Check JR PASS Rates Here''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get Around Tokyo by Train''Incheon Airport to Seoul (Myeongdong, Hongdae, Jongno): The Cheapest Way''Narita Airport to Tokyo City Center the Cheapest Way''HOW TO GET FROM OSAKA TO TOKYO: The Cheapest Way''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''How to Get to UNIVERSAL STUDIOS JAPAN''Tottori City has its own airport, and it’s a cool one! The Tottori Sankyu Conan Airport is named after its two main claims to fame: the sand dunes and Detective Conan.''The airport looks like it came straight from an otaku’s daydream! It’s Conan themed: everywhere you look, you see a Detective Conan character; in every corner, you’ll find games and puzzles and you’re free to enjoy them while waiting for your flight or transfer. But that’s for another blog post!''However, Tottori Airport currently serves All Nippon Airways flights to and from Tokyo only. That’s not to say that it’s not accessible from other cities.''Tottori may be tucked along Japan’s less-explored western coast, but it can easily be reached from other cities. Osaka is the closest megapolis. From Osaka, you can either take the bus or the train. This article will share with you exactly how to do that the fastest or easiest way.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'From Kansai Airport''By Bus''By Train''From Osaka Namba (OCAT)''If you have a JR Pass''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''From Kansai Airport''For foreign tourists, the Kansai International Airport (KIX) can be the primary gateway to Tottori. It’s a giant aviation hub, so there’s likely a flight from where you are to Kansai. From here, you will need to get to the city center of Osaka. Here’s how.''By Bus''Note that the first bus leaves Terminal 1 at 6:10am, last train at 10:40pm.''At the Arrival Hall, approach the counter for AIRPORT BUS to OCAT (photo above). OCAT stands for Osaka City Air Terminal, which is located in Namba area.''Purchase a ticket to OCAT. Fare: ¥1050. They will need your passport so make sure you have it ready. You will be given both the ticket (white) and a receipt (green).''Proceed to Departure Platform 11 (or whatever platform number you’re told).''Wait for the bus at the platform. If you have big bags, the staff will take them and tag them. You will be given a slip that you’ll need to claim your bags upon arrival at OCAT so don’t lose them.''Board the bus when it arrives. The driver will check your ticket. Find your seat number and get comfy. The travel time is around 1 hour, depending on traffic.''Alight at OCAT. The arrival area is the same area where you’ll be boarding the bus to Tottori.''By the way, the ticket looks like this.''That’s it! You’re at OCAT. From here you will need to board another bus to Tottori City. I’ll enumerate the steps below.''If your arrival is scheduled outside the bus operating hours, you might want to take the train instead.''By Train''At the Arrival Hall, walk to the train station.''Purchase a ticket at the machines installed on the left side of the station. There are many ways to get to the city center from here, but most convenient option is the NANKAI LIMITED EXPRESS train bound for Namba. It doesn’t involve transfers or additional seat fees. Fare: ¥920.''Enter Nankai Station. There are 2 stations; the other one is JR. Make sure you enter the right one. Find your platform.''Board your train. Travel time is 46 minutes.''Alight at Namba Station.''Travel on foot to Osaka City Air Terminal (OCAT). The walk takes about 10 minutes through the underground arcade. It’s an easy walk, even with suitcases in tow. You can stay underground for the most part. Just follow the signs.''The bus terminal is on the 2nd floor of the OCAT Building.''From Osaka Namba (OCAT)''Now that you’re at OCAT, it’s time to get to Tottori City. The first thing you should do is find the right ticket counter on the 2nd floor.  It looks like this.''Then follow these steps:''Purchase a ticket for Tottori.''Fare is only ¥1000''. Yepppp! Only ¥1000! This special price is only for foreigners.''Proceed to Departure Platform 7. This might change sometimes, but it’s generally at Platform 7. To be sure, always ask the staff.''Load your bags in the compartment.''Board the bus. Show the driver your ticket. Travel time is roughly 3.5 hours, depending on traffic conditions. Based on our own experience though, we left Osaka at 5pm and arrived in Tottori at around 8pm, 30 minutes earlier than schedule.''And voila! You’re in Tottori!''If you have a JR Pass''Normally, the bus is the cheapest option. But if you’re visiting multiple cities in Japan and you’re traveling to Tottori from Osaka with a JR Pass, then go ahead and use it.''You can take any of the several routes from Kansai Airport or Osaka City Center to Tottori, but this one is the most convenient (i.e. with least transfers involved).''At Kansai Airport, take either the LIMITED EXPRESS HARUKA train to Shin-Osaka Station or the JR KANSAI AIRPORT RAPID SERVICE to Osaka Station.''Take the LIMITED EXPRESS SUPER HAKUTO Train to Tottori.''Travel time'': a bit over 2 hours usually.''Without the JR Pass, taking the train is very expensive. The fare from the airport to Tottori alone is ¥5190 plus seat fee of ¥970 (Haruka) and around ¥3000 (Hakuto).''But if you’re planning on purchasing a JR Pass anyway, this is definitely the best choice because you won’t need to shell out any more money. The whole journey will be covered by the pass.''Read Related Post:''Is the JR Pass Worth It?''Check Updated JR PASS Rates Here''.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''TOTTORI ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''HOW TO GET FROM OSAKA TO TOKYO: The Cheapest Way''SAMPLE JAPAN ITINERARIES (with Estimated Budget)''OSAKA ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''8 FREE or Cheap Things to Do in Kyoto and Osaka''As one-half of a travel blogging duo, I often get asked if Vins and I always wander together. And the short answer to that is NO. In fact, in the early years of''The Poor Traveler'', we always traveled separately: Vins with his officemates, and I alone. The great thing about it was, not only do we enjoy places from very different perspectives and with very different experiences, solo travel also opened myself to an ocean of possibilities. I gained more confidence, made new friends, and changed how I look at the world.''Solo travel isn’t for everyone, but it’s surely something that I can recommend that you try at least once in your life. But where to start?''For foreign tourists, mainland Southeast Asia is the usual destination. Yet, the Philippines is often overlooked. Getting here takes more time and effort compared to our neighbors, but those who do are rewarded with an unforgettable tropical getaway. Backpacking is still an emerging concept here, but not everywhere. Some parts of the country have long nurtured a backpacking culture  — with plenty of dorms and single lodging options, affordable private or open-to-all group tours, “solo-friendly” activities, a safe environment, and a social atmosphere that encourages forging new friendships.''We asked the members of our Facebook community what destinations they think are great for those traveling alone and added the input of our team members. And here are ten that emerged on top.''10. Coron''Compared to other destinations in Palawan, Coron is on the pricier side of the spectrum. But it doesn’t take away the fact that Coron is an ideal getaway for solo travelers. If you’re on a tight budget, consider no-frills, basic guest houses and inns, and there are lots of ’em in Coron.''Even getting around isn’t a problem if you’re alone. Anything within the town proper can be reached by tricyle. Mt. Tapyas, a top attraction, doesn’t require joining a packaged tour because you can easily climb it on your own. Wanna go island hopping? You don’t need to book an entire boat; just join a group tour.''More info:''Coron Travel Guide''9. San Vicente, Palawan (including Port Barton)''Irawan Beach, San Vicente''Sandwiched by the more famous town of El Nido and the capital city of Puerto Princesa, the municipality of San Vicente often go unnoticed, yet it has a globe of wonders to offer especially to solitary wanderers. The town proper’s main attraction is Long Beach, a 14-kilometer stretch of supple sand that is slowly getting attention, and it is best explored by motorcycle. You can drive yourself or hire a driver.''Also part of San Vicente, the idyllic seaside village of Port Barton has always dodged the gaze of mainstream tourists but has long been known to mostly foreign backpackers. (In 2012, only 8500 tourists set foot in San Vicente, more than half of which are from Europe.)''8. Baguio City''Before the rise of low-cost carriers, the highlands of Baguio City were the default summer destination for Manila urbanites. Baguio may be commercialized, but that gives it a familiar feel even when the surrounding landscape and atmosphere are a total contrast.''Baguio has always been a top choice for family and barkada trips, but it’s ideal for lone wolves too. Most tourist spots are for your sightseeing pleasure; you don’t have to be with someone to enjoy them. Getting around the city is a walk in the park. Jeepney routes are easy to understand and taxi drivers are honest, down to the last peso.''7. Batanes''One visit to Batanes and you’ll immediately see that it is a solo backpacker’s paradise. Homestay accommodations are cheap, many of which house single rooms. You can easily and enjoyably explore the capital town Basco by bicyle and the rest of Batan Island and Sabtang Island by motorcycle or tricycle. Because the primary activity for tourists here is simple sightseeing, you don’t need to have company to appreciate much of what it has to offer.''Batanes is one of those destinations that captivates effortlessly. It is visually stunning and culturally fascinating, but what sets it apart is its reclusive calm. Batanes has a natural ability to force you to reflect, get lost in thought, and find peace even for a moment.''Airfare to Batanes is notoriously expensive. But Philippine Airlines sometimes hold seat sales that will cut the prices significantly. Also check out PAL’s new Clark-Basco route, which is usually considerably cheaper than flights from Manila.''More info about Batanes here:''Batanes Travel Guide''6. Boracay''Over the past decade, Boracay has been (rightfully) criticized for being overcrowded and overdeveloped. But it’s not difficult to see why Boracay is so popular: blinding white sand, unforgettable sunsets, even more unforgettable nightlife. But what makes Boracay the poster-beach of the Philippine islands is that it has something for everyone: families, friends, business travelers, and yes, even solo backpackers.''Boracay harbors dorms and cheap rooms along its inner alleys. Seaside restaurants aplenty, but the main road is punctuated by cheap diners too. And it’s incredibly easy to get around.''Boracay isn’t the first place that comes to mind if you’re seeking peace of mind — although that’s possible if you know where to go in the island — but if you wish to meet other fun-loving travelers, it’s not hard to do here.''More info:''Boracay Travel Guide''5. Dumaguete + Siquijor''Way before other Philippine destinations, Dumaguete has long developed a vibrant backpacking scene, thanks to the steady arrival of scuba divers. But it wasn’t long until the rest of the traveling public became aware of the natural and cultural gems that one can easily access from here. You can check out the city’s best restaurants on foot, swim with turtles by joining a group tour, or head out to the province of Siquijor DIY-style. There’s no shortage of single accommodations either.''More info:''Siquijor Travel Guide''4. Siargao''The hottest and fastest-rising destination in the country right now! Well, many have long been aware of this surfing haven, but Hollywood stars and international artists riding its waves and Cebu Pacific Air launching direct flights from Manila and Cebu put it under almost every Pinoy traveler’s radar.''Siargao has a burgeoning backpacking scene that is ideal for solo travelers. Hostels and budget resorts abound, many of which cater to non-travel-package tourists and are designed to allow guests to create connections with each other. Whether you’re here to commune with nature or get acquainted with other party animals, Siargao will bless you with memories for keeps.''3. Cebu''Doesn’t matter where you go — staying in Cebu City, diving off the northern islands, or trekking up its southern peaks — Cebu is a treasure trove for adventurers.''Within the city center, key historic landmarks stand just next to each other. And while public transportation (i.e. jeepney routes) can be confusing in the beginning, you’ll easily get the hang of it. Cebu as a whole is tourist-friendly. Locals are generally hospitable and helpful.''The best part, it’s “solo-friendly.” As one of the top destinations in the Philippines, accommodations come in all sorts, including hostels, dorms, and guesthouses. If you can drive two wheels, renting a motorcycle is recommended if you wish to check out multiple towns. For activities, however, it would still be best to form a group to lower costs, but because tourism is booming, you can find other travelers without much effort.''2. El Nido''El Nido has been hotspot for backpackers for decades. Way before other major destinations in the country began catering to DIY travelers and “digital nomads,” El Nido’s backpacking culture was already thriving.''In El Nido, you can have loads of fun even if you’re going solo. Most tours operate on a system that puts strangers together on a boat for a day-long island adventure. And the prices are regulated, ensuring that tourists do not pay more than they should. It’s something a solitary soul don’t need to be worried about.''If you want some nightlife, El Nido has a little bit of it. If you want to meet other travelers, stay at a hostel or go to a bar. If you want to be truly alone for some peace and quiet, El Nido has several spots for you. The last time I was here, I was able to finish writing a full screenplay. I worked on it during the day, and at night, I drank to my heart’s content. LOL. No, seriously. Something about El Nido squeezes out the creative juice out of you.''More info:''El Nido Travel Guide''1. Sagada''In Antoinette Jadaone’s''That Thing Called Tadhana'', the romance between the two main characters blossomed fully in Sagada. The irony is, according to our community (myself included), Sagada is the best local destination for solo travelers.''And it’s not just for the brokenhearted. Even those who simply enjoy traveling alone or crave an intimate moment with nature will find the mountains of Sagada the perfect place for some me-time. The town proper is small, and all key restaurants and hotels are within walking distance. Tours are all guided and relatively cheap. Yep, even private tours. Of course it’s cheaper if you’re part of a group, but joining one is no-sweat either. Just tell the tour guide association and they might just find a group for you. That is, if you still haven’t made friends with another traveler.''How about those who do not wish to tour? Sagada got ya. Outside peak seasons (December-May) and long weekends, Sagada isn’t crowded. If your timing is right, you will still find her silence and learn that her cold embrace can still inspire, heal, amaze, and allow you to see the beauty in solitude.''More info:''Sagada Travel Guide''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''TRAVELING WITH KIDS: 10 Asian Destinations for the Whole Family''12 Asian Destinations for First-time Solo Backpackers''SPIN Designer Hostel El Nido: Our Best Hostel Experience in Palawan''TOP AFFORDABLE BEACH RESORTS IN BATANGAS (Under P3000)''TOP 10 BATANGAS BEACH RESORTS''SAPPORO ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary 2017''I didn’t like the idea of returning to Batanes. At least, not in the beginning.''It’s not because I did not enjoy my previous trip. Quite the contrary. Batanes has always been atop my list of dream Philippine destinations, and when I was finally able to set foot in it in 2014, it gave me much more than I imagined. Site after site, day after day, Batanes blew my mind and snatched my heart. Perfect was a word I had never used to describe a journey, but that’s exactly what it was. It was perfect. I was afraid that a second trip would ruin all my precious, flawless memories of it.''But it could not be helped. We were invited to a wedding there, and our old Batanes Travel Guide seriously needed some updating. With a strange mixture of excitement and nervousness, we went back. In classic Batanes fashion, as soon as we landed, rain poured so hard, we could barely get a clear view of our surroundings. But in a matter of minutes, the sky cleared up and we saw that not much has changed. And in this case, that’s a good thing, a very good thing.''I’ve said this before: When the time comes that you have to leave Batanes, she will break your heart. And I left heartbroken the second time around.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Batanes: What You Need to Know''When is the Best Time to Visit Batanes?''How to Get to Batanes''Search for Cheap Flights Here''Where to Stay in Batanes''Search for more: Batanes Hotels''How to Get Around Batanes''By Bicycle or Motorcycle''By Tricycle''By Group Tour''Basco to Sabtang''Basco to Itbayat''Places to Visit in Batanes''North Batan''South Batan''Sabtang Island''Itbayat Island''Other Attractions''Where to Eat in Batanes''Sample Batanes Itinerary''Summary of Expenses (Budget Breakdown)''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Batanes: What You Need to Know''Remote and isolated, Batanes is the northernmost province in the Philippines. It’s a 10-piece archipelago, with the three biggest islands being the only ones inhabited: Sabtang, Batan, and Itbayat. Sabtang and Itbayat are their own municipalities, while Batan is further divided into Basco, Ivana, Uyugan, and Mahatao. Although it is the capital, Basco isn’t a city but a small town. It is also where the main airport is located and the most populated.''Sabtang, the largest island, is situated 45-minutes by boat from the town of Ivana, while Itbayat, in the extreme north, 3 hours from Basco.''For tourism purposes, the provinces is divided into four zones:''North Batan'', which is basically Basco.''South Batan'', which covers the attractions in Uyugan, Mahatao, and Ivana''Sabtang Island'', can be reached by boat. Day tour from Batan Island is possible, although an overnight stay is highly recommended.''Itbayat Island'', can be reached by boat or plane.''Here are more things you need to know about Batanes.''Language'': Ivasayen (northern parts of Batan Island), Isamurongen (Sabtang and southern parts of Batan), and Itbayaten (Itbayat). Tagalog, Ilokano, and English are all widely understood and spoken.''Currency'': Philippine Peso (PHP, ₱). PHP100 = USD 2, EUR 1.57, SGD 2.56 (as of February 2018).''Modes of payment'': Cash. There’s also a Cebuana Lhuillier branch along Abad Street, where you can receive money, pay bills, or purchase travel insurance.''Safety'': Batanes has virtually zero crime rate, so yes, it is very very safe,''even for solo travelers.''Connectivity'': Both Globe and Smart have good cellular reception in main settlements like Basco. However, it is data connection that can be frustrating. Both Globe and Smart don’t have LTE connection here. If you want decent internet, you may check in at''Bernardo’s Hotel''and''Amboy Hometel''. The connection isn’t fast but much better than mobile data. Anyway, like what Coco Martin said in the movie “You’re My Boss,”''hindi ka naman magba-Batanes para mag-internet''.''Electricity Info'': 220V, 60Hz. Socket Type A, mostly. .''When is the Best Time to Visit Batanes?''As with many other destinations in the Philippines, your best bet is from December to May, which is generally considered dry season. January-February is my favorite period because I’ve always enjoyed a cooler atmosphere.''Reference: Climate Change Knowledge Portal''Completely surrounded by vast bodies of water including the mighty Pacific to its east, Batanes is notorious for its crazy weather. It’s perfectly normal for the day to begin sunny, rain at around lunch time, and clear up in the afternoon.''Is it okay to book flights for a June-November travel? Of course. Although it is rainy season, it doesn’t mean that every day is bad weather day. Just expect rain showers every now and then, but most of them will just pass quickly. However, it is important to note that the strongest typhoons that hit Batanes in recent memory all did in August-September. My most recent visit happened in November and although it rained for an hour on our first day, the rest of our time there was bright and sunny.''It takes more than drive to get to Batanes. She’s distant and has one hell of a temper. But if you know your way around her, it can be quite easy to get on her good side.''How to Get to Batanes''The fastest and easiest way to reach Batanes is by air. Basco has an airport (Basco Airport) located in the town proper. Travel time is 70-110 minutes, depending on your choice of airline and departure.''Fares to Basco are infamous for being expensive. Year-round fares can cost more than P10,000 per way if you book at the last minute. But there are ways to save more.''Fly PAL from Clark''. PAL flights from Clark are significantly cheaper than from Manila. I did a mock booking for April 2018 (April 24-28) and found these fares:''Book a Tuesday/Wednesday Flight''. Manila/Clark-Basco flights scheduled on Tuesdays and Wednesdays are considerably lower than other days. While return flights (Basco-Clark/Manila) are cheaper on Fridays and Saturdays.''Watch out for SEAT SALES''. Promo fares\xa0to Batanes are''rare'', but they exist. You just need to catch them when they’re up for grabs. How? Stalk Philippine Airlines. Like them on Facebook. Follow them on Twitter. Subscribe via email. This way, you’ll be the first to know when a big Basco sale is about to happen. Seat sales usually open at around midnight. \xa0(For more information, read:''How to Book Piso Fares''.)''How much did it cost me to fly to Batanes the first time?''P1757, roundtrip''. Yep! No kidding. I got it from a P288 base fare sale that amounted to P1757 with taxes and all.''Breakdown of my Manila-Basco Fare. P288 SALE.''Just last week, my friend Angel was able to score fares for Clark-Batanes for only P2500!''If you want to be notified when there’s a new BATANES SEAT SALE, download the Traveloka App and set up the PRICE ALERTS feature. When the price of Batanes flights go down, you will get a notification on your phone so you won’t miss it. More info here:''Traveloka Price Alerts''Search for Cheap Flights Here''.''Where to Stay in Batanes''As the capital and commercial center of the province, Basco is a good base for tourists. Inns and homestays are heavily concentrated in the poblacion area, which is also where the airport is located. Tour operators also have their offices here.''The cheapest options are homestays. Two popular homestays are''Troy’s Lodge'', where we stayed the first time, and''Marfel’s Lodge'', which is a favorite among travel bloggers. Here are the details.''TROY’S LODGE''A loft with a few rooms for guests on the 2nd floor.''Rates'': P700-P1000 per room (up to 3 pax)''Contact No''.: +63 938 976 2237''MARFEL’S LODGE''Started out as a single house, it is now a network of 4 separate lodges — Main Lodge, Annex Lodge, Triple MP Homestay, MAC Homestay — being marketed together.''Rates'': P500-P600 per room (2 pax), P350/person for a single fan room''Contact No''.: +63 908 893 1475''Both inns are located in the town proper of Basco and near the airport.''Search for more:''Batanes Hotels''.''How to Get Around Batanes''By Bicycle or Motorcycle''The bicycle is the cheapest way of going around the island, but make sure you have the stamina to match. The landscape is rugged and a bicycle ride can take you up and down the slopes of rolling hills a hundred times over. Not really a hundred, but you get the point.''Bicycle Rental Rates:''Old bikes'': P25/hour''Small/Japanese bikes'': P300/day''Mountain bikes'': P600-P1000/day (depending on the type and how long you’re gonna use it).''For those who have a driver’s license and can drive two wheels, the motorcycle is a good option. Motorcycle rent costs P500-1000 per day. Gas is not yet included.''By Tricycle''For short distances, the tricycle is the most usual mode of transportation. Here are the fares:''Within Basco Town Proper: P30''From Basco Town Proper to outskirts: P50''You can also book a tricycle for a full-day tour. This is great if you’re a party of two or more because you can split the costs. The good thing about this is that the driver already know where to go or have bits of local info about the place. The rate is usually P200 per hour. Given the time it takes to tour these zones, here are the estimated (and the usual) trike rates,''good for two (2) persons'':''North Batan'': P1000''South Batan'': P1500''Sabtang Island'': P1000''Again, the rates above are good for 2.''Note that the rates for Sabtang island cover only the tour within the island. Not included are the boat ride and the tricycle transfers from Basco to Ivana port and back.''Our tricycle driver was:''Dale Veracruz, 0929 341 0941''.''The faluwa that ferries passengers from Ivana to Sabtang, and the cogon-roofed tricycle.''By Group Tour''Numerous travel agencies and hotels offer tours, but the one that we have personally tried on our most recent visit was''Bisumi Tours'', a duly-licensed local tour operator based in Basco.''Bisumi Tours can personalize an itinerary for you. You can even request to have it bundled with accommodations and airport transfers. But if you only need a guide and a way to get around conveniently, you can join one of their group tours.''Compared to just hiring a tricycle driver, Bisumi’s tours are pricier for a reason. These tours are led by trained local guides. While it’s true that some drivers can serve as your guide, most of them can only share limited information about the sites you visit. If you want a better appreciation and deeper understanding of the places you visit, join a group tour instead. This way, you’re not just looking at random rolling hills, you’re also learning about their significance.''Below are the rates PER PERSON (as of February 2018):''North Batan Tour'': P999''South Batan Tour'': P2000''Sabtang Island Tour'': P2000''Each booking is inclusive of the following:''Complimentary Round-trip Basco Airport Transfers''Tour Guide Services''Lunch''Registration fees and taxes''Round-Trip “Faluwa” Boat Ride (for Sabtang Tour)''To inquire, contact''Ryan Cardona, 0998 988 5898''.''Basco to Sabtang''To get to Sabtang Island, you will need to travel by tricycle first to Ivana Port and then board the faluwa to Sabtang. One-way tricycle fares (per ride, not per person):''If you’re alone'': P120''If yo’re a group of two'': P220-250''The boat leaves some time between 6:00am and 7:00am and returns between 1:00pm and 2:00pm.''Boat fare: P100 one way.''The driver will take you to the port in the early morning and will come to fetch you in the afternoon.''Basco to Itbayat''To get to Itbayat, you may travel by boat that leaves Basco at 6:00am.''Travel time: 2.5 to 3.5 hours.''Fare: P450.''You may also travel by plane. It takes only 10-12 minutes, but the cost is at P1800 and the plane must be full each flight.''Places to Visit in Batanes''Tourist spots in Batanes are often divided into four zones: North Batan, South Batan, Sabtang, and Itbayat. I always recommend taking the North Batan Tour first because it gives just the right dose of what’s to come, sort of a teaser. If you’re based in Basco, it is the closest and shortest of the tours. The whole thing takes just half a day, around 4 hours.''South Batan takes much longer, covers a wider area, and in my opinion, much more breathtaking. If you do South Batan first, the North might leave you a bit underwhelmed.''Important! Please take note of the following tourism/environmental fees:''Batan Island (collected upon landing at Basco Airport):''P350''Sabtang Island:''P200''Itbayat Island:''P100''More info per zone below.''North Batan''The North Batan Tour takes only half a day (around 4 hours including the lunch stop). This is more about visually stunning landscapes and a little bit of history. There isn’t any stop here where you can swim or take a dip.''Below is the list of attractions in the northern half of Batan Island. For more information about these sites, read:''10 Incredible Places in Batan Island North''Tukon Church''PAGASA Weather Station''Dipnaysupuan Japanese Tunnel''Valugan Boulder Beach''Basco Lighthouse at Naidi Hills''Vayang Rolling Hills''Chadpidan Boulder Beach''The first stop is usually either Tukon Church or Valugan Beach. If you want to start early in the morning, visit Valugan Beach first because it faces east — Valugan means “east” — and is a great spot to watch the sunrise.''On the other hand, if you’re exploring in the afternoon, you might want to request making Vayang Rolling Hills your last stop because it is a perfect place to see the sunset.''Chadpidan Beach is also often not included in tour itineraries, and might entail additional fees. However, you can have a good view of this boulder beach from Vayang Rolling Hills.''South Batan''Roaming the southern half of Batan Island takes an entire day. It straddles the municipalities of Mahatao, Ivana, and Uyugan.''Below are the tourist spots in most southern itineraries. For more information about each site, read:''12 Must-Visit Spots in Batan South''Chawa Viewdeck''Mahatao Boat Shelter''San Carlos Borromeo Church''Tayid Lighthouse''Racuh-a-Payaman (Marlboro Country)''Alapad Pass''Motchong Viewpoint''San Jose El Obrero Church''House of Dakay''Spanish Bridge''Honesty Coffee Shop''Songsong Ruins''Imnajbu Beach''Maydangeb White Beach''Homoron Blue Lagoon''The sheer number of stops makes this an exhausting tour, but you won’t be complaining because this tour will leave you breathless. The first stop is usually Chawa Viewdeck. The picture-perfect Diura Beach is also on this side of the island, but most tours don’t come close to it. However, you can have an unforgettable view of it from Racuh-a-Payaman.''There are two spots where you can swim — Homoron Blue Lagoon and Maydangeb White Beach — so make sure to bring a towel, swimming attire, and extra clothes.''Sabtang Island''If you want to see much of the island, we suggest that you stay overnight. But if you have just enough time for a day tour, that’s fine too. Below are the common stops.''More information about what to expect from a Sabtang Island Tour at:''6 Awesome Places in Sabtang''St. Thomas de Aquinas Chapel''Sinakan Village Stone Houses''Savidug Village Stone Houses''The Old Beaterio''Lime Kiln & Savidug Idjang''Chamantad-Tiñan Viewpoint''Sabtang Weavers Association''Chavayan Stone Houses''Morong Beach and Ahaw Arch Formation''Sabtang Lighthouse (P50)''If on a day trip, make sure you’re back at the port between 1pm and 2pm.''Better yet, before you leave Sabtang port ask the boatmen or tricycle driver what time the boat is leaving the island for Batan and be sure to return by then. There’s only one trip per day so if you miss that boat, you’ll be forced to spend the night in Sabtang.''Itbayat Island''For what to expect in Itbayat, check out:''Itbayat Travel Guide''More information about the amazing places to visit in Batanes:''10 Curious Things About Batanes and Why You Shouldn’t Eat Coconut Crabs''The 3 Lighthouses of Batanes''Racuh a Payaman (Marlboro Country)''Honesty Coffee Shop''Vayang Rolling Hills''Tukon Chapel''Valugan Beach''Other Attractions''Mt. Iraya Climbing''. Mountaineers can climb Mt. Iraya. If I remember correctly, only day trips are allowed and staying overnight is prohibited. Bisumi offers guided treks. Rates per person vary depending on the size of the group: P2500 (solo), P1699 (2-3 pax), P1299 (4-6 pax), P999 (7-9 pax).''Vuhus Island''. Although inhabited, you can set foot on this island and see its off-the-beaten-track wonders. It’s quite expensive though, so this might not be for budget traveler unless part of a big group. Bisumi’s rates per person: P5000 (solo), P4000 (2-3 pax), P3300 (4-6 pax), P2500 (7-9 pax).''For these activities, contact''Ryan Cardona, 0998 988 5898''.''Where to Eat in Batanes''Batanes may not be famous as a food destination, but it would be a shame to not sample local cuisine on your visit. It is not for everyone though. The province’s natural environment is relatively harsh, narrowing the variety of dishes and ingredients used.''Seafood is a staple, and yam (gabi) and turmeric (luyang dilaw) are widely used. A traditional meal is also often wrapped in a leaf of the antipolo tree. Here are some of the native dishes:''Traditional Ivatan Food served at Vunong Dinette''Uved''. Ground banana corm with fish or meat, shaped into balls.''Venes/Vunes''. Dried gabi stalk with fish or meat.''Luñis''. Salted pork cooked in its own fat.''Dibang''. Flying fish. Served fried, dried or in vinegar.''Lobsters'', locally called payi, are ridiculously cheap in Batanes, so this is the place to stuff your face with it. (Watch the blood pressure, though.)''Coconut crabs'', locally called tatus, are also available — we spotted them at restaurant menus — but please don’t order them.''They are already a THREATENED SPECIES''. And according to the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, taking or catching them is ILLEGAL. Let’s spare the poor crab.''The well-known restaurants like''Vunong Dinette''and''Pension Ivatan''in Basco all offer these authentic dishes. Prices usually range from P100-P300 per person.''If you’re on a budget, you may try a carinderia where P50 can give you a good meal. In the town center,''SDC Canteen''is a popular choice although options are limited.''If you miss Western food, try''Casa Napoli''for pizzas and pasta dishes.''In Sabtang,''Paypanapanayan Canteen''is the usual lunch stop in Sabtang. They offer lobsters and other seafood, vegetables, and bukayo for P350 per head. There are few other places near the port. Our guide took us to a small carinderia where we had the best meal of our trip. Unfortunately, for the life of me, I can’t remember the name of the place.''Sample Batanes Itinerary''If will be spending only three full days and nights in Batanes, below is an ideal, non-hectic itinerary. Note that this is tailored for a party of two, splitting the expenses. Just make the necessary adjustments to fit your condition.''The first version of the itinerary had the north tour scheduled in the morning, but after my recent trip, I have found that catching the sunset at''Vayang Rolling Hills''is a magical experience that I want you to enjoy too. So yeah, I moved it to the afternoon, which gives you free time in the morning of your arrival.''Vayang Rolling Hills at sunset''Also, since the''Honesty Cafe''stands just next to Ivana Port (where you will be taking the boat to Sabtang on Day 2), it would be best to check it out after your Sabtang Tour, before going back to Basco. Why? Remember, the South Tour itinerary is jam-packed. This way, you can remove it from your South Batan itinerary the next day and give you more time for other stops (like the White Beach).''DAY 1: BATAN NORTH TOUR''06:00 am – ETD NAIA Terminal 3''07:45 am – ETA Basco Airport''08:00 am – Pay Tourism Fee,''P350''08:10 am – Walk to inn''08:30 am – Check in at lodge/inn''09:00 am – Walk around town''12:00 pm – Lunch,''P200''02:00 pm – Start Batan NORTH Tour,''P500''(P1000/2 pax)''05:20 pm – Sunset at Vayang Rolling Hills''07:00 pm – Dinner,''P200''DAY 2:\xa0SABTANG ISLAND TOUR''05:30 am – Depart for Ivana Port,''P125''(P250/2pax)''06:00 am – Arrive at Ivana Port''06:30 am – Boarding,''P100''07:20 am – Arrive at San Vicente Port, Sabtang''07:30 am – Pay Environmental Fee,''P200''08:00 am – Start SABTANG TOUR,''P500''(P1000/2pax)''11:20 am – Lunch,''P250''01:00 pm – Back at Sabtang Port''02:00 pm – Boarding,''P75''02:40 pm – Arrive at Ivana Port''02:50 pm – Visit Honesty Shop and Ivana Church''03:10 pm – Leave for Basco,''P110''(P220/2pax)''03:50 pm – Back at inn/lodge, rest''05:40 pm – Walk around town, watch sunset''07:00 pm – Dinner,''P200''DAY 3: BATAN SOUTH TOUR''07:00 am – Wakeup call''08:00 am – Start Batan SOUTH Tour,''P750''(P1500/2pax)''01:00 pm – Lunch,''P200''02:00 pm – Continue tour''05:00 pm – End of tour, rest''07:00 pm – Dinner,''P200''DAY 4: DEPARTURE''06:00 am – Wake up''06:30 am – Check out''07:00 am – Walk to Airport''08:10 am – ETD Basco Airport, Terminal Fee,''P100''09:55 am – ETA NAIA Terminal 3''If you spend P300 per night per person on lodging (Marfel’s rooms for 2 are only P600/night) and you follow the itinerary above, prepare to shell out around''P4900''(excluding airfare and incidentals).''That’s not bad at all considering that you have a P200-P300 budget per meal (restaurant). You can still bring the cost down if you’re a bigger group and you’ll be dining at cheaper eateries instead of restaurants. You’ll also save a lot if you just bike.''If you’re able to score promo fares from a PAL seat sale like we did the first time, you’ll only be spending around''P7000''.''Is there a way to compress all these into a 3-day 2-night itinerary? YES.''You can do it in two ways:''If you’re arriving in Basco in the morning and flying out in the''MORNING''2 days later, you can do the South Tour as soon as you arrive and just check in to your hotel after the tour. Then, you can squeeze both North Tour and Sabtang Tour in one day. On Day 2, do Sabtang Tour first and when you arrive in Ivana Port at 2-ish pm, begin your North Tour. Just make sure that you have made prior arrangements with a tricycle driver to come pick you up at Ivana Port and tour straight after.''If you’re arriving in Basco in the morning and flying out in the''AFTERNOON''2 days later (PAL also flies Basco-Clark in the afternoon), you can do South Tour on DAY 1, Sabtang Tour on DAY 2, and North Tour on DAY 3. Just make sure you start the North Tour early and finish at least an hour before your flight.''Summary of Expenses (Budget Breakdown)''Just for easy reference, here’s a summary of usual sightseeing expenses in Batanes.''TRANSPORTATION:''Tricycle fare within Basco: P30 per way''Tricycle fare from Basco to outskirts: P50 per way''Tricycle fare from Basco to Ivana Port: P220-250 per ride, one-way''Boat ride from Ivana to Sabtang Island: P100 per way''Boat ride from Basco to Itbayat: P450''Basco airport terminal fee: P100''ENVIRONMENTAL FEES:''Batan Island: P350''Sabtang Island: P200''Itbayat Island: P100''ACCOMMODATIONS:''Hotels: P2000-P5000 per twin room''Inns/Homestays: P500-P1000 per twin room''DIY TRICYCLE TOURS (per 2 pax):''Batan North: P1000''Batan South: P1500''Sabtang Island: P1000''GUIDED GROUP TOURS (per pax, inclusive of meals):''Batan North: P1000''Batan South: P2000''Sabtang Island: P2000 (inclusive of boat/land transfers)''That’s about it!''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Walk when you can''. Basco is a small town. Most key spots within the town proper are within walking distance. In fact, if your homestay or inn is in the town proper, you can travel on foot to and from the airport.''Check out Abad Street''. Basco doesn’t have a public market and Abad Street serves as a substitute. This narrow but important street in the town proper is flanked by fish, meat, and vegetable vendors during the day.''Go paluto''. Some homestay hosts accept paluto (cooking) requests for a minimal fee. You can just buy your ingredients and have it cooked where you’re staying. It’s a great way to save money.''ATMs in Basco'': 1 PNB and 2 Landbank machines. But it’s good practice to make sure you have enough cash before your arriving.''Although this is a budget travel guide, we want to end with this: SPEND WHEN YOU CAN. If you can afford it, treat yourself and experience as much as you can. If there is something you really want to try and you have the budget, go ahead.''We always say: We’re not in the business of promoting the cheapest ways to travel. We are on a journey to find and share what gives the best value for money. And only you can decide what’s worth it. It’s also a great way to help the local economy.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How I Traveled BATANES for Only P6600!''Sagada Travel Guide: Getting There, Sample Itinerary and Budget''FORTUNE ISLAND ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''SIEM REAP ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''MALDIVES ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itineraries''MANILA ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''This South Korea Visa Guide is for tourists planning to apply in Cebu. If you wish to apply in Manila instead, visit this post:''How to Apply for a South Korea Visa in Manila''.''Applying for a South Korean visa in Cebu is not that different from that in Manila. The required documents are exactly the same. The only difference is in the actual lodging of the application at the consular office and the length of the processing time.''A friend very recently applied for a South Korean visa in Cebu and we asked her to document every step of the way, so now we’re sharing it with you. Here goes.''1. Gather all basic requirements.''The set of requirements varies according to the applicant’s employment status. In this post, we will only tackle the four most common types of applicants: employees, self-employed, housewives, and students. The list follows a certain order, but for the purpose of this article (and so you would easily understand the process), let’s break it down to basic, financial, and OECD documents.''Here are the basic requirements regardless of your employment status. Meaning, ALL applicants MUST have the following:''Duly accomplished application form''.''Download here''. You can also find it below.''Passport''(must still be valid for at least 6 months)''Photocopy of the passport Bio page''(Page 2)''1 passport size colored photo''If invited by a Korean'': an Invitation letter and a copy of the inviter’s passport. (Ignore if not applicable.)''Korea Visa Application Form''.''The Section 2 of the application form calls for details of Visa Issuance Confirmation. This section is only for those with a document called “Confirmation of Visa Issuance.” Many people think it refers to previous Korean visas; NO, IT DOESN’T. The “Visa Issuance Confirmation” is a completely different document, usually issued in Korea.''2. Complete financial and employment documents.''For Employees''Certificate of Employment''. Must be original; and must have the address of the employer, the landline number and email address of employer’s HR department,  applicant’s position, date hired, and compensation. Mobile number is not allowed.''Original Personal Bank Certificate''. Must include account type, current balance, account opening date, ADB.''Original or certified true copy of bank statements/passbook''covering the last 3 months.''ITR''(Income Tax Return) or Form 2316 AND Company Alphalist (Form 1604 CF with BIR received stamp). Highlight your name on the Alphalist.''Copy of PRC Card or IBP Card (If applicable only)''For Self-Employed''Photocopy of Business registration form''from DTI or SEC''Photocopy of Business permit or Mayor’s permit''Photocopy of ITR (Income Tax Return) or Form 2316''with corresponding payment receipt from BIR authorized bank''Original Personal Bank Certificate''. Must include account type, current balance, account opening date, ADB.''Original or certified true copy of bank statements/passbook''covering the last 3 months.''Copy of PRC Card or IBP Card''(If applicable only)''For Housewives''Your own or your husband’s original Bank Certificate''. Must include account type, current balance, account opening date, ADB.''Your own or your husband’s Bank Statement''. Original or certified true copy of bank statements/passbook for the last 3 months.''If husband is employed''– Husband’s Original Certificate of Employment. Must be original; and must have the address of the employer, the landline number and email address of employer’s HR department,  applicant’s position, date hired, and compensation. Mobile number is not allowed.''– Copy of ITR (Income Tax Return) or Form 2316 Copy AND Company Alphalist (Form 1604 CF with BIR received stamp). Highlight your name on the list.''If husband is self-employed''– Copy of husband’s Business Registration from SEC or DTI''– Copy of husband’s Business Permit or Mayor’s Permit(Copy)''– Photocopy of husband’s ITR (Income Tax Return) or Form 2316 with corresponding payment receipt from BIR authorized bank''Photocopy of NSO Marriage Certificate''For Students''Original School Certificate''Photocopy of School ID''Photocopy of NSO Birth Certificate of applicant''If parents are employed''– Parents’ Original Certificate of Employment. Must be original; and must have the address of the employer, the landline number and email address of employer’s HR department,  applicant’s position, date hired, and compensation. Mobile number is not allowed.''– Copy of ITR (Income Tax Return) or Form 2316 Copy AND Company Alphalist (Form 1604 CF with BIR received stamp). Highlight your name on the list.''If parents are self-employed''– Copy of parents’ Business Registration from SEC or DTI''– Copy of parents’ Business Permit or Mayor’s Permit(Copy)''– Photocopy of parents’ ITR (Income Tax Return) or Form 2316 with corresponding payment receipt from BIR authorized bank''Parents’ Original Bank Certificate''. Must include account type, current balance, account opening date, ADB.''Parents’ Bank Statement''. Original or certified true copy of bank statements/passbook for the last 3 months.''Copy of parents’ marriage certificate''.''UPDATE!''(March 2018): The embassy has announced that''starting 26 March 2018, first-time travelers who have NOT been to any OECD country as a tourist within the last 5 years''must submit the following::''For Employees, ITR with BIR Received or BIR Certified True Copy Stamp + Copy of Alpha List with BIR Received Stamp. You must highlight your name on the alpha list.''For Self-Employed, BIR Form with Corresponding Payment Receipt from a BIR-authorized bank.''If you’re a freelancer, read:''Korea Visa FAQs''3. Photocopy all your OECD Visas''Only if you have them. If you don’t have any, skip this part.''What’s OECD, you ask? It’s the\xa0Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. To see all the member countries of this organization, visit''this website''.''If you have been granted a visa for any OECD country, you need to submit both''the ORIGINAL copy AND a photocopy''of it. If you have multiple, submit them all. Although this does NOT GUARANTEE approval, it gives you better chances.''Frequent travelers who have been to OECD member countries within the past 5 years are also exempted from submitting ITR. However, I’m not sure how they define “frequent travelers” or how many OECD visas would it take to qualify as a frequent traveler.''4. Submit the documents to the Korean Consulate in Cebu.''Once you have completed all the requirements, it’s time to go the consular office. They entertain visa applications''Mondays-Fridays 9am-11am only''. Closed on weekends and holidays. If you’re not from Cebu but traveling there to apply, note that there may be local holidays so double check before going.''Also, Bring 2 valid IDs aside from your passport. I’ll explain why later.''Here’s the address:''KOREAN CONSULATE IN CEBU''12th Floor Chinabank Corporate Center, Lot 2, Samar Loop Cor. Road 5, Cebu Business Park, Mabolo, Cebu City''Email Address: phi_cebu2015@mofa.go.kr''Contact No.: (63-32) 231-1516(-9)''Here’s how to lodge your application:''When you reach the lobby of Chinabank Corporate Center, approach the concierge, sign in, and leave an ID.''Take the elevator to the 12th floor.''Walk to your right. A guard will inspect your bag again. You will then be asked for another ID, which is why you should bring 2 IDs. The camera on your phone will be covered with a sticker. You will then be given a number and a list of documents (depending on your employment status).''Arrange your documents according to that list.''When your number is called, approach the VISA window (the one closest to the entrance) and hand over all the requirements. The officer will check each document and briefly assess it. If something’s not right or insufficient, all your documents will be handed back to you (so make sure they’re complete and correct).''If the officer finds your pile satisfactory, you’ll be given a slip indicating the date and time of passport pick-up.''Visa Processing Schedule:''Mondays-Fridays 9am-11am only''Visa Fees:''FREE''for stays shorter than 59''P1350 for 60-90-day stays''Processing time'':''7 working days. Unlike in Manila, OECD visas don’t have any effect on the processing time. It’s always 7 days.''5. Pick up your passport on the scheduled date of release.''Return to the embassy on the date indicated on the slip given to you and claim your passpport, hopefully it has a visa affixed to it.''Releasing of visa schedule:''Monday-Friday 2pm-4pm''Before leaving the counter, double check that your name, passport number, and other details are CORRECT to avoid troubles in the future.''If you have more questions, we answered frequently asked questions here:''Korea Visa FAQs''For more information about Korean visa applications, contact or visit the official website of the Korean Embassy. While we always try to keep this post updated, always double check with the embassy.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''HOW TO APPLY for a SOUTH KOREA VISA in MANILA 2018''SOUTH KOREA VISA APPLICATION FORM''KOREA VISA FOR FILIPINOS: Requirements & Frequently Asked Questions''SCHENGEN VISA via FRENCH EMBASSY 2018: Requirements & Application Process for Filipinos''KOREA ON A BUDGET: Seoul Travel Guide & Itinerary''Seoul: Top 10 Best Hostels 2017''Hi! My name is Vins. And I’m an addict.''Addicted to sweets! LOL.''It’s probably my only vice. I don’t do drugs. I’m not fond of alcohol. And I have never touched a cigarette in my life. But I am too weak to resist the call of a sugar rush. The dessert is the part of the meal I look forward to the most, so when we were invited to get a sneak peek into the The Dessert Museum, I was ecstatic.''Before our visit, I didn’t know what to expect. A million questions brewed in my head. A quick Google search revealed articles repeating the same things but are not painting a clear picture of what it really is. Is it a real, proper museum? Is it something like a trick art museum? A theme park? A fancy food place where you can sit down and eat like a cafe?''The day of the launch came, and I finally had these questions answered. Turns out that the Dessert Museum is a combination of everything I had in mind. LOL.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'A Museum (Sort of)''An Instagram-Worthy Playground''Food Place''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''A Museum (Sort of)''It’s a museum in the sense that it provides sparse educational bits about the history of the desserts they feature via a guided tour. Upon entering the place, you’ll be given a digital wristband that you would be using inside. (I’ll explain what that is for later.) Once you have it, you’ll be waiting for the tour to begin.''A post shared by The Dessert Museum (@dessertmuseum)''on''Jan 25, 2018 at 5:52am PST''The tour is done by batches to avoid overcrowding. You see, inside are eight rooms, each featuring a particular dessert.''Donuts''Marshmallows''Candy Canes''Ice Cream''Bubble Gum''Gummy Bears''Cotton Candy''Cakes''Each room has its own guide, who will be sharing information about the featured item. You will be given time to enjoy the room before you move on to the next.''An Instagram-Worthy Playground''However, its museum-ish qualities take the backseat. As soon as you enter the first room, it becomes apparent that it is more like a playground-slash-photo-studio built for fun-loving, IG-dwelling kids, kids-at-heart, and millennials, who have a big appetite for taking quirky pictures. Every room is yummily decorated to double as a photo spot with its every nook and cranny Instagram-worthy. It’s actually very easy to not pay attention to what the guide is saying and go straight to the selfie spots.''The rooms are not created equal. Some are more fun than others. My personal favorite is the Cotton Candy Forest, which I think is the most picturesque of all rooms.''A post shared by The Dessert Museum (@dessertmuseum)''on''Dec 24, 2017 at 6:51am PST''For Yosh, it’s the room of ten thousand marshmallows. Fake marshmallow bits hang from the ceiling, creating a fluffy downpour. The combination of blue walls and white mallows make a heavenly background that are stunning both in photos and in real life. In one corner stand three fondue fountains: chocolate, strawberry, and… uhm… the brown one (peanut butter? caramel?). And you get to try them.''The Bubble Gum Room has a giant gumball machine that you could enter and be surrounded by swirling balls for a photo op. The Ice Cream Room features a giant cone that is carried by balloons a la Disney’s Up.''In a way, it looks and behaves like a trick art museum. The difference is, you’re surrounded by dessert-themed displays and installations.''Food Place''If you’re expecting a proper sit-down dessert place, this is not for you. There will be some desserts that you can actually eat, but they are served inside the room while you’re exploring. I already mentioned the fondue inside the Marshmallow Room; that’s one. You can also have a popsicle inside the Ice Cream Room, a strawberry/blueberry macaron in the Candy Cane Room, a cake ball in the Cake Room, and cotton candy in the, well, Cotton Candy Room.''Each time you take food, your wristband will be scanned.''A post shared by The Dessert Museum (@dessertmuseum)''on''Jan 22, 2018 at 2:30am PST''Don’t expect much about the food. If you’re looking forward to big servings, gastronomical wonders or culinary artistry, don’t.''If you plan to visit, do so for the photo spots, visual delights, and a fun time with friends or family'', not for the taste or the dining experience.''It’s more like a giant photo studio than a dining place. At the end of the day, despite its name, the Dessert Museum is, more than anything else, a feast for the eyes.''The Dessert Museum''S Maison Mall, Conrad Manila''Mall of Asia Complex, Pasay City.''Entrance Fee'': P799 for walk-in guests, P699 if you book online.''Food samples are included in the ticket price.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''7 PLACES TO VISIT NEAR MANILA Under P1000''15 CHEAP BUT AWESOME Destinations Near MANILA''7 Insightful Things to Do in Metro Manila, Philippines''5 Indoor Attractions Under P1500 in Metro Manila''Where to Stay in Manila: Top 10 Budget Hotels Below P2000 ($40)''Getting Around Manila: Tips on Traveling by MRT, Bus, Taxi, or Jeepney''Universal Studios Japan (USJ) is one of the top attractions in Osaka. And if you’re one of the millions of people who will be paying it a visit this year, you might be wondering how to reach this super popular theme park.''USJ is located in the coastal fringes of Osaka. Although it is neatly tucked away from the city center, it is very accessible, thanks to Osaka’s reliable transportation system.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Nearest Station: Universal City''From Namba''From Osaka Station or Umeda''From Kansai Airport''Where to buy discounted tickets to Universal Studios Japan?''Top Budget Hotels and Hostels in Osaka (Under $70)''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Nearest Station: Universal City''The easiest way is by train. The nearest train station to USJ is''Universal City Station''. It is part of the''JR Yumesaki Line''(aka Sakurajima Line). Both the JR Pass and the JR-West Kansai Rail Pass are accepted here. From the station, the park is just a short walk away.''Now all you need to know is how to get to Universal City Station. This quick guide will explain in detail how to do just that from the Namba area (where most tourists stay), Osaka Station, and Kansai Airport.''From Namba''First of all, it is important that you’re aware that there are three Namba stations: Namba Subway, JR Namba, and Osaka Namba. Although these are separate stations, they are all connected to each other. The station you want to be at is OSAKA NAMBA. (If you’re using Hyperdia, make sure you have a hyphen between Osaka and Namba.)''At Osaka Namba Station, take the Hanshin Namba Line bound for AMAGASAKI. Fare: ¥200.''Alight at NISHIKUJO Station.''Transfer to JR Yumesaki Line bound for SAKURAJIMA. Fare: ¥160.''Alight at UNIVERSAL CITY Station.''Travel time'': 25 minutes''Total fare'': ¥360''From Osaka Station or Umeda''Note that OSAKA STATION is different from OSAKA NAMBA Station.''Osaka Station and Umeda are very close to each other. If you’re coming from Umeda area (be it Umeda Station or Umeda Sky Building), you can easily get to Osaka Station on foot.''At Osaka Station, take the Osaka Loop Line (Inner loop) bound for SAKURAJIMA or TENNOJI.''Alight at NISHIKUJO Station.''Transfer to JR Yumesaki Line bound for SAKURAJIMA.''Alight at UNIVERSAL CITY Station.''Travel time'': 12 minutes''Total fare'': ¥180''From Kansai Airport''Lockers are scattered all around USJ so if you’re planning on going straight to it from the airport, that’s certainly possible.''There are many ways to get to USJ from Kansai Airport. You can take the Haruka train to Tennoji and get to Nishikujo from there. You can also hop onto Nankai Airport Express to Shin-Imamiya and then take the Osaka Outer Loop to Nishikujo.''But since you’re coming from the airport, you probably might be carrying heavy luggage. The route below makes the most sense because even though it’s 10 minutes slower, it entails the least transfers.''At Kansai Airport Station, take the JR Kansai Airport Rapid Service bound for KYOBASHI.''Alight at NISHIKUJO Station.''Transfer to JR Yumesaki Line bound for SAKURAJIMA.''Alight at UNIVERSAL CITY Station.''Travel time'': 1 hour and 17 minutes''Total fare'': ¥1190''Where to buy discounted tickets to Universal Studios Japan?''Klook sells so-called''1.5 Day Pass''. Basically, this pass will allow you to visit Universal Studios Japan at 3pm on Day 1 and then you can still use it for the entire day the following day. This gives you enough time to try more rides and enjoy more of the park.''And guess what,''it is even cheaper than the ordinary 1-Day Pass!''A standard 1-Day pass costs ¥7900 while Klook’s 1.5 Day Pass is only ¥7100. That’s much more value for a much lower price.''The 1.5 Day Pass must be picked up at Kansai International Airport or Namba OCAT (Osaka City Air Terminal).''Get Discounted Tickets Here''.''Top Budget Hotels and Hostels in Osaka (Under $70)''If you’re looking for a place to stay in Osaka, here are the top budget hotels and hostels under $70 in the city center. These are not close to USJ. It’s simply a collection of the top rated lodging options as rated by Traveloka users.''GOEN LOUNGE&STAY''T-SITE ANNEXⅡ 5F/6F 8-9, Okahigashi-cho, Hirakata, Osaka''Check Rates & Availability''“You will fall in love with Peru.”''Every single one of my close friends who had gone backpacking in South America said the same thing when they met me for the first time after their trip — that I would love Peru the most. I’m not even kidding or exaggerating. Every single one of them.''And it drives me crazy.''Why? Because even without them saying it, Peru has always been up there on my list of destinations that I would sell my worldly possessions for. and all their wonderful stories are amplifying that voice in my head that screams, “WTF are you waiting for?” Because really, what have I been waiting for?''Peru’s current tourism campaign posits the country as the richest in the world. That may be quite the stretch to some, but wealth isn’t always about money or gold. Often, memories are precious and moments are priceless. Peru, with its unforgettable natural and cultural wonders, is a real treasure trove.''Peru is visa-free for Filipinos. In fact, citizens of a total of 99 countries and territories can visit Peru without a visa. This includes Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and the Philippines, whose citizens can stay  for up to 183 days for tourism purposes. Here’s the list of these jurisdictions:''European Union''Andorra''Antigua and Barbuda''Argentina''Australia''Bahamas''Barbados''Belarus''Belize''Bolivia''Brazil''Brunei''Canada''Chile''Colombia''Costa Rica''Dominica''Dominican Republic''Ecuador''Fiji''Grenada''Guatemala''Guyana''Honduras''Hong Kong''Iceland''Indonesia''Israel''Jamaica''Japan''Kiribati''Liechtenstein''Macau''Macedonia''Malaysia''Marshall Islands''Mexico''Micronesia''Moldova''Monaco''Montenegro''Nauru''New Zealand''Norway''Palau''Panama''Papua New Guinea''Paraguay''The Philippines''Russia''Saint Kitts and Nevis''Saint Lucia''Saint Vincent and the Grenadines''Samoa''San Marino''Serbia''Singapore''Solomon Islands''South Africa''South Korea''Suriname''Switzerland''Taiwan''Thailand''Tonga''Trinidad and Tobago''Turkey''Tuvalu''Ukraine''United States''Uruguay''Vatican City''Venezuela''South America is one of the only two continents that I haven’t set foot in. But it looks like that’s about to change soon. I can safely announce as early as now that we’re hitting Peru next year! But while teleportation and time travel are not yet possible, I’m indulging my extremely eager spirit by admiring other travelers’ unforgettable moments, captured in these inspiring photographs.''1. Huascarán National Park''A post shared by Moon Travel Guides (@moonguides)''on''Jan 20, 2018 at 12:10pm PST''At 6,768 metres, Huascarán is the tallest mountain in Peru and is part of the Cordillera Blanca range, which is also a part of the larger Andes range. It’s a UNESCO World Heritage Site and is popular among mountaineers, adventurers, and nature-lovers!''2. Machu Picchu''A post shared by Matthias Depenbusch (@bigmatze)''on''Jan 22, 2018 at 8:06am PST''Peru’s most iconic site! This 15th century settlement perched 2430m above the Inca’s Sacred Valley. This UNESCO World Heritage Site was also voted onto the list of the New 7 Wonders of the World.''3. Paracas Peninsula''A post shared by Alexandra 😎 (@chicada)''on''Jan 20, 2018 at 2:18pm PST''The Paracas Peninsula is where the desert mingles with the ocean. It’s part of the Paracas National Reservation in the Pisco Province, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.''4. Rainbow Mountains''A post shared by Lakwatsero (@thelakwatsero)''on''Sep 6, 2016 at 4:47pm PDT''This geologic wonder is notoriously hard to reach, but if you’re the type who likes chasing incredible views, these striped slopes are worth the days of tough trek! These painted peaks are part of the Andes and are accessible via Cusco.''5. Salinas de Maras''A post shared by wanderess ~ ejnets.com (@ejnets)''on''Jan 20, 2018 at 6:22am PST''These salt ponds are located in Maras, a town smack in the Sacred Valley of the Incas north of Cuzco. These ponds have been used since the Inca days.''6. Nazca Lines''A post shared by Paul (@travel.paullie)''on''Jan 23, 2018 at 9:24am PST''Nazca is where the ancient Nazca civilization settled after the fall of Cahuachi in 400AD and is home to the famous Nazca lines, enormous drawings and geometrical figures on the sand.''7. Amazon Cruise''A post shared by Peru Luxury & Adventure Travel (@junglewordltravelsluxury)''on''Jun 19, 2017 at 6:27am PDT''Peru cradles the headwaters of the Amazon, the world’s greatest river. And you can go on a cruise along some of its tributaries, many of which will also introduce to you the wildlife that both the river and the covering rainforests have nurtured.''8. Paragliding in Lima''A post shared by Isabel BV (@isabelbernalvilla)''on''Dec 12, 2016 at 7:09pm PST''Lima’s Miraflores District is where many paragliding companies operate. The jump off spot is at Parque Raimonde. Tandem flights cost around 80USD.''9. Ica''A post shared by ExplorandoPeru365 (@explorandoperu365)''on''Jan 3, 2018 at 3:24pm PST''Ica is an oasis at the heart of the Atacama dunes. Don’t miss the mummies and other artifacts inside the Museo Regional de Ica.''10. Ruta del Sillar''A post shared by Sky Viajes y Turismo Perú (@skyviajes)''on''Sep 17, 2017 at 12:20pm PDT''Arequipa’s historic core is a UNESCO World Heritage City known for its buildings made of white-pink volcanic stones. (Hence the nickname White City.) These stones are called “sillar.” La Ruta del Sillar takes visitors to where these stones were quarried, which will give a better understanding of the region.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''SOUTHEAST ASIA: Backpacking Itineraries and Routes (2 Weeks)''In Photos: Thailand Tourism Festival 2016''JustFly Reviews: 5 Excellent Ways to Survive a Road Trip''BACOLOD AND SIPALAY SAMPLE ITINERARIES''Makassar, Indonesia: 5 Places to Visit in 3 Days''TRAVELING WITH KIDS: 10 Asian Destinations for the Whole Family''The Athenians are proud of their city.''Not in a''bragging''way. They’re proud, but I mean it in the most positive sense of the word. We could tell by the words they chose to describe it. We could tell by the way their eyes shimmered when they shared tales from their history and mythology. We could tell when our cab driver took a detour to what he said they call “the Balcony of Athens” for the most wonderful view of the city, and he did it at no additional cost. We could tell when we tried to tip our guide and he refused profusely. “My friends,” he said, “It’s enough for me to know that my home is appreciated.”''The Athenians are proud of their city. I would be too if I were in their shoes. We were just visitors, but we were already proud of simply being able to set foot in a legendary city that — after everything it has gone through in its long, long history — continues to stand to this day.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Athens: What You Need to Know''When is the Best Time to Visit Athens''How to Get a Visa for Greece''How to Get to Athens''How to Get from Athens Airport to the City Center''By Metro''By Express Bus''By Taxi''By Welcome Pickups Taxi''Where to Stay in Athens''Top Budget Hotels in Athens''Search for more: Athens Hotels''How to Get Around Athens''How Much is the Ticket?''Where to Buy Tickets''How to Validate Tickets''Places to Visit in Athens''The Acropolis''Acropolis Museum''Ancient Agora of Athens''The Temple of Olympian Zeus''Syntagma Square''Lycabettus Hill''Panathenaic Stadium''Other Attractions''Athens City Tours''Athens Tour (with Acropolis & Acropolis Museum)''This is My Athens FREE TOUR''Day Tours from Athens''Cape Sounio Tour''Delphi Day Tour''Poros, Hydra and Aegina Day Cruise''Sample Athens Itinerary + Breakdown of Expenses''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Athens: What You Need to Know''According to myth, Athena, the goddess of wisdom, competed with Poseidon, god of the seas, on who should become the patron of the then nameless city-state. Its king, Cecrops, sat as the judge. Whoever gave the better gift would win. Poseidon struck the Great Hill with his trident and from it emerged a salt water spring. Athena stomped her feet on the ground and from it rose the first olive tree. The Athenians and their king accepted the tree, thereby declaring Athena the winner. The olive tree would prove to be an integral part of the lives of the Athenians. Its wood can be used to build boats and houses, its leaves to become a symbol of honor, its fruit to spice up their cuisine, and its all-important oil to fuel their lamps, cook their food, heal their wounds, and brighten up their skin. They were so delighted that they even named the city after the goddess — Athens.''Vins and I in Athens''This post is brought to you by Scoot. Scoot flies to Athens from Manila (via Singapore) 4X weekly.''However, experts agree that it is more likely that the goddess was named after the city, not the other way around. With a recorded history spanning over 3700 years, Athens is one of the oldest, continually inhabited cities in the world and is regarded by many as the birthplace of the Western civilization (or at least many elements of it).''Today, Athens is the capital and the economic, political, and commercial center of Greece. Although the Municipality of Athens (City of Athens) covers an area of only 39 sq. km wide, what most people outside Greece refer to as “Athens” is usually the entire Attica Region, which is composed of the entire urban area of Athens and several other surrounding municipalities. Attica is home to almost 4 million people, which is huge, considering that the population of Greece is just over 10 million.''More info about Athens:''Language'': Greek. However, English is widely spoken. Street signs are written both in Greek and English, so going around isn’t a problem at all.''Currency'': Euro (EUR, €). €1 = 1.23 USD, SGD 1.62, PHP 62.13 (as of January 2018)''Modes of Payment'': Cash is still the most common, but credit card payments are widely accepted too.''Electricity Info'': 230 V, 50 Hz. Power sockets are Type C and Type F.''When is the Best Time to Visit Athens''Spring to early summer (March-June)''and''autumn (September-October)''are the most comfortable in terms of weather and crowdedness. It’s not too cold and not too hot, and you don’t have to squeeze your way through human mazes that the summer peak brings. Summer also sees the prices of hotels and flights go up.''Winter has its own perks too. Athenian winters aren’t too harsh or unforgiving. Because it’s a large metropolitan hub, it doesn’t really go into hibernation mode (unlike the small towns on Greek isles). Most establishments and attractions are open year-round. But hotel rates and airfares go down dramatically, something budget travelers can take advantage of.''How to Get a Visa for Greece''Greece is part of the Schengen Agreement, so a Schengen Visa is required for most nationalities. If you’re a Philippine passport holder, we have a separate post discussing the visa application process in detail.''Read:''Schengen Visa via Greek Embassy''How to Get to Athens''Athens is served by Athens International Airport, located in the suburban town of Spata, 27km or about 45 minutes from the city center. Its official name is Athens International Airport “Eleftherios Venizelos”, after an eminent former Prime Minister.''The airport is not too big, which is great because you don’t need to walk long distances looking for your check-in counter or gates, but it’s brimming with discoveries. Plenty of dining options both on the Arrival and Departure levels. There’s even a mini-museum inside! We’ll write a separate post about it soon.''If you’re flying from the Philippines or Singapore, the most cost-efficient way to reach Athens is to fly with Scoot. Scoot fares to Athens start at PHP10,403 from Cebu, PHP10,704 from Clark, PHP11,198 from Kalibo and PHP10,754 from Manila. These can still go lower when there is a promo. Look:''Actual fares we found for March''All flights from the Philippines will have a layover in Singapore. You can take this opportunity to also tour SG while you’re at it. From SG, the travel time to Athens is 11 hours and 10 minutes. Scoot uses a new Boeing 787 Dreamliner, so you can expect the cabin to be spanking clean and well-maintained.''If you want to score ATHENS PROMO FARES, keep a lookout for Scoot’s monthly''Take-off Tuesday''promotions available on their''official website''! The next one is happening on the first Tuesday in February and it’s fastest fingers first to grab fares as low as PHP9,899 to Athens.''How to Get from Athens Airport to the City Center''The Athens International Airport is located 27 km from the city center. It takes 45 minutes to over an hour to reach the city, depending on your mode of transportation and the traffic situation. You can travel by metro, by express bus, by regular taxi, and by Welcome Pickups taxi.''What is the best option?''It depends on many factors including the location of your hotel and whether or not you’re traveling alone or in a group. If your hotel is near a Metro Line 3 station, take the metro of course. If you’re traveling solo and on a tight budget, the bus is the cheapest option. But if you’re a group of three or more, the taxi may be the most convenient.''We created a more detailed post about these options here:''Athens Airport to City Center''.''But here’s a brief summary:''By Metro''The airport is connected to the city center by Metro Line 3. This is great if you’re traveling alone and your hotel is near a Line 3 Station (or any other metro line).''Travel time'': Around 45 minutes.''Frequency'': One train every 30 minutes''Operating Hours'': 6:30am to 11:30pm''Fare'': One-way ticket costs €10 (€5 if below 18 or over 65). If your return flight is also via Athens Airport and is scheduled within the next 7 days, you can buy a roundtrip ticket (two-way) instead for only''€14''.''By Express Bus''This is the cheapest option if you’re traveling solo. There are 4 routes, but if you’re going to the city center, the bus you want is''X95 (Syntagma-Airport)''.''Travel time''Athens is served by Athens International Airport, located in the suburban town of Spata. Its official name is Athens International Airport “Eleftherios Venizelos”, after an eminent former Prime Minister.''Situated 27 km from the center of Athens, it takes 45 minutes to over an hour to reach the city, depending on your mode of transportation and the traffic situation. You have plenty of options: by metro, by express bus, by regular taxi, and by Welcome Pickups taxi.''This post is brought to you by the City of Athens''What is the best option?''The answer to that depends on many factors including the location of your hotel and whether or not you’re traveling alone or in a group. If your hotel is near a Metro Line 3 station, take the metro of course. If you’re traveling solo and on a tight budget, the bus is the cheapest option. But if you’re a group of three or more, the taxi may be the most convenient.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'By Metro''By Bus''By Taxi''By Welcome Pickups Taxi''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''By Metro''Best Option If'': Your hotel is near a metro station or you want to avoid traffic.''Take''Metro Line 3''(Aghia Marina – Douk. Plakentias – Athens International Airport). There’s a train every 30 minutes from 6:30am to 11:30pm.''How to get to the Metro Station'': After exiting the Arrivals area, take Exit #3 and then take the escalator to the sky bridge. From there, you’ll easily find the metro station. You can buy tickets from the Automatic Ticket Issuing Machines (ATIM).''Fares:''One-way fare is''€10''(€5 if below 18 or over 65).''If your return flight is also via Athens Airport and is scheduled within the next 7 days, you can buy a roundtrip ticket (two-way) instead for only''€14''.''Please take note of the following:''The platforms are used by two types of trains: the metro and the suburban train''. Make sure that you board the right train.''Validate the ticket before boarding''. Regular inspections are done on board and those with non-validated tickets will be fined.''By Bus''Best option if'': Your hotel is at the historical center of Athens (around Syntagma) or near a bus stop. Also great if you’re traveling on a budget.''Travel time'': 1 hour or longer, depending on traffic.''Fare: €6''The airport’s Express Buses run 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It’s also the most economical option, especially if you’re traveling solo.''There are four routes:''Χ93: Kifissos KTEL Station – Airport''. KTEL operates the intercity buses.''X95: Syntagma – Airport''. Connects the airport directly to Syntagma Square. If your hotel is near the historical center of Athens, this is for you.''Χ96: Piraeus – Airport''. Links the airport to Piraeus central passenger port. If you’re planning on taking the ferry to the islands after your flight, this is your route.''Χ97: Eliniko Metro Station – Airport''There’s a big chance that the bus you need is''X95''.''Ticket kiosks are located between Exits 4 and 5 outside the Arrivals area.''Taking the bus may be a bit confusing if you’re not that familiar with the city. If you choose to take this, make sure you know the stop nearest your hotel. If your hotel is at the very center of the city, near Syntagma, great ‘coz that’s the last stop. You can simply alight when everyone else does.''If your hotel isn’t anywhere near a bus stop, get off at the nearest stop and just take a cab or the metro to get to your hotel.''By Taxi''Best option if'': You’re a group of three or more''Fare: €38''(5am-12mn),''€54''(12mn-5am)''The rates include all applicable fees including toll fees. But be sure to confirm and come to an agreement with the driver before the trip.''But you know what, if you’re considering to take the taxi, you might as well try''Welcome Pickups Taxi''! More info below!''By Welcome Pickups Taxi''Best option if'': You’re a group of three or more or if you’re a couple celebrating something special (honeymoon, anniversary)''This is something that came highly recommended by our new friends in Athens. Welcome Pickups is a pre-booked premium taxi service at the price of a regular taxi. If you’re a group of three or four, this can end up cheaper than the metro or the bus.''We have experienced this ourselves and it was soooo good.''The driver waited for us and greeted us with a sign at the Arrivals area.''The driver also served as our tour guide, providing so much information that you’re gonna need to explore and enjoy the city.''A bottle of water and snack were provided during the trip.''Free wi-fi!''A map of the city was also provided.''The best part, it costs as much as the regular taxi. Oh wait, I said that already.''It’s excellent. We can’t recommend this enough! Our driver John was so friendly and knowledgeable, it really felt like we gained a friend within our first hour in Athens. At one point during the journey, John asked if we had anything to do for the night and when we said we had nothing planned, he drove the cab to the top of Mt. Lycabettus so we could have a great night view of the Acropolis. These guys go out of their way (literally, in this case) to ensure that their passengers have a fantastic time in their city.''No wonder our contacts in Athens insisted that we take this.''For more information about Welcome Pickups, visit their official website:''www.welcomepickups.com''.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Incheon Airport to Seoul (Myeongdong, Hongdae, Jongno): The Cheapest Way''ATHENS ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Narita Airport to Tokyo City Center the Cheapest Way''HOW TO GET FROM OSAKA TO TOKYO: The Cheapest Way''ATHENS IN WINTER: 7 Things to Do''SCHENGEN VISA via GREEK EMBASSY MANILA 2018: Requirements & Application Process''We’ve been receiving a lot of messages asking us for a copy of the South Korean Visa application form. Looks like the visa pages of the website of the South Korean Embassy in Manila have been down for a couple of weeks now. Either that or they moved to another website, the address of which is still unknown to us.''Anyway, yep, fortunately, we were able to save a copy of the form.''Download the form here''Korea Visa Application Form''To see the other requirements, visit this page:''South Korean Visa Requirements''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''HOW TO APPLY for a SOUTH KOREA VISA in MANILA 2018''KOREA VISA FOR FILIPINOS: Requirements & Frequently Asked Questions''HOW TO APPLY for a SOUTH KOREA VISA in CEBU 2018''MULTIPLE ENTRY JAPAN VISA: Requirements & How to Apply''How to Apply for a Philippine Passport''SCHENGEN VISA via FRENCH EMBASSY 2018: Requirements & Application Process for Filipinos''This Visa Application and Appointment Guide is for applicants in the Philippines planning to visit France or other parts of the Schengen Zone for tourism. You’ll find the list of requirements and detailed information about the application process below. If you’re applying as a worker or as a seafarer, I’m afraid this post isn’t for you.''France has recently implemented a new Schengen visa process, centralizing applications from around the world on just one website.''Not much has changed, though. VFS still accepts the application requirements on behalf of the French Embassy. The only difference now is that the first part of the process, which is the filling out of the application form, is done entirely online.''And oh, another difference is the length of processing time. Our friends from travel agencies, who work on Schengen Visa applications on a daily basis, claim that it is much faster now. According to them, applicants in good financial and employment standing and who have complete requirements often get the results within just 48 hours. Others still have to wait 5-7 days.''What is a Schengen Visa?''The Schengen Visa allows the holder to visit any of the 26 countries within the Schengen area including France. It’s sort of your one-for-all pass, allowing you to enter many of the countries in Europe without having to apply for a visa for each individual country. You can apply at any embassy of a member state.''We highly encourage you to read this post first to have a basic understanding of the Schengen Visa and how it works:''Schengen Visa Frequently Asked Questions''Note, however, that you can’t apply just anywhere. You need to apply at the right embassy, which depends on the purpose of your trip or your overall European itinerary.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'When to apply at the French Embassy''What are the French Schengen Visa Requirements?''How to Apply for a France Schengen Visa?''1. Complete the Requirements.''2. Create a France-Visas Account.''3. Accomplish the online form.''4. Book an appointment with VFS Global online.''5. Submit the requirements at the VFS Visa Application Center.''Frequently Asked Questions''How long is the validity of the Schengen Visa?''Should I apply for a single-, double-, or multiple-entry visa?''How much money should I have in the bank to get approved?''What are the reasons why my application would be denied?''What does a French Schengen Visa look like?''Do I really need plane tickets before applying? What if I get denied? Sayang the pera.''For more Schengen Visa Frequently Asked Questions, read: Schengen Visa for Filipinos''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''When to apply at the French Embassy''Apply at the French Embassy only if ANY of the following is true'':''You’re going to France only and will not visit any other country.''You will visit multiple Schengen countries, but you will stay the longest in France.''You will visit multiple Schengen countries, but the main purpose of your journey is in France. (Example: you will attend a conference in France but you plan on going out to other Schengen countries while you’re there.)''You will stay in multiple Schengen countries for exactly the same number of days, but France is your point of entry (first in your itinerary).''Here’s how to apply using France’s new visa website.''What are the French Schengen Visa Requirements?''The list of requirements varies depending on many factors like the type of visa you’re applying for, the country where you’re applying from, the duration of your stay, the purpose of your travel, and whether or not you have family members in France.''You can check that here:''French Visa Requirements''After filling out the short form, you will be given the list of requirements.''If you’re applying for a short-stay visa for tourism purposes, here’s the list of documents you need to submit. Know that this may change depending on your condition so it’s important to NOT skip Step #1.''The Embassy of France categorizes the requirements into six. This is where it gets confusing. Previously, it was just a simple checklist with all items considered mandatory. But the checklist that the new website provides gives the impression that you only need at least one item per category. For example, ITR is no longer listed as a requirement. However, the travel agents we talked to are saying that despite this,''you must still provide as many items as you can (including ITR) for better chances of being granted a visa.''PREREQUISITES''Accomplished Application Form''. This is the CERFA form n°14076*01 or 14571*05, dated and signed.''ID photograph''. 35 x 45mm, white background''Passport''. Must be valid for at least three months after the planned date of return. (In addition, know that Philippine Immigration policy requires that the passport must have 6 months validity.)''Photocopy of your current and old passports''. They need the photocopy of the bio page and ALL pages with stamps and affixed visas, even on your old passport.''PROOF OF PURPOSE OF STAY''Pre-booked return ticket or flight reservation''. As much as possible, don’t pay for your flights in full until you get your visa. Find a travel agency that can reserve flights for you. You can get one online here:''Get Flight Reservations Here''Detailed itinerary (if DIY) or reservation confirmation of an organized trip (if taking a tour)''. See sample detailed itinerary below.''schengen-visa-france-itinerary''TRAVEL HEALTH INSURANCE''Travel health insurance certificate''(for medical expenses and repatriation). Must cover the entire duration of the trip and valid for all Schengen countries. Coverage must be AT LEAST EUR 30,000.''Get Travel Insurance Here''PROOF OF ACCOMMODATION''Hotel Reservation'', if you’re staying at a hotel. You can also submit proof of sufficient means to cover the cost of accommodation (travel provisions of 120 euros / day) or lease agreement.''Proof of Accommodation''(Document) if staying with a local. “Proof of Accommodation” is a document that your host must get from their local town hall in France on your behalf. You must have it before submitting your application because it will be stamped by the consulate. Your host can find more info about it''here''.''PROOF OF FUNDS''. These can be any or all of the following. If you haven’t booked accommodations yet, your docs must prove you can afford 120 euros per day of stay.''Bank statements and bank certificates''.Make sure that the bank certificate and statement cover at least the past 6 months, and that they were issued within the past 30 days.''Pay slips''Pension statements''(if applicable)''PROOF OF SOCIO-PROFESSIONAL SITUATION''If an employee'', Certificate of Employment or Employment Contract''If self-employed'', business registration documents''You can also submit any other document proving rootedness in the Philippines such as land titles.''ITR is not listed on the website, but if you have it, it would certainly help. We and the travel agents we talked to still highly recommend that you submit it.''VISA FEE''€60 euro''(or its equivalent in peso that day). Note that you will also be paying the VFS Service Fee, EUR 26. It can still change depending on individual circumstances. Fees are non-refundable.''How to Apply for a France Schengen Visa?''1. Complete the Requirements.''Again, the list of requirements varies per person. You can see the set of documents they will need from you here:''French Visa Requirements''2. Create a France-Visas Account.''To do that, visit this page:''France-Visas Registration''Verify your account. A verification link and verification code will be sent to your email account. Follow that link and enter the code.''IMPORTANT'': Because the email is multi-lingual (French, English, Spanish), there’s a big chance that it will go straight to your Spam or Junk folder. Make sure to check those if you don’t get it in your inbox instantly.''You will then be asked to set up a new password.''3. Accomplish the online form.''After setting a new password, you will be taken directly to a page where you have to input the specific details of your travel plan.''The form has 5 pages:''Your travel plan''Your personal information''Your previous visas''Your stay''Your contacts''These are all pretty straightforward. Just provide whatever info is needed in the corresponding fields.''The only part that you may find confusing is the''YOUR CONTACTS''page. It will ask you who your''HOST PERSON OR ORGANIZATION''is in France is. If you don’t have any, simply choose the''MY HOTEL''option and enter your hotel’s address and contact details.''You will also be asked who will be funding your trip.''If you don’t have a sponsor'', just choose''MYSELF''and tick the boxes that apply to you.''If your trip will be sponsored by someone else'', you must enter their full names (last name then first name) in the provided space and tick the appropriate boxes.''After that, you will be asked to double check the information you entered on the''RECAP''page.''Then follow these steps after the RECAP section:''If you find everything to be alright, submit your application.''You will be presented a CHECKLIST and the completed APPLICATION FORM. Print both the checklist and the form.''. IMPORTANT!''You will also be redirected to the VFS Online Appointment System.''According to James, one of our readers who recently applied, if you don’t print out the checklist, they will use the old list of requirements (which has more items) because they will attach a different set of checklist. In the old list, they will require a cover letter, birth certificate & photocopy of your passport. So make sure you print out both the checklist and the completed application form.''4. Book an appointment with VFS Global online.''To get a schedule, sign up first. Go to this''Appointment System page''and click on''NEW USER''.''If you already have an account, simply log in.''For short stay visa applications, book a date at least five days before your planned date of departure.''Once you have an appointment, print out the Appointment Confirmation Letter, which you need to bring to the VFS Global Visa Application Center.''5. Submit the requirements at the VFS Visa Application Center.''The applicants themselves must show up on the day of appointment. For children below 12, either parent can submit. The exact address is:''VFS Global Office Address:''France Visa Application Centre,''Mezzanine Floor, Ecoplaza Bldg.,''Don Chino Roces Ave. Extension, Makati City''Submission of application'': Monday-Friday, 7am-2pm''Passport collection'': Monday-Friday, 2pm-4pm''Again, make sure you bring the Visa Appointment Letter I mentioned at Step 4. You will need it to get in. You’ll go through a security check, and will be waiting for your turn. Once they accept your documents, they will get your biometrics.''You will also be given a choice on how you want to receive your passport (with a visa, hopefully): pick up or by courier. If you choose the latter, expect to pay an additional''PhP 330''. Finally, settle the visa fee. Make sure you have the exact amount.''That’s it. All you need to do now is wait.''The processing usually takes 48 hours''. However, there have been cases when they got theirs after a longer wait. Some will be asked for an interview at the embassy. It really depends on many factors, which probably depend on how strong your case is and how much work load they have. Regardless, it’s out of your hands. Just hope for the best.''Frequently Asked Questions''How long is the validity of the Schengen Visa?''Depends on the itinerary you submit. The Embassy will decide based on your itinerary so take it seriously. The first time I applied, my itinerary was for 7 days, I was given a visa valid for 15 days. The second time, my itinerary for for 53 days, I was given a visa valid for 60 days.''Should I apply for a single-, double-, or multiple-entry visa?''Again, it depends on your itinerary and flight reservations. If your itinerary/flight reservations entail going out of the Schengen area once and coming back, then apply for a double-entry visa. If you will be flying our of the Schengen area multiple times, then go for the multiple entry visa.''Please take into consideration all your connecting flights''. For example, if aside from France you will also be visiting Italy (which is a Schengen state) but you’re flying via Istanbul (which is outside Schengen), you will need to count that as “going out” of the zone.''Don’t apply for a multiple-entry visa if you intend to stay in France the whole time. There is no need for your visa to be multiple and will probably just raise more questions.''How much money should I have in the bank to get approved?''No one knows exactly. But remember this: You will be submitting hotel reservations (that you haven’t paid for yet) and a detailed day-to-day itinerary. So make sure that your bank has enough funds to cover the cost of the flights you submitted and the EUR 120 per day of your stay.''What’s the EUR 120 per stay? Think of it as your pocket money and accommodations budget.''What are the reasons why my application would be denied?''This applies not just to the French Embassy but also other Schengen embassies:''You can’t prove that you intend to return to the Philippines''. You probably don’t have a stable job at this point, newly employed, or newly resigned, and it’s giving the impression that you plan on staying longer than your declared duration.''You can’t prove that you can financially afford this trip.''You or your sponsor may not be in good financial standing.''You seem to not know the details of your trip''. You may have appeared as though you’re not really doing what you declared you would be doing, which may raise some red flags.''Your purpose in France or Europe is unclear or dubious''. This is why it is best to be specific when you’re detailing the reasons for your visit.''What does a French Schengen Visa look like?''Like this:''Do I really need plane tickets before applying? What if I get denied? Sayang the pera.''Nope''! Like I said before, you don’t need to purchase flight tickets. What you need are “''flight reservations''.” It’s not the same as actual tickets. “Reservations” are just proof that you have blocked these plane seats, and you can cancel these in case your application is denied. Some airlines can hold the booking for you.''Travel agencies can also issue flight reservations. If you don’t have time to go to a travel agency, you can have it reserved online. When we apply for hard-to-get visas like Canada and Schengen, we hire''Gazelle Travel and Tours'', a DTI-registered and DOT-accredited agency. We created a form here so you can contact them completely ONLINE:''MORE INFO: Flight and Hotel Reservations''.''For more Schengen Visa Frequently Asked Questions, read:''Schengen Visa for Filipinos''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Apply for a SCHENGEN VISA via FRENCH EMBASSY''HOW TO APPLY for a SOUTH KOREA VISA in CEBU 2018''MULTIPLE ENTRY JAPAN VISA: Requirements & How to Apply''HOW TO APPLY for a SOUTH KOREA VISA in MANILA 2018''HOW TO APPLY FOR A SCHENGEN VISA & Other Frequently Asked Questions''SOUTH KOREA VISA APPLICATION FORM''Back in 2016, we were invited to speak at the World Tourism Forum in Istanbul. As soon as we got the invitation, we knew we would take advantage of the opportunity to also explore nearby destinations. We swept everything off the table, laid a map (yes, we still own one and we like things old-school sometimes), and looked for possible detours. The plan was to see Greece, Malta, and Italy after the forum.''But you know what they say, some plans are meant to be just that, plans.''I don’t remember what happened, but before we knew it, we had run out of time to secure a Schengen visa. Panicking, we consulted that map again and looked for alternatives. Almost every nearby country requires a visa for Filipino citizens. Georgia and Armenia would be great, but we were saving them for another trip. We were about to lose hope when we found something shining on the Western edge of the Mediterranean — Morocco.''Morocco has always sat on top of our list of dream destinations, but we didn’t realize that it’s visa-free for Filipinos. In fact, nationals of over 70 countries and territories can enter Morocco without a visa. Most — like the Philippines, Malaysia, Indonesia, Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, the United States, and all the member states of the European Union — can stay for up to 90 days. Singapore passport-holders can stay for up to 30 days.''Here’s a quick snapshot of the Wikipedia list.''This generous visa policy makes Morocco an ideal holiday destination. But here are 10 cities and towns you should consider for your dream Moroccan getaway.''1. Marrakesh''Jamaa el Fna in Marrakech''The epicenter of Morocco’s tourism, Marrakesh (or Marrakech) is popular for a reason. It’s wild and chaotic, but it’s also unique and so in touch with its past. Stay in a “riad”, the traditional Moroccan house with a courtyard, in its labyrinthine medina and check out the souks in its central plaza called Jemaa El Fna.''Marrakesh can be overwhelming (if not intimidating) at first. Its layout is confusing and there are scams here and there. But it didn’t take long before our appreciation of it took root in our hearts and grew so huge that we didn’t want to leave.''Situated north of the southern foothills of the Atlas Mountains, its central location makes it an ideal jumpoff point for other destinations like Medina, Casablanca, and Essaouira.''Speaking of Essaouira…''2. Essaouira''This is me hiding in one of the turrets atop Skala du Port. Walled medina in the background.''Although along Morocco’s Atlantic coast, Essaouira looks more like a Mediterranean town with a North African attitude. The citadel is predominantly white, rising from a rocky shore, accented by cerulean boats. Gelato shops mark some corners, and European restaurants punctuate some streets. Yet, a walk is impossible without running into locals clad in djellabas and being treated to the aroma of cumin-mixed tagines. And while it is home to multiple ethnic groups, it is distinctly, undeniably Moroccan.''Essaouira means “little rampart,” referring to the walls that surround the area. The fortress was built under the command of the Portuguese. Called by its old name Mogador at the time, Essaouira was one of the six Moroccan towns that the Portuguese seized and ruled. It is a great example of an 18th century fortified port city.''3. Chefchaouen''Morocco’s famed blue city! Chefchaouen is best known for the blue-washed buildings that make it one of the most picturesque destinations in the country. Islamic and Andalusian architecture take centerstage here, if not overshadowed by the surrounding Rif Mountains.''4. Casablanca''For many tourists, Casablanca rings a bell for the romantic Hollywood classic named after it. But the city itself stands on its own as a compelling tourist destination. Its most iconic structure is the impressive and enormous Hassan II Mosque and its minaret, the tallest in the world. Don’t leave the city without stopping at the Medina and the Corniche.''5. Tangier''A post shared by Sydney (@sydney_btravels)''on''Jan 6, 2018 at 2:06pm PST''Everywhere we went in Morocco, locals urge us to see Tangier on the Gibraltar Strait coast. This northern city has a very different character, having been the primary gateway to Africa for Europeans for centuries and a place where influences blend to create a distinct culture.''6. Fez''A post shared by Felipe Cheik (@felipe_cheik)''on''Jan 7, 2018 at 3:39am PST''Fez is Morocco’s second largest city, but it also cradles the world’s largest urban pedestrian (car-free) zone, Fes el Bali. Fes el Bali is one of its two medinas and is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Also located here is the University of al-Qarawiyyin, “the oldest existing, continually operating university in the world” as recognized by both UNESCO and Guinness World Records.''7. Ouarzazate and Aït Benhaddou''Aït-Ben-Haddou IRL.''You might recognize Ouarzazate as the filming location for a lot of Hollywood movies: Lawrence of Arabia (1962), The Last Temptation of Christ (1988), The Mummy (1999), and Prince of Persia (2010) among others. But in the Game of Thrones world, a nearby kasbah, Aït-Ben-Haddou is Yunkai, aka Yellow City and one of the three great city-states in Slaver’s Bay. For domestic and international tourists, it is also the jump off point for the Draa Valley and into the desert.''8. Merzouga''A post shared by Sara Ramundo (@la.sara.mundo)''on''Jan 7, 2018 at 2:43am PST''If you see photos of Morocco depicting endless sand dunes and camel rides, chances are their photographers once stayed in Merzouga. Situated on the edge of the Sahara, it is a tiny village best known for its proximity to Erg Chebbi, a Saharan erg.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''8 FREE and Cheap Things to Do in Essaouira, Morocco''Countries Filipinos can Visit with a Japan Visa''Top 10 Best and Worst Travel Moments of 2016''SCHENGEN VISA via GREEK EMBASSY MANILA 2018: Requirements & Application Process''15 Game of Thrones Filming Locations that You Can Visit''Taiwan Visa and e-Visa for Filipinos: How to Get It Successfully''This travel guide covers not just Manila City but also other parts of Metro Manila. A sample itinerary and summary of expenses are also provided.''It’s easy to dismiss Manila as a tourist destination. Most travelers see it only as a jump-off point to the country’s stunning islands. Outsiders may find it inexplicable, but I love Manila. It’s not perfect — far from it — but it is my home. It has been for 15 years now. Even when most of my friends have moved on to other places, I stay. Even now that I work online and I can choose to be anywhere else,''I stay''. Why? Because there’s much to love about Manila and its surrounding provinces.''Sure, Metro Manila is big, dense, and crazy. Just when you have just started exploring, you get lost in the crowd, choke in the pollution, or drown in her constant nagging. But those who make it past her sins are rewarded with an opportunity to appreciate her virtues. So here’s a travel guide to help you get close and personal with this underrated city.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Manila: What You Need to Know''Is Manila Safe for Tourists?''When is the Best Time to Visit Manila?''How to Get to Manila''How to Get from NAIA to the City Center''By P2P Bus''By Uber/Grab''By Taxi''Where to Stay in Manila''Best Budget Hotels in Metro Manila''Best Hostels in Metro Manila''Search for more: Metro Manila Hotels''How to Get Around Manila''Places to Visit in Manila''Intramuros''Binondo (Manila Chinatown)''Ayala Museum''Poblacion, Makati Bambike Tour''Bonifacio Global City (BGC)''Malacañang Palace''UP Diliman''National Museum''Other Manila Tourist Spots''Day Tours from Manila''Taal Volcano''Mt. Pinatubo Hike''Corregidor Island''Anilao Dive Sites (Batangas)''Other Day Trip Destinations Near Manila''Where to Eat Filipino Food in Manila''Sample Manila Itinerary with Breakdown of Expenses''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Manila: What You Need to Know''Manila is the capital of the Philippines. But it is just one of the many cities that make up the''National Capital Region'', which is more commonly called''Metro Manila''. Outside this hub, what people refer to when they say “Manila” isn’t just Manila City but the region as a whole.''Metro Manila is composed of 16 individual cities and one municipality. It is the political, economic, academic and transportation center of the country. Its registered population is at 12 million, but the reality is, because many workers from surrounding provinces also study or work here, there are way more people moving around at any given time. The problem is, there is no reliable transportation system in place. This is a big problem.''Metro Manila is vast, and there is so much to see in many of its corners. However, getting from point A to B often proves challenging if you don’t know your way around. But what it lacks in this aspect, it makes up for with its people. Like most Filipinos, Manila residents are friendly, helpful, and hospitable. Language barrier isn’t a concern because almost everyone understands and speaks English.''Manila has been trading with the Chinese and Indians way before Western colonization. Because of its strategic location, it has been invaded many times: by the Spaniards, the British, the Americans, and the Japanese. It became the most heavily destroyed city after World War II, next only to Warsaw. Today, influences from all these groups are still visible. The city is still predominantly Roman Catholic, which is Spain’s doing. Chinese and Indian elements are engraved in the language and cuisine. Give yourself 5 minutes here and you’ll find that the American influence is all around, from the educational system to pop culture.''Here’s more info about Manila:''Language'': Tagalog and English are the most widely spoken.''Currency'': Philippine Peso (PHP, ₱). PHP100 = USD 2, EUR 1.7, SGD 2.7, MYR 8.1, IDR 27,000 (as of January 2018).''Money Exchange'': Countless ATMs everywhere; you can simply withdraw cash instead of exchanging currencies. Another option: money changers.''Sanry’s''and''Czarina''are the most reputable.''Modes of payment'': Cash. Many restaurants, hotels, and stores accept credit cards, but public transportation and smaller establishments accept only cash.''Electricity Info'': 220V, 60Hz. Socket Type A. Plugs have two flat pins. Type B is sometimes used but not that common.''Is Manila Safe for Tourists?''YES'', Manila is generally safe. Like most cities, there are shady places that you should avoid, but these are not touristy areas. Petty, non-violent crimes like pickpocketing and snatching can happen in some districts if you’re not careful, so make sure you keep an eye on your belongings and avoid bringing out your valuables (especially mobile phones) unless necessary.''Poverty is real and obvious in Manila. Don’t be surprised if you get approached by street children or beggars. They’re not dangerous, but they can be persistent.''Your bigger concern is the heat. Manila can get really hot and humid especially in summer months. Speaking of summer months…''When is the Best Time to Visit Manila?''December to May, the driest months''. The last thing you want to happen during your stay in Manila is a heavy downpour, so this period is ideal. December to February is the most comfortable because the temperature isn’t that high, and you get to see how locals celebrate the holidays. March to May is widely considered as the Philippine summer, and the weather can be hot and humid.''As a predominantly Catholic nation, Filipinos take their Christmas traditions seriously. The Christmas season in the Philippines begins on September 1 and ends at the Epiphany, the Feast of The Three Kings, on January 6. The Lent is also widely observed. Know that the week before Christmas and Easter can get you stranded in traffic for hours because it’s when residents leave the city to visit family in the provinces. But on the actual holidays, the city is virtually empty, and many establishments close early if they even open at all.''June to November is the wet season. Generally, the showers are mild and tolerable, so you might still give it a shot. But every now and then, a typhoon hits, which can cause flooding and worsen the traffic situation.''How to Get to Manila''Manila has one busy airport — the''Ninoy Aquino International Airport'', more commonly called NAIA (Nah-eeh-yah). Almost every commercial airport in the Philippines is directly connected to NAIA, which is why even when your destination is the islands, you’re most probably still gonna find yourself in Manila.''NAIA has four commercial passenger terminals:''NAIA Terminal 1''. Used by foreign carriers except All Nippon Airways, Cathay Pacific, Delta Air Lines, Emirates, KLM, and Singapore Airlines. Some Philippine Airlines (PAL) flights to the Middle East also use this.''NAIA Terminal 2''. Used exclusively by Philippine Airlines and PAL Express. (Note that some PAL/PAL Express flights operate in other terminals too.)''NAIA Terminal 3''. Used by Cebu Pacific Air (most flights), AirAsia (international), All Nippon Airways, Cathay Pacific, Delta Air, Emirates, KLM, and Singapore Airlines. PAL Express flights operate here too. Some Cebu Pacific flights also use Terminal 4.''NAIA Terminal 4''. aka Domestic Terminal. Air Asia (domestic), Skyjet, and a few Cebu Pacific flights use this terminal.''How to Get from NAIA to the City Center''“City center” isn’t really the best phrase for this because the airport is also in the city center. Your points of interest, however, are most likely in Makati and Manila City.''To get out of the airport, you have plenty of options: taxis, buses, and Uber/Grab. You might also be approached by those offering private transfer services, but the rates are so infuriatingly high, I won’t even bother.''By P2P Bus''The past couple of years saw the launch of P2P buses.''Genesis Transport''operates the buses to Clark (via Resorts World and Robinsons Galleria, Ortigas) and''UBE Express''runs the rest. Here are the routes, fares, and operating hours.''There are four routes that are clearly illustrated on this map.''From UBE Express official FB page''Operating Hours:''NAIA Terminal 1'': 8am-11pm, 30 mins interval''NAIA Terminal 2'': 5am-11pm, 30 mins interval''NAIA Terminal 3'', available 24 hours, 30 mins interval''The fare is fixed at''P150 ($3)''.''If you’re headed to Clark, ride the Genesis P2P Bus. Fare: P350. More info about that here:''Manila-Clark P2P Bus Schedule''By Uber/Grab''NAIA has allowed Uber/Grab vehicles to pick up passengers within the airport vicinity. If you’re a group or your hotel/destination is not anywhere close to any P2P stop, this is a good option. This has been a reliable transportation option for many travelers and locals alike. Although there’s still price surge every now and then, these apps are generally safe and convenient.''Without the price surge/traffic (early morning or around noon), expect to pay between''P130 and P150''if your destination is in Makati or Mandaluyong. But if there is surge, it should be around''P250'', unless the traffic is on a standstill, which can push the price even higher.''By Taxi''There are three types of taxis operating around the airport:''Airport Taxi''. These are the yellow cabs that you’ll see immediately after exiting any of the terminals. Hard to miss. These are a bit pricier than the regular white cabs, but generally in better condition. Flag-down rate is P70, plus P4 every 300 meters. If your hotel is in Makati, the could would probably be P200-300 ($4-6). If you’re going much farther, say Quezon City, it will set you back around P450 ($9).''Regular Taxi''. The white ones. Flag-down rate: P40, plus P3.50 every 300m and every 2-minute waiting time. Many of the taxi units roaming Manila have seen better days, and drivers do not have a sterling reputation. Because of the traffic conditions, many cab drivers would try to ask for more pesos on top of the meter.''Fixed Rate Taxi (Coupon Taxi)''. I haven’t tried this because every time I consider this, I get enraged at the prices. Maybe there are situations wherein it makes sense but I don’t know yet, so let’s pretend this isn’t even an option.''Where to Stay in Manila''As mentioned earlier, Metro Manila is huge! And key attractions are a bit far apart, which makes it even harder to choose where to stay.''But let’s narrow it down to four ideal options:''Manila'', the capital city and seat of government. It’s where historic sites, like Intramuros, can be found. Most cheap accommodations are concentrated in Malate and Ermita areas.''Makati'', where the central business district is located. Makati is always my top recommendation to those traveling to Manila for the first time. It’s close to the airport and is not too far from Manila’s historical core. Its streets are lined with awesome dining selections, from fancy restaurants to weekend markets. Its mall strips make it a great shopping destination, too. And best of all, a wide array of accommodations, from hostels to luxury hotels.''Mall of Asia and Bay Area'', along Manila Bay and near the airport.''Bonifacio Global City'', another business district in Taguig.''Most affordable non-BnB accommodations, however, are in Makati and Manila. Although there are a few exceptions, the Mall of Asia area and Bonifacio Global City are generally pricey.''If I were to pick a specific area, I would say''Poblacion in Makati''would be great for backpackers and budget travelers. A backpacking culture is also starting to flourish here, near the streets of Burgos/Jupiter/Kalayaan. Lots of lodging and dining options. And drinking options too. Haha. I always find myself in this area for the booze and food.''Best Budget Hotels in Metro Manila''Hotel Durban, pic provided by Traveloka''Hotel Durban''(Makati).''Check Rates and Availability Here''Artina Suites Hotel''(Makati).''Check Rates and Availability Here''Red Planet Makati''.''Check Rates and Availability Here''Red Planet Amorsolo''.''Check Rates and Availability Here''Rothman Hotel''(Manila).''Check Rates and Availability Here''Red Planet Ermita''.''Check Rates and Availability Here''Regency Grand Suites''.''Check Rates and Availability Here''Oasis Paco Park Hotel''.''Check Rates and Availability Here''Best Hostels in Metro Manila''Image of Z Hostel, provided by Traveloka''Z Hostel''(Makati).''Check Rates and Availability Here''Lokal Hostel''(Makati).''Check Rates and Availability Here''Tambayan Capsule Hostel & Bar''(Malate, Manila).''Check Rates and Availability Here''Makati Junction Hostels''.''Check Rates and Availability Here''Urban Hostel Makati''.''Check Rates and Availability Here''Search for more:''Metro Manila Hotels''.''How to Get Around Manila''Taking public transportation within Metro Manila is unpredictable, to say the least. For first-timers, commuting requires a great deal of planning. \xa0You have plenty of options — MRT, LRT, cab, bus, jeepney — but none of them guarantee a hassle-free journey. Manila has so much to offer to tourists, but the problem is getting from one destination to another. The simple truth is, Manila’s transportation system is highly disorganized. Except for outbound buses, none of these options work around a fixed, reliable schedule.''Here’s the thing, if it’s your first time in Manila and you’re spending only a few days, taking public transportation might not be a good idea. It’s complicated and it might eat up much of your time and derail your plans. If you’re on tight schedule or you’re a group of two or more, the most comfortable and convenient options are commuter apps like''Uber''and''Grab''. Locals have relied on these two apps too.''But if you insist on taking public transpo, I previously wrote a guide to that here:''Getting Around Manila by Bus, Jeepney, MRT/LRT or Taxi''.''Places to Visit in Manila''Here are some of the tourist spots around Metro Manila that are worth your time. Many of these can be explored on your own so I provided links to DIY guides. But if you want to join group tours instead, I also added links to Klook tours.''If you have a local friend who is very familiar with the history of these sites, the most cost-efficient way is to have them tag along and do the tour on your own. But if you don’t, joining tours is great too. Either way, I highly recommend that you have someone explaining to you the background and significance of each attraction so you won’t be just looking at buildings that mean nothing to you. Local insight could make all the difference.''Intramuros''If Manila had a soul, you’d find it hiding inside any ancient structure in Intramuros. The historic core of the capital, it was built in 1571, making it the oldest district in the city. It has survived waves of foreign invasions, a world war, and even booming, unrelenting threats of overdevelopment. But it continues to stand silently amidst the roaring metropolis outside its fortified walls.''Photo by Jay Leano''The most popular and insightful tour of Intramuros is led by''Carlos Celdran''. As an advocate, he’s insanely knowledgable about the history of this place. I’ve personally done his tour (although the one I joined was Halloween themed). The cost of the tour is''P1350''for adults and''P650''for students.''You can book Carlos Celdran’s tour on Klook for the same price.''Reserve a Slot Here''.''Binondo (Manila Chinatown)''Almost every major city in the world has a Chinatown. But the one in Binondo is worth a visit for two reasons. First,''it is the first Chinatown in the world''. It was established in 1594 by Governor Luis Perez Dasmarinas for Chinese settlers who were converted into Catholicism. Second, unlike many Chinatowns which became more of a tourist attraction,''Binondo is as real as it gets''. You’ll see Filipino-Chinese continue to live and work here, with all the joys, the sounds, and the dirt of a typical third-world district.''But one thing that most local tourists come here over and over again for is the food.''Binondo is a giant food court.''A walk along its streets isn’t complete without filling your face with authentic Filipino-Chinese dishes.''Reserve a Slot Here''.''Ayala Museum''Metro Manila has numerous private museums, but Ayala Museum is my favorite because of its GOLD. Established in 1967, the museum has been cradling important cultural and historical artifacts that will change how you look at Philippine societies in the past. Aside from countless pieces of art, its most valuable collection is the “Gold of Ancestors” exhibit, with over a thousand gold artifacts on display, an undeniable proof of our forefathers’ highly sophisticated way of life that burgeoned and flourished in the 16th century, even before the Spanish era.''Image courtesy of Ayala Museum official website''Opening Hours'': Tuesdays to Sundays from 9 am to 6pm''Entrance Fee'': P425 (Full access)''Poblacion, Makati Bambike Tour''Photo provided by Klook''Explore Makati City on a bike made and handcrafted with bamboo and abaca. You will be exploring Brgy. Poblacion and make a stop at the following:''Sts. Peter and Paul Church''La Casitas Mercedes, a heritage home''Pasig River Park''Salcedo Market (Saturday only)''Legazpi Market (Sunday only)''Book This Tour''.''Bonifacio Global City (BGC)''Photo provided by Klook''This is primarily a business district, but its towers are flaunting giant contemporary art pieces. This bambike (bamboo bike) tour will give information on each piece as well as on the background of the site, which used to be a military camp before transforming into a financial hub.''This tour is available only on Sundays.''Book This Tour''.''Malacañang Palace''Malacañang is the official residence of the President of the Philippines, but some parts of it are open to visitors. This guided walking tour will take you around this historic house of power and narrate the stories (and scandals) of those who lived in it. Then, you will be taken to the other parts of Brgy. San Miguel (where Malacanang is located) including San Rafael Street and Legarda Mansion, one of the first art deco houses in Manila, for a merienda.''Photo provided by Klook''Important!''If you’re booking this tour, you need to reply to the confirmation email with a copy of your passport and other details.''Reserve a Slot Here''.''UP Diliman''The University of the Philippines-Diliman is not just an academic institution but a completely different world, sheltered from the deafening noise and the busy jolt of the rest of the city. Take a jog and see the many old buildings that incubate some of the best young minds, coming from different parts of the country.''Photo by Astrid Alvarez''Watch a student film at Cine Adarna. Step into the Vargas Museum. Check out Maginhawa Street, a food-lover’s paradise dotted with countless restaurants that offer a variety of cuisines — from streetfood (balut, isaw, and kwek-kwek) to home-cooked meals to gourmet treats.''National Museum''The most celebrated piece inside the National Museum is Juan Luna’s''Spoliarium'', a painting that depicts the bodies of gladiators being pulled away while onlookers watch. The artwork won a gold medal at the Exposición Nacional de Bellas Artes in 1884 in Madrid, Spain.''Photo by Astrid Alvarez''Museum Entrance'': FREE''Opening Hours'': Tuesdays-Sundays, 10am-5pm''Other Manila Tourist Spots''Greenhills Shopping Center''. For cheap finds.''Salcedo Saturday Market'', Makati. A community market featuring a wide range of products including artisanal treats. Open every Saturday 7am-2pm.''Legazpi Sunday Market'', Makati. Open every Sunday 7:30am-2pm.''Mind Museum'', BGC, Taguig. See science come to life! Great for kids!''Get Discounted Tickets Here''Day Tours from Manila''Oh there are lots! Metro Manila is surrounded by provinces blessed with natural wonders. Here are just some of them.''We’re providing links to more info on how to visit the site yourself (DIY) and to a Klook page, where you can join a guided tour. Guided tours include hotel pickup and drop-off too.''Taal Volcano''Situated 3 hours from Manila. It’s one of the smallest active volcanoes in the world, smack in the middle of Lake Taal in Batangas. Yes, it is small but, mind you, it is very, very active. You can trek to the ridge of the volcano for a breathtaking view of the crater and surrounding lake!''If you want to DIY, here’s more info:''Taal Volcano Trek''If you want to join a tour,''Reserve a Slot Here''.''Mt. Pinatubo Hike''Ride a 4×4 jeep and trek to the crater of Mt. Pinatubo! It’s a long way but the view is definitely worth the time and effort. See the rim of the crater slope up from a lakeful of rainwater, accumulated over the years!''Photo by Sir Rolen Facundo''Reserve a Slot Here''.''Corregidor Island''The historic island of Corregidor is just an hour ferry ride away from Manila. Strategically located at the mouth of Manila Bay, it is the biggest of the heavily fortified islands that make up the harbor defenses of the capital. It played a pivotal role during the Pacific War, with its fall signaling Japanese victory and the start of their occupation of the Philippines (1942-45).''More info here:''Corregidor Day Tour''Anilao Dive Sites (Batangas)''Anilao is the closest dive site to Manila and is regarded by many as the birthplace of scuba diving in the Philippines. It has become an ideal destination for divers, especially to beginners. A research done in the surrounding waters in 2011 alone came back with the discovery of over 300 new species!''More Info:''Anilao DIY Travel Guide''Other Day Trip Destinations Near Manila''The following are other destinations you can visit on a day tour from Manila. Everything except Anawangin Cove and Nagsasa Cove can be explored for less than P1000 ($20).''Anawangin Cove and Nagsasa Cove'', Zambales.''DIY Travel Guide here.''Taal Heritage Town'', Batangas''Pililla Wind Farm and Pinto Art Museum'', Rizal.''Mt. Daraitan and Tinipak River'', Rizal''Malabrigo Beach'', Batangas''Masasa Beach'', Batangas.''DIY Travel Guide here.''Hulugan Falls'', Laguna.''DIY Travel Guide here.''Magdapio Falls'', Laguna.''Tagaytay City''For more info on how to reach these places by public transportation and the breakdown of expenses, read this post:''Day Tours from Manila''Where to Eat Filipino Food in Manila''To follow! We’ll be creating a separate post for this soon! So stay tuned.''Sample Manila Itinerary with Breakdown of Expenses''Below is a sample 3-day 2-night Manila itinerary. This assumes the following:''You are a group of two'', sleeping in a bunk bed in a dorm room at a hostel in Makati. Let’s say, you’re staying at Z Hostel for''P713/night''. Free breakfast is included in the cost.''You will be splitting transportation costs''. For this itinerary, you’re using Uber for comfort and to maximize your short stay.''Your food allowance is P200-P250 per every lunch or dinner''. P250 has a big allowance, to be honest, but better overestimate than under.''Airfare is not included''.''Just make the necessary adjustments to match your needs and preferences.''Day 1: AYALA MUSEUM, MAKATI''10:00am – Arrival at NAIA''11:00am – Uber to Hostel in Makati, P125 (P250/2 pax)''11:40am – Hostel check-in''12:30pm – Uber to Ayala Museum, P60 (P120/2pax)''01:10pm – Lunch, P250''02:30pm – Ayala Museum, P425''05:30pm – Explore Greenbelt complex''08:00pm – Uber to A Venue Night Market, P150 (P300/2pax)''08:30pm – Dinner at A Venue Night Market, Budget: P250''10:30pm – Walk back to hostel''Day 2: BINONDO + INTRAMUROS TOUR''07:00am – Quick breakfast''07:30am – Uber to Binondo, P125 (P250/2pax)''08:50am – DIY Binondo Food Tour, Budget: P800''02:00pm – Walk to Fort Santiago''03:30pm – Intramuros Tour with Carlos Celdran, P1350''06:30pm – End Intramuros Tour''07:00pm – Dinner in Intramuros, P250''10:30pm – Uber to hostel, P125 (P250/2pax)''Day 3, OPTION A: NATIONAL MUSEUM''07:00am – Wake up, breakfast''08:00am – Early hotel check out, leave bags''09:00am – Uber to National Museum, P125 (P250)''10:00am – National Museum, FREE''01:00pm – Lunch, P200''02:00pm – Uber to hostel, P100 (P200/2pax)''03:00pm – Pick up bags at hotel''03:30pm – Uber to airport, P100 (P200/2pax)''04:30pm – Arrival at airport''07:30pm – Flight out''Day 3, OPTION B: MALACANANG PALACE''07:00am – Quick breakfast''07:30am – Early hotel check out, leave bags''07:50am – Uber to Legarda Mansion, P125 (P250)''08:50am – San Miguel + Malacanang Tour, P1380''11:30am – End Tour''12:00nn – Lunch, P200''02:00pm – Uber to hostel, P100 (P200/2pax)''03:00pm – Pick up bags at hotel''03:30pm – Uber to airport, P100 (P200/2pax)''04:30pm – Arrival at airport''07:30pm – Flight out''If you’re staying in a Z Hostel dorm, this itinerary will cost you the following:''Option A (with National Museum):''P5900''Option B (with Malacanang):''P7500''You can still bring down the cost by taking a jeepney to get to the attractions instead of Uber''. It will save you as much as''P700''! It’s quite the experience too.''The biggest chunk of the budget for this itinerary also goes to the Carlos Celdran Tour of Intramuros''. If you’re traveling on a shoestring, you can skip the tour and walk around the site on your own. I’ve done both the guided tour and DIY, and the guided tour will make the experience exponentially better. It will make you understand not just Intramuros but Manila as a whole.''If you have more days, consider going on a day trip to a nearby province''. If you’re a history buff or you want to learn more about the significance of Manila, pick a tour to the Corregidor Island. It’s technically not part of Manila, but it is the fortress island that protects it.''If you’re up for an adventure and you want to see the immense power of nature, choose the Mt. Pinatubo Trek.''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Tipping is not mandatory in Manila''. If dining at restaurants, check if your receipt has a service charge covered. Otherwise, leave around 10% of the bill at upscale restos if you enjoyed the service. In more budget places, I usually just leave P20-P100.''Wear light, breathable clothes''. Manila’s climate can be unforgiving especially in the summer when temperatures can reach up to 34C (93F). Make sure you’re clad in something made of light, breathable material as your day can easily get hot and sweaty. If you’re planning on entering churches, dress modestly especially during mass.''Wear sunscreen''. Because the sun. 😛''Avoid rush hours''. If your route uses a major thoroughfare like EDSA, commuting during rush hours is not a good idea. These hours are from 7am-10am and 5pm-9pm, when students and workers go to work and school and come home. No, not even the MRT can save you from this. All train cars are so packed this time. As a rule of thumb, either be an early bird or go out at around noon. Lunch time is usually a great time to take public transportation. The sun may be a little too much, but there really isn’t much traffic within this period.''If rain pours heavily, don’t go out.''Manila is soaked in floodwater at least once a year, and it’s frustrating how this is still not addressed appropriately up to now. But all rants aside, citizens have learned to live with it. (Sucks, I know! Ugh, ranting again.) Here’s the bottomline, if it’s been raining heavily all day, chances are that the traffic has built up. Ergo, not a great time to hit the road. Of course, there are exceptions. But to be on the safe (and dry) side, wait it out.''Learn the art of killing time''. If the rush hour or the  heavy rain catch you on the road, wait it out. There’s a lot to do in Manila, anyway. Go malling, watch a movie, or kill time at a cafe until the main roads stop behaving like a massive parking lot.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''BEACHES NEAR MANILA: 10 Uncrowded Weekend Getaways''Getting Around Manila: Tips on Traveling by MRT, Bus, Taxi, or Jeepney''Where to Stay in Manila: Top 10 Budget Hotels Below P2000 ($40)''Top 12 Long Weekend Destinations from Manila (No Flights Needed)''5 Indoor Attractions Under P1500 in Metro Manila''Makati: Top 10 Budget Hotels Under P2000 ($40)''As with many other first times in life, I was mostly excited and a little bit scared. Before the big moment, I imagined that a gazillion silly thoughts would run through my head.''How long will it last? Can I film the entire thing? What if the balloon pops? Is it worth it?''But I had none of them. While you’re probably thinking about another equally enjoyable activity (LOL), I’m talking about hot air ballooning. It was my first balloon ride. To my surprise, all worries evaporated as soon as we rose an inch off the ground. There was just no room left in a mind already filled with awe. As we went higher, the view revealed more of the surreal landscape. I had to hold my jaw in place, lest it drop to the snow-white hills below.''To this day, Cappadocia remains the most magical place I have set foot in.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Cappadocia: What You Need to Know''When is the Best Time to Visit Cappadocia?''How to Get a Turkish Visa''How to Get to Cappadocia''How to Get from the Airport to Goreme''Airport-Hotel Transfers''By Public Bus''By Airport Shuttle''By Taxi''Where to Stay in Cappadocia''Top Budget Hotels in Cappadocia''Where We Stayed''For Honeymoons and Romantic Stays''Search for more: Cappadocia Hotels''How to Get Around Cappadocia''Hot Air Balloon''Red Tour''Green Tour''Blue Tour''By Private Car''Sample Itinerary with Budget Breakdown''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Cappadocia: What You Need to Know''Cappadocia is smack at the heart of Turkey’s Anatolia Region. In the travel world, it is best known for two things: otherworldly landscapes and hot-air balloons. When seen from above, Cappadocia looks like an endless sea of rock formations. The surrounding volcanic mountains of Hasan, Melendiz, and Erciyes shaped the area’s out-of-this-world topography. The lava and volcanic ash consolidated to form a soft layer of tuff, which was easily eroded by rain and wind. Over thousands of years, the elements molded many of the area’s key features including massive, towering pillars, often called “fairy chimneys.”''In the Roman era, at around 330 BC, these spires and other mountainsides are then carved into dwellings and churches by early Christians who were escaping persecution. Many of them even built underground cities, some of which are still accessible and open to tourists. Today cave houses are premium accommodations in town centers in Cappadocia.''Cappadocia is made up of the provinces of Nevşehir, Kayseri, Aksaray, Niğde, and Kırşehir. For tourists, Nevşehir is probably the most significant because it harbors Cappadocia’s biggest cities and tourism hubs:''Nevşehir''(the capital city),''Göreme'',''Ürgüp'', and''Uçhisar''.''Like the rest of Turkey, Cappadocia enjoys a relatively low cost of living. It is one of the cheapest destinations we have been to. Even activities that are widely regarded as “luxurious” cost much cheaper here. For example, a hot air balloon ride costs only 140 EUR including breakfast, hotel transfers, and champagne + snacks. (To compare, it costs USD 330 in Myanmar and around USD 500 in Serengeti.)''Here are some important practical bits about the region!''Language'': Turkish. A part of the population speaks Kurdish, but the vast majority speaks Turkish. It’s not as intimidating because they use the familiar Latin alphabet. English is also widely spoken.''Currency'': Turkish Lira (TRY, TL, ₺). TL100 = USD 26.4, EUR 22, PHP1318 (as of December 2017). Some establishments accept the euro, but it would be best to pay in lira because the euro rate is usually costlier.''Modes of payment'': Cash. Although some establishments accept credit cards, Turkey in general is still a cash country.''Safety''. Is it safe to travel in Cappadocia? YES. There has been no major incidents in the region, if you’re worried about those. Some tour agents will try to persuade you to try certain tours that are actually more expensive or some taxi drivers may refuse to use the meter, but that’s just about it. But as always and as in any other destination, you must remain cautious and use common sense.''Electricity Info:''220V, 50Hz. Socket Type F. It’s the socket that is indented into the wall and accepts plugs with two round prongs.''When is the Best Time to Visit Cappadocia?''According to the locals we talked to, the shoulder months of''March-May''(spring) and''October-November''(autumn) are the most ideal, because the temperatures are comfortable and the crowds manageable.''But it still depends largely on why you want to visit Cappadocia. “Most tourists come to Cappadocia just to ride the hot air balloons,” our pilot Suat Ulusoy shared proudly. And if you want to visit for the same reason, there are more factors to consider.''Flying balloons for over 20 years, Suat is the most senior pilot in Cappadocia. “Not by age, but by experience,” he clarified. For him,''Cappadocia is most beautiful in winter'', when the hills and fairy chimneys are snow-capped. The white dust adds a surreal, magical texture to the already rugged landscape. The only downside, he said, is that the weather from January-February can be unpredictable, and there’s a chance the flight would get moved or cancelled. We arrived in Cappadocia in February, and it was snowing the whole day. But it stopped the next day and didn’t snow for the rest of our trip. I guess were lucky.''For this reason,''summer is the safest choice for those who wish to ride the balloon''. The summer months of June-August may be too hot, too crowded, and a bit more expensive, but you are almost always guaranteed to fly.''Winter wonderland! Cappadocia when covered in snow.''If you’re flying to Turkey in winter (say, you’ll be in Istanbul or Ankara for whatever reason) and you’re contemplating whether to go to Cappadocia, I would still highly recommend that you go. Yes, there’s a risk of not being able to ride the balloon, but if you do, I promise you that the views will be fantastic. Besides, Cappadocia has way more to offer. These rock formations can also be explored and enjoyed by joining land tours, and they are as wonderful up close.''How to Get a Turkish Visa''If you have a valid visa or residence permit from the US, UK, Ireland or any Schengen country,''you may apply for a visa online (e-visa). It’s fast and easy.''More info here:''Turkey Visa Online''Here are the requirements:''Valid passport that covers your travel period. (In PH case, your passport must also have at least 6-month validity.)''A return or onward ticket.''Proof of accommodation (hotel reservation).''Funds of at least USD 50 per day of your stay in Turkey.''Valid supporting visa''If you’re not holding a valid visa from any of the mentioned countries'', you will have to apply for a physical sticker visa at the Turkish Embassy or consulate in your area. The application starts by filling out this form:''Turkey Visa Application Form''.''How to Get to Cappadocia''Although you can also reach Cappadocia from other parts of Turkey by bus or by train, the easiest and fastest way to get there is by plane. Cappadocia is served by two airports: Kayseri Erkilet Airport (ASR) in Kayseri and Nevşehir Kapadokya Airport (NAV) in Gülşehir. Nevsehir is a bit closer to Goreme, but the difference isn’t much, both taking less than an hour.''From Istanbul''. Turkish Airlines offers flights to both Kayseri and Nevsehir from Istanbul Atatürk Airport and Sabiha Gökçen Airport. Pegasus Airlines fly only from Sabiha Gökçen. Fares are usually around''USD 25''per way or''USD 50''roundtrip. Some roundtrip journeys can go as low as USD40 or as high as USD 65. But it often just falls within that range.''From Manila''. Your best bet is Turkish Airlines, which will have a layover in Istanbul. It will take you there the fastest and the most cost-efficient. The entire journey can take around 18 hours including the transfer time, assuming there’s no delay. Year-round fare is around USD 1400, but can still go down if there is a promo.''Another way of doing it is to fly multiple legs, usually stopping in Dubai or Kuwait. But this involves multiple airlines and might entail transit visas if you’re checkin in bags. Travel is also much longer and more tiring.''How to Get from the Airport to Goreme''Within the region is an area called''Central Cappadocia'', which is composed of the towns of Goreme, Urgup, Avanos, Nevsehir, Uchisar, Ortahisar, and Cavusin. This area lies in between the two airports. Kayseri is situated 1 hour and 10 minutes to the east, while Nevsehir 40 minutes to the west.''Airport-Hotel Transfers''First of all, ask your hotel if they offer airport transfers. Most hotels do in summer/peak season. If so, inquire if it’s for FREE or for a fee. If it’s for free, then arrange one for yourself. Make sure to take note of the name of the contact person and phone numbers.''If for a fee, ask how much. If it’s higher than 30TL or , forget about it. Just book a seat on a third-party shuttle. I’ll explain why below.''If they don’t offer at all, that leaves you with three options: by public bus, by airport shuttle, or by cab.''By Public Bus''There are no public buses that go straight to Goreme from either of these airports. But you can take the bus to the town proper (Kayseri or Nevsehir) and then transfer to another bus from there to Goreme. However, the schedule is pretty erratic and you may end up waiting for hours. If you’re scheduled to arrive at night, that’s even more problematic.''By Airport Shuttle''There are several transfer companies that carry passengers from the airport to Goreme and other towns in Central Cappadocia. However,''you must book in advance''. Without prior reservation, you will not be allowed to get into the vehicle even if there are empty seats. Not sure, but it could be because they have an agreement with taxi drivers? I dunno. But bottomline, if you’re not on the list, you won’t be entertained.''The good news is, you can book online. Here are the companies you can contact. Most of them will take you to your hotel. But please double check with them to be absolutely sure.''Argeus Tourism & Travel''Fare: From Kayseri Airport, 30TL''From Nevsehir Ariport, 25TL''Book here''Helios Transfer''Fare: From Kayseri Airport, 10 EUR''From Nevsehir Ariport, 8 EUR''Book here''Heritage Travel''Fare: From Kayseri Airport, 15 EUR''From Nevsehir Ariport, 10 EUR''Book here''Make sure you have communicated what your flight number or schedule is because they will be waiting for you at the airport with a sign.''By Taxi''Taking a cab to Goreme is expensive. It only makes sense to take it if you’re a group of 3 or 4, splitting the cost. But here are the usual fares. If you’re traveling alone or as a pair and you failed to reserve a shuttle beforehand, try to approach other solo travelers to form a bigger group of four.''From Nevsehir:''140 TL''From Kayseri:''180 TL''You can negotiate with the driver or insist on using the meter.''Where to Stay in Cappadocia''As mentioned earlier, Central Cappadocia is composed of the towns of Goreme, Urgup, Avanos, Nevsehir, Uchisar, Ortahisar, and Cavusin. But out of all these,''Göreme is the most ideal base for visitors''because of the number of cave accommodations, restaurants, and shops. Most of the key attractions are also easily accessible from here. If you can, stay in a cave room or a cave suite, or a place that provides a rooftop viewing deck.''Here are the usual price ranges of accommodations in Goreme and Urgup. Note that the rates below are in EURO.''Bunk Bed'': €7-8''Budget Twin/Double Room'': €12-35 (depending on room type and location)''Top Budget Hotels in Cappadocia''The top property on Traveloka is''Walnut House''in Goreme. Its cheapest twin/double rooms are at €20 per night.''Image provided by Traveloka''Check Rates & Availability''Other Top Budget Hotels:''Royal Stone Houses – Goreme''.''Check Rates & Availability''Guven Cave Hotel''.''Check Rates & Availability''Turquaz Cave Hotel''.''Check Rates & Availability''Where We Stayed''We stayed in a budget twin room at Historical Goreme House, which is at the town proper. The room and bathroom were clean and well-maintained, the service was excellent, and the location convenient. We spent only €25 per night.''Check Rates & Availability''.''For Honeymoons and Romantic Stays''If you’re celebrating something special like honeymoon or anniversary, one place we strongly recommend is the luxurious''Castle Inn''in Ortahisar, near Urgup. The stay in itself is quite the experience. It would make you feel like you’re living in a real castle.''Actually, we weren’t supposed to stay here. We were already booked with Historical Goreme House, but our friend Sabrina who had been here before gave such glowing recommendations that we had to see it for ourselves. When we arrived, wow. It was positively different from the other accommodations in the area!''This upscale inn has thoughtfully decorated arch rooms and cave rooms with mini-fridge, spacious bathrooms (some with jacuzzi), and a rooftop terrace vista that is postcard-worthy. Each room also has its own wi-fi modem, ensuring speedy internet connection. And free breakfast! It’s also owned by one of the coolest guys we know, Suat Ulusoy, who also happened to be our hot-air balloon pilot.''The price isn’t too far from the others too. Their budget room is only €50 per night.''Arch Budget Room: €50''Arch Standard Room: €50''Stone Deluxe Room: €85''Cave Deluxe Room: €90''Search for more:''Cappadocia Hotels''How to Get Around Cappadocia''Cappadocia is vast and has a low population density. Public transportation options are quite limited, which may put a wrench to your travel plans. In fact, during our stay (off-peak season), we hardly saw any bus or cab. Locals drove their own cars, and there were not too many of them, either. We’re not big on hitchhiking but, thankfully, residents are very hospitable and warm that we were offered a ride a few times.''This is why joining group tours makes the most sense in Cappadocia. Some key tourist spots are scattered so far apart that seeing just 5 or 6 of them can take an entire day. And true enough, standard packages here are all full-day tours!''Three main tour types exist and they are color-coded: RED, GREEN, and BLUE. Numerous travel agencies offer these tours but they were not created equal. We booked our RED and GREEN tours with two separate operators, and wow, there’s a world of difference in the service between the two.''The one we enjoyed was''Cappadocia Exclusive Travel''. The guide assigned to us was fluent in English and had great insights. Our group was also small — We shared the tour with only one other tourist — we didn’t have to wait that long for everyone.''Most tours begin between 9-10am, which gives those who join a Hot Air Balloon Tour enough time to return to their hotel.''Hot Air Balloon''Over a hundred hot air balloons fly above Cappadocia every day in tourist seasons, operated by over 25 operators. Choosing where to book can be confusing because the range is so wide. Why? Because they’re not selling the same thing. Some run 60-minute tours, some 90-minute. Some are pretty basic, offering just the flight. Some provide a free single-serving meal, some have open breakfast buffet.''Suffice it to say that before you try to book anything, make sure you know the inclusions.''Here are the usual rates:''60-minute tour:''EUR 120-170''90-minute tour:''EUR 200-250''The company we tried and highly recommend is''Royal Balloon''. They charge''EUR 140''for a 60-minute flight, complete with the following:''hotel pickup and drop-off''60-minute tour''open breakfast buffet''champagne and fruits snacks after the flight''a certificate and medal for completing the tour''On top of it all, our pilot Suat is a veteran and super knowledgable about the region. He has been flying balloons for over 20 years. The crew was helpful and funny, too! You can tell they enjoy what they’re doing. If we return, we’ll definitely book with them again.''Royal Balloon''Address: Avcilar Mahallesi, Dutlu Sokak, No: 9, Göreme – Nevşehir / TÜRKİYE.''E-mail: royal@Signroyalballoon.com''Website: www.royalballoon.com''Red Tour''Usual Price'': 115-160TL (€25-35, $36-42)''Tour Duration'': 7 hours''The Red Tour covers the northern lands of Cappadocia. This is the region’s signature tour. It will take you to the key tourist spots that are most commonly associated with Cappadocia: the fairy chimneys. There’s no shortage of rock formations on this tour. Its main highlight is the Goreme Open Air Museum. Here are the stops.''Goreme Open-Air Museum''. Rock pillars that were carved into monasteries and churches.''Esentepe Viewpoint''. View of fairy chimneys''Pasabag''. Monks Valley, famous for its towering pillars''Devrent Valley''. Also for its fairy chimneys and moonscapes.''Guray Ceramic''(Avanos Pottery). Underground pottery museum and workshop.''Three Beauties''. the iconic 3 gigantic fairy chimneys near Urgup.''Note that if you’re staying in Goreme, the Open Air Museum is just within walking distance. If you plan on joining the Red Tour, don’t visit it on your own.''Green Tour''Usual Price'': 135-200TL (€30-45, $36-55)''Tour Duration'': 9 hours''While the Red Tour is said to be the most iconic, the Green Tour is definitely my favorite. It covers a wider area southwest of Goreme and makes more diverse stops. While the Red Tour is mostly about stunning landscape views, the Green Tour takes you closer to (and even under) the sites, including a descent into the underground city and a hike along Ihlara Valley.''Derinkuyu Underground City''. One of the many labyrinthine subterranean network of caves used as dwellings by early Christians.''Ihlara Valley''. A 14 kilometer scenic hiking trail flanked with towering cliffs, some carved into houses and churches. The hike straddles only 3-4km, which usually starts or ends with traditional lunch.''Selime Monastery''. A rocky hill manually shaped into a monastery complex.''Pigeon Valley''. A photo stop with gorgeous views.''Onyx and Turquoise Jewelry Factory''. Honestly felt tourist trap-ish.''If you could take just one tour other than the hot air balloon, make it this one.''Blue Tour''Usual Price: 200TL (€45, $55)''Tour Duration: 8 hours''The Blue Tour will take you around the area south of Goreme including Soganli. Here are the stops:''Mustafapasa Greek Village''Keslik Monastery''Sobessos''Soganli Valley''Kaymaklı Underground City''By Private Car''If you have an international driving license and you’re a group of 2 or more, the cheapest way to get around is renting a car. It also makes sense since, as mentioned earlier, attractions are so far apart and public transportation options are extremely limited.''Several car rental companies operate in Cappadocia, with some available at the airport. Well-known car-rental companies like EuropCar and SIXT lend cars for as low as''EUR 35''per day for a Renault Symbol (max. 5 pax, 1 suitcase).''Local companies offer as low as''EUR 20''for the same Renault Symbol car.''We didn’t do this so we can’t give any more information about it. But these are the prices we saw while we were there.''Sample Itinerary with Budget Breakdown''Below is a sample 3D/2N itinerary. Please bear in mind:''The total cost estimates are per person''and do not include airfare.''Please make the necessary adjustments depending on the season and other factors''. For example, pick up time for hot-air balloon can be as early as 4:30am (in summer) to 7:00am (in winter). The goal is to catch the sunrise. Same with sunset viewing. This is meant to serve as a guide only.''Try to book Turkish Airlines Flight TK 2006'', which arrives in Nevsehir from Istanbul at 7:50am so you can tour immediately after arrival. Let the tour operator know so they could make the necessary arrangement. If you can’t make this flight or you feel like you’ll be too tired to tour on the first day, that’s fine too. Just add one more day to this itinerary and adjust your budget to cover another hotel night and meals.''Your food allowance is 25TL per meal''. Trust me, that’s a way too much for an average budget meal, but it’s best to overestimate than under. You can be flexible with this. You may spend more than 25TL on a meal but make sure you make up for it by spending less on the next meal. We also usually skip breakfast and just have brunch/early lunch, but if you can find a hotel/hostel that serves free breakfast, that would be ideal.''Day 1: ARRIVAL + RED TOUR''07:50am – Arrival in Cappadocia''08:30am – Shuttle to Hotel, 25TL''09:10am – Hotel check-in or baggage drop''09:30am – Begin Red Tour, 160TL''05:30pm – Sunset viewing (time changes depending on season)''07:00pm – Dinner, 25TL''09:00pm – Back at hotel''Day 2: HOT AIR BALLOON + GREEN TOUR''05:00am – Wake up''06:00am – Hot Air Balloon Tour, €140 (640TL)''09:30am – Begin Green Tour, 200TL''08:00pm – Dinner, 25TL''09:30pm – Back to Hotel''Day 3: FREE TIME, DEPARTURE''09:00am – Wake up''11:00am – Check out, leave bags''12:00nn – Lunch, 25TL''02:00pm – Walk around Goreme, souvenir shopping''04:30pm – Leave for airport, 25TL''05:40pm – Arrival at airport''07:35pm – Flight''If you’re traveling solo''and you stay in a bunk bed at €8 per night, prepare to shell out 1300TL (EUR286, USD345, PhP 17,200) excluding the airfare.''If you’re a group of 2 staying in a budget twin room''at 115TL per night, this itinerary will set you back 1340TL (EUR295, USD355, PhP 17,800) per person.''If you’re a couple on a honeymoon or celebrating anniversary''and you stay at Castle Inn, this itinerary will cost you 1455TL (EUR320, USD386, PhP 19,250).''Not bad, considering it already includes a hot-air balloon ride, which takes up the biggest chunk of the budget!''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Try pottery kebab'', which is popular in Cappadocia. It’s a stew sort of dish that is cooked in a clay jar.''Dine at homes that are open to tourists''. While walking around, we found a couple of houses that serve lunch or dinner at a much lower price than at restaurants, yet it was our best meal in Cappadocia. It was also a great experience being able to talk to locals in their own home.''Tipping is up to you''. If you don’t like the service, you can skip it. But if you do, 10% is sufficient at restaurants. For tour guides, we tipped 20-30TL.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Cappadocia, Turkey: Hot Air Balloon Ride at Sunrise''Top 10 Best and Worst Travel Moments of 2016''Where to Stay in Istanbul, Turkey''ISTANBUL ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''NAMI ISLAND ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itineraries 2017''NEW ZEALAND ON A BUDGET: Auckland and Rotorua Travel Guide 2017''Vins and I will always remember 2017 as the year we decided to go slow.''The year prior, we traveled to over 26 countries on three continents. The whole time, we were joking that when it comes to “travel blogging,” we were more interested in the travel part, something that was honestly half-meant. This year, we stopped, looked back, and shifted the focus to the other half of our profession. You know, the blogging part.''We have long accepted the fact that we are not the type of bloggers who could travel and create content at the same time. We have tried doing that before, but it just couldn’t work for us. We found that the most efficient rhythm for us is to wander one moment and write the next, never at the same time. So putting more effort to the content creation meant moving much more slowly and being stationary much more frequently. Thankfully, it paid off.''But of course, we couldn’t set travel aside completely. This year, we were able to stay much longer in only nine countries including Canada, Greece, and Malta. But what we truly enjoyed about 2017 was the opportunity to rediscover our home country. We visited more Philippine destinations than any other year — from as far north as Batanes down to Zamboanga, from Palawan to Samar. We were also able to return to some of our favorite local destinations: Biri Island, Zambales, Aurora, and Coron.''In this yearend post, we will be sharing with you the 5 worst and 10 best moments we had on the road.''Top 5 Worst Travel Moments''5. Wallet Shocker in Batangas''One of the things we’ve always wanted to do was to go beach-hopping in Batangas over a weekend. The beaches were great, but our Laiya stop was particularly memorable because we didn’t anticipate that the resort we booked charges for a mandatory food package, which was average at best. We booked it using a third-party site and didn’t see that bit in the fine print (if there was at all), so it was partly our fault. We still paid for it, of course, and pushed through with our stay. I just wish that resorts would make details like this more prominent or make an effort to remind their future guests through more effective channels (like email).''4. Headache in Vigan''Vigan is a lovely city, possible one of my faves in the country. This year, I got to see it again when our cruise ship, the Superstar Virgo, made a stop in Ilocos (on the way to Taiwan). Unfortunately, I had a terrible headache. I wish I were speaking metaphorically here. I seldom get headache (or any type of body pain), but that one so awful, I decided to just get some meds and spend the entire day at a fast food restaurant. It wasn’t Vigan’s fault. But the timing was just nasty.''3. Nightmare Up in the Air''My journey from Tokyo would’ve been perfect but at one point during the flight, I had a bad dream. When I was a kid, my left arm got burned in an accident. I dreamed about that onboard. In that dream, I could feel the pain as the flames engulfed my left arm and cheek. I could smell the stench of torched flesh, my flesh. I could hear the boiling plastic as it stuck to my skin and the screaming of the onlookers as I tried to crawl out of that pit. I woke up and realized it was just a dream and that I was on a plane and that, because I was traveling alone, I had no one to talk to. So I sobbed quietly.''2. Losing Sunglasses in Coron''I have a big, round face. I’m generally okay with it until I put on sunglasses. The problem with having a puffy face like mine is that it is quite the challenge finding sunglasses that would not make me look like Jollibee. I finally found a good pair six years ago, but I couldn’t afford it. Working for a startup company, I wasn’t earning much at the time, so I saved for it for months. It was probably the first piece of luxury that I bought for myself ever. It was the only pair of shades that I owned and used. And while in Coron, I lost it. Probably dropped it as I was getting off the tricycle.''1. Tricycle Accident in Manila''Speaking of tricycle…. The worst travel moment I had experienced this year happened not too far from where I live. I was coming home from a trip. I was just 3 minutes to my apartment when the tricycle I was riding made a sharp turn. The vehicle lost its balance and tumbled to its side. Sensing what was about the happen, I jumped out of the sidecar, but I was a second too late. My foot got caught between the vehicle and the road. Thankfully, the cars behind us stopped in time. No serious injuries, but I was shookt to the core.''Top 10 Best Travel Moments''10. Cruise to Taiwan and Hong Kong via Superstar Virgo''Last summer, we were able to hop onboard Superstar Virgo, the first cruise ship to homeport in Manila. We cherished every minute of it because, you know us, we don’t do this often. But every now and then, it’s great to experience something that we never imagined we would get to enjoy. Because we have been to the stops (Vigan, Taiwan, Hong Kong), it was our time on the ship that lingers in our head!''More info here:''Superstar Virgo Guide''9. A Maltese Welcome''We didn’t think we would be back in Europe so soon, but there we were! Our first stop this time around was Malta, a place that we’d been trying to squeeze into our itinerary on our past Euro trip but couldn’t because of time constraints. Finally, it happened. Malta is one of the most picturesque destinations we have set foot in. Every corner is postcard worthy. But it was the sunrise on our first morning there that made us so excited about the whole journey.''8. Return to Batanes''It’s been four long years since the last time we were in Batanes and our return was long overdue. For a moment, I thought it wouldn’t happen. We were supposed to attend a friend’s wedding there but then something happened so we had to cancel. Just a few weeks after that, we decided to still go wedding or no-wedding. Because money is an issue, we flew from Clark instead (which at the time was significantly cheaper than flights from Manila).''Batanes doesn’t get old. Although most of the sites we visited were familiar, they still felt like we were seeing them for the first time. Some spots even appeared more breathtaking this time around.''7. Planes and Falls in Ontario''Our visit to Canada wasn’t just our first time in that country. It was also our first time in North America, our fifth continent. That alone made that trip unforgettable. But that’s just the beginning.''There are two key moments that I would stay with me. First our tour of the Bombardier facility in Toronto, where I witnessed first hand how airplanes are built. As travel bloggers, we’ve always been fascinated by airplanes, so that was definitely for keeps.''The other is our short but sweet ride to the Niagara Falls. First look and I was blown away. It was waaaay bigger and more grandiose than I imagined! And the rainbows forming amidst its splashes added a nice touch.''6. Hallmark Realness at Shirakawa-Go''The first time we saw a photo of Shirakawa-go, we were immediately reminded of those Hallmark holiday cards we would give to our loved ones. That alone sends warmth to my soul. But seeing it in person was beyond heartwarming, it was also jaw-dropping. Exploring this picture-perfect UNESCO World Heritage Site is like being in a dream you don’t want to wake up from.''More info here:''How to Get to Shirakawa-go''5. Winter Wonderland at Sapporo Snow Festival''We’ve always looked at snow not as ice powder but fairy dust, the stuff that magical places are made of. And it can’t be any truer than in Sapporo. The Snow Festival was the highlight of that tour, but it wasn’t all of it. The Snow Lanterns in Jozankei was just as mesmerizing, and the food was drool-trigger irresistible.''4. Glowing Plankton in Coron''Our Coron trip last summer was eventful, to say the least. But if there’s one thing that really made a mark, it’s the Fireflies and Glowing Plankton Tour. This is super magical! Although the fireflies are cool, the real stars of the night are the bioluminescent plankton. When you dip your hands in the water, it sparkles. And when you tap the sides of the boats, the most amazing thing happened: the water beneath us glittered and the lights spread out across the water! If I didn’t hold my jaws in place, they would have dropped into the water. It was insane!''3. Biri Island’s School of Rock''Back in 2012, my top destination was Biri Island. Back then, I had no expectations. We just dropped by because we were doing a coastal cleanup project in another town in Northern Samar. But boy was I blown away.''This time, Biri Island was part of a 4-stop tour that we did in search of the most unusual beaches in the country. Even when the novelty has passed for me, this place still left me breathless. It was Vins’s first time here, and he was lost for words. It’s just extraordinary.''2. Off-season in Santorini''When I think about Santorini, I always picture it with a massive crowd watching for the sunset. And although we knew December was off-peak, we didn’t expect the village of Oia to be virtually empty during our visit. When we saw the sunset, there were only us and two other families.''Traveling to Santorini in winter gave us memories for keeps. Our stay began on the wrong note, having to spend our first night outside in the cold and amid the howling winds. Long story. Let’s save it for another time. But that was easily wiped away the next day. Oia, where we stayed, was quiet and secluded, giving us a much needed respite and peace of mind. It was as though we owned the island!''1. Among the Gods in Athens''On the way to our hotel on our first night in Athens, our cab driver John made a detour to a hill and took us to a great spot, where we could have a panoramic view of the city, with the Acropolis towering above it. He didn’t charge us extra for it.''On our last day, one of the locals we met, Sotiris, showed us around the non-touristy parts of Athens. We tried to tip him for his time, but he refused. “It’s my pleasure.”''We’ve never seen a people prouder of their city than the Athenians. And it’s not in a bragging way. We could tell in the way they describe their home. We could feel it in the way they share their history and culture. They are protective of it, but at the same time eager to share pieces of it. It’s amazing. It is perhaps this love for their city that made us feel so welcome.''The history, the sights, and the food were all wonderful in Athens. But it is the people that puts it on top of this list.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Start a Career as a Travel Blogger''10 Philippine Travel Blogs You Should Read and Follow''12 Female Travel Blogs for the Empowered Filipina''How I Quit My Job and Became a Full-time Travel Blogger''Top 10 Best and Worst Travel Moments of 2016''Quit Your 9-5 to Live and Work (David Getman)''The start of the New Year is one of our favorite holidays. Where we’re from, we welcome the new year with magnificent fireworks displays, a huge midnight feast for the family, basketfuls of round fruites, lots of jumping, and making loud noises to ward off evil spirits (I know, but hey.). Even as a child, it’s the holiday I would look forward to the most.''But more than the festivities, I love it more for what it stands for: new beginnings. Sure, it has its roots can be traced back to Pagan origins. And sure, you can always turn a new leaf any other day of the year I feel more encouraged when you celebrate it with the rest of the world. And the changing of the calendars somehow fosters a fresh atmosphere.''As travelers, it also resets the clock for us. The coming of the new year gives us a clean slate, a chance to reevaluate our journeys, correct our mistakes, do better, go farther, learn more than in the past year.''So to our followers, here’s a little something! We made a dozen artworks to inspire you to travel more and enjoy more of what this world and life in general have to offer. Happy New Year!''May this new year take you to places you’ve never been before.''Wishing you a new year filled with approved leaves, boarding passes, and brand new adventures!''This year, let’s say yes to new adventures.''Happy New Year!''Cheers to another year of wonderful places, great friendships, and unforgettable travels!''Welcome change, embrace adventure, and make this new year one you’ll never forget. Happy New Year!''The view is better outside of your comfort zone.''Related Travel Quotes''“Cheers to a new year and another chance for us to get it right.” – Oprah''“The new year stands before us, like a chapter in a book, waiting to be written. We can help write that story by setting goals.” – Melody Beattie''“The secret to living the life of your dreams is to start living the life of your dreams today, in every little way you possibly can.” – Mike Dooley''“Although no one can go back and make a brand new start, anyone can start from now and make a brand new ending.” – Carol Bard''“Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things you didn’t do than by the ones you did do.” – Mark Twain''“Look at the stars lighting up the sky: no one of them stays in the same place.” – Seneca the Younger, ancient Roman philosopher''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''12 Female Travel Blogs for the Empowered Filipina''Get Inspired: 100km Walk Around Tokyo, Japan (Video)''5 Ways to Stay Close to Home During Travel''Get Inspired: 6 Stunning Destinations Near Washington, DC (Video)''Get Inspired: Exploring Chile (Video)''10 Philippine Travel Blogs You Should Read and Follow''One of the main reasons why many Metro Manila residents are hesitant to book flights to or from Clark Airport is the limited accessibility. For the longest time, travelers coming from the capital will have to take a bus and another transfer to reach Clark. When bus companies began offering bus services to Clark, there were only a few trips per day.''But Metro Manila’s congestion problem worsens every day. Its only commercial aviation gateway, the Ninoy Aquino International Airport, is plagued with delays. And its road traffic is becoming a daily nightmare that those living in the northern areas would rather travel to Pampanga than brave the “carmageddon” to the south. Clark is becoming a more attractive option.''Thank heavens for the Premium (Point-to-Point) P2P Bus Service, operated by Genesis Transport. Yes, it’s pricier than the regular bus, but it’s clean and spacious. There are free wifi, helpful staff, and fewer stops! You can easily travel to Clark from NAIA Terminal 3, Resorts World Manila, Robinsons Galleria (Ortigas), or Trinoma.''More info here:''P2P Bus Schedule and Fare''But how about the other way around? How do you travel to Manila from Clark Airport? It’s quite easy. Here’s how:''1. Go to the P2P Bus Stop.''It’s located right in front of the Arrival area of Clark Airport. You can see it as soon as you exit the Arrival area. There’s a waiting shed along a perpendicular street. That’s where you should go. It should be on the ride side of the fast food restaurants in front of you. You know you’re at the right spot when you see the P2P Bus sign (pic below).''2. Find your bus.''If there is no bus yet, wait a little bit. There are usually two buses: one going to Trinoma and the other to NAIA 3.''The bus going to Trinoma will stop at the following:''DOTR Office & Clark Center''SM Clark Transport Hub''Trinoma/North EDSA. FINAL STOP.''The one going to NAIA 3 will also make a stop at the following:''DOTR Office & Clark Center''SM Clark Transport Hub''Ortigas. Near Robinsons Galleria, EDSA.''Resorts World Manila. Near the Casino Entrance.''NAIA Terminal 1. At the departure curbside.''NAIA Terminal 2. Bay 20 Arrival.''NAIA Terminal 3. Bay 14 Arrival. FINAL STOP.''Our NAIA-bound Bus also made a stop at Trinoma though. I’m not sure if they do it all the time or it’s a one-time thing. But it did.''If you have big bags, let the staff know so they can load them to the bottom compartment for you.''3. Board and pay!''Here are the schedules:''Image courtesy of Genesis Transport''Image courtesy of Genesis Transport''The fares as of December 2017 are listed below:''Clark to Trinoma/North EDSA:''P250''Clark to Ortigas:''P250''Clark to NAIA3:''P350''The conductor will be giving you the ticket and collecting the fees on the way.''Travel time'': It varies depending on traffic. To be safe, allot 3-4 hours. Based on experience, the total travel time is around 2.5 hours. Note that this was on a weekday late afternoon/early evening. We left Clark Airport at 4pm, stopped at Trinoma at 5:47pm, and reached Resorts World Manila at 6:25pm. I’m sure it will be much longer if it were in the morning.''Important Notes:''If your destination is NAIA 3 to transfer to another flight, please note that on top of the 3-4-hour travel time, allow 2 more hours for the check-in process for domestic flights and at least 3 more hours for international flights''. Manila traffic is really bad, and the last thing you want is to miss your next flight. Keep this in mind before booking your flight.''These buses WILL NOT stop to pick up or drop off passengers at any place other than the designated spots''. Do not try to alight elsewhere.''This post was last updated in December 2017. Always contact Genesis Transport before your trip to get their latest timetable.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''P2P BUS CLARK & MANILA: Schedule, Stops & Fares''NAIA (MANILA AIRPORT): AIRLINES’ NEW TERMINAL ASSIGNMENTS 2018''Clark Airport Guide: How to Get There, What to Do Before Flight''Where to Stay in Manila: Top 10 Budget Hotels Below P2000 ($40)''Makati: Top 10 Budget Hotels Under P2000 ($40)''15 CHEAP BUT AWESOME Destinations Near MANILA''One of the best things that happened for travelers from Metro Manila and Central Luzon is the launch of the Premium Point-to-Point (P2P) Bus service from Manila to Clark Airport.''Clark International Airport is the fastest growing gateway in the country, and airlines have been constantly adding new flights that fly into and out of it. This somehow addresses the congestion problem that has been plaguing Manila’s Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) for years.''Direct bus trips to Clark from Manila are not new. PHILTRANCO has been operating this route for years, albeit with only five trips per day. But the P2P buses provide more options and pick up and drop off passengers from all NAIA Terminals as well as a few key stops like Resorts World Manila, Robinsons Galleria (Ortigas), and Trinoma. These buses are also more comfortable, with fewer seats, bigger legroom, and working wi-fi.''These P2P buses ply two Clark routes: one originating and terminating at''NAIA Terminal 3'', and the other originating and terminating at''TRINOMA''.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Bus Stops in Manila''P2P Bus Stops in Clark''P2P Bus Schedule (NAIA to Clark)''Important Notes:''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Bus Stops in Manila''Here are the exact locations of the pick-up and drop-off spots of P2P buses n Manila. NOTE that the NAIA 2 and NAIA 1 stops are for DROP-OFF ONLY. You can’t board the bus from there. If you’re coming from NAIA Terminals 1, 2, or 4, you will have to take a cab or Uber to Terminal 3 (Bay 14).''NAIA 3''. Bay 14 at the Arrival area. PICK-UP AND DROP-OFF.''NAIA 2''. Bay 20 at the Arrival area. DROP-OFF ONLY!''NAIA 1''. At the Departure Curbside. DROP-OFF ONLY!''Resorts World Manila''. There is a bus stop close to the Valet Counter, just next to the Casino Entrance. PICK-UP AND DROP OFF.''Robinsons Galleria (Ortigas)''. At the driveway EDSA side. PICK UP AND DROP OFF.''Trinoma''. P2P Terminal along EDSA, close to MRT North Station.''P2P Bus Stops in Clark''SM Clark Transport Hub''DOTR Office & Clark Center''Clark International Airport''Artwork courtesy of Genesis Transport''P2P Bus Schedule (NAIA to Clark)''Below is the timetable for NAIA3-CLARK and vice versa.''Image courtesy of Genesis Transport''This one is for TRINOMA-CLARK and vice versa.''Image courtesy of Genesis Transport''Important Notes:''The total travel time varies depending on traffic. To be safe, allot 3-4 hours. Based on experience, the total travel time is around 2.5 hours. Note that this was on a weekday late afternoon/early evening. We left Clark Airport at 4pm, passed by Trinoma at 5:47pm, and reached Resorts World Manila at 6:25pm. If it’s done the other way around at the same time, I’m pretty sure it will be much, much longer.''These buses WILL NOT stop to pick up or drop off passengers at any place other than the designated spots. Do not try to alight elsewhere.''The Ortigas departure times vary depending on Manila traffic. You might be in for a bit (or a lot) of waiting time.''If you’re trying to catch a flight, allow some lead time''. Be at the airport at least 2 hours before a domestic flight or 3 hours for international. Duration of check-in processes can be unpredictable, especially at the Immigration counters where queues can be long. Better safe than left by the plane.''This post was last updated in December 2017. Always contact Genesis Transport before your trip to get their latest timetable.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get from CLARK AIRPORT to MANILA: The Easiest Way (P2P Bus)''NAIA (MANILA AIRPORT): AIRLINES’ NEW TERMINAL ASSIGNMENTS 2018''Clark Airport Guide: How to Get There, What to Do Before Flight''Where to Stay in Manila: Top 10 Budget Hotels Below P2000 ($40)''Makati: Top 10 Budget Hotels Under P2000 ($40)''BEACHES NEAR MANILA: 10 Uncrowded Weekend Getaways''Between Vins and I, we’ve been to Japan 16 times so far, spanning over a dozen cities including Tokyo, Osaka, Kyoto, Kanazawa, Hiroshima, Nagoya, Takayama, Ibaraki, Biei, and Sapporo. Seven of these trips happened in winter.''Our''obsession''fascination with winter probably stems from the fact that we spent 30 years of our lives in tropical islands. Like many kids who had never seen real snow, we grew up dreaming of white Christmas and winter wonderland! Many of us whose roots are planted near the equator once imagined ourselves in that snow globe we shook dreamily. And that was way before''Frozen''hit the theaters. Imagine kids these days. (Cue:''Do you wanna build a snowman..?'') For us, snow is a reward, something that we could only see if we work hard enough to afford it, after we had been burdened by life’s many responsibilities. While I’m aware that too much of it has a dark side, for the young, naive me, snow is not ice powder but fairy dust, the stuff that magical places are made of.''And of all these winter wonderlands, Japan is probably the most accessible.''If you want to make your icy dreams come true in Japan, you have to prepare for it. Winter may be dreamy, but it is often harsh and can be unforgiving. Here are some tips!''1. Thermal Underwear''It can be challenging to walk around in multiple layers of clothing. The best way to minimize this is by being smart with the pieces you wear. For this reason, purchase thermal underwear.''Thermal underwear traps the body heat to insulate the wearer against the cold air outside. It covers your entire body: not just the torso but also the arms and the legs.''In Manila, you can find it at UNIQLO or''Marks and Spencer''branches. At UNIQLO, tights or leggings are somewhere between P790 and P990, long sleeved tops are also within the same range. But if they’re too pricey for you, some stalls at St. Francis Square sell them too.''The thing is, it’s much cheaper to buy them in Japan than in the Philippines. For example, the bottom tights or leggings that cost P790 at UNIQLO in Manila, they cost only 790 YEN in Japan.''¥790 is equal to only P350''. That’s less than half of the Manila price.''My advice is to buy just one pair before your trip and then buy the rest when you’re already in Japan. UNIQLO and GU stalls have them.''2. Layering''I usually just wear four layers when I’m sightseeing.''The Base'': Thermal underwear.''The Mid-layer'': Sweater (fleece, wool) and pants (denim).''The Outerwear'': usually a trench coat, pea coat, or a padded hoodie, depending on my activity for the day. May be wool, fleece, polyester.''The Accessories'': gloves, scarves, beanie, .''Choose an outerwear (jacket, blazer, overcoat) that you can easily take off. In winter, buses, trains, and establishments are well-heated, so no matter how cold it is outside, it can still be pretty warm inside. It can be inconvenient and annoying to take your jacket off and to put it back on over and over again, so choose a piece that you can easily get out of.''For cheap finds, visit your suking ukay-ukay. But if you don’t like hand-me-downs, go to SM Surplus Shop, St. Francis Square or Greenhills for off-season garments.''Again, it’s cheaper to just purchase outerwear in Japan.''By the way, if you want to blend in with the locals, pick clothes that are black, white, gray or neutral. This is especially true in Tokyo. Outside the capital, more colors get more common.''3. Shoes, Socks, and Accessories''UNIQLO Products''Even winter shoes and accessories are much, much cheaper in Japan. If you don’t own gloves, scarves, beanies, or even ear muffs yet, I suggest that you buy in Japan instead.''Shoes''. Walking on snow can be dangerous because it can get slippery. Make sure your shoes have a great grip and provide good traction. Boots with non-slip neoprene or rubber is ideal, especially if the soles have grooves. I have tried using only the typical sneakers and gosh, my butt met the ground so many times. (More about walking over snow below.)''Socks''. Purchase long socks and make sure they look good. In Japan, you’ll have to remove your shoes on multiple occasions like entering temples, shrines, traditional restaurants, and ryokan (traditional Japanese inn) among others. Make sure they are presentable and have no holes.''Scarves''. While Tokyo locals prefer dark or neutral colors for their clothes, you can be more creative when it comes to accessories. Most scarves are still pretty muted, though.''Gloves''. Essential in colder months (January/February). Problem with the regular gloves is that it makes using your phone harder. If you feel like you’ll be depending on your smartphone a lot, but those pairs with special tips that can be detected by phones.''4. Sunglasses''I always get weird looks from my companions — be it family, friends, or other bloggers — when I put on sunglasses in snowy places. Just because it’s cold and cloudy doesn’t mean the ultraviolet rays are not there. We still need to protect our eyes especially from the UV rays that the snow reflects.''Up to 85% of the UV rays from the sun bounce off of snow'', and this can lead to a condition called''snow blindness''. The medical term is photokeratitis (or inflammation of the cornea). So please, don’t forget sunglasses.''5. Sunscreen, Moisturizer and Lip Balm''Winter is brutal to the skin too. The cold can leave your skin dry and your lips flaky. Help lock in the moisture by using your trusted moisturizer and lip balm.''Sunscreen''is also essential even on cloudy days! My sunscreen of choice is BIORE UV AQUA RICH with SPF 50. It’s water-based so it doesn’t leave a sticky feeling. And because it also protects the skin from harmful UV rays, it also doubles as sunscreen. It became available in the Philippines in 2016, but if you can’t find one, you will definitely see it at convenience stores, cosmetic shops, or supermarkets in Japan. It’s a bit ubiquitous in Japan.''6. Meds and Surgical Face Mask''The body becomes more vulnerable in winter. The common cold is, well, common.''In Japan, people do not wear mask because they’re afraid to catch a cold. They do it because they do not want whatever illness they have to spread to other people. If you have a cold or cough — and it’s easy to catch it in winter — the polite thing to do there is to keep your nose and mouth covered. Masks are available at convenience stores, too.''And oh, bring your own meds for common, non-serious illnesses so you don’t have to worry about the language barrier in case you get sick.''7. Heat Pack''You know what else is available at convenience stores in Japan?''Kairo''.''Kai-what? For foreigners, kairo is more commonly referred to as a''heat pack''or''pocket warmer''. It’s a small package that contains heat-generating powder or liquid that you can attach to your clothing. (Stick it to your clothing, NOT your skin. Avoid skin contact.)''It’s perfect for those with low cold-tolerance because it will provide the necessary warmth for around 12 hours.''8. Humidifier in your Hotel Room''Many hotel rooms in Japan are equipped with''humidifiers''in winter. Humidifiers add moisture to the air, which will prevent skin dryness and irritation. It can also relieve dryness of the throat and lips. This can make your stay much more comfortable.''Some hotels provide humidifiers for free. Some rent it out. But to be absolutely sure, contact your hotel before your trip or request for one at the reception upon arrival.''9. Hot Drinks from Vendo''Another way to battle the cold is having a hot drink. In Japan, you don’t need to walk into a cafe or restaurant to have a cup of hot chocolate, coffee, or tea. Hot drinks are widely available at many vending machines throughout the country. Many first-time travelers in Japan don’t notice them because they’re usually in the same machine as the cold beverages.''Hot drinks are often marked RED, while cold drinks like sodas are marked BLUE. (Often. Not always.)''10. Walking on Snow''Like I said earlier, walking on snow can be dangerous so take extra care. If it’s your first snow experience, you may feel tempted to step on snow immediately, but you need to figure out which parts are slippery and which parts are safe. Some pointers.''If there is a designated walking path, stay on that path''. It’s hard to tell what’s underneath the snow sometimes. You might walk straight into a hole. True story. LOL. Seriously though, I once walked right into a hole in the ground because the entire place was covered in snow. This was in Sapporo.''If the snow looks dark, wet, compact or icy, it’s probably slippery.''Avoid stepping on that.''Maintain balance by stretching your arms out to the sides''. Don’t put them in your pocket. Having your arms out also gives you better reflex should you slip or fall.''11. Tattoo and Onsen''Nothing is more relaxing than taking a hot bath in winter, which is why onsen and sento are very popular throughout Japan. Onsen is hot spring, while sento is public bath that uses regular water. Onsen is generally fancier and more sought after.''However, tattoos are banned in most onsen and sento. Although the younger generations are becoming more open to it, tattoos are still generally frowned upon in Japan as a whole. The aversion probably stems from its long history of association with criminality, whether as a punishment or as a symbol for the Japanese mafia.''Some onsen places accept guests with tattoo. There are websites that keep a list of these establishments. But in most onsen, you may be asked to leave. Some guests with small tattoos get away with it by using concealers or getting creative, though.''If you really want to experience an onsen and you have tattoos, a good alternative is the so-called''kashikiri-buro'', which is a private bath. You can also stay at a ryokan that offers rooms with private onsen, but these are very luxurious (ergo: expensive).''12. Timing is everything.''Sapporo Snow Festival, February''Winter may not be as vibrant as the other seasons, but it doesn’t mean it’s boring. Before booking your flight, check the schedule of festivities in your destination. Here are some well-known events.''December 23'': Emperor’s Birthday Appearance at Imperial Palace, Tokyo''January 1'': Hatsumōde (first Shinto shrine visit), nationwide''January Week 1'': New Year SALE, Tokyo and Yokohama''January 2'': Emperor’s New Year Greeting at Imperial Palace, Tokyo''February'': Sapporo Snow Festival (dates vary, early February)''Also, winter illuminations are worth checking out. Numerous installations are scattered all over the country. Schedule is often between mid-November to February, some until March.''Japan isn’t big on Christmas. Although you can hear Christmas tunes and see decors at commercial spaces, it’s a regular working day. New Year’s Day is a holiday, but don’t expect to see grand fireworks displays. Locals gather at Shinto shrines on New Year’s Eve for hatsumōde, the first shrine or temple visit. If you decide to experience this, know that it will be super crowded and the lines can extend for blocks.''In winter, days are shorter, which means you have fewer hours to explore. Establishments also close earlier than usual, so make sure you double check their winter schedule.''If you’re into photography, don’t expect to see the sunset at 6pm. The golden hour happens at 4-ish in the afternoon.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''SAPPORO ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary 2017''JustFly Reviews: 5 Excellent Ways to Survive a Road Trip''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''ARASHIYAMA, KYOTO: A DIY Walking Tour''German Christmas Market at Umeda Sky Building, Osaka, Japan''TOKYO IN WINTER: 7 Awesome Things to Do in and around the City''The past several years have seen the rise of online travel agencies (OTAs). As travel becomes mainstream and more accessible, the general public has come to love and enjoy using their services for planning trips, finding cheap flights, and booking hotels, among others. Even we find ourselves depending on them for many aspects of our journey.''As travel bloggers, we get approached often by various online travel agencies for all sorts of collaborations: advertorials, affiliate partnerships, sponsorships, ambassadorships. But as always, we very carefully scrutinize brands we choose to work with. One of the newer players in the Philippines is''Traveloka'', an online service that will allow you to search and book flights and hotels. To be honest, at first, we doubted it largely because of the funny, less-than-serious name. Medyo nakakaloka. Haha.''But yes, it is safe and legit''. We’ve been using this for the past several months now. And we found many of the features of both the website and the mobile app to be incredibly useful, thoughtful, and straightforward. In the end, we were convinced that Traveloka is something we can confidently promote to our followers. And here are seven reasons why.''Create an Account Here''Download the Traveloka app here''.''1. Best Price Finder''When searching for flights, Traveloka’s Best Price Finder enables you to immediately see the lowest fares in a calendar format. This is perfect for bargain-hunters who know the destination they want to fly to but don’t have fixed travel dates.''Some airlines, like JetStar and PAL, employ this kind of display. However, what makes this Traveloka feature much more interesting is that it doesn’t search just one airline. It rummages through all the airlines in their network and shows you the cheapest tickets from all of them.''How to use it'': Simply download the app and when it’s time to pick a departure date, just turn on the “Find Lowest Price Estimates” toggle on the bottom bar. Step-by-step guide here:''Best Price Finder''2. Price Alerts''I’ve said this many times before: This is my fave feature of the Traveloka app. It’s great for those who always miss airlines’ seat sales!''Traveloka’s Price Alerts allows you to get notified on your phone when the price of certain flights you’re eyeing drops or go on sale!''It’s not random. You will have to set the parameters beforehand so the app knows what to alert you of. For example, if you’re planning to visit Boracay, just enter that specific route and your budget limitations into the app, and when there are flights that match those, you’ll get alerts. Technology!''Here’s how to do it'':''How to Get Cheap Flight Alerts''3. Promos Almost Every Day''Many of the hotels in Traveloka’s inventory are discounted, but they also give away additional discounts when they have a promo. And there’s one almost every day. Some are for flights, some for hotels. The discounts and destinations covered vary from promo to promo. All you need to do is enter the promo code when booking.''Samples only. These are just samples of their past promos. These codes are no longer working.''Where to get the promo codes? Follow their social media channels especially the''Traveloka Facebook page''and be the first to know when there’s a sale.''4. No Hidden Fees''When it comes to published rates, with Traveloka, what you see is what you get. The prices displayed on the search results are the final costs.''Some OTAs are somehow deceptive. They add the tax recovery charges and other fees on the next page much later, which doesn’t paint a clear and full picture. The costs displayed in the beginning are not the actual costs you need to pay for. Traveloka isn’t like this. Have a look:''5. Integrated TripAdvisor Reviews''Traveloka has its own built-in review system, but for good measure, it also has an integrated TripAdvisor rating so you could make a better, more informed judgment. As a long-time TripAdvisor user, this makes me more confident in choosing hotels.''6. No Credit Card, No Problem!''You can pay for your flights or hotels via credit card, but if you don’t have one or you are beyond your limit, you have other options such as PayPal, banks, pawnshops, or even 7-Eleven!''Here are their payment partners:''7. ASEAN-centric''Traveloka may be fairly new in the Philippines and the name reads curious and, to be frank, sounds funny, but it is a giant in the ASEAN travel scene — present in Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam. And that’s a big thing for me. They understand the needs (and behavior) of the ASEAN traveler (hence over-the-counter payment options, price alerts, etc.). You can count on it creating more features that address our unique concerns and understand what it means to be an ASEAN explorer.''In terms of hotel listings in PH, there is still a big room to grow, but now that they have established an office in Manila, I expect that it will grow much faster. Also, the company just got a $500 million investment from Expedia earlier this year!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''TRAVEL HACK: How to Get CHEAP FLIGHTS Alerts on Your Phone''How to Book Cheap Flights Successfully''How We Earn While Traveling: Online Opportunities''How to Find the Cheapest Flights Using Traveloka App''How to Book AIRASIA PROMO FLIGHTS''5 Travel Apps that will Make Your Trips Hassle-Free''Spending the holidays abroad with the family has become much more attainable now because more and more airlines, especially low-cost carriers, offer promo fares to patient bargain-hunters. Bolstered by the continuing popularity of K-Pop and K-Dramas, the Korean cultural wave or''“Hallyu”''has been contributing largely to Seoul being a top choice for traveling families.''Seoul is Korea’s largest city and is considered its economic and political center. Not surprisingly, there are tons of fun and interesting things to do and places to visit in and around Seoul. Its carefully planned cityscape and impeccable transportation system make moving in and out of the city very convenient and efficient. Yep, even for kids!''The city is a great choice for families who want to have an out-of-the-country trip with the little ones. We always encourage parents visiting Seoul to immerse their children in Korean culture and teach them to appreciate history and tradition, so don’t skip the incredible palaces and other historic landmarks. But if you’re looking for recommendations for the good old kiddie treats to add to your itinerary, here are ten tourist spots in and around Seoul that could paint a wide smile on their faces.''Note'': Filipino children traveling without either parent must have a DSWD Clearance to be allowed to exit the country. To get one, read:''DSWD Clearance''*Most of the images below were provided by Klook.''1. Lotte World''Opening Hours'': 9:30am – 10:00pm (Monday – Thursday); 9:30am – 11:00pm (Friday – Sunday)''Location'': 240, Olympic-ro, Songpa-gu, Seoul''Nearest Train Station'': Jamsil Station Exit 4 on Line No.2 and No.8''Get Your Ticket Here''2. Vivaldi Park Snowy Land''Opening Hours'': Winter (usually opens in November), 08:30am-5pm, 6:30pm-10:30pm''Location'': 262, Hanchigol-gil, Seo-myeon, Hongcheon-gun, Gangwon-do''How to get there'': By bus. From Sangbong Bus Terminal or Dong Seoul Bus Terminal in Seoul, take a bus to Hongcheon. Then transfer to Bus. No. 70-1 or 70-2. Travel time: 90 mins.''Get Discounted Tickets Here''3. Everland''Opening Hours'': 10:00am – 9:00pm''Location'': 199 Everland-ro, Pogog-eup, Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do (easily accessible from Seoul)''Nearest Train Station'': Jeondae Everland Station on the Yongin Ever Line''Get Your Ticket Here''If you don’t want to think about the how-to-get-there part and worry about going back to Seoul, you can also book your Everland ticket with shuttle service.''Book Ticket and Transfers Here''If you want to skip the long queue and maximize your time in Everland, the Q-Pass will save the day!''Get Everland Q-Pass''4. Alive Museum & Dynamic Maze''Opening Hours'': 9:00am – 8:30pm''Location'': 12, Insa-dong-gil, Jongno-gu, Seoul''Nearest Train Station'': Jongno 3-ga Station, Subway Line 5 (5-minute walk from the station)''Get Discounted Ticket Here''5. Seoul Land Theme Park''Opening Hours'': 9:30am – 10:00pm''Location'': 181 Gwangmyeong-ro, Makgye-dong, Gwacheon-si, Gyeonggi-do''Nearest Train Station'': Line 4 Seoul Grand Park Station Exit 2''Get Discounted Ticket Here''6. Figure Museum W''Opening Hours'': 11:00am – 7:00pm (closed every Monday)''Location'': 84-9 Cheongdam-dong, Street 3, 158 Seolleung Road, Gangnam-gu, Seoul''Nearest Train Station'': Apgujeong Redeo Street Station Line 3, Exit 4''Get Discounted Ticket''7. Trickeye 3D Museum''Opening Hours'': 9:00am – 9:00pm''Location'': Seogyo Plaza B2, 357-1, Seogyo-dong, Mapo-gu, Seoul''Nearest Train Station'': Hongik University Station (Line 2), Exit 9''Get Discounted Ticket''8. Teseum Teddy Bear Museum''Opening Hours'': 8:00am – 7:00pm''Location'': CIZN Building B1, 19 Jibong-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul''Nearest Train Station'': Dongmyo Station (Line 1 & 6), Exit 6''Get Discounted Ticket''9. N Seoul Tower''Opening Hours'': 10:00am – 11:00pm (Sunday – Friday); 10:00am – 12:00mn (Saturday)''Location'': 105 Namsangongwon-gil, Yongsan-gu, Seoul''Nearest Train Station'': Dongguk University Station (Line 3), Exit 6. (From there: take Bus 02, 03, or 05)''Get Discounted Tickets''10. Nami Island & Petite France Tour''Petite France Opening Hours'': 9:00am – 6:00pm (Sunday – Thursday); 9:00am – 8:00pm (Friday & Saturday)''Seoul is the usual jumping-off point of this tour.''Reserve a Slot Now''Other Attractions:''Children’s Grand Park''Seoul’s Children’s Museum''Seoul Forest''Dream Forest''Olympic Park''Namsangol Hanok Village''Korean Folk Village''Hello Kitty Cafe''Norang Cafe''Dongdaemun Market’s Toy Alley''Poo poo Land''Onemount Snow Park & Water Park''Caribbean Bay''Grevin Living Waxwork Museum''See more detailed Seoul travel guide here:''Seoul Budget Travel Guide''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Incheon Airport to Seoul (Myeongdong, Hongdae, Jongno): The Cheapest Way''Seoul: Top 10 Best Hostels 2017''Gwangjang Market: Frugal Food-Lover’s Paradise in Seoul''KOREA ON A BUDGET: Seoul Travel Guide & Itinerary''8 Shopping Places in SEOUL, South Korea''TRAVELING WITH KIDS: 10 Asian Destinations for the Whole Family''The Poor Traveler''‘s past couple of years had been all about international travel. We had been busy hopping from one country to another, collecting passport stamps, and creating travel guides for mostly European and Asian cities. But as soon as 2017 stepped in, we knew it was time to “come back home,” so to speak. This year, we agreed to shift the focus back to the Philippines, visit local islands that we’ve been missing out on, and revisit those that have been familiar. For us, 2017 is all about the Philippines.''One of the projects we had been working on over the past few months is a video series called “The Beach List,” in which we feature one Philippine island per episode. The concept of the show is simple. We always hear that the Philippines is composed of over 7000 islands (7641, last count). One day, we thought, if we feature one island per week, it’s going to take us almost 150 years to finish. Normally, the idea of not being able to see the project until the very end would dishearten us, but we realized we could probably pass the project on to our sons and daughters in the future. And the earlier we begin, the sooner we complete it. There was nothing else left to do but to start counting!''So it began. We created a short list of the first destinations we wish to feature. The islands of Batanes were a shoo-in. Zamboanga’s Pink Beach seemed mighty interesting! And Biri Island was definitely “unskippable.”''We were on the final stages of planning when this happened:''At that moment, we felt as though the stars had aligned. We were on a mission to find the most fascinating and unique islands, and''Cebuana Lhuillier''is determined to prove that they are present in four corners of the Philippines! It’s an opportunity that was too good to pass up. We are going to do this, even if it meant we would have to drop by a Cebuana branch to pick up our funds. It’s pretty advantageous for us too because this means we would know where to go in case we need to send or receive cash, pay internet bills, or purchase insurance.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Batan Island, Batanes''2. Sta. Cruz Islands, Zamboanga City''3. San Antonio, Zambales''4. Biri Island, Northern Samar''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''1. Batan Island, Batanes''The main island of dreamy Batanes, Batan Island may be small but it’s packed with natural wonders. Hold your jaws in place because each key attraction will make them drop at first sight. Four of the province’s six municipalities are located here: Mahatao, Ivana, Uyugan, and the capital Basco. The island’s tourist spots are grouped into two tours: North and South. Both tours will bombard you with breathtaking views such as of the Vayang Rolling Hills, the Tayid Lighthouse, Marlboro Country, and Mt Iraya. But the most compelling for me are the boulder beaches.''In 400 AD, Mt. Iraya erupted and scattered andesite rocks around Basco, from the fiery guts of the earth. The mighty wind from the Pacific pushed the waves to lap the rough rocks, polishing it in the process. The result: boulder beach that we now call Valugan (East) and Chadpidan (West).''Nearest Cebuana Lhuillier Branch'':''Abad Street Branch in Basco.''We picked up our funds for this leg on Day 1. Located along Abad Street, which is widely considered the center of the town and its market street. Strategic! If your inn or homestay is in Basco town center (and the huge majority of them is here), then it’s easily accessible for you.''2. Sta. Cruz Islands, Zamboanga City''From Batanes, we flew via Manila to Zamboanga City. Our target: Pink Beach!''Yes, pink! Well, just to manage your expectations, it is not bright pink. From afar, it looks like your ordinary white beach but the pink glow becomes more obvious as you come closer. Fringing an edge of Sta. Cruz Grande Island (Great Sta. Cruz Island), the pink particles are pulverized red organ-pipe corals (Tubipora musica) swept to the shore. And yes, you’ll also see these bright red corals in the vibrant reef nearby.''But Sta. Cruz Grande Island is more than just its pastel shore. It also cradles a lagoon that is bursting with biodiversity. You can ride a boat and take a guided tour around the lagoon and meet the many wonderful creatures that call it home, such as the (stingless!) upside down jellyfish! You can also row a vinta!''When you get to the city, get to know its history, written on the many monuments scattered around. Don’t forget to have a taste of the city’s irresistible cuisine — Try the curacha! — and shop for local, Indonesian, and Malaysian goods at the barter market!''Nearest Cebuana Lhuillier branch'': Oh, we can’t pick just one. There are several around the city center alone! Many of them within walking distance of each other! There’s even one just outside our hotel.''3. San Antonio, Zambales''From Zamboanga to Zambales real quick!''You might be thinking, what’s so remote about Zambales? True, it may be just a few hours away from Manila, but it’s concealing some pretty isolated coves and islands that are not that easy to access. No resorts, no internet connection, no cellular signal!''And these beaches are out of the ordinary! They’re strewn not with the usual white sand, but volcanic ash spewed out by the mighty Mt. Pinatubo when it was awakened from its long-time sleep in 1991. Anawangin’s and Nagsasa’s coasts used to be rocky but was transformed into an ashen beach since. What’s more interesting is that agoho trees — sea pine trees (Casuarina equisetifolia) — have risen from it, dominating the landscape. The result: a tropical paradise that fosters a Boracay-meets-Baguio vibe.''Because these coves are secluded, don’t forget to drop by San Antonio Town Proper to shop for ingredients for lunch!''Nearest Cebuana Lhuillier Branch'':''San Antonio-Rizal Branch''There are two Cebuana branches in San Antonio and they’re not too far apart. Here, we noticed that they’re also selling insurance for as low as P40! And since we were dropping by to get our budget for this leg, we purchased insurance too while we were at it.''We also spotted several Cebuana branches along the way. There’s one in Subic, San Marcelino, and Castillejos!''4. Biri Island, Northern Samar''Biri Island is where the seas go to wage war. This is where the San Bernardino Strait combats the mighty. The winds sometimes cheer, sometimes howl as they watch from above. The waves, in their desperate attempt to flee, lap up the edges of the shore. And the land, Biri Island, referees the constant clash. Every punching wave is a stroke of art and every gusty storm is a painful dash of necessary sacrifice — the torture in art, the beauty in chaos. The result, staggering rock formations that intimidate not just with their immensity but, more importantly, their splendor.''Of all our stops, Biri Island is the most breathtaking. And we really felt like we saved the best for last! And we can’t think of a better ending for this crazy journey around the archipelago!''To get to Biri, you will need to fly to Catarman and take a jeepney or van to Lavezares Port, where boats to Biri are docked.''Nearest Cebuana Lhuillier Branch:''Lavezares!''It’s just right by the entrance to the port! And because by this time we had been traveling for 12 days straight, we didn’t realize that our mobile phone/internet bills were already due. Thankfully, we can do that via Cebuana too!''—''I have to say: Visiting all 4 destinations in only 2 weeks is one of the most exhausting things we’ve done so far. But man was it worth it! Most of our flights were scheduled in the early morning so were pretty sleepless on the first day of every leg, but none of it mattered when we finally caught a glimpse of the beach!''We have a lot to be thankful for! The weather cooperated all the way through: from our Day 1 in Batanes until the very last in Biri Island, so we thank the travel gods for that! We also made new friends: from Let who allowed us to peek into Ivatan culture, to Errold who took good care of us in Zamboanga, to our tour guide Kuya Boy, who took us on a ride around Biri. Kuya Boy, your motorcycle may be old and dusty, but your cheerful and friendly spirit will take you places!''And thanks also to''Cebuana Lhuillier''for the challenge. When we agreed to do this — picking up our travel budget at their branch every leg — we were worried our itinerary would be ruined. But guess what. It wasn’t. To be honest, it did not really feel like a challenge at all because, yep, from Batanes down to Tawi-tawi, there’s always a Cebuana Lhuillier nearby anyway!''In 2018, we plan to continue doing this video series, and we can’t wait to start the next set of episodes! We have a beautiful country, and we can’t wait to search the four corners of it for more wonders!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Crystal Beach Resort and Anawangin Cove, Zambales: Our Itinerary and Budget (Rainy Season)''6 Incredible Beaches Around the World''BIRI ISLAND, Northern Samar: Budget Travel Guide''NAGSASA COVE ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''12 Breathtaking Sites in Batanes, Philippines''Top 12 Long Weekend Destinations from Manila (No Flights Needed)''You get a message from your friends: Let’s meet!''It’s always great to hang out with friends and just burn hours over a meal, coffee, or a whole lot of nothing. It’s the company that matters after all. But if you’re a Metro Manila resident, you know that meeting with friends is a lot more complicated, especially after the next question is brought up: WHERE?''And just like that, a mini-debate ensues, one that has been plaguing friendships and romantic relationships for a long time now. Living in Metro Manila means having to put up with horrible traffic every single day, and so traveling from city to another isn’t as easy as it is supposed to be.''As a Southern girl, I’m only now starting to pause and realize, “Wait a minute. Why am I always the one who adjusts?” LOLOLOL. I always find myself traveling to QC to see them, but I don’t recall any instance where they made an effort to go as far as BF Homes or Alabang. Makati seems to be the edge of their comfort zone. Even when they want to meet “halfway,” it seems to always favor my friends from the north. To them, halfway is Cubao or Greenhills. I’m not a geographer, but I don’t think that’s accurate! The midpoint should be somewhere between Makati and Ortigas.''But hey, there are many interesting and fun things to do down here, in the laid-back urban south. Here are some of them!''Note: Out of the 7 cities belonging to the 4th District of Metro Manila, also known as the Southern Manila District, we only considered the three southernmost — Las Piñas, Parañaque, and Muntinlupa.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. BF Homes Food Crawl''2. Playbook Video Game Lounge and Bookshop''3. Kulay-Diwa Gallery of Philippine Contemporary Art''4. Filinvest Outdoor Activities''5. Bamboo Organ and Museum Tour''6. Freedom Islands''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''1. BF Homes Food Crawl''Juice ko, sa BF pa lang, quota na sa restaurants!''BF Homes, dubbed by Philippine media as the biggest “village” in Asia, covers the cities of Parañaque, Las Piñas, and Muntinlupa. Out of all the busy commercial areas in BF, Aguirre Avenue is probably the most notable food hub.''Quick throwback to the spread we served @poptalknewstv . Catch it next week, Sept 30 at 8PM on GMA News TV. Keeping our fingers crossed we scored well #goodfeelingsallaround #spooneatdrink''A post shared by spoon eat+drink (@spooneatdrink) on Sep 21, 2017 at 1:46am PDT''You want Japanese, Filipino, Korean, Chinese, Thai? BF offers a wide spectrum of restaurants serving Pan-Asian cuisine. Are you in the mood for dessert, coffee, tea, or snack? BF got your cravings covered. Name it, BF has it — from humble “isawan” place (Mang Raul’s BBQ) to fancy restaurants to bars to quirky shops.''2. Playbook Video Game Lounge and Bookshop''Speaking of quirky shops, BF is also home to this unique and cool fusion of gaming lounge and book shop. The place is a perfect marriage of gaming and literature, which is parallel to the profiles of its owners, Richard, a gamer, and Teta, a book lover.If your bunch is composed of both video game enthusiasts and book worms, then you know the drill.''Location: 2nd Floor Pergola Mall, Aguirre St., BF Homes, Parañaque''Operation Hours: 10am – 10pm (Su-W); 10am – 11pm (Th-Sat)''3. Kulay-Diwa Gallery of Philippine Contemporary Art''Another interesting place, particularly for art lovers, is Kulay-Diwa. Established in 1987 by Roberto San Agustin Nolasco, this privately-owned art gallery aims to discover and promote the artworks of emerging Filipino and other Southeast Asian artists. If you are up for some art appreciation day, reserve and confirm your slots three days in advance, especially if your group exceeds 10 people, because the area can only hold a maximum of twenty five people.''Franz Marion Vocalan at Kulay Diws''A post shared by Kulay Diwa (@kulay_diwa) on Aug 7, 2017 at 11:26pm PDT''Location: 25 Lopez Avenue, Lopez Village, Sucat, Parañaque''Operation Hours: 10am – 5pm (M-F)''4. Filinvest Outdoor Activities''If your squad is feeling a bit adventurous, Filinvest has challenging bike trails too. Actually, the whole area is bike-friendly; bikers are acknowledged by traffic regulators. On the way to ATC, as I was waiting for the traffic light to turn green, I saw a sign board announcing car-less Sundays — from 5am to 10am, major roads (Filinvest Avenue, Commerce Avenue, Corporate Avenue and Parkway) are closed to vehicles to give priority to those who want to jog, walk, play, or ride a bike. So, if trail biking is too much for your group to handle, you can opt to go on a leisurely morning ride around these paved roads.''5. Bamboo Organ and Museum Tour''• All is calm. All is bright • . . . . . #Christams #ChristmasSeason #BambooOrganChurch #Philippines''A post shared by Jae ♡ (@justjhaymie) on Dec 15, 2016 at 4:06pm PST''Probably the most iconic attraction in Las Piñas, the Bamboo Organ was declared as the National Cultural Treasure of the Philippines in 2003. It’s a great place to learn about history, culture, and music. Its cradle, the St. Joseph parish Church, is equally noteworthy. Do not miss the opportunity to visit the museum too! Going here is like taking a 3-in-1 blast to the past — the church, the museum, and the Bamboo Organ.''6. Freedom Islands''I know this isn’t your idea of a typical chill time with the squad, but it’s something that we always recommend to barkadas. Believe it or not, within Metro Manila is a protected area, serving as a bird sanctuary and nature reserve. Declared as a Ramsar Site for Wetlands of International Importance in 2013, the''Las Piñas-Parañaque Critical Habitat and Ecotourism Area''is rich in biodiversity and is an important conservation site.''Freedom Islands. Photo courtesy of Earth Island Institute Philippines.''It is made up of two islands — Freedom Island and Long Island. The area is brimming with mangroves, which nurture endemic and migratory birds alike, making it an ideal bird watching location.''However, it is under constant threat. The garbage the city produces — an awful lot of them! — has found its way to the islands. Environmental groups often organize clean up drives that you and your posse can join. It would be a great way to bond because you also get to help the environment along the way!''This ecotourism area will not only give you a nature trip fix without going outside the city but also knowledge about how we can help preserve and protect our environment.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''MANILA ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Where to Stay in Manila: Top 10 Budget Hotels Below P2000 ($40)''5 Indoor Attractions Under P1500 in Metro Manila''Top 12 Long Weekend Destinations from Manila (No Flights Needed)''Getting Around Manila: Tips on Traveling by MRT, Bus, Taxi, or Jeepney''BEACHES NEAR MANILA: 10 Uncrowded Weekend Getaways''I’m writing this post in between piles of clothes. I’m still in the middle of packing my stuff for my first trip to Athens, which is just a few hours from now. And I can’t tell you how excited I am. It’s all I’ve been thinking about for the past few weeks.''When my friends learned I’m flying to Greece, they expressed their concern about the timing. As a Mediterranean country, Greece is known as a summer destination. A simple mention of Greece conjures images of stunning beaches cradled between golden cliffs, boats leaving slipstreams across cerulean waters, and ruins under the intense heat of the sun.''This post is brought to you by Scoot. Scoot flies to Athens from Manila (via Singapore) 4X weekly.''But if you’ve been following our blog long enough, you know that we love traveling in winter. In fact, our travel season — the period when we go on consecutive trips — always begins in December. It’s not by chance. There are reasons why we prefer to wander in the colder months:''Off-peak season''. More often than not, prices of flights, hotels, and tours significantly go down in winter. It’s a great time to explore for budget travelers like us! In fact, Scoot currently has a great promo. They call it: Take-off Tuesday. Starting December 5, you can grab fares for Athens for only P9,999! Seats are limited so make sure your fast fingers are ready on December 5.''Smaller crowds''. Understandably and expectedly, Athens is one popular destination so massive crowds during peak seasons are not surprising at all. But during winter, things are not as hectic.''Friendlier temperatures''. As a guy who spent most of my life in the tropics, I say I’ve had more than my share of the heat. Cold weather fascinates me, and I find it more comfortable for sightseeing and simply walking around.''Although Athens is our entry point, it is actually the last stop in our itinerary. We’ll be exploring other regions of Greece and other countries in Europe first before ending the trip in Athens, so we still have plenty of time to add or change our plans. But here are some of the things we are looking forward to!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Skydiving in Athens''2. The Acropolis minus Big Crowds''3. Chill Hilltop Views''4. Getting Lost in Plaka''5. Greek Food Trip''6. The Changing of the Guards at Syntagma Square''7. Skiing!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''1. Skydiving in Athens''Skydiving in Athens is open year-round, so this may be a great choice for winter.''Last year, we were supposed to make our skydiving debut in Prague. It took us a few days to make a decision, and when we finally did, it rained, prompting the agency to cancel our flight. We ended up leaving Prague still skydiving virgins.''But we’re hoping to change that in Athens. “Hoping” because we’re still not sure about it, to be honest. Budget is an issue. Skydiving in Athens is relatively cheap. The keyword there is relatively. At EUR160-210 per person, it is definitely one of the cheapest skydiving options we found online, but it is still a hefty sum for a 3-hour activity. So we’ll see if we have enough money towards the end of the trip.''Do you think we should finally try skydiving?''2. The Acropolis minus Big Crowds''Not just Acropolis but also the other ruins and historic sites scattered around the city. I’m hoping for a more relaxed, more comfortable touring experience, without having to wait in long queues and battle other tourists for a photo spot. LOL.''The Acropolis is also known for not having much shade within its vicinity, so the cooler atmosphere will probably help make our time more enjoyable.''3. Chill Hilltop Views''You what else we plan to do other than visiting the Acropolis? Taking nice panoramic photos of it from afar. Fortunately, my online research informed me that Athens has plenty of spots just for that, and many of them are perched on hilltops: Filopappou Hill, Lycabettus Hill, Aeropagus Hill, and Strefi Hill. And we love hiking when it’s cooler, so this should be fun.''4. Getting Lost in Plaka''Standing in the shadow of the Acropolis is the maze-like neighborhood of Plaka, the oldest district of Athens. Because of its proximity to the Acropolis, it is dubbed the Village of the Gods. My curiosity is definitely piqued!''Online accounts encourage keeping an eye on the colors and architecture of the houses here, as well as dining at a cafe.''5. Greek Food Trip''Ah, I remember a half-Greek friend who got slightly upset with me years ago when I said I wasn’t a fan of Greek food. “Don’t judge an entire cuisine if you haven’t visited the country yet,” he quipped.''Again, that was years ago. At the time, I wasn’t really into Japanese food either, but when I finally set foot in Japan and got a taste of their food in all its authentic glory, I was sold. Same with Korean food. So I’m excited to join''Greek food tours''for a better and more informed appreciation of it!''Because the Yuletide season is here, I should probably expect bakeries to be filled with rows and rows of''melomakarona'', small egg-shaped cakes made from olive oil, honey, and flour.''6. The Changing of the Guards at Syntagma Square''I have witnessed a number of changing of the guards ceremonies around the world, and I have to say that this is one that I really am looking forward to. I’ve been mesmerized by videos of the slow, calculated, and synchronized routine that the Greek guards (called Evzones) perform. And yes, because it’s off-peak season, they say that the tourist crowd won’t be as big here either.''7. Skiing!''This one is not really within Athens, but the closest ski resort, Mt. Parnassos, is just a few hours away. The last time I was able to ski was four years ago near Mt. Fuji in Japan, and it would be wonderful to get to do it again in Greece. Vins has not tried it ever, and I know he’d enjoy it. Unfortunately, we might be too early for skiing because the resort opens December 15-ish (ugh!), but I’m including it here just in case you’re going to Athens too later this season.''So there. Hope everything goes as planned — especially the skydiving bit. But we’ll be updating this post after the trip to add more tips based on first-hand experience so don’t forget to check back soon!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''SCHENGEN VISA via GREEK EMBASSY MANILA 2018: Requirements & Application Process''How to Get from ATHENS AIRPORT to the CITY CENTER''ATHENS ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''6 Incredible Beaches Around the World''Top 15 Best & Worst Travel Moments of 2017''How to Help Fund Your Travels''This post is about how to apply for a Schengen Visa via the Embassy of Greece in Manila for the purpose of tourism. You’ll find the list of requirements and detailed information about the application process from securing a schedule to the actual interview. If you’re applying as a worker or as a seafarer, I’m afraid this post isn’t for you. This guide was last updated in February 2018.''Greece just got closer to the Philippines.''Earlier this year, low-cost carrier''Scoot'', a Singapore Airlines subsidiary, had their inaugural flight to Athens from Changi Airport. And because Scoot also directly connects Singapore to many Philippine destinations, this new route opens another avenue for Filipinos to reach Europe much more easily and more affordably.''We know that because in a few days, we will be flying to Athens via Scoot too! An economy seat on Scoot’s flights to Athens can be availed of for as low as P11,501.32 from Manila, P11,900.32 from Cebu, P12,001.32 from Clark, and P12,501.32 from Kalibo.''This post is brought to you by Scoot. Scoot flies to Athens from Manila (via Singapore) 4X weekly.''But because Greece is part of the so-called Schengen Zone, Philippine passport holders will need to secure a Schengen Visa first. It is a travel document that will allow you to enter any of the 26 European states that are part of the Schengen Agreement, including Greece.''If you’re flying to Greece and you’re also planning on visiting any of the Schengen countries, you only need one visa. You don’t need to apply for each of the countries in your itinerary individually.''For more information about the Schengen Visa, please read this post:''Schengen Visa for Filipinos'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'When to Apply at the Embassy of Greece''What are the Greece Schengen Visa Requirements?''How to Apply for a Greek Schengen Visa''1. Schedule an appointment by email.''2. Complete the Schengen Visa requirements.''3. Submit the requirements at the Embassy of Greece.''4. Claim your passport and visa.''Frequently Asked Questions''How long does the whole Greece Visa Application process take?''How long is the validity of the Schengen Visa?''Should I apply for a single-, double-, or multiple-entry visa?''How much money should I have in the bank to get approved?''What are the reasons why my Schengen visa application would be denied?''What does a Greek Schengen Visa look like?''Do I really need plane tickets before applying? What if I get denied? Sayang the pera.''For more Schengen Visa Frequently Asked Questions, check out this post: Schengen Visa for Filipinos''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''When to Apply at the Embassy of Greece''The Greek Embassy in Manila also processes applications on behalf of the Portuguese government, so this post also applies if you’re traveling to Portugal.''Apply at the Greek Embassy only if ANY of the items below is true:''You’re going to Greece ONLY or Portugal ONLY and will not visit any other country.''You will visit two or more Schengen countries but you will stay the longest in Greece or Portugal.''You will visit two or more Schengen countries but the main purpose of your trip is in Greece or Portugal. (Example: you will attend a conference in Greece but you plan on going out to other Schengen countries while you’re there.)''You will stay in multiple Schengen countries for exactly the same number of days, but Greece or Portugal is your point of entry (first in your itinerary).''If you’re sure that the Greek Embassy is the right place to lodge your application, it’s time to get started. Here’s how to apply, as we experienced first-hand.''What are the Greece Schengen Visa Requirements?''Accomplished requirements checklist''. You will find it''here''.''Application form''. Duly accomplished. Typewritten (NOT handwritten). Download it''here''.''Valid Passport''. Must have at least 6 months validity (at the time of departure). Must have at least 2 free adjacent pages. Must have no existing VALID Schengen visa.''All Previous Passports''. Yep, you have to submit even the old ones. In case of lost or destroyed passports, an Affidavit of Loss must also be submitted.''One (1) recent passport-size photo''. White background. Must be pasted on the application form.''Proof of Financial Means''–''Bank Certificate'', indicating the remaining balance and average daily balance (ADB) for the past 6 months. Must be addressed to the Consular Section of the Embassy of Greece.''When I think of Istanbul, I think of my childhood.''This ancient city took up almost a chapter in our grade school textbook, and as someone who grew up fascinated with history, it certainly made an impression early on. I remember how I studied its days as Constantinople and its significance as a center of trade and cultural diffusion in the region. I remember sleepless nights of memorizing the important dates that marked the rise and fall of both the Byzantine and Ottoman Empires. I remember trying to wrap my head around the Silk Road and its role in Medieval Europe.''Back then, I had no idea I would be a traveler. I was raised thinking that travel is a luxury, something enjoyed only by the rich. But I remember making a deal with my young self that I would someday see the city, its landmarks, historic sites and relics depicted in our books.''As I stood by the fountain at the Sultan Ahmet Park in between the Blue Mosque and Hagia Sophia, I wallowed in a sense of accomplishment knowing that a bucket list item had been ticked.''Truly, it is one of the most fascinating cities in the world. She is one of those with a lot of soul, somebody who has been through a lot and has a globe of stories to tell.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Istanbul: What You Need to Know''When is the Best Time to Visit Istanbul?''How to Get a Turkish Visa''How to Get to Istanbul''How to Get from Ataturk Airport to Istanbul City Center''How to Get from Sabiha Gökçen Airport to Istanbul City Center''Where to Stay in Istanbul''Best Budget Hotels in Istanbul''Best Istanbul Hostels''Search for more: Istanbul Hotels''How to Get Around Istanbul''By taxi''By Metro, Tram, Funicular, Ferry''Places to Visit in Istanbul''Sultanahmet Area''Watch a Whirling Dervishes Ceremony''Bosphorus Cruise''Traditional Turkish Bath (Hamam)''Spice Bazaar (Mısır Çarşısı)''Galata Tower (Galata Kulesi)''Other Istanbul Tourist Spots:''Sample Istanbul Itinerary & Breakdown of Expenses''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Istanbul: What You Need to Know''Istanbul is the poster city of a borderless world. It is where Asia sits down with Europe by the Bosphorus for an enjoyable a cup of tea. It is where East meets West for a passionate endless dance. It is where the past mingles with the present to have a conversation about the future. It is a city drenched in a multitude of colors, and things are hardly black or white.''It is perhaps this strategic location that made Istanbul one of the greatest cities in centuries past. It’s no wonder that its biggest pull is its magnificent history, showcased in many of its tourist spots. The Sultanahmet area alone is brimming with awe-inspiring landmarks that boast incredible Byzantine and Ottoman architecture and unique cultural traditions.''Vins, all smiles while we walk around Istanbul''Today, contrary to popular belief, Istanbul is NOT the capital of Turkey. The distinction is now owned by Ankara. But although it is no longer the seat of power, it remains the cultural and economic center, and the most populous in the country, with almost 15 million residents.''Here’s more info about Istanbul:''Language'': Turkish. It’s not as intimidating because they use the familiar Latin alphabet. English is also widely spoken, too.''Currency'': Turkish Lira (TRY, TL, ₺). TL1 = USD 0.26, EUR 0.22, PHP13.35 (as of November 2017). Some establishments accept the euro, but it would be best to pay in lira because the euro rate is usually costlier. There are a lot of money changers around the city, often concentrated in the Grand Bazaar, Sultanahmet, and Taksim areas. The difference in rates isn’t much, to be honest, but feel free to compare. You can also withdraw from ATMs.''Modes of payment'': Cash. Although some restaurants and hotels accept credit cards, public transportation and smaller establishments accept only cash.''Safety''. Outside our textbooks, at least in this part of the world, we only hear about Istanbul in the news. Unfortunately, the city has suffered from a number of terrorist attacks over the past few years. (In fact, our first visit happened just a week after the Sultanahmet bombing in 2016.) Naturally, our followers who also dream of Istanbul are concerned about safety. We always get questions on whether or not it is safe to visit. Our answer has always been the same: Personally, these attacks don’t stop us from traveling to a city because fear is what they want to get out of it. (Our only exception is war zones.) However,''that’s just us''. We don’t want to encourage or discourage anyone. Listen to your embassy’s advisory at the time, and consider your insurance coverage. But ultimately, make that decision for yourself. But always be vigilant wherever you choose to travel.''Electricity Info'': 220V, 50Hz. Socket Type F. It’s the socket that is indented into the wall and accepts plugs with two round prongs.''When is the Best Time to Visit Istanbul?''Istanbul enjoys all the four seasons. Weather-wise, April to August is the perfect time to visit because it is during this period that the skies are usually clear and the city gets the least rainfall, with July being the driest. However, as soon as summer kicks in, the city gets packed with tourists. June-August is the peak season so expect the crowds to be big and the rates high.''The autumn months of September to November are great too, The temperature is comfortable and the crowd manageable, but prepare for rain showers every now and then.''December to February is winter and off-peak. It is here that airfares and hotel rates go down, which is something you can take advantage of if you’re a budget traveler. Winter here is cold, yes, but not harsh. We were here in the first two weeks of February and we found the weather to be delightful. It drizzled a little but nothing major.''Because it stands in between two bodies of water, Istanbul is also pretty windy, which can sometimes intensify the cold.''How to Get a Turkish Visa''If you have a valid visa or residence permit from the US, UK, Ireland or any Schengen country,''you may apply for a visa online (e-visa). It’s fast and easy.''More info here:''Turkey Visa Online''Here are the requirements:''Valid passport that covers your travel period. (In PH case, your passport must also have at least 6-month validity.)''A return or onward ticket.''Proof of accommodation (hotel reservation).''Funds of at least USD 50 per day of your stay in Turkey.''Valid supporting visa''If you’re not holding a valid visa from any of the mentioned countries'', you will have to apply for a physical sticker visa at the Turkish Embassy or consulate in your area. The application starts by filling out this form:''Turkey Visa Application Form''.''How to Get to Istanbul''Istanbul is served by two airports:''Istanbul Atatürk Airport''in the European side and''Sabiha Gökçen Airport''in the Asian-Anatolian side. More flights fly in and out of Ataturk, as it is considered the city’s main gateway. It’s also much closer to the city center than Sabiha Gökçen.''If you’re traveling from outside Europe, there’s a big chance that the cheapest direct flights to Istanbul from your area are offered by''Turkish Airlines'', the country’s flag carrier. Turkish Airlines is connected to 120 countries, more than any other airline in the world.''From Manila'', the cheapest nonstop flights are offered by''Philippine Airlines''(but this particular flight is also operated by Turkish Airlines). Regular year-round fares are at USD940 (PHP 48,000). It can still drop when there is a sale or promo. Qatar Airways also offers competitive rates at USD920 (PHP 47,000) but it has one stop in Doha, Qatar.''From Singapore'', the cheapest option is to fly to Athens with Scoot and then transfer to Turkish Airlines to Istanbul. Combined fares are just at USD 580 (SGD 790). However, because you will be switching airlines in Greece, which is part of the Schengen area, there might be a need to get a Schengen visa, unless you’re holding a Singapore passport. Turkish Airlines offer the cheapest nonstop flights at USD 700 (SGD 950). Emirates and Qatar are also great choices at around USD 630 (SGD 860) with a stop in Dubai and Doha respectively.''From Jakarta'', the best non-stop flight is offered by Garuda (operated by Turkish Airlines) at USD 1266. But the cheapest option is from Saudia at USD 850, but it involves a stop in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.''From Hong Kong'', the cheapest flights are offered by Aeroflot (with a stop in Moscow) at USD 515 (HKD 4020). But the best direct flights are with Turkish Airlines at USD 970 (HKD 7600).''If you want to be notified when there are cheaper flights to Istanbul, download the Traveloka app and set up the PRICE ALERT for Istanbul. The app will let you know when there is a sale or flights that fall within your preferred price range.''Download the app here''.''How to Get from Ataturk Airport to Istanbul City Center''Ataturk Airport is located 30-40 minutes from Istanbul’s city center, but like many big cities, traffic jams are common, so the journey can be longer. To get to the city center, you may take a cab, the bus, or the metro/subway.''By taxi''. You’ll find the taxi queue right outside the Arrivals area. It’s the costliest option. The fare to Taksim is between 50-55 TL. To Sultanahmet, 65-70 TL. But if you’re a group of 4, this isn’t bad at all. Just be wary of taxi scams, which I will be discussing more of below.''By HAVABÜS''(formerly called Havatas Bus). This is the Airport Shuttle Service, and one bus leaves the airport for Taksim  Square every 30 minutes from 4am until 1am. Fare: 11TL. The bus terminates at Taksim Square. If your hotel is in Sultanahmet, you may take a cab to Sultanahmet, which should cost an additional 12 TL. Or you can walk and take the F1 Taksim-Kabataş funicular, then the T1 Kabataş-Bağcılar tram to Sultanahmet Station.''By Metro/Subway + Tram''. From the Arrivals area, follow the signs to the metro station and take the''M1A Yenikapı – Atatürk Airport Line''. It’s operational from 6am to 12midnight. However, if your hotel is in Sultanahmet or Taksim area, you will have to switch to the tram/funicular line at Zeytinburnu or Aksaray station. (Check out the map below.) This option is great if you’re not carrying big bags. Otherwise, it can quite the hassle since it can get crowded at certain times and confusing at first.''During our visit, we used Uber a lot because we were a group so we would just split the cost. It ended up cheap and convenient. But that was before the service was banned by Turkish authorities late last year. I’m not sure if it’s operational now or if any of the alternatives are as reliable.''How to Get from Sabiha Gökçen Airport to Istanbul City Center''The Sabiha Gökçen Airport is located much farther into the Asian side. The journey can take up around 90 minutes.''By Taxi''. Just because of the sheer distance, taxi rides are expensive. Fare can be as high as 115 TL to Taksim or 125-130 TL to Sultanahmet.''By HAVABÜS (Havataş Bus)''. Operates from 4am to 1am. Fare to Taksim Square: 14 TL.''If your hotel is in Sultanahmet, you can take the HAVABÜS to Taksim and take a cab to Sultanahmet, which should cost an additional 12 TL. There is a cheaper way (metro/tram/ferry), but because you’re probably carrying heavy bags and you’re unfamiliar with the city yet, I suggest taking the cab.''Where to Stay in Istanbul''Before you pick a hotel or hostel, it is imperative that you know the city’s geography so you know you’re in the right area. Istanbul’s layout is interesting and unique, to say the least. The city straddles two continents. The Bosphorus Strait, connecting the Black Sea to the north and the Sea of Marmara to the south, cuts the city in half: one half in Europe, another in Asia. The European side is also almost divided by a major inlet called the Golden Horn. Confused? Here’s how it looks.''Istanbul has a total of 39 districts. But for tourism purposes, let’s just focus on four key areas.''Asian side''. Mostly residential. Because of the high cost of rent on the European side of the Bosphorus, many locals choose to stay here. While it is always a great idea to pay a visit, I do not recommend staying here to tourists because most places of interest are on the European half.''Sultanahmet''. Often referred to as Old City, this is in a district called Fatih, south of the Golden Horn. Many of the city’s iconic structures and landmarks are here: Hagia Sophia, Blue Mosque, and the Grand Bazaar, among others. There are a number of hotels and hostels here.''Beyoğlu (Galata)''. Opposite Fatih, on the other side of the Golden Horn, is the district of Beyoğlu. Like Sultanahmet, it harbors many of the city’s tourist attractions including Taksim Square, İstiklal Caddesi, and the Galata Tower, dominating the area’s skyline. This area has the greatest concentration of accommodations.''New Istanbul and the Bosphorus''. Further north are four more districts: Beşiktaş, Kağıthane, Şişli, and Sarıyer. This is where Istanbul gets modern and a little bit artsy. At the center of it is the city’s central business district, surrounded by some pretty bohemian neighborhoods. Although a bit far from the key attractions, there are several hotels and hostels scattered across the area.''Where to stay depends on your itinerary. If you’re planning to spend more time in the city’s historic core, then book a place in Fatih (Sultanahmet). If you dig the busyness of Galata, go for Beyoğlu. Or if you want a more modern vibe, stay in the New City.''But personally, if I return to Istanbul, I will definitely stay in the Sultanahmet area.''Best Budget Hotels in Istanbul''Sultanahmet Suites – Apartments''is the top property according to reviews and ratings by Traveloka users. The apartments are located in Sultanahmet area, where most key tourist spots stand. There are single rooms, double rooms, and suites. Rooms are equipped with free wifi, private bathroom, air-conditioning, TV, kitchen amenities, and daily housekeeping.''Check Rates & Availability''Other Top Budget Hotels in Istanbul'':''Hotel La Villa''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Istanbul Hotel Nomade''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Star Holiday Hotel''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Best Istanbul Hostels''Antique Hostel & Guesthouse''is the best-reviewed hostel in Traveloka, as scored by users. Backpackers can stay at their 4-bed or 6-bed dorms. Also available: single rooms, double rooms, twin rooms, and triple rooms, all with private bathrooms. Each booking comes with free wifi and free local calls.''Check Rates & Availability''Other Top Hostels in Istanbul'':''Sultan Hostel & Guesthouse''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Taksim Green House Hostel''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Cheers Hostel''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Photos above were provided by the resorts via Traveloka.''Search for more:''Istanbul Hotels''.''How to Get Around Istanbul''Traveling in a foreign city as big as Istanbul can be quite overwhelming at first. Traffic jams are increasingly becoming a problem. The city’s roads accommodate over 3 million private cars, on top of 17,000 taxis and 5000 buses. But it is easy to commute in Istanbul when you get the hang of it. You just need to be mindful.''By taxi''Taking a cab is a good choice in many situations, especially in trying to reach places that are far from any metro or tram station. However, it comes with many disadvantages. First, it is much more expensive. Second, taxi-related scams are rampant in the city. You need to be aware with every modus operandi that they try to pull so you won’t fall victim to one (like we did, LOL). Here are some of them:''Not using the meter''. Always insist on using the meter.''Using tampered meter''. The cab we hired from Eminonu used a meter that moved a lot more quickly than usual. A cab ride from Sultanahmet to Beşiktaş should be just around 20 TL (at the time). Ours made it past 100 TL.''Charging night rates''. There used to be higher rates for night travel, but that has been abolished.''Not giving exact change''.''Taking a long detour''. We were surprised that the taxi driver took the long way to get to our hotel in Beşiktaş. It was already our third day in the city and we were already familiar with the area. He used terrible traffic as an excuse. He then took us around, taking unnecessary turns.''Switching money''. Some drivers would switch your bills when it’s time to pay. When you give him a 50TL note, he would claim that you had given him a 5TL note. They do it so fast you won’t even notice. Don’t fall for this.''To avoid any of this, do the following:''Always insist on using the meter.''Pretend you’ve been in Istanbul for quite a while. Scammers usually ask how long you have been in town.''If you’re coming from your hotel, ask the staff to get a cab for you.''Make sure you pay in smaller bills or coins.''When paying, double check your bills and say the amount per bill out loud when handing them to the driver.''Be familiar with the usual fares. How much is the taxi fare from Sultanahmet to other parts of Istanbul? Here:''From Sultanahmet to Beşiktaş: 25TL''From Sultanahmet to Galata Tower: not exceeding 20TL''From Sultanahmet to Taksim Square: not exceeding 20TL''From Sultanahmet to Atatürk Airport: 50-55 TL''From Sultanahmet to Sahiba Gökçen Airport: 125-130TL''By Metro, Tram, Funicular, Ferry''I found taking the metro and tram in Istanbul to be a delightful experience. Except in rush hour, they are comfortable and not crowded. Istanbul’s rail network isn’t as intricate or complicated as, say, Tokyo or Seoul or Paris. It’s also easy to get used to. Here’s the city’s network map. Click on the image to enlarge:''You also don’t need to memorize fare matrices. For example, Metro Istanbul charges a flat''5TL''fare for every token or single-use ticket, regardless of your destination within their line.''But if you feel like you’ll be taking public transportation a lot, get an''Istanbul Kart'', an all around RFID card that you can use on the metro, buses, trams, funiculars, and more. This will give you significant discounts, almost 50%.''For example, as mentioned, the flat metro fare is 5TL but if you use Istanbul Kart,''it is only 2.6TL''. The transfer fares are even lower, only 1.85TL on the first transfer, 1.4TL on the second, and 0.9TL on succeeding transfers.''How much is the Istanbul Kart?''The card costs 10TL which already has a 4TL load (so the card itself is only 6TL).''Where can I buy Istanbul Kart?''You’ll find card automated card machines at almost every metro, tram, ferry or metrobus station in the city. At the Ataturk airport, just go to the metro station and you’ll find ’em there.''Where can I use it?''You can use it for your ride on any of the following: bus, metro, tram, funicular, teleferic, metrobus, HAVABUS, tunnel, double decker express, IDO ferry (IDO-IST, IDO-ADA1, IDO-ADA2), TURYOL Bosphorus Cruise, Dentur Bosphorus Cruise, Şehir Hatları ferry (ŞH-İST, ŞH-ADA), and TCDD trains.''How do I use it?''Just hover the card on top of the reader upon entering the station.''How much should you load?''Depends on your itinerary. But an initial 20TL should be okay. Just top up when necessary.''Places to Visit in Istanbul''Sultanahmet Area''This neighborhood in Istanbul’s Fatih district is home to many of the city’s key historic structures including the following:''Hagia Sophia (Ayasofya)''. Istanbul’s most iconic structure, which is also a microcosm of the city. It was initially an Orthodox Christian cathedral from 537-1204, 1261-1453, under the Byzantine Empire; then converted into a Roman Catholic cathedral from 1204-1261, under the Latin Empire,; then made over into an imperial mosque during and after the Ottoman Empire (1453-1931). Today, it houses a museum (Ayasofya Müzesi). Entrance fee is 30TL. But you can also book a guided tour which includes the entrance pass, skip-the-line privilege, and an English speaking guide for only USD15.''Opening hours: 15 April-25 October 09:00-19:00; 25 October-15 April 09:00- 17:00''Guided Tour:''Reserve Here''Blue Mosque, (Sultan Ahmed Mosque)''. This is a functioning mosque, which means that it closes during prayer time 5x a day. It is open at these times: 08:30am, 01:00pm, and 03:30pm.''Admission Fee'': FREE''I should’ve listened when they said, “Go the extra mile.”''The last time I was in Negros Occidental, I burned most of my time in Bacolod and went as far south as the municipality of Cauayan. I was a travel newbie then and was only interested in the obvious and popular. At the time, I had heard of Sipalay City. Locals kept mentioning it, urging us to make time for it. “You’re already in Cauayan, you might as well visit Sipalay.” But because it didn’t ring any proverbial bell, I swept it under the rug, where I keep anything I find outside of my comfort zone.''It’s been six years since that trip. Sipalay City, the jewel that sparks a lot of pride in the heart of the locals, remains an obscure dot on the tourism map of the Philippines. I still felt like I knew nothing about it. So when the soles of my feet touched Negros Island once again, I knew I was in for a surprise. It was time to finally go that extra mile. And that extra mile was so extra!''Sipalay is phenomenal''.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Sipalay City''When to Visit Sipalay''How to Get to Sipalay''From Bacolod Airport''From Dumaguete Airport''Where to Stay in Sipalay City''Best Hotels and Resorts in Sipalay City''Jamont Hotel (Sipalay City Center)''Sipalay Jewel Guest House (City Center)''Easy Diving and Beach Resort (South, Punta Ballo)''Sugar Beach House''Driftwood Village (Sugar Beach)''Search for more: Sipalay Hotels''Places to Visit in Sipalay''Tinagong Dagat''Perth Paradise Resort''Punta Ballo''Sugar Beach''Poblacion Beach''Other Things to Do in Sipalay City''Sample Sipalay Itinerary & Budget Breakdown''Option A: Sipalay + Danjugan Island''Option B: Sipalay Only (Budget)''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Sipalay City''Sipalay City is one of the twelve component cities in Negros Occidental. But before you conjure up images of skyscrapers, know that it is far from being highly urbanized. In many ways, it still feels more like a small town than an urban center. The atmosphere remains pretty laid-back and rustic, with the city center composed of just a few blocks lined by often empty streets. Don’t expect fast food stores, malls, or supermarkets.''Sipalay’s economy was fueled mostly by sugar and mines, but it is slowly shifting to one that is driven by tourism. Budget and upscale resorts are sprouting in every nook and cranny of its splendidly crumpled landscape. Dozens of small rainforest-carpeted hills guard its coast, hiding a stretch of white and golden sand in between. Visitors are here for the beaches, and in Sipalay, there is no running out of them.''Here are some more facts you might want to know:''Language'': Hiligaynon (Ilonggo). English is widely understood.''Currency'': Philippine peso (PhP). PhP100 = USD2, EUR 1.65, KRW 22000, JPY218''Mode of payment'': Cash. We found one ATM (Landbank). If you’re coming from Bacolod and you need to withdraw, do so in Bacolod. A few resorts accept credit card, but cash is still preferred.''Electricity'': The standard voltage is 220V. Standard socket is Type A (two pins).''When to Visit Sipalay''Weather-wise, the best time to visit is between December to May, with February to April being the most ideal.''However, bear in mind that December and the March-May periods are also peak seasons so expect the crowd to balloon. June is the start of the rainy season. Thankfully, Sipalay is out of the usual typhoon path and it is rarely gets direct hits.''How to Get to Sipalay''The Bacolod-Silay Airport is the gateway to Negros Occidental, which Sipalay is part of. From Bacolod, the capital, it’s just 5-6 hours away. However, Dumaguete Airport in twin province Negros Oriental is actually a tad closer. The difference isn’t much though, so you can just pick whichever is cheaper or better suited to your itinerary.''From Bacolod Airport''At the airport, you may take a shuttle/van (P150) but it will terminate at SM City Bacolod. If you’re not traveling alone or carrying heavy baggage, the most convenient way is to just take a taxi or GrabTaxi directly to South Ceres Bus Terminal and split the cost. Fare: around P250 (if meter is used).''At the South Ceres Bus Terminal, hop into the bus going to Hinoba-an or Sipalay. There’s one almost every hour. Travel time: 5 hours. Fare: P209 (non-aircon bus), P253 (aircon bus).''Tell the driver to drop you off in Sipalay (if you take the Hinoba-an bus).''From Sipalay bus station, take a tricycle to your hotel or resort. If your hotel is in the city center, you can go on foot. If it’s on a beach outside the city, take a tricycle. Fare: P150 per person.''From Dumaguete Airport''From the airport, take a tricycle to Dumaguete Ceres Terminal. Fare: P100-P300, depending on your nego skills. You may also get out of the airport vicinity and ride a multicab to the city center.''At Dumaguete Ceres Terminal, board the bus going to Sipalay. Fare: around P290. If there are no direct buses to Sipalay, you may take a bus to Hinoba-an and transfer to another bus to Sipalay. Either way, the journey will take 4-5 hours.''From Sipalay bus station, take a tricycle to your hotel or resort. If your hotel is in the city center, you can go on foot. If it’s on a beach outside the city, take a tricycle. Fare: P150 per person.''Where to Stay in Sipalay City''There are three main areas where you can stay, each with their pros and cons.''Sipalay’s southern coast''Sipalay City Center''. The most convenient option. Cheap lodging and dining options can be found here. As the center of commerce and transportation of the city, you are very likely to find yourself in this area anyway, even if you choose to stay elsewhere. Cellular reception (signal) is good here.''Southern Coast''. The beaches south of the city center harbor several resorts, many of which are a bit upscale. This rugged stretch conceals Tinagong Dagat, Punta Ballo, and even Perth Beach Resort in its corners. If you want some peace of mind and you plan on staying at the resort most of the time, this may be a good choice. However, know that many of these resorts are a bit on the expensive side. It is also far from the city center, with little transpo options unless you ask the resort to charter a tricycle for you. The resorts are usually tucked far from the main road. The jagged terrain also makes getting to your room a test of stamina. Some resorts are not senior-friendly at all. For example, in the case of Easy Diving Resort and Perth Paradise Resort, the rooms and facilities are connected by steep stairways. Cellular reception here is spotty at best, and data connection is non-existent in some areas. But some resorts like Easy Diving provide their own mobile internet device to their guests free-of-charge.''Sugar Beach''. Sipalay’s most popular beach. This is a great choice if you’re on a budget but you want to stay somewhere beachfront. Lots of affordable resorts and restaurants fringe the powder strip. Affordable, relative to those in the south. The downside, it’s pretty secluded so if you want to also explore the Southern beaches, it will require a boat and tricycle transfers. Resorts here include Taka Tuka, Driftwood Village, and Sulu Sunset Resort.''Of the three, we recommend staying in the city center if you plan on seeing the most of Sipalay. Just visit Sugar Beach and the other coves on a day tour. This will save you time, effort, and money. If you also plan on visiting Danjugan Island in neighboring municipality of Cauayan, the city center is the perfect base.''Best Hotels and Resorts in Sipalay City''Here are the top-rated properties in Sipalay, as scored by Traveloka users. We picked one property in the south, one in Sugar Beach, and two properties in the city center.''Jamont Hotel (Sipalay City Center)''Jamont Hotel is your best bet in the city center, which means transportation won’t be a problem. This is the top rated Sipalay property in poblacion.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Sipalay Jewel Guest House (City Center)''If you’re not''maselan''and you’re okay with just the bare basics, Sipalay Jewel Guest House may have a bed for you. Note though that the bedrooms are not air-conditioned and bathrooms are shared. It’s dirt cheap though, with beds somewhere between P200 and P400.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Easy Diving and Beach Resort (South, Punta Ballo)''If Traveloka and TripAdvisor reviews are to be trusted, this is the best resort in Sipalay. It’s a bit on the pricey end of the spectrum, at P2000 per night when we stayed here (with breakfast). But the rooms are well-maintained and the restaurant serves good food. But again, it’s situated not close to the city center. And it’s also perched on a hillside, so prepare to get your lifetime dose of stairs. But if you don’t mind the daily exercise and you’re here for the peace and quiet or to learn diving, this is perfect for you.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Sugar Beach House''Check Rates & Availability''.''Driftwood Village (Sugar Beach)''Another affordable option (but isn’t on Traveloka listing) is Driftwood Village. It’s incredibly popular among backpackers for its low rates and cool ambience. Here are their rates:''Rooms w/ private bathroom (as of November 2017)''Good for 2 pax: P900-1200''Good for 4 pax: P1500''Good for \u200e6 pax: P1800-2000''Extra person: 300 per head''Native-style Room (Fan Only, Shared bathroom)''Good for 2 pax: P450-650''Dorm bed: P250 per person''Photos above were provided by the resorts via Traveloka.''Search for more:''Sipalay Hotels''.''Places to Visit in Sipalay''The streets that make up the city center are paved, so getting around the poblacion area or going to any point along the highway is comfortable. But it’s a different story getting to the beaches, which can be accessed via narrow, rough dirt roads. Expect a bumpy ride.''For non-divers, the beaches and coves are the highlight of any stay in Sipalay. Thankfully, most of them can be visited in one day, if you decide not to stay long. You can hop from one attraction to another in two ways:''By tricycle''. The tricycle is the main mode of transportation in the city. But they are not as common as you might think. In areas outside poblacion, it’s seldom to find a passing tricycle. You will have to ask a hotel or resort staff to charter one for you. From the city center to anywhere outside, prepare P150-P200 per person. Sometimes, the driver agrees to P250-P350 per 2 pax. Hence, it’s best to hire a tricycle for an entire day.''A whole-day Tricycle Tour of the city costs P1500 (max. 4 pax).''By boat''. From Poblacion Beach, you can charter a boat to take you to the same spots as the tricycle tour. Cost is the same: P1500. I’m pretty sure most resorts offer island hopping tours too, but they might cost a bit more.''Whatever you take, you will be able to visit the following destinations:''Tinagong Dagat''This is a small, private cove peppered with rocky islets, with some connected by wooden bridges. The area is managed by a resort that is easily accessible from the main road. Cross the long bridge and skirt around the islet on the far end and you’ll find the base of a concrete staircase (of around 100 steps). Climb to the park atop to get a wonderful view of the surrounding paradise.''Entrance fee'': P30''Perth Paradise Resort''This is where you’ll find this swimming pool with that iconic view. The resort occupies an isolated hillside, with the pool crowning one. To get to the pool, you will have to climb another staired path. We actually spent one night here (P2500), but you can also visit on a day tour.''Entrance Fee'': P80 for adults, P50 for kids.''Pool use'': P100 per person''Punta Ballo''Another stretch of golden sand. This is where more upscale resorts, such as Easy Diving, Robinson Cruse Beach Resort, and Artistic Dive Center, are located.''Sugar Beach''Sipalay’s most popular beach. It’s a long strip of, uhm, sugary sand cut in half by a stream estuary. Sugar Beach most often refers to the half north of the river, cloistered from the rest of Sipalay. Directions to this beach can be quite overwhelming at first.''If you’re on a boat tour, no problem; you will be taken directly to the beach.''If you’re on a tricycle tour, the tricycle is going to take you to the jump-off point near the mouth of the stream (far from the highway). From here, you will have to ride a boat to the other side of the stream (Boat fare: P50) then walk to the resort area. You can also charter a boat to take you straight to the resort area (Fare: P300).''Poblacion Beach''The beach fronting Sipalay City Center. Make sure you end your tour here for two reasons. First, it faces west, making it a fantastic spot to watch the sunset. We did it on two consecutive nights and it was magnificent both times. Such a relaxing sight!''Second, running parallel this beach is''Sipalay Food Park'', which is composed of several inasal and barbeque places and small food kiosks. Have your dinner here!''Other Things to Do in Sipalay City''Visit Danjugan Island''. It’s a marvelous piece of paradise in Cauayan, the town next to Sipalay. The island has five lagoons, in two of which you can kayak. And you can snorkel to see its vibrant marine life including giant clams and massive corals. It’s not to be missed in this part of Negros Occidental. Day tours from P1950 (including food and boat transfers). More info here:''Danjugan Island''Scuba Dive''. Sipalay is a wonderful diving destination. Most beachfront properties south of the city center are also dive resorts, including Easy Diving and Artistic Dive Center. If you don’t know how yet, they offer beginner courses.''Sample Sipalay Itinerary & Budget Breakdown''Below are two sample Sipalay itineraries. This itinerary assumes you’re a group of 2 and that you will be splitting the cost. You may follow these, but feel free to make changes to match your preferences and schedule.''Option A: Sipalay + Danjugan Island''This also involves a visit to Danjugan Island, which makes up a bulk of the budget.''Hotel arrangement'': Stay 3 nights in Sipalay City Center (Ideal budget: P1400/night).''Day 1: BACOLOD-SIPALAY''09:00 am – ETA Bacolod-Silay Airport''09:30 am – Take cab to South Terminal – P130 (P260/2pax)''10:00 am – Early lunch – P100''11:00 am – Bus to Sipalay – P209''04:30 pm – Arrival in Sipalay''05:00 pm – Hotel check in''05:30 pm – Sunset at Poblacion Beach''06:30 pm – Dinner at Sipalay Food Park – P150''08:00 pm – Back at hotel, rest''Day 2: DANJUGAN ISLAND DAY TOUR''07:00 am – Bus to Crossing Remollos – P30''08:00 am – Arrival at Remollos/Bulata beach''08:30 am – Begin Danjugan Island Tour''06:00 pm – End Tour (P1950)''06:30 pm – Travel to Sipalay''08:00 pm – Dinner – P150''09:00 pm – Lights out''Day 3: SIPALAY TOUR''08:00 am – Start Sipalay Beach-hopping – P750 (1500/2pax)''09:00 am – Sugar Beach – Boat: P50''11:00 am – Early lunch – P200''12:30 pm – Punta Ballo''02:00 pm – Perth Paradise Beach – P80 Entrance + P100 Pool Use''04:30 pm – Tinagong Dagat – P30''06:30 pm – Dinner at Sipalay Food Park – P150''Day 4: DEPARTURE''07:00 am – Hotel check out''08:00 am – Bus to Bacolod – P209''01:00 pm – Lunch – P150''02:00 pm – Taxi to airport – P130 (P260/2)''02:40 pm – Bacolod-Silay Airport – P200 Terminal Fee''This itinerary will set you back''P7500 – P800''per person, excluding airfare.''As mentioned, the biggest bulk of the budget goes to the Danjugan Island tour. Yes, the tour is indeed a bit expensive, but it is absolutely be worth it. But if you’re not interested in it, it will bring down the cost significantly.''Option B: Sipalay Only (Budget)''This itinerary is the budget version. Instead of going to Danjugan, spend an entire day just relaxing on Sugar Beach instead.''Hotel arrangement'': Stay 3 nights on Sugar Beach (Ideal budget: P650/night, fan-only room).''Day 1: BACOLOD-SIPALAY''09:00 am – ETA Bacolod-Silay Airport''09:30 am – Take cab to South Terminal – P130 (P260/2pax)''10:00 am – Early lunch – P100''11:00 am – Bus to Sipalay – P209''04:30 pm – Arrival in Sipalay City Hall''04:40 pm – Trike to Jump off Point – P50 (P100/2 pax)''05:00 pm – Boat to the other side – P50''05:10 pm – Walk to resort''05:30 pm – Hotel check in''07:00 pm – Dinner – P200''08:30 pm – Back at hotel, rest''Day 2: SIPALAY TOUR''08:00 am – Start Sipalay Beach-hopping – P750 (1500/2pax)''09:00 am – Perth Paradise Resort – P80 Entrance + P100 Pool Use''11:00 am – Early lunch – P200''12:30 pm – Tinagong Dagat – P30''02:00 pm – Punta Ballo''04:30 pm – Back at Sugar Beach''06:30 pm – Dinner – P150''Day 3: SUGAR BEACH CHILL''07:00 am – Swim/Laze on the beach''12:00 nn – Lunch – P150''02:00 pm – Rest/relax''04:00 pm – Swim again''07:00 pm – Dinner – P150''09:00 pm – Lights out''Day 4: DEPARTURE''06:00 am – Hotel check out''07:00 am – Boat to Poblacion Beach – P150 (P300/2pax)''08:00 am – Bus to Bacolod – P209''01:00 pm – Lunch – P150''02:00 pm – Taxi to airport – P130 (P260/2)''02:40 pm – Bacolod-Silay Airport – P200 Terminal Fee''This itinerary will cost you''P4500-P5000''per person.''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Make friends''. Tricycle and boat tours can accommodate up to 4 people. If you form a group of 4, you can reduce your expenses significantly.''Cellular reception (signal) in some areas are spotty at best''. If internet connectivity is that important to you, contact the hotel/resort first and ask about their connection options (wifi, cellular data signal of your provider, etc) before finalizing your booking.''Ask your resort about the topography of their property''if you have health issues or traveling with seniors. Some of them are virtually made of stairs, which can be quite challenging for the unfit.''If you’re staying in Sugar Beach or anywhere outside the city center, withdraw cash before arriving''. There are no ATMs around.''Don’t hesitate to ask for help if you’re lost or confused''. The people of Negros are some of the sweetest and friendliest.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Bacolod and Negros Occidental: Budget Travel Guide''BACOLOD AND SIPALAY SAMPLE ITINERARIES''Danjugan Island, Negros Occidental: Budget Travel Guide''BACOLOD ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itineraries''Preparing a Bacolod Itinerary – Negros Occidental, Philippines''How to Get to Punta Bulata and Danjugan Island, Cauayan, Negros Occidental, Philippines''When planning a camping trip there are certain items that you will need wherever you decide to camp, however for some destinations you will need certain extras or at least consider different options. Camping on a beach, in a forest or at a ski resort will all come with its different needs and planning.''Well, whichever trip you are going on here are some''things you won’t be able to live without''on your camping trip and a few tips on how to pack smarter. Plus, some extra ideas for different camping destinations too.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Essentials for a Camping Trip''1. Tent, Sleeping bags, and more''2. Clothing that can be layered''3. Toiletries and other essentials''4. Safety Items''Extras Beach Camping''1. Fire making equipment''2. Insect net and camp bed''3. Dustpan and brush''Extras for Ski Resort Camping''1. Extra Warm clothing''2. Hand warmers''3. Sleeping pads or mats''Some other advice for campers''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Essentials for a Camping Trip''First things first: the essentials. Here are some things you must consider bringing with you regardless of your destination.''1. Tent, Sleeping bags, and more''Of course, the first things you need on a camping trip is your camping gear. Depending on how you are traveling will determine what you can physically bring with you. A tent and sleeping bags are the main things you will need plus cookware and somewhere to store food if you are cooking for yourself.''If you are packing in your car and driving to your campsite then you might want to bring along camping chairs and a table to make your stay more comfortable. If you are backpacking on foot however, you will want to save as much weight and space as you can, so forget about it.''2. Clothing that can be layered''You don’t want to pack too much clothing when camping, but you will need spares in case you get muddy or wet and need to change. Bringing clothing that can be layered depending on the weather is the best thing to do. Plus, you will need essentials such as a waterproof jacket, walking boots or shoes, good socks, a hat and swimwear.''When packing clothing for a camping trip, you should''use travel packing cubes to keep your clothing clean'', separated and organized too. This was you can keep that dirty laundry away from your clean clothes and if using waterproof ones, you’ll keep everything dry.''3. Toiletries and other essentials''Bring small toiletries and a towel for washing as well as a tea towel for your cooking and eating items. A torch (flashlight) is another essential for those dark nights, and a battery powered lantern for inside the tent too.''4. Safety Items''A first aid kit is a must, even if it is a basic one and any medication with extras in case of emergency. Having a map and extra batteries/charging stations for mobile devices are also a good idea so you don’t get lost and can contact someone if you get into trouble.''Oh, another thing: Please let someone know your destination or your route. You don’t want your family or friends back home to grow worried sick about you.''Extras Beach Camping''Camping on the beach can be fun and relaxing, the sound of the waves, the feeling of freedom. But there are a few things you may not have thought of when planning to camp on the beach. Here are a few extra items you should consider for beach camping.''1. Fire making equipment''Creating bonfires, no matter how small, is not allowed in some beaches or allowed only in specific areas, so make sure you’re familiar with the rules before lighting that match. But if it is allowed, bring something that will make your life easier. It can be difficult to make a fire on the beach, the damp ground and air and the windy sea breeze can all make starting a fire quite hard. Bringing matches, a lighter, your own dry wood and perhaps a bin or fire pit will mean making a fire is that little bit easier.''2. Insect net and camp bed''To get a good night’s sleep and to avoid those pesky mites and sand flies it’s a good idea to bring along a mosquito or insect net to stop the flies getting in and biting.  Beaches attract all sorts of insects and other creatures, and even though you are in a tent, a camp bed is an excellent way to keep you off the ground.''3. Dustpan and brush''This might sound strange but you really don’t want sand to get everywhere. If you do get sand in your tent, and you probably will, then you’ll want some way of getting it out again and a dustpan and brush is the perfect solution.''Extras for Ski Resort Camping''Camping can be cold and wet at the best of times, but in a ski resort this is on the next level. Even in warmer months camping at high altitude brings very low temperatures, especially at night. Here are a few extras you might need when camping in a ski resort.''1. Extra Warm clothing''It will be cold, as well as your layers, you’ll need warm hats and socks both for the daytime and at night. When camping in cold climates or at high altitude sleeping in hats and warm clothing is essential to keep yourself comfortable and safe.''2. Hand warmers''A great little invention that stay warm for hours and perfect to snap and keep yourself warm, especially at night. They are easy to get hold of, light to pack and relatively cheap too.''3. Sleeping pads or mats''Keeping yourself up off the ground but also well insulated, using one or two foam/inflatable sleeping pads as well as your warm tog sleeping bag will stop the cold seeping in from the ground. What you bring depends on your method of travel but having plenty between you and the ground will ensure you keep the cold out.''Some other advice for campers''Camping is always better in the summer months or when the environment is at its most pleasant weather wise. It’s always best not to camp in extreme heat or cold, both can be dangerous and often cause dehydration.''Remember you are in a natural environment so you need to respect the area you are camping in. Follow the advice of leave as you found, which is even more important in wild camping areas. Take your rubbish away with you, cover over fires and be aware of local wildlife and plant life too.''By responsible camping you are leaving the sites ready for other people to use and making camping more sustainable for the future.''Do you have any tips for those who want to camp in different destinations? There are so many places open for campers all around the world, from the Swiss alps to the beaches of Thailand. You just have to plan, be prepared, pack your bag and off you go.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''7 Items Travelers Often Forget to Pack''10 Practical Tips I Wish I Followed Before I Started Traveling''JustFly Reviews: 5 Excellent Ways to Survive a Road Trip''7 Simple Things that Could Save Your Life During Travel''How to Book Safe Airport Transfers with KiwiTaxi''8 INSIDER TIPS: How to Book PISO FARE Flights Successfully''History has repeatedly shown us that the best things always come in threes, from Hollywood blockbusters, stories and heroic teaming. The rule of three usually means things are more inherently humorous, satisfying and effective than any other number.\xa0 This is why many locations and tour operators around the world boasts of three stop or triangular tours.''India is no stranger to this with its''Golden Triangle Tour''being world famous, taking in most of India’s most popular tourist sites. The trip begins in the heart of Chaotic and bustling Delhi, where one should expect things to be a little topsy-turvy. From there it’s on to one of the most iconic sites in the entire world, the Taj Mahal as you explore the city of Agra. Jaipur the Pink City is the last stop on your journey before your return to Delhi, with its many fascinating buildings ancient sites and modern day luxuries each city is sure to entertain.''Each city being connected by railways and roads when looked at on a map forms the shape of a triangle, with its vast amounts of cultural heritage sites, loaded with history and the seat of India’s power, the route was given the name the golden triangle.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Delhi''Agra''Jaipur''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Delhi''Delhi being the capital of India one would expect lots of people crowded streets and many architectural eyesores. However the city also bleeds out of its urban madness into some sites that shows the heart of India. Start your morning off with a cup of Chai tea the perfect blend of spices and milk.\xa0While exploring the city, places like the Jama Masjid Mosque and the Lakshmi Narayan Temple in Old Delhi are not be missed, two places of religious worship beautiful constructed makes for the perfect places to take in the building styles of old India.''For a breath of serenity take a visit to the Humayun’s Garden Tomb, a clean open air space where the incredible fusion of Persian and Nigel architecture makes up the inspiration for the Taj Mahal.''Agra''The city of Agra takes center stage of the triangle because what is a trip to India without visiting the Taj Mahal? The traffic has to been to be believed, the streets are sometimes littered herds of goats, a few cows every now and again, scooters, cars and trucks. Over the years we have heard of many lovers doing the unthinkable for their lost love ones, from Cleopatra and Mark Anthony to Romeo and Juliette. But when Shah Jahan lost his wife he commissioned the building of the Taj Mahal as a monument to her beauty and a mausoleum.''The Agra Fort served as a stronghold for many Mughal empires, it even served as a prison for Shah Jahan, who was imprisoned there by his own son for 8 years before his death. Other sites include the Akbar Mausoleum who the father of Shah Jahan and one of India’s greatest rulers.''Jaipur''Jaipur the flamboyant Pink City was painted pink to welcome the Prince of Wales in 1867, home of the City Palace; the city still hosts its royal descendants today some of home can still be scene at the site. Built with its many honeycomb windows, the place was constructed so that the many royal females could watch the city’s festivities from above without having to mingle.''The Amber fort with its sun kissed brown color in Rajasthan former home of the once rulers of India the Maharajas, the fort takes you back in time and leaves you there as you overlook the beautiful body of water next to the fort. Rajasthan former palaces have been transformed for many purposes, some of which being hotels and restaurants which provide all the flavors of India. With each region known for their own variants of dishes, all descending from the people that brought them from their home countries, such as the Mughals and their meat dishes and the Portuguese and their red chilies. Making India food one of the most assimilated around the world.''After Jaipur you return to Delhi bringing your tour to an end with lots of new memories and possibly some wonderful trinkets to take back with you.''Memphis Tours''specializes in taking you to the best there is to offer without the hassle of having to plan it yourself so come and explore India.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''8 Ways to Save While Traveling In India''My 3 Most Ridiculous Moments While Backpacking RTW''INDIA VISA FOR FILIPINOS: How to Apply Online''6 Incredible Beaches Around the World''7 Heritage Sites in Chinatown Singapore: A DIY Walking Tour (Updated: 2014)''Lake Kawaguchi: Under the Spell of Mt. Fuji, Japan''I still remember that night I signed up for an Uber account.''It had been three hours since I left work yet I was still desperately trying to hail a taxi. Rain was pouring, and every single one of the cabs that stopped refused to take me even after offering an additional P150. At the time, I wouldn’t mind spending more. I just wanted to get home. I was this close to offering my soul to Our Lady of Perpetual Waiting, when it finally dawned on me. Drenched, exhausted, and awfully frustrated, I finally downloaded the Uber app.''I am an extremely cautious person. Everyone who knows me well knows that it takes a great deal of convincing to push me to try something new and unfamiliar. My friends find it weird, considering that I am a digital guy and my entire work background has a lot to do with technology. Before becoming a full-time travel blogger, I was a social media consultant. Yet, it wasn’t until 5 years ago when I had my own credit card. And whenever there is a new app, it takes a while for me to jump into the bandwagon. I don’t even play mobile games.''But that night changed me. Not only did I get home, I got home fast and safe and more open to new technology. I’m still very careful in choosing which apps and websites to trust, but I began to develop a warmer, more welcoming attitude towards travel apps in general. And before I knew it, I was relying on them on almost everything. It became even more pronounced when I became a full-time traveler. These apps have saved me a lot of money and time, and saved me from so much frustrations.''Aside from the usual maps, translators, and currency converters, here are five apps that took aggregation and crowdsourcing to a whole new level and changed the way we travel for the better.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Traveloka''2. TripAdvisor''3. Klook''4. Waze''5. Uber and Grab''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''1. Traveloka''There are a lot of comparison apps and websites out there. Some compare airfare. Others, hotel costs. What we love about Traveloka is that they compile and compare BOTH flight and hotel costs. And then some.''Their mobile app comes with several helpful features, but the one we love the most is their PRICE ALERTS''. By activating alerts on the''Traveloka App'', you will be notified whenever there are awesome flight deals that become available, depending on the parameters you set. For example, if you’re planning on flying to Boracay, you can enter that specific route and your budget limitations into the app, and when there are flights that match those, you’ll get alerts.''Traveloka has flight and hotel promos almost every week'', which are great for bargain hunters and budget travelers.''Booking fees are also waived''. Unlike other online travel agencies, there is no additional charge when you book with Traveloka. What you see is what you pay.''Traveloka may be fairly new in the Philippines and the name reads curious and, to be frank, sounds funny. But trust me, it’s legit. It is a giant in the ASEAN travel scene — present in Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam. The only kaloka thing about it is how useful it is.''The company is now valued at $2BILLION after Expedia invested $400Million earlier this year. So expect Traveloka to grow even bigger in the next few years! Traveloka has also sponsored Asia’s Got Talent and the SEA Games to gain a stronger footing in the region.''Download Traveloka App Here''.''2. TripAdvisor''Nothing beats user reviews when it comes to finding establishments to take your business to. Whether it’s hotels, restaurants, attractions, or tours, TripAdvisor provides testimonials from actual customers, assisting me in making an informed decision. Photos also help manage our expectations. Sure, there have been surprises – high-rated but turned out to be rubbish, low-rated but pretty good – but it reflects reality in most cases.''Side note'': Traveloka also uses TripAdvisor’s ratings alongside their own score system, which is convenient in finding the best hotels!''3. Klook''As travel bloggers, we get partnership offers from tour companies all the time. When it comes to online tours, we decided to go with Klook. And there’s a reason for that.''First, we were able to try their service and we loved it. We were able to sign up for an account, search for a tour, and book in no time. The website is super user-friendly and easy to understand.''We met with Klook last summer and had a proper sit-down discussion on what sets them apart. We were impressed with how much work it takes before a tour gets included in their listing. It’s not a simple aggregation of random tours. They actually try it themselves one by one, making sure that the quality of the activities they offer meets their standard.''4. Waze''When I’m walking, often Google Maps is my guy. But when we’re driving, Waze becomes my best friend. Waze is the third member of our team when we’re on a road trip!''The idea behind Waze is genius — using collective real-time user data in order to estimate travel times and assess traffic situations while giving driving directions. It also takes advantage of crowdsourcing — users can report traffic accidents, road closures, or any change on the map.''There are misses every now and then — no app is perfect — but more often than not, it is extremely reliable especially when it comes to traffic warnings and alternative route suggestions.''5. Uber and Grab''Remember that night that I downloaded Uber? The one I mentioned earlier? Well, that’s not the only time Uber saved me from a commuting nightmare. Even Grab — GrabTaxi and GrabCar — has been helpful too. These ride-sharing apps have completely changed the way I commute around areas that are too far from the bus routes.''But Uber’s usefulness isn’t contained here in Manila. I have tried it in other countries and they really are safe, fast, and reliable.  The most common tourist scams around the world involve cabs: meter tampering, overcharging, money switching.  We’ve fallen victim to them many times! But now, we have learned our lesson. So when we’re not familiar with the city yet, we usually just take Uber on the first day until we become oriented enough with the local commuting realities. Only when we have tips (especially with regard to scams) from our hostel manager or a trusted local do we take a cab.''Many entities — governments, businesses, people — try to suppress these new technologies. I dunno. Maybe they see them as a threat. Or maybe just like me in the beginning, people are wired to repel things they do not understand. It’s always easy to dismiss new technology or new business models. But look around you:''THESE APPS ARE THE FUTURE''. You just need to give them a chance.''.''Disclosure: The Poor Traveler is a Traveloka ambassador and Klook affiliate.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''TRAVEL HACK: How to Get CHEAP FLIGHTS Alerts on Your Phone''5 Travel Moments When a Great Camera Phone Comes In Handy''How to Find the Cheapest Flights Using Traveloka App''IS TRAVELOKA LEGIT? Yes! And Here are 7 Reasons Why We Use It''7 Items Travelers Often Forget to Pack''Getting Around Manila: Tips on Traveling by MRT, Bus, Taxi, or Jeepney''Some things never change. And sometimes, it’s a good thing.''It’s been six long years since the last time I was in Danjugan Island. Between the island and I, it seems like it was me who had undergone major changes. Back then, I was still a full-time employee working long marketing hours for a telco. Our blog then was in its infancy; in fact, Danjugan was one of the first destinations we covered. And I was 50 lb lighter. LOL. But I was delighted to see that the island was still in almost the same condition as we left it.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Danjugan Island''How to Get to Danjugan Island''From Manila''From Bacolod''From Sipalay City''Danjugan Island Tour Rates''Where to Stay''Danjugan Island Accommodations''Punta Bulata Resort in Cauayan''Jamont Hotel in Sipalay''Search for more: Sipalay Hotels''Things to Do in Danjugan Island''Sample Itineraries with Budget Breakdown''Option A: Danjugan + Bacolod''Option B: DANJUGAN + SIPALAY''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Danjugan Island''Danjugan Island is a 43-hectare strip of land carpeted with dense rainforest and secluded in the middle of a marine sanctuary. It is privately managed by the Philippine Reef and Rainforest Conservation Foundation (PRRCF), who bought and saved the island from possible destruction back in the 1990s.''Because it is a protected area, fishing is prohibited here, allowing the biodiversity to flourish. Tourists are welcome but the visit must be pre-arranged. Each visitor must attend a short briefing about the island’s history, the do’s and don’ts, and the itinerary for the day.''Here are some trivia bits about Danjugan Island.''Five lagoons''. The island harbors five lagoons, three of which are land-locked; the other two are flooded during high tide. These lagoons are easy to explore and many species of corals and fish have found home in them.''Diverse Wildlife''. Although famous as a marine reserve, the island is also covered in lush rainforest. You know forests that seem to be impossible to get around in, that’s exactly like it. That said, the island boasts 72 species of birds including sea eagles and the Tabon scrub fowls and 10 species of bats. You can also see several species of other animals like coconut crabs and snakes.''Diving Paradise''. The island is surrounded by healthy coral reefs and sea grass. Expect to see a wide array of marine lifeforms such as fish (including small sharks), turtles and giant clams. In fact, scientists have recorded 579 species of fish and 244 species of corals in the island. The best part is that you don’t need to be a scuba diver to see these precious living gems. You can see many of them even when just snorkeling.''Solar-powered''. There is no electricity and running water in the island. Solar power is harnessed for lights and water was being delivered from the mainland.''How to Get to Danjugan Island''First of all, walk-in guests are not allowed. The management must be advised in advance so they could arrange the boat transfers. So please contact them first:''Email'': experience@danjuganisland.ph''Call'': +63 915 234-7145, +63 908 525-4108, or +63 34 441-6010 to reserve.''Don’t end the call without confirming the pick-up point and time. There are two possible pick-up places, depending on whether you’re taking public transportation or you’re driving a private car. But this isn’t a hard-and-fast rule.''From Manila''Fly to Bacolod-Silay Airport''. Philippine Airlines and Cebu Pacific Air offer multiple flights a day.''Take a cab to the South Ceres Bus Terminal''in Bacolod.''Follow the steps below.''From Bacolod''At the South Ceres Bus Terminal, board the bus going to Hinoba-an''. There’s one almost every hour. Travel time: 4-5 hours. Fare: 209 (non-aircon bus).''Tell the driver to drop you off at Crossing Remollos-Quadro de King''in Purok 3, Barangay Bulata (in Cauayan, Negros Occidental). You need to ask the driver because it is almost impossible to spot if you’re not familiar with the place. It’s an inconspicuous corner with no easily recognizable landmark. The best marker would be the Quadro de King store, but their signage is parallel to the road, which makes it difficult to see if you’re looking ahead.''Walk from the Crossing Remollos to the beach'', where the boat is docked. Often, the boatmen will be waiting for you at the crossing. Sometimes, they are on the beach. Make sure you clarify with them when you call.''Take the boat to Danjugan Island''. Travel time: 30 minutes. Fare: included in the package.''From Sipalay City''Take the bus bound for Bacolod'', but ask the driver to drop you off at Crossing Remollos. Travel time: 40 minutes. Fare: P30. An alternative would be the van (also bound for Bacolod or anywhere north), but again, tell the driver you’re alighting at Crossing Remollos.''Every traveler goes through a series of awakenings. The first is usually the moment when it dawns on them that they are born to wander.''Mine happened in Baler. I was a high school sophomore, attending a Boy Scout Regional Jamboree held in Aurora, which was part of Region IV-A at the time. I spent over 16 hours in a packed chartered jeepney from Batangas to Baler, my long-distance travel debut. With eyes wide open and heart full of awe, I saw Aurora as a wonderland. Our camp was set up in a clearing by the stream, in between a lush forest and an ivory coast. Over a few days, we saw our first waterfall, and enjoyed fine beaches and mountaineering trails. I was never the same again.''It’s because of this that I did not want to return to Aurora — it’s the fear of shattering a perfect image I painted in my head when I was a kid. I was afraid that, like most good things in life, Baler too has changed and it would not be the same place that I carefully guarded in my juvenile recollections. I was 13 years old then. I’m 31 now. It’s been 18 long years.''But the time to return has come.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Baler''How to Get to Baler from Manila''Where to Stay in Baler''Budget Option: Smart Beach House''Splurge Option: Costa Pacifica''Search for more: Baler Hotels''How to Get Around Baler''Places to Visit in Baler''Sabang Beach''Ditumabo Mother Falls''Diguisit Falls''Aniao Rock Formations and Lukso-lukso Islets''600-Year Old Balete Tree''Ermita Hill''Dicasalarin Cove''Other Baler Tourist Spots:''Where to Eat in Baler''Sample Baler Itinerary with Expenses Breakdown''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Baler''It all started when, all of a sudden, we felt a strong desire to learn how to surf. It’s something that we had never tried before, even though we had been to a number of surfing havens around the world. Pagudpud is too far. La Union, we had just visited a few months before. Scanning the map for somewhere close, Baler was naturally brought up. For the past several years, Baler has been synonymous with surfing.''A lot has changed since my visit as a kid. First, travel time is much shorter and comfortable. From Manila, Baler can now be reached after only a 5-6-hour drive on generally paved roads. The province has also been moved from the jurisdiction of Region IV-A (Southern Tagalog) to Region III (Central Luzon).''It’s a small town whose recorded history can be traced back to 1609 when it was founded by Franciscan missionaries. When we were talking to locals, we noticed that they put''Ermita Hill''in such high regard. Our surfing instructor pointed to it proudly a few times during the session. The caretaker of the hotel where we were staying encouraged us to see it too. It wasn’t until we were there that we finally understood the significance of the place. In 1735, a tsunami ravaged the town and killed thousands. Only six families, who were able to run to the top of Ermita Hill, survived. Our guide shared that most of the population can trace their roots to any of the six families.''Today, although Baler is much more connected to the rest of the world, it remains a small town. It is the capital of Aurora but it is not a city, so don’t expect the capricious comforts or whims you’re used to in the metro. Life here is still simple and pretty laid-back.''Language'': Tagalog mostly. But there are a few Ilocano speakers. English is widely understood.''Currency'': Philippine peso (PhP). PhP100 = USD2, EUR 1.65, KRW 22000, JPY218''Mode of payment'': Cash. There are a few ATMs in town so it would be best to have cash before your visit.''How to Get to Baler from Manila''The easiest way to reach Baler is by bus. There are direct buses available from Cubao in Quezon City. You have two options:''Image courtesy of Genesis Transport Service Inc.''GENESIS BUS''. The cheap option. Your typical air-conditioned bus that makes a few stops throughout the trip. Travel time: 6-7 hours. Fare: P550.''JOYBUS''. The comfortable option. A non-stop bus service with more comfortable seats, much bigger legroom, blankets, pillows, and even snacks. Travel time: 5-6 hours. Fare: P750.''But there’s an even cheaper option. You can travel to Cabanatuan by bus (Another option is to travel to Cabanatuan by bus (P185) and then by van to Baler (P220).''Where to Stay in Baler''First things first: If you’re visiting on a weekend or holiday (especially in summer), you might want to book way in advance. Baler is small and rooms can sell out easily on peak dates.''The two properties below are the highest-rated on Traveloka (based on both Traveloka scores and TripAdvisor ratings).''Budget Option: Smart Beach House''Smart Beach House, a beachfront property, has air-conditioned rooms that are good for 4pax for only P2700 per night. That’s only P675 per person.''CHECK RATES & AVAILABILITY''Splurge Option: Costa Pacifica''If you have more moolah (money), Costa Pacifica is a great choice. It boasts excellent amenities like free wifi and a pool facing the beach. Room for 2 is at around P6350 per night.''CHECK RATES & AVAILABILITY''Photos above were provided by the resorts via Traveloka.''Search for more:''Baler Hotels''How to Get Around Baler''If you have your own car, it will be very easy to explore Baler. The roads are mostly paved, and tourist attractions are not that far apart. If you want, you can just hire a guide to give you directions and more local insights about each stop. Guide fee: P500.''Otherwise, you have four options.''By van''. P2500 per day. Good for up to 10 pax.''By tricycle''. Full day tour, P800 per day. Half-day tour, P300. Up to 3 pax.''By bicycle''. Mountain bike rental, P300 per day or P35 per hour.''By motorcycle''. Cheapest motorbike rental we found, P800 per day. Not sure if there are lower options.''Note that these rates don’t include entrance and parking fees, which we will indicate in the “Places to Visit” section below.''For short distances, you may travel by tricycle for only P10-P20 per person, depending on the distance.''Places to Visit in Baler''With the exception of Ampere Beach, all these can be visited by taking a tricycle or van tour. If your hotel is close to Sabang Beach, you can skip this and just enjoy the beach another day since it’s near anyway.''If you’re on a tricycle tour, you will need to transfer to habal-habal to get to Dicasalarin Cove or PAGASA Viewpoint because the road is too steep for trikes. Make sure you make prior arrangements.''Sabang Beach''Sabang Beach, the most accessible swimming and surfing spot in Baler. The water here is shallow but the swell strong, which makes it an ideal place to learn to surf. Here are the rates:''Surfboard rental + instructor fee: P350 per hour''Surfboard rental only: P200 per hour or P800 per day''You may contact our surfing instructor who was very patient with us during our session. Here are his details:''Ian: 09281850211''Ditumabo Mother Falls''Located in San Luis. Will require a 20-minute hike. There are food stalls (selling hotdogs, kwek-kwek, lumpia, banana cue, camote cue, etc) along the trail. You can grab a quick breakfast here on your way back. If you can, visit in the early morning to avoid the crowd.''Note'': Some people will tell you that vans and cars are not allowed to go to the start of the trail, and only tricycles can take you there (P200 roundtrip). That’s NOT TRUE. Private cars can go.''Entrance Fee'': P30 per person''Parking Fee'': P30 per vehicle''Tour Guide Fee'': P200 per guide''Diguisit Falls''A quick, easy climb is required. But it can get slippery in the afternoon, when drenched guests have wetted the trail.''Entrance Fee'': FREE''Cottage Rental'': P200''Aniao Rock Formations and Lukso-lukso Islets''Aka Diguisit Islets. A handful of picturesque islets peppering the rocky coast near Diguisit Falls.''Entrance Fee'': P20 per head''600-Year Old Balete Tree''A ginormous banyan tree. You can also go inside it for a fee.''Entrance Fee'': P15''Parking Fee'': P10 per vehicle''If you want to go inside the tree'': P10''Ermita Hill''Where the six families who survived the tsunami ran to. From here, you can enjoy a great view of Baler town and Sabang Beach and other surrounding areas. The entrance fee goes to the scholarship of several students at a nearby college.''Entrance Fee'': P15''Parking Fee'': P10''Dicasalarin Cove''A private beach tucked neatly behind the hills of Baler. If you plan on visiting, you will have to register beforehand at Costa Pacifica. (The two properties are owned by the same owner.) If you want to maximize your stay here, we recommend dedicating an entire morning.''Again, tricycles can’t access this because the road is too steep so you might want to pre-arrange a habal-habal ride to take you to Dicasalarin from the trike dropoff point. Your tricycle driver likely knows someone.''Opening hours'': 8am-5pm''Entrance Fee'': P300 (P100 for Costa Pacifica guests)''Habal-habal ride'': P200-P300 roundtrip''Other Baler Tourist Spots:''Ampere Beach''PAGASA Viewpoint''Baler Museum''Aurora House''Baler Church''Hanging Bridge''Where to Eat in Baler''The three food places that stood out for us are: Kublai, Bayler View, and Dialyn.''Kubli Bistro''. A newly opened restaurant in Poblacion. Without a doubt, it is here that we had our best dining experience in town. The food is delish, the place clean, the servings humongous, and the service impeccable. They are proudest of their kubli rice (P345), but it was just okay. But we absolutely loved everything else we tried. Order their barbeque skewers (P275), sisig a la bopes (P230), buffalo wings (P285), and adwas iced tea (P65). Every serving is good for around 3 pax.''Bayler View''. A simple open-air restaurant by the beach. Their menu is loaded with Pinoy and western options. Judging from the tables during our visit, Pinoy spaghetti is a favorite. But we loved their perfectly cooked Buttered Chicken, despite being too sweet for my taste.''Dialyn’s Bakeshop''. An iconic establishment in Baler famous for their brazo de mercedes, yema swirl, asado buns, and more.''Sample Baler Itinerary with Expenses Breakdown''Here’s a sample Baler weekend itinerary (3 days, 2 nights). You can tweak this to fit your needs and preferences.''Note that the costs indicated here are per person. However, this itinerary assumes you’re a group of 4, splitting the bill. The cost per stop covers the entrance fee, parking fee, and guide fee (if applicable). For the breakdown, just check out at the “Places to Visit” section above.''Since there are 4 in the group and a tricycle can accomodate only 3, charter 2 tricycles so everyone’s comfortable.''Day 1: DICASALARIN + SURFING''01:30 am – ETD Genesis Bus Cubao – P550''08:00 am – ETA Baler''08:30 am – Early hotel check in or baggage drop''09:00 am – Start Tricycle Tour – P250 (P500/2 pax)''09:30 am – Transfer to habal-habal – P150 (P300/2 pax)''09:40 am – Dicasalarin Cove – P300 + P50 parking''11:40 am – Aniao Rock Formations – P20''12:00 pm – Diguisit Falls – FREE''01:00 pm – Lunch at Poblacion (end tour)''02:00 pm – Back at hotel, rest''03:30 pm – Surf time at Sabang Beach!''05:30 pm – Watch sunset''06:10 pm – Freshen up at hotel''07:30 pm – Dinner at Bayler – P200''10:00 pm – Lights out''Day 2: DITUMABO FALLS + TOWN TOUR''07:00 am – Start tricycle tour – P250 (P500/2pax)''07:30 am – Ditumabo Falls – P95 per person (parking, guide, entrance)''09:30 am – Balete Park – P30''10:30 am – Continue tour: see other stops''12:30 pm – Lunch at Kubli Bistro (end tour) – P250''02:00 pm – Back at hotel, check out''03:30 pm – Joybus to Manila – P750''If you’re a group of 4 and you stay in a quad room at Smart Beach House, each of you should prepare around''P3800''. If you want to surf, add P200 per hour for the board rental.''If you have your own ride and you have a P2500 budget for gas and toll fees (divided by 4 pax), the same itinerary will set you back''P2400''per person.''You can still reduce the cost by doing the following:''Eat at cheaper eateries''. The sample itinerary above urges you to eat at Bayler View or Kubli Bistro, but there are much cheaper food places around town. P100 should be more than enough for a decent meal.''Wrap up your tour early so you could catch the 2pm Genesis bus to Manila''instead of taking the Joybus. It will save you P200.''As mentioned, the cost will drop significantly if you have your own ride and your group is bigger''. This way you have more to split the gas and toll expenses with.''This travel guide is a work in progress. We’ll be updating this when we remember something and every time we return. If you have more to add, let us know in the comments section below.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Top 12 Long Weekend Destinations from Manila (No Flights Needed)''LAGUNA ROAD TRIP: Budget Travel Guide & Itinerary''LANGKAWI, MALAYSIA: Budget Travel Guide''SUPERSTAR VIRGO: Cruise Guide for First-Timers (What to Expect)''Coron and Busuanga: Budget Travel Guide''MALDIVES ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itineraries''This travel guide covers not only Bacolod City but also other parts of Negros Occidental including Silay, Talisay, Sipalay, and Cauayan. Sample itineraries and cost estimates are also provided.''There are places that you will remember not because of what you saw but how it made you feel. Bacolod is one of those places.''Bacolod doesn’t have the spectacular sights that other destinations in the Philippines boldly and loudly brag about. But what she lacks in visual treats, she makes up for by delighting the other senses. When she welcomes you into her home, she cooks for you and makes every meal unforgettable. Her chicken inasal will take you to heaven and her desserts will bring you back to earth. And the stories from her past are always worth listening to.''She’s in good company too. Bacolod may not have the sweeping landscapes, but her posse have more than their share. Neighbor Murcia makes a splash with her waterfalls. Just 4-5 hours away are Kabankalan, Cauayan, and Sipalay, all waiting to showcase their natural splendor to those who go the extra mile.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Bacolod and Negros Occidental''How to Get to Bacolod''How to Get to from the Airport to Bacolod City Center''Where to Stay in Bacolod''The Suites at Calle Nueva''Mainstreet Pension House''Circle Inn''Avenue Suites''Search for more: Bacolod City Hotels''Things to Do in and around Bacolod''Fill your tummy with local favorites!''MassKara Festival''The Ruins in Talisay City''Mambukal Resort (Seven Falls)''Silay City Walking Tour''Bacolod City Tour''Beyond Bacolod''Sample Bacolod Itineraries''Option A: Bacolod in 3 Days''Option B: Bacolod + Sipalay''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Bacolod and Negros Occidental''Bacolod is widely known for three things: sweets, smiles, and the Masskara Festival. Oh, and chicken inasal. So okay, make that four things. Haha. It is the capital of Negros Occidental, one of the biggest provinces in the country in terms of land area and population. Yet, a big part of its territory remains unknown to non-residents. Lately, however, the beaches of Sipalay are beginning to get a lot of attention.''Negros Occidental has 13 cities (including independent Bacolod) and 19 municipalities. That’s a lot of cities in just one province. But before you conjure up images of skyscrapers, know that Bacolod is the only one that is highly urbanized. The others are more like small towns, more laid-back and still pretty rustic.''The Ruins in Talisay City''Language'': Hiligaynon (Ilonggo). English is widely understood.''Currency'': Philippine peso (PhP). PhP100 = USD2, EUR 1.65, KRW 22000, JPY218''Mode of payment'': Cash. ATMs are all around Bacolod, but they turn much fewer in other cities and municipalities. If you’re exploring other parts of Negros Occidental from Bacolod, you might want to withdraw money while you’re in the capital. Credit cards are often accepted in upscale establishments in Bacolod, but cash is still preferred.''How to Get to Bacolod''The Bacolod-Silay Airport is the gateway to the province. Both''Philippine Airlines''(PAL) and''Cebu Pacific Air''(CEB) fly to Bacolod multiple times a day.''Philippine Airlines flies''to Bacolod from:''Manila''Clark''Cebu''Cebu Pacific Air''flies from here:''Manila''Davao''Here’s a quick Traveloka scan of year-round fares (random date).''Note that every Philippine Airlines booking comes with 15kg check-in baggage allowance, while Cebu Pacific’s published rates don’t cover any.''Promo fares are also very common for the Manila-Bacolod route. Check out actual random scan below.''Search for promo fares here''.''How to Get to from the Airport to Bacolod City Center''The airport is in Silay City, located around 15km from Bacolod city center. Here are your options:''By van (shuttle service)''. You’ll find them stationed just in front of the airport’s arrival area. Fare: P150. The journey terminates at SM City Bacolod, where you can take a taxi or jeepney to your hotel.''By taxi or Grab Taxi''. The expensive option, but more convenient if you have lotsa luggage. Fare ranges from P250-500 depending on whether they use a meter or not. If you’re a Grab user, you can use GrabTaxi. That’s what I did and paid only P250.''By tricycle + jeepney''. I don’t recommend this if you have bags with you because it involves a number of transfers and can be quite exhausting. But you may ride a tricycle from outside the airport area to Silay City center, where you can take the bus or jeepney to Bacolod North Terminal. From here, take another jeepney or cab to your hotel.''Where to Stay in Bacolod''The two highest scored accommodations on Traveloka are''The Suites at Calle Nueva''and''Mainstreet Pension House'', the latter for budget travelers. Calle Nueva’s rates are only around P1000 per night for a single room and P1500 for a double room. Mainstreet Pension’s, P700 for a double room. Unfortunately, we have tried neither because both were fully booked during our visit. But if you want to check ’em out, follow the links below.''The Suites at Calle Nueva''Check Rates & Availability''.''Mainstreet Pension House''Check Rates & Availability''–''We have tried three hotels in Bacolod so far: Circle Inn, Avenue Suites, and Negrense Suites. More than the rooms, what we loved about the first two is their location. Circle Inn is just 5 blocks from the South Terminal, which is great if you plan on going to the beaches of Sipalay or Cauayan. Avenue Suites is just a short walk from Calea and 21 Restaurant, which are foodie must-tries in the city. Branches of Merzci and Bongbong’s are also nearby so you don’t have to go far for pasalubong shopping. I didn’t like Negrense Suite so much.''Circle Inn''Check Rates & Availability''.''Avenue Suites''Check Rates & Availability''Photos above were provided by the resorts via Traveloka.''Search for more:''Bacolod City Hotels''.''Things to Do in and around Bacolod''As a highly urbanized city, getting around is no problem in Bacolod. The most usual form of transportation for locals is the jeepney, although the routes can be confusing for first timers. On my first trip here back in 2011, this was my preferred mode because I was working on an extremely tight budget. I got lost multiple times, boarding the wrong jeep. Hahaha.''Fortunately, the Bacolodnons are some of the friendliest you will ever meet in your life, and they will not hesitate to help if you ask. Sometimes, you don’t even need to ask.''If you don’t like the jeepney, there’s always the taxi. It’s a great choice if you’re a party of 2-4, so you can split the fare. On my most recent trip with friends, we took the cab most of the time. When we couldn’t find any, we just used''Grab Taxi''.''Another way to do it is joining a tour or hiring a travel agency. Sadly, I don’t have much info about it because I chose to pull a DIY.''Here are some of the things you can do in Bacolod and neighboring areas.''Fill your tummy with local favorites!''Bacolod is one of the best food destinations in the country, enriched by centuries of diverse culinary influences, from traditional Filipino to Spanish heirlooms. We have tried (and loved) the following:''Sharyn’s Cansi House'', a humble but multi-awarded hole-in-the-wall serving Bacolod’s best bowls of cansi (P300). Cansi (or kansi) is a soupy dish traditionally composed of beef shanks, unripe jackfruit, and lemongrass. Also try their original Crispy Cansi (P450). The servings here are huge, good for 3-4 hungry pax.''Aboy’s Restaurant'', a turo-turo style restaurant famous for their seafood (grilled blue marlin, squid fats adobo) and steamed mushrooms. They also offer local favorites like pangat (similar to laing) and chicken inasal. Closed on Sundays.''21 Restaurant'', a more dressy establishment boasting a diverse menu that includes savory Pinoy dishes with modern twists and western options. According to the waiters, their specialty is the batchoy (P110). Their squid teriyaki (P240) and fried isul (P160) are also curiously satisfying.''Manokan Country,''a complex of a dozen stalls serving Bacolod’s most sought-after gastronomic treat — chicken inasal. I was able to try two of these stalls: Nenas Beth and Aida’s. Aida’s is arguably the most popular. Most blogs and even travel shows on TV that featured Bacolod gave it a shoutout. But I actually liked Nenas Beth better. It wasn’t really the taste; they taste identical, to be honest. It’s more about how it was cooked. Also, just to manage your expectations, know that these are not air-conditioned. They don’t provide utensils by default either because inasal is best enjoyed using bare hands. (You can ask for utensils, though.)''Calea'', the city’s most widely known dessert place. Order their bestsellers: white chocolate cheesecake with raspberry sauce and chocolate cake. The best thing about Calea is that they serve awesome-tasting cakes in generous servings at a low price. We ordered 4 slices of cakes and 3 cups of hot tea, and our bill was only at P560.''There are several others like''18th St. Pala-pala Seafood Grill'',''Diotay’s'',''Chicken House'', and''Masskara Chicken''. But we were only able to try the five above.''MassKara Festival''The MassKara Festival is an annual event that begins in early October and culminates in a series of celebrations on the fourth Sunday of the same month. The tradition is said to have started in the 1980s in the midst of crises: (1) when the city’s sugar-powered economy hit an all-time low after the advent of substitutes, and (2) in the middle of mourning after a sea tragedy that killed many locals. To bring back the positive atmosphere and champion Bacolod’s cheerful spirit, the festival was created, true to its moniker, City of Smiles.''If you’re visiting outside October, take home your own mask from''Jojo Vito Designs Gallery''. Owned by award-winning mask designer Jojo Vito, this is the largest collection of masks in the city. Made using local materials, his works have been exhibited and exported abroad, and he has been the official designer of the mask used by the Masskara Queen for years. You can have your own mask customized too (although you may need to let them know in advance). Aside from masks, you’ll also find decors and other novelty items. Jojo is a travel blogger too!''Photo courtesy of Jojo Vito Gallery''Jojo Vito Designs Gallery''Location'': Metrodome Center, Bacolod City''Contact number'': Telephone: (034) 435-1256''Email'': vito.prints@yahoo.com, jojomalunesvito@yahoo.com''The Ruins in Talisay City''Constructed in the early 1900s, the Ruins was once a mansion that was said to be the biggest residential structure in the area at the time. Sugar baron Don Mariano Ledesma Lacson had it built in the middle of a sugar plantation for his Portuguese first wife. The architecture is Italianate and its columns neo-Romanesque.''At the height of World War II, the US Armed Forces in the Far East and Filipino guerrilla soldiers set the entire mansion on fire in order to prevent the Japanese from using it as their headquarters. What was left were the columns, the facade and the floor.''A lot has changed since our first visit in 2011. For starters, the entrance fee has taken a major leap: from P50 in 2011 to P100 today. The area has also been extended to make room for a parking space, baggage deposit counter, ticket booth, and food kiosks.''Opening Hours'': 8am-8pm''Entrance Fee'': P100''Parking Fee'': P50''Mambukal Resort (Seven Falls)''Located 35 minutes away from Bacolod, Mambukal is a 23-hectare resort township managed directly by the Province of Negros Occidental. Its main feature is a stream that flows and creates seven waterfalls along the way. There are also boating lagoons and water holes. It’s both for those who wish to relax and who seek adventure. Staying overnight is possible too.''Entrance Fee'': Adults, P50; Kids, P20.''Silay City Walking Tour''Also north of Bacolod lies Silay City. Its streets, sandwiched by elegant ancestral houses, make for a good sightseeing trail. Thirty one of these houses have been named as historical landmarks, making Silay the second “museum city” in the Philippines, after Vigan, Ilocos Sur. Here are some of the heritage sites you might want to squeeze into your itinerary.''Balay Negrense''. Also called the “Victor F. Gaston House,” Balay Negrense was built during the height of Silay as the region’s cultural and economic center.''Operating hours: Tuesday-Sunday, 9am-5pm.''Entrance Fee: P60 adults, P30 students.''El Ideal Bakery''. It is the oldest bakeshop in the city, but still completely functional. El Ideal continues to offer delicious pastries and other local delicacies. Operating hours: Daily, 6:30am-6:30pm''Bernardino Jalandoni Museum''. First owned by Don Bernardino and Dona Ysabel Jalandoni, the house was completed in 1908. Features a great mixture of native and foreign inspirations.''Opening hours: Tuesday-Sunday, 9am-5pm. Entrance Fee: P60 adults, P30 students.''San Diego Pro-Cathedral''. Built in 1925 and designed by Italian architect Lucio Bernasconi (Romanesque architecture).''Cinco de Noviembre Marker'', where the Negros Revolution was planned. The event created a new government that was run by Negrense Natives. The revolution ended the control of the Spaniards of the island, albeit for a brief period of time.''Note that most ancestral houses and museums like Balay Negrense and Bernardino Jalandoni Museum are closed on Mondays.''Don’t make the same mistake we did the first time. LOL.''Bacolod City Tour''Don’t expect visually arresting sites in Bacolod. Most of the attractions within the city are of historical and cultural significance for the locals, not much for tourists looking for IG-worthy backgrounds. See the following landmarks:''Bacolod Baywalk''Negros Museum''San Sebastian Church''Pope John Paul II Tower''Capitol Park and Lagoon''Some of these you can easily visit while walking around. For example, on the way to Manokan Country, we made it past San Sebastian Church.''Beyond Bacolod''Bacolod is your gateway to Negros Occidental, and the province has so much more wonders tucked neatly on its bottom edges. The north will acquaint you with its past and feed you speechless, but the south will stun you with its natural beauty.''Just 4-6 hours from Bacolod are the municipality of''Cauayan'', bursting with marine life, and the city of''Sipalay'', laced with sugar beaches. Since you’re already in Negros Occidental, you might as well set aside a couple of days for these. You will not regret it.''We’ll be creating separate travel guides for Danjugan Island and Sipalay soon, so make sure you check back.''Related Post:''Sipalay City Travel Guide''Sample Bacolod Itineraries''Here are two sample itineraries for Bacolod. The first covers only Bacolod and the neighboring cities of Silay and Talisay. The other will take you farther south to Sipalay. Both assume you’re a group of two and will be staying in a double/twin room and split the costs.''Feel free to use this for your trip. Just make the necessary adjustments to match your flights, budget, and preferences.''Public transportation fares (jeepney, bus) are overestimated (rounded off).''Option A: Bacolod in 3 Days''Hotel'': Stay 2 nights in Bacolod. Another option is to stay 1 night in Bacolod and another night in Silay. Ideal budget: P1500 per night (P750 per person)''Day 1: BACOLOD CITY TOUR''09:00 am – ETA Bacolod-Silay Airport''09:30 am – Take cab to city center – P130 (P260/2pax)''10:15 am – Early check-in or drop baggage''11:00 am – Brunch at Sharyn’s Cansi House – P200''12:30 pm – Travel to Mambukal – around P50''01:30 pm – Mambukal Resort – P50''05:30 pm – Travel back to Bacolod – P50''07:00 pm – Dinner at Manokan Country – P200''09:00 pm – Calea – P150''10:30 pm – Back at hotel''Day 2: TALISAY & SILAY''09:00 am – San Sebastian Cathedral/Capitol Lagoon – FREE''11:30 am – Lunch at Aboy’s – P300''01:00 pm – Jeepney to Silay – P50''01:45 pm – Tour Silay City – P120''04:30 pm – Transfer to The Ruins''05:00 pm – Explore The Ruins – P100''07:00 pm – Back to Bacolod''07:30 pm – Dinner at 21 Restaurant – P300''Day 3: DEPARTURE''07:00 am – Hotel check out''07:30 am – Taxi to airport – P130 (P260/2)''08:00 am – ETD Bacolod-Silay Airport – P200 Terminal Fee''This itinerary will set you back''P3500-P4000''per person. Note that much of the budget is spent on food as you will be trying the most popular dining places in the city. If you’re on a shoestring budget, you may opt to just have your meal at cheaper eateries for less than P100.''Option B: Bacolod + Sipalay''If you want to get out of the city and see more of the Negros countryside, this itinerary is for you.''Hotel arrangement'': Stay 2 nights in Bacolod (Ideal budget: P1500/night) and 3 nights in Sipalay (Ideal budget: P1200/night).''Day 1: BACOLOD CITY TOUR''09:00 am – ETA Bacolod-Silay Airport''09:30 am – Take cab to city center – P130 (P260/2pax)''10:15 am – Early check-in or drop baggage''11:00 am – Brunch at Sharyn’s Cansi House – P200''12:30 pm – Travel to Mambukal – around P50''01:30 pm – Mambukal Resort – P50''05:30 pm – Travel back to Bacolod – P50''07:00 pm – Dinner at Manokan Country – P200''09:00 pm – Calea – P150''10:30 pm – Back at hotel''Day 2: TALISAY & SILAY''09:00 am – San Sebastian Cathedral/Capitol Lagoon – FREE''11:30 am – Lunch at Aboy’s – P300''01:00 pm – Jeepney to Silay – P50''01:45 pm – Tour Silay City – P120''04:30 pm – Transfer to The Ruins''05:00 pm – Explore The Ruins – P100''07:00 pm – Back to Bacolod''07:30 pm – Dinner at 21 Restaurant – P300''Day 3: TRANSIT TO SIPALAY''05:00 am – Hotel check out''05:30 am – Taxi to South Terminal''06:00 am – Bus to Sipalay – P209''11:00 am – Arrival in Sipalay''11:30 am – Hotel check in''12:00 pm – Lunch – P100''02:00 pm – Rest''06:00 pm – Sunset at Poblacion Beach''06:30 pm – Dinner at Sipalay Food Park  – P150''08:00 pm – Back at hotel''Day 4: SIPALAY TOUR''08:00 am – Start Sipalay Beach-hopping – P750 (1500/2pax)''09:00 am – Sugar Beach – Boat: P250''11:00 am – Early lunch – P200''12:30 pm – Punta Ballo''02:00 pm – Perth Paradise Beach – P80 Entrance + P100 Pool Use''04:30 pm – Tinagong Dagat – P30''06:30 pm – Dinner at Sipalay Food Park  – P150''Day 5: DEPARTURE''07:00 am – Hotel check out''08:00 am – Bus to Bacolod – P209''01:00 pm – Lunch – P150''02:00 pm – Taxi to airport – P130 (P260/2)''02:40 pm – Bacolod-Silay Airport – P200 Terminal Fee''For this itinerary, prepare to shell out P8000-P8500 per person. There are many other ways of bringing down the cost of the Sipalay leg, but we’ll discuss that in a separate Sipalay Travel Guide post (which we will be publishing very soon).''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''It’s easy to overindulge your tastebuds in Bacolod, thereby burning a lot of cash on food''. You can try Bacolod’s most highly praised restaurants without overspending and overeating by planning your meals well. Ask the wait staff what their specialties are and order just that. For example, if on the same night you’ll be dining at 21 Restaurant and Calea, have your main course in 21 Restaurant and skip the dessert. Get your sugar fix at Calea instead. This way, you get to try the bestsellers of both restos.''For pasalubong, drop by''El Ideal Bakery''for their guapple pie and''Virgie’s''or''Roli’s''for their napoleones.''If you don’t have much time, you can always enter any of the countless Merczi or BongBong’s stores around the city.''Set aside P200 for terminal fee for your exit flight.''Yep. I know.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Bacolod and Negros Occidental: Budget Travel Guide''Danjugan Island, Negros Occidental: Budget Travel Guide''SIPALAY ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Preparing a Bacolod Itinerary – Negros Occidental, Philippines''Manokan Country: Where to Eat Chicken Inasal in Bacolod City, Philippines''The Circle Inn: Where to Stay in Bacolod City, Philippines''“''How We Earn While Traveling''” is part of a series of posts where we discuss the many ways we fund our trips. In this post, we tackle affiliate marketing and cashback programs.''When people learn we’re full time travelers, one of the first questions they throw our way is this:''How do you make money?''Online, that’s how. In this day and age, online opportunities are everywhere. Some of them give us''passive income'', which means that we’re able to earn even when we’re traveling. Even when we’re sightseeing or just lazing by the beach, our blogs are able raise funds, which we will then use for our next trip. It’s a lovely cycle. *wink, wink*''As travel bloggers, we earn through display advertisements, brand collaborations, and many other methods, many of which we listed down in''this post about building a blogging career''.''But one of our biggest sources of income is''affiliate marketing''.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Affiliate whuuut?''But can you earn from it even if you’re not a blogger?''A word on Affiliate Marketing''The first thing that entered my head was “peace.”''When our boat touched the beach, I sensed it in an instant. It was in the fresh air, the gentle waves. Each second my toes dipped in its wide, wide bed of white, white sand was a moment of therapy. By noon I was lying under the shade by the shore, reading a book and enjoying a pint of beer. Sun shining. Water shimmering. Wind dancing. And I was in the middle of it all, just taking it all in.''They must have felt it too — the filmmakers behind Camp Sawi, they must have. When they set foot on the island while scouting for shooting locations for their fictional retreat for the brokenhearted, they must have felt it too. Bantayan Island is therapeutic. It is where you go to heal.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Bantayan Island''How to Get to Bantayan Island''Where to Stay in Bantayan Island''Search for more: Bantayan Island Hotels''Places to Visit in Bantayan Island''Sample Itinerary + Budget Breakdown''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Bantayan Island''Before the public at large came to know Bantayan Island as Camp Sawi, travel circles already have it as a secret hideaway. Tucked away from urban centers, Bantayan Island lies off the coast of northern Cebu. The island is divided into three municipalities: Bantayan, Madridejos, and Santa Fe. Not to be confused with Daanbantayan, which is a separate municipality on the main island of Cebu.''What used to be a sleepy fishing village years ago has been enjoying the fruits of tourism as tourists look for laid-back alternatives to Boracay. Bantayan has found its way to Cebu all inclusive travel packages but remains a favorite among backpackers for its sheer beauty and serene atmosphere.''Bantayan Island’s biggest asset is its white, white, white sand! It is so white that it can give Boracay a run for its tourist money. It is very fine but not too fine to smudge the crystal clear water, which, by the way, is also very shallow. Perfect for kids and non-swimmers (like me).''How to Get to Bantayan Island''Bantayan Island is part of the province of Cebu, and the easiest, most convenient way to reach it is via Cebu City. The Mactan-Cebu International Airport is the second busiest and most important hub in the Philippines so getting here should be a walk in the park. Here’s how.''Fly to Cebu''. All three of the country’s major airlines fly to Cebu so you have plenty of choices. Above are sample year-round fares as scanned and aggregated by Traveloka. Note, however, that the published rates for Cebu Pacific and AirAsia don’t include baggage allowance yet, while booking with Philippine Airlines would automatically give you 10kg allowance. You can search for more flights at''Traveloka.com''.''Take myBus to the North Bus Terminal''. There’s a bus leaving the Mactan Airport every 30 minutes from 7am-11am, and every 20 minutes from 11am-9:30pm. Fare: P25. Outside these hours, you may take a cab, Uber or Grab. Fare is between P200-P300, depending on traffic.''At the North Bus Terminal, board a Ceres bus bound for Hagnaya Port''. Travel time: around 4 hours. Fare: P165.  You will also find a Direct Bus (Fare: P200), which drives onto the ferry and off to Bantayan Island. But it’s a bit complicated. We still recommend taking the bus to Hagnaya Port and then taking the ferry on your own.''Board the Island Shipping or Super Shuttle ferry bound for Santa Fe Port''. First trip is at 3am, last trip 5:30pm. Travel time: 1 hour. Fare: P170. An additional P10 terminal fee will be collected.''At Santa Fe Port, follow the covered walkway to the Tourism Office''. You will have to pay the Ecological Fee which is at P30.''Take a tricycle to your resort''. Fare: P20-25. If you have pre-arranged a shuttle service with your resort, they will be picking you up here.''That’s about it! The total travel time from the airport to Bantayan Island is around 5.5 hours, excluding the waiting times.''Where to Stay in Bantayan Island''There are over 40 resorts, inns, and guesthouses all around the island, so finding a place to stay should be easy. You can find a basic room for as low as P400 per night. Campers are also welcome. If you don’t have your own tent, you can rent one for less than P200.''Below are four of the top-rated properties on Traveloka. The first two are mid-range resorts (around P3000), while the other two are budget options (less than P1000 per night).''Anika Beach Resort''Anika Island Resort''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Budyong Beach Resort''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Ritzy’s White Beach Resort and Restaurant''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Nordic Inn''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Photos above were provided by the resorts via Traveloka.''Search for more:''Bantayan Island Hotels''.''Places to Visit in Bantayan Island''Bantayan Island''Below are some of the best tourist spots in the island. Save for Virgin Island, Hilantagaan Island, and skydiving, everything can be reached on a half-day tricycle tour for P600-P700.''You may also rent a bicycle to get around Santa Fe. Rates are between P150 and P200 for 24 hours.''Paradise Beach'', a secluded stretch in Santa Fe. If you want to get away from the crowd, this is where you should run to. Open from 9am-5pm. Entrance Fee: P50. There are a few other beaches in Santa Fe that you might want to check out: Alice Beach, Sugar Beach, and Maricaban Beach.''Ogtong Cave'', a small cave sheltering a natural pool located within Sante Fe Beach Club Resort. Emphasis on “small.” If you expect to swim, you’ll be disappointed. All you can do here is take a dip. But the P120 entrance fee entitles you access to the resort’s pools.''Kota Park''in Madrilejos. Kota means “fort,” which was what used to stand here before it was transformed into a park. The fort was built by the Spaniards in the 1790s but natural forces have had its time with it.''Kota Beach and Sandbar'', a favorite among beach bums. It can get crowded here especially in summer, but this is something you shouldn’t miss.''Obo-ob Mangrove Eco Park''. A mangrove forest that you can explore by boat, by kayak, or on foot. Kayaks are for rent for P150, and small boats for P350. There is also an elevated boardwalk which will take you around if you’re up for a relaxing stroll. Entrance Fee: P50.''Sts. Peter and Paul Church''. Built in 1580, it is the oldest parish church in Visayas and Mindanao.''Virgin Island and Hilantagaan Island''. Bantayan can also be your jump off point for nearby islands including Virgin Island (Silion Island), Hilantagaan Island, and Kinatarkan Island. A full day tour can set you back P1000, while a half-day tour P700. You can still hagglle though. Privately-owned, Virgin Island collects a P500 entrance fee for the first 2 pax and P100 per additional head.''Splurge option: Go skydiving''! Bantayan Island is home to Skydive Cebu, one of the few skydiving establishments in the Philippines. They offer tandem skydiving, which is great if you want to experience the thrill for the first time. The whole activity takes about 2 hours. It costs P18,000, which is way more than I can afford, LOL, and why I haven’t tried it. But my friend has done it. Check out his video below:''Sample Itinerary + Budget Breakdown''Below is a sample 3D2N itinerary. You may use this as model for your own itinerary, just make the necessary adjustments. But please take note of the following:''If you can, take an early morning flight to Cebu to maximize your days. Philippine Airlines (PR 2835) and Cebu Pacific Air (5J 563) have flights that would land in Cebu before 6am.''You can book a tricycle tour of the island immediately after arrival. You can then ask the driver to make a quick stop at your resort to check in and leave your bags at the reception before continuing your tour.''Make sure to visit Paradise Beach before 5pm and end your day by watching the sunset at any of the key spots like Kota Park.''Day 1: EN ROUTE, LAND TOUR''04:00 am – ETD NAIA Manila''05:15 am – ETA Arrival at Mactan Cebu Airport''05:45 am – Cab to North Bus Terminal – P100 (P200/2pax)''06:30 am – Board bus to Hagnaya Port – P165''10:30 am – Arrival at Hagnaya Port''11:00 am – Grab quick brunch – P150''11:30 am – Board ferry to Santa Fe – P170 + P10''12:30 pm – Arrival at Bantayan Island''12:45 pm – Walk to Tourism Office. Pay P30''01:00 pm – Start Tricycle Tour – P350 (P700/2pax)''07:00 pm – Dinner – P200''08:30 pm – Return to resort''10:00 pm – Lights out''Day 2: ISLAND HOPPING''05:30 am – Wake up, sunrise viewing''06:45 am – Breakfast, preps''08:00 am – Start island hopping – P350 (P700/2pax)''01:00 pm – Lunch – P150''02:30 pm – Back at the resort, chill''04:30 pm – Kota Beach, sunset''07:00 pm – Dinner – P200''09:00 pm – Rest, lights out''Day 3: BACK TO CEBU CITY''05:30 am – Wake up, check out''07:00 am – Board ferry back to Hagnaya Port – P170 + P10''08:00 am – Arrival at Hagnaya''08:30 am – Grab snacks – P100''09:00 am – Board bus to Cebu City – P165''01:00 pm – Arrival in Cebu City''The above itinerary will set you back''P3500''if you stay in a basic fan room at Ritzy (Althea White Beach) or P5600 if you stay at Anika Beach Resort. Estimates don’t include airfare yet. You can further reduce the cost by spending less on food. We allocated P150-P200 per meal here.''You have several options for Day 3. Since you’re back in Cebu City, you may visit some of its most iconic heritage sites like the Magellan’s Cross, Fort San Pedro, and the Cebu Taoist Temple. You may also spend the afternoon digging in to Lechon de Cebu and buy pasalubong at a supermarket afterwards. Cost of these isn’t considered in the estimates above.''If you have more days, you may also visit Malapascua Island, which is easily accessible from Bantayan. (Or do it the other way around like we did.) We’ll make a sample Malapascua-Bantayan itinerary soon too, so bookmark this page for future reference.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Snapshot: Bantayan Blues – Cebu, Philippines''The Drenched Humor of BANTAYAN ISLAND, CEBU''BOHOL: Budget Travel Guide''Scuba Diving in MALAPASCUA ISLAND''Borawan Beach and Dampalitan Island: Budget Travel Guide''MASASA BEACH ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Adventure is hard to find these days.''When almost every destination has been explored and every path is well-trodden, paradise can sometimes appear familiar and easy. Batangas is probably the earliest choice for weekend warriors from the capital. It is an easy choice. It’s familiar. Yet, Batangas has been surprising adventure-seekers with more wonders.''This post is brought to you by KFC.''Most tourists visit the beaches of Batangas one at a time. One beach, one weekend. But if you’re up for a challenge, you can visit five of them in one trip. These five pieces of paradise are along located along what we like to call the''Batangas Beach Trail'', a route that runs from Laiya to Anilao.''We tried to do it last long weekend, and here’s how it went.''But first, food stop!''Our weekend adventure began early in the morning so to make sure we have the energy, we decided to have a meal along SLEX.'"Batangas is our hometown so we're used to making a stop here all the time. And if you often travel south, you know that food choices along SLEX can be quite limited. It's usually fast food staples like fried chicken, burgers and pasta. So whenever we get wind that there’s something new, we are automatically drawn to it. So what’s cookin’ for the adventurous? KFC’s shawarma rice bowl.""It's still your favorite KFC fun shots but with a twist. It's like fried chicken and shawarma in one meal. The garlic yogurt brings all the ingredients together, including the tomatoes and cucumber, which add a lot of freshness to the dish.""It's also easy to eat. No bones, so there’s nothing to throw away. Everything is mixed in one bowl and you can easily dig into it even when you’re in the car (as long as you’re not the one driving). We ordered take out, too!"'After our filling meal and two hours of driving, we headed straight to our first stop: Laiya.''Beach #1: Laiya''Laiya is one of the most developed beaches in Batangas. And it’s not hard to see why. Its long and wide stretch of sand attracts thousands and thousands of tourists especially during summer. The sand here isn’t white or fine. It’s coarse and more on the beige-light brown side, but it still makes up a good view.''Countless resorts have sprouted along the coast over the past years. They range from high-end resorts to budget rooms for rent. Note though that even the cheapest properties here are still expensive compared to other destinations in the country. They don’t go below P2000 per night. But room rates at upscale resorts play north of P3000 per night plus mandatory (full-board) meal package, which can cost up to P1700 per person per day. It’s up to you where you want to stay.''Rain poured immediately after we checked in! (Don’t make the same mistake. Check the weather before going!) But we didn’t want to waste the afternoon, so we hit the beach regardless. The waves gave us a great workout, LOL.''It wasn’t until the next morning that the sun decided to show up. That’s when the real beauty of Laiya shone. The sand appeared lighter and the waters glistened in bright blue.''But because we still have four more stops to go, we had to say goodbye to Laiya this early.''Beach #2: Malabrigo''We hit the rough, dusty, and sometimes winding road to Lobo. Much of this road is still under construction so prepare for an hour of bumpy ride. And by bumpy we mean bUuUuUuUmpy. It’s a road less traveled. We know because we can count in one hand the number of other vehicles we shared that road with. The road is accented by sharp curves and dotted by only a few houses along the way. But what it lacks in being smoothness, it makes up for in being scenic. The road runs along the southern coast of the province.'"You'll know you've arrived when you see the Malabrigo Lighthouse, a Victorian-inspired structure designed by Guillermo Brockman in 1891 and built by Jose Garcia in 1896. It was declared as a National Historical Landmark on 27 November 2006."'The lighthouse stands over Malabrigo Beach, which has managed to fly under the radar all these years, preserving its natural beauty and pristine state. Two things can take credit for it. One is its location. Nestled in a relatively obscure municipality, it can be reached by meandering along mountainsides, as we experienced. The other reason, it’s not your typical beach. It’s a pebble beach. Instead of fine sand, its beach is composed of small- to medium-size grey and white cobbles.''Malabrigo has a few resorts, but since you’ll only be here for a short visit, you don’t need to book. You can simply pay the entrance fee of P20 (if you enter via the lighthouse stairs), or access it for free elsewhere.'"We didn't stay that long because it was time to move to Anilao, our jump off point to our next three stops."'You have two options here: (1) If you have two more days, you can can spend the night in Anilao and visit the islands the next day, but (2) if you need to return to Manila the next day, you can go straight to island-hopping.''Your destination: the beaches of Tingloy.''Beach #3: Sombrero Island''If you’re a group of four or more, I recommend that you just charter a private boat instead of taking the public boat (which will wait until the it’s full). It’s a bit more expensive, but you will have total control of your time.''You can get a boat at the Anilao Port for P4500, but if you plan on visiting Sepoc Beach too, you will have to rent the boat through Eagle Point Resort, which manages the facilities on the beach. I will discuss that further below.''Sombrero Beach is most likely your first stop. So called for its shape, Sombrero Island has a rounded peak surrounded by a bed of sand, where beach bums can laze and just enjoy the clear water. Most mountaineers and hikers coming from Mt. Gulugod Baboy opt to go on a day trip to this island before coming back to Manila.''Beach #4: Sepoc Beach''Although it is naturally isolated, Sepoc Beach has facilities that other beaches in the area don’t have. Not too far from the shore are a giant hut, a lunch area, and restrooms. Just 15 minutes up a nearby hill is a viewpoint, which allows a fantastic view of the surrounding seascape including Sombrero Island. All these facilities are part of Sepoc Beach Center, which is exclusive and private property of Eagle Point Resort in Anilao.''View of Sombrero Island from Sepoc Viewpoint''In theory, you should be able to access the beach, but not the inland area and the facilities because they’re private property. So if you want to climb the viewpoint or use the restroom or eat here, you will have to book via Eagle Point.''More Details:''Sepoc Beach Travel Guide''---''Beach #5: Masasa Beach''Last but not the least, Masasa Beach, arguably the best beach in Tingloy, if not in the entire Batangas province. Until recently, it is stashed away from the watchful eye of Manilenos, but something this precious is hard to keep secret.'"Masasa is a long stretch concealed in the southern edge of Maricaban Island. The sand here isn't white or anything you would expect in Boracay, but if the sun is out during your visit, you can take a dip in its shallow waters that give off a beautiful turquoise shimmer, something that will captivate you even from a great distance."'Access to this beach is free, but you can rent a tent for P300 or go snorkeling for P100.''More Details:''Masasa Beach Travel Guide''Masasa Beach'"These are just five of the best beaches near Manila. If you're up for an even longer adventure, you can extend your journey all the way to Calatagan, Lian, and Nasugbu."'We started the trip hungry for adventure. When we were digging into KFC’s Shawarma Rice Bowl on the way to our destination, we had a good feeling that we were in for a great time. That meal reminded us that the familiar can still be surprising, that they can still be wildly interesting --- a foreshadowing of the wonderful things to come. Batangas is like that too. It’s brimming with familiar spots, but often, we can discover new ways to enjoy and unusual paths to explore. You just need to be up for the challenge.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Plaza Mabini, Batangas City: Dusk and Dawn''MASASA BEACH ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''TOP 10 BATANGAS BEACH RESORTS''SEPOC ISLAND, BATANGAS: Budget Travel Guide & Itinerary''BEACHES NEAR MANILA: 10 Uncrowded Weekend Getaways''Masasa Beach: Not so Distant Paradise in Tingloy, Batangas''The whole vessel was brimming with enthusiasm as the boatmen prepared to land us on Kalanggaman Island.''The morning travel was uneventful: there was a slight concern for rain, but fortunately the rainclouds never left the mainland. My companions, groggy the whole trip, were now back to their festive selves, barely hiding their excitement as the island got close. By the time the boat touched silt, everyone’s as giddy as a tuba drinking session.''Please understand the eagerness; we were first-timers to Kalanggaman, Leyte’s virgin paradise and one of the Philippines’ top beach destinations. I would’ve said it’s Leyte’s best-kept secret, but the island is currently enjoying a healthy dose of attention from bloggers, travel writers, and the mainstream media.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Kalanggaman Island''How to Get to Kalanggaman Island''Kalanggaman Island Day Tour Rates''Kalanggaman Island Overnight Fees''Other Ways to Get There''Where to Stay in Ormoc''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Kalanggaman Island''This post is brought to you by Cebu Pacific Air.''Kalanggaman Island is within Palompon, a municipality west of Ormoc City. Kalanggaman didn’t suddenly rise out of the seabed to challenge the Panglaos and Calaguases among the Philippines’ beach elite. It has always been here, of course, this remote treasure located some twenty kilometers west of Leyte.   But the recent surge in interest can be credited in part to the local government’s efforts to promote the island, in line with the province’s renewed emphasis on tourism.''I’m sure by now you’ve read the many accounts of visitors gushing over Kalanggaman’s serene beauty. Let me just add that the island, in all its secluded glory, is the perfect getaway for the introverts and the reserved. Only a hint of Leyte and Cebu can be seen on the horizon. Those with castaway fantasies (and melodramatic tendencies) would definitely appreciate the isolation.''Now before you ball up your swimsuits, you should know that Kalanggaman is no glamping destination. Basic comforts in the island are, well, pretty basic, with only a handful of changing rooms and toilets. In terms of amenities, there are a few cottages here and there, a small multi-purpose hall, and maybe a treehouse or two. That’s it. Overall, infrastructure in the island is still down to the bare essentials.''Keep in mind that all boats leave the island before sunset, and won’t return until the next day. If you’re staying for the night, make sure you’ve made your pick-up times clear to the boatman.''How to Get to Kalanggaman Island''That said, access to Kalanggaman is still limited. To maintain the island’s delicate nature, only a certain number of people can visit the island every day. This gives this trip a sense of exclusivity. When you arrive at Kalanggaman, you gain a feeling that somehow you now belong to a very select club.''So how do you get admitted to this club? The short answer is, to get to Kalanggaman, you need patience. For something a bit more detailed, here are the essential steps we took for the trip.''Cebu Pacific Air flies to Ormoc from Cebu. The flight is operated by Cebgo.''Fly to Ormoc City''. The city of Ormoc is the gateway to western Leyte, and flying is the most convenient way to get there. The city has its own domestic airport, though flights to or from Manila are not yet available.''Cebu Pacific Air is the only airline flying to Ormoc''. The flight is operated by Cebgo. For those coming from Manila or abroad, you’ll need to arrange a trip to Cebu City first, then connect a Cebu Pacific flight to Ormoc. There are other ways of getting there, which we will discuss below.''Travel by bus or van to Palompon''. From the airport, go to the Ormoc van and bus terminal found just behind the pier across Ormoc City Park. Travel time from Ormoc to Palompon usually takes an hour and a half, depending on your route and mode of transportation. Fare for the van is from PHP 100-150. Bus fares are tad cheaper: PHP 50-60, but since buses stop over several towns your travel time will take significantly longer. Once you arrive at Palompon, your drop-off point should be the Town Ecotourism office.''Pay the fees at the Ecotourism Office''. It’s located at the Freedom Park, just beside the Municipal Town Hall. Access to the island requires an entrance fee; the local government use it to fund the island’s conservation efforts. The fee varies. We’ll list down the fees in another section below. (Scroll down!) All fees can be paid at the Ecotourism office.''Get a boat''. Aside from the conservation fee, there’s also the boat rental.  Rental fees can go from PHP 3000 pesos for 15-seaters to PHP 4000 for the larger 30-capacity motorboats. There’s more value for those traveling in large groups. You can hire a whole boat for yourself, or wait for other tourists to fill it up.''The Visayan Sea is a fairly busy waterway, and many vessels travel through it: fishing boats, fastcraft liners, even large interisland cargo ships. A couple of friendly fishermen waved at us as we navigated through.''Finally, after an hour or so of nothing but the blue and the sound of the boat’s motor, we saw the island. I told you earlier about patience. Well, good things come to those who wait. Kalanggaman is nothing short of a spectacle.''Kalanggaman Island Day Tour Rates''Foreign tourists and non-locals pay more, while students get the best rates. Here’s the breakdown:''Regular (Day) Fees''Foreign tourists: PHP 500''Non-local tourist: PHP 150''Non-local college student: PHP 40''Non-local high school student: PHP 30''Non-local elementary student: PHP 20''Senior citizens: PHP 120''Kalanggaman Island Overnight Fees''Below are the rates if you choose to spend the night on the island.''Foreign tourists: PHP 750''Non-local tourist: PHP 225''Non-local college student: PHP 60''Non-local high school student: PHP 45''Non-local elementary student: PHP 30''Senior citizens: PHP 180''Other Ways to Get There''Flying to Ormoc City is the fastest and the most comfortable way to get to Kalanggaman Island, but there are other ways too.''Via Tacloban''. You can also fly to Tacloban and take a 4- to 5-hour van ride to the town of Palompon. Once in Palompon, visit the Eco-Tourism Office and get a boat, as explained above.''Via Cebu by boat''. You may also travel by sea to Palompon from Cebu. From Mactan Airport, take a cab to Pier 3, where you may board ship to Palompon (P500, 4 hours). But this will take a lot more time.''In our case, we flew Cebu Pacific Air to Ormoc City via Cebu and stayed a bit in Ormoc, which we also recommend. Ormoc has its own set of attractions! Wee arrived at Ormoc during the height of the city’s Piña Festival, and we spent a couple of days in the city to partake in the festivities. By festivities we meant booze, tons of lechon, and of course, pineapples. Hectares of them. No wonder everyone was wobbly the morning we’re scheduled for Kalanggaman.''Where to Stay in Ormoc''If you decide to stay in Ormoc, here are the top-rated hotels and resorts according to Traveloka users.''Photos below were provided by Traveloka.''Hotel Don Felipe''Corner of Larrazabal Street and, Bonifacio Street, Ormoc''With affordable airfare popping up left and right, travel has become a more realistic goal for many. Some have the privilege to travel for work, others relish traveling with friends, and a good number of adventure junkies crave solo backpacking. But being raised in a family-oriented culture, I often think about returning to certain places with my family whenever I travel without them. Everywhere I go, I feel it. It’s always there.''Many of us wish to go on a family vacation, whether in the Philippines or abroad. For parents, especially young parents, it warms their hearts seeing their children having the time of their lives. Traveling with kids seems daunting at first. But many destinations are becoming more family-friendly, opening and building attractions that even kids will enjoy.''Note'': Filipino children traveling without a parent must have a DSWD Clearance to be allowed to exit the country. To get one, read:''DSWD Clearance''*Most of the images below were provided by Klook.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Tokyo, Japan''2. Hong Kong''3. Seoul, South Korea''4. Singapore''5. Bohol, Philippines''6. Boracay, Philippines''7. Kyoto and Osaka, Japan''8. Dubai, UAE''9. Bali, Indonesia''10. Johor Baru, Malaysia''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''1. Tokyo, Japan''Tokyo may be expensive, but the city offers an experience that is worth every cent you spend. From theme parks to educational museums and modern to traditional places, Tokyo sure has a rich buffet of attractions that will make every kid jump for joy.''It is home to the first Disneyland in Asia and the only DisneySea in the world. Anime fans will have a field day at Studio Ghibli, Doraemon Museum, and the entire Akihabara area. And we’re barely scratching the surface here.''Top Attractions for Kids''When we walked past the Duomo on our last night, the air carried a familiar classical tune coming from a string quartet positioned along an adjacent alley. The drizzling had stopped and a small crowd had gathered around them. Suddenly, a little boy took his mother’s hand and together they danced to the melody, to the delight of other tourists, who watched and snapped away.''It’s tender moments like this that made our time in this glorious city for keeps. I felt it as soon as we emerged out of the Santa Maria Novella Station when we arrived in the city. Trying to find our guesthouse, we walked with 30+ kilos of luggage on our back. It’s been a long, tiring ride from Zurich and we could definitely use some rest. The concrete pavement turned into cobblestones, the streets turned to narrow alleys. It was quiet. It was as though we were never tired. And for a moment, I felt like Diane Lane (hahahahahhaahhaha), playing with the Tuscan sun, peeking from the top of the heritage buildings. Then one left turn and we were greeted by a massive swarm of people, all admiring the Duomo. Hello there, fellow tourists.''We never expected to fall in love with Florence. When we were planning this 16-country European tour, I prepared for Paris or Reykjavik to take my breath away, but it was Florence who stole my heart and ran with it. Easily, it became my favorite city. (Yosh’s most-loved remains Paris, though. But he’s a Francophile, so that’s not really surprising.)'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Florence''When to visit Florence''How to Get to Florence''From Pisa''From Rome, Milan, or Venice''From Other European Cities''From Manila''How to Get from Florence Airport to Florence Historical Center''How to Stay Connected in Florence, Italy''Local SIM''Pocket Wifi Rental''Roaming''Where to Stay in Florence''Where We Stayed: Bronze Horse Guesthouse''Top Budget Hotels Under €50''How to Get Around in Florence''Guided Walking Tours''Places to Visit in Florence''Accademia Gallery''Piazza del Duomo''Ponte Vecchio''Galileo Museum & Castello d’Altafronte''Pitti Palace and Boboli Gardens''Basilica di San Lorenzo''Piazzale Michelangelo''Day Tours from Florence''Where to Eat in Florence''Sample Florence Itinerary and Breakdown of Expenses''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Florence''The city was founded as early as 59 B.C. During the medieval times, it was one of the wealthiest cities in Europe. But it is best known for giving life to the Renaissance in the 14th century, the period that gave us Botticelli, Leonardo da Vinci, and Michelangelo. Many factors contributed to the rise of Florence as a cultural epicenter. One of them: its ruling clan, the Medici, were huge patrons of the arts. Art is the heart and soul of Firenze, which continues to inspire artists from around the world. Its streets are bursting with captivating architecture, sculptures, and even musicians and street painters trying to make a living.''Today’s Florence is a metropolitan hub and the capital of Italy’s Tuscan region, but its historic core remains intact, tucked at its center. It has 80 museums, not counting outside galleries that adorn its many piazzas. The city’s Old Town attracts 13 million tourists a year, making it one of the most visited cities in the world.''Language'': Italian. Most signs have English translations.''Currency'': Euro (EUR, €). €1 is roughly $1.11, PHP 55.94 (as of June 2017).''Modes of payment'': Many establishments accept credit cards, but most still prefer cash.''Electricity Info'': 220-240 volts. Plugs have two round pins.''When to visit Florence''In general, the period between October to May is alright, but April is the most comfortable weather-wise. This is when the cold is slowly giving way to the summer heat. It gets much hotter in the next months and peaks in August, the month you want to avoid. Even the locals try to go out of town during this month to escape the heat.''If you enjoy winter, January and February may be a great choice for two reasons: lower prices, thinner crowds. Florence is always jampacked almost any time of the year, regardless of weather conditions. During our visit, we noticed that even in the middle of rain showers, the piazzas remain brimming with tourists, especially the area surrounding the Duomo.''How to Get to Florence''Florence is served by Amerigo Vespucci Airport (FLR)''Traveling is arguably one of the most preferred methods in relieving stress; the desire to step out of our busy work schedules and go on a short trip to escape for a while is seemingly becoming a trend nowadays. Given the tiniest bit of time, we revelers would grab every opportunity for a quick getaway.''Thankfully, Manila is surrounded by provinces that have so much to offer. May it be planned or spontaneous, day trips do not always mean spending too much. There are cheap destinations near Manila that can ease your stress away without going below your maintaining balance. Here are 7 day trip suggestions under P1000 for your stress-busting escapade. Ready?'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Pililla Wind Farm and Pinto Art Museum in Rizal''Mt. Daraitan and Tinipak River in Rizal''Malabrigo Beach, Batangas''Masasa Beach, Batangas''Hulugan Falls, Laguna''Magdapio Falls, Laguna (aka Cavinti Falls, Pagsanjan Falls)''Taal Volcano, Batangas''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Pililla Wind Farm and Pinto Art Museum in Rizal''You don’t have to go all the way to Ilocos if you want to see these huge wind turbines. Rizal has its wind farm, though the ones in Bangui are much taller. The visit to Pililla Wind Farm won’t take much of your time, giving you a window to visit the quirky Pinto Art Museum, where you can spend most of your time (3-5 hours). Operation hours is 9am to 6pm, Tuesday to Sunday.''How To Get There:''Manila to Pililla Wind Farm:''From either Starmall in Mandaluyong or Araneta Center in Cubao, take a van or FX going to Tanay Public Market (P70, 1.5hr).''From Tanay Public Market, there’s a tricycle terminal. Hire a tricycle to Pililla Wind Farm. They usually charge P300 (round trip). (Better if you can share the ride with a group or friends to cut the cost.)''Pililla Wind Farm to Pinto Art Museum:''Take the same tricycle going back to Tanay market. Take jeepney going to Ynares Center in Antipolo (P37-40, 1hr).''From Ynares Center, take tricycle to Pinto Art Museum (P10, one way).''Expense Breakdown:''Transportation – P370 (Manila – Pililla) + P50 (Pililla – Pinto) + P60 (Pinto – Manila) = P480''Pinto Art Museum Entrance Fee – P200''Meals – P250''TOTAL – P930''*If you have travel companions, you can still lower the cost by dividing the Pililla Wind Farm round trip tricycle fare. Also, it’s much better and cheaper if you have your own ride so you would only need to split gas expenses.''Mt. Daraitan and Tinipak River in Rizal''The most popular combination trip in Rizal for nature lovers is the Mt. Daraitan – Tinipak River day trip. But keep in mind that the people in charge of the hiking activity in Daraitan only allow 300 people on the summit per day. Sometimes, as early as 8am, the management will close the registration for the Daraitan hike because it has already reached its 300-people quota. Others would opt to trek to Tinipak River instead and explore the nearby Maytuntong Cave, commonly known as Tinipak Cave. Be there early if you really want to hike Mt. Daraitan.''How to Get There:''From either Starmall in Mandaluyong or Araneta Center in Cubao, take a van or FX going to Tanay (P70, 1.5hr). Get off at Jollibee Tanay.''Hire a tricycle going to Mt. Daraitan registration center in Barangay Daraitan (P500/6 pax, one way, 30 mins).''Expense Breakdown:''Transportation – P170 x 2 = P360 (RT)''Registration Fee – P20''Guide Fee – P750/5-10 pax''Tinipak River Fee – P20''Meals – P250''TOTAL – P800''*For the computation, guide fee was divided by 5 (P150/head), as well as the tricycle fare going to Daraitan (P100/head). So we strongly recommend that you form or join a group of five to reduce costs.''Malabrigo Beach, Batangas''Nestled at the southernmost tip of Batangas, Malabrigo Beach, sometimes referred to as Malabrigo Point, offers a different kind of beach experience. While most of the beaches in the Philippines boast fine sand, Malabrigo Beach differs with smooth pebbles carpeting a great stretch of its shoreline. Not far away from the beach is the renovated Malabrigo Lighthouse.''Malabrigo Beach''How to Get There:''From Manila, take the bus bound for Batangas City, then get off at Diversion or Balagtas (P150).''Ride a jeepney or trike going to SM Batangas (P8). Advise the driver to drop you off at the jeepney terminal bound for Lobo.''Take another jeepney to Lobo (P55). From Lobo town proper, take a tricycle to Malabrigo Beach (P35).''*If you are pressed for time, you can also hire the tricycle for P150 (one way).''Expense Breakdown:''Transportation – P248 x 2 = P496 (RT)''Punta Malabrigo Resort Entrance Fee – P100/person''Meals – P250''Total – 846''*Note that aside from Punta Malabrigo Resort, you may access the beach through other entry points with no fee at all.''Masasa Beach, Batangas''Located in the island municipality of Tingloy in Batangas, Masasa Beach is starting to tickle the curiosity of weekend warriors. Its proximity to Anilao makes snorkeling one of the activities you can enjoy aside from swimming and camping. You can also do a little trek on a nearby hill and appreciate the view when you reach the top. Other nearby attractions include Sepoc Island, Sombrero Island, and Mt. Gulugod Baboy.''How to Get There:''From Manila, take a bus bound for Batangas Grand Terminal (P130-165, 2-3hrs).''From Batangas Grand Terminal, ride a jeepney going to Anilao Port or Talaga Port (P37, 40mins).''From the port, board a passenger/public boat bound for Tingloy Port (P80, 45mins – 1hr).''From Tingloy Port, take a tricycle to Masasa Beach (P30).''*If you are pressed for time, you can also rent a private boat if you are a big group for P4500/10 pax. Last trip of public boat back to mainland is 2:30pm.''Expense Breakdown:''Transportation – P312 x 2 = P624 (RT)''Environmental Fee – P30/person''Meals – P250''TOTAL – 904''*For the computation, we used the highest cost for bus fare from Manila to Batangas, which is from Cubao. If you’re coming from Buendia or Alabang, it’s a bit lower.''More info:''MASASA BEACH''Hulugan Falls, Laguna''Just recently, Hulugan Falls has been gaining a lot of attention, resulting in a steady increase of tourists in the municipality of Luisiana. Aside from Hulugan Falls, you can actually visit 2 more nearby falls – Talay Falls and Hidden Falls.''How to Get There:''From Manila, board a bus bound for Sta. Cruz, Laguna (P140, 2-3hrs).''From Sta. Cruz, ride a jeepney going to Lucban or Lucena. Ask the driver to drop you off at San Salvador. Fare is P30.''From San Salvador, there’s an Information Desk at a waiting shed where you will be assigned a tour guide who will bring you to the Captain’s House for registration.''Ride a trike to Hulugan Falls jumping-off point (P10/person).''Budget Breakdown:''Transportation – P180 x 2 = P360 (RT)''Hulugan Falls Tourism Fee – P20''Hulugan Falls Guide Fee – P150 (P600/4 pax, Hulugan + Talay Falls + Hidden Falls); P75 (P300/4 pax, Hulugan Falls only)''Meals – P250''TOTAL – P780''*For the computation, we used the guide fee which includes 3 falls and divided it by 4 (P150/head).''Read:''HULUGAN FALLS TRAVEL GUIDE''Magdapio Falls, Laguna (aka Cavinti Falls, Pagsanjan Falls)''Laguna is laden with natural tourist gems — mountains, hot springs, lakes, and falls. One of the classic attractions is Magdapio Falls. Doesn’t ring a bell? Magdapio Falls is also known by other names, Pagsanjan Falls being the most popular. But Cavinti Falls is also used.''You can reach the waterfall in two ways: by shooting the rapids from Pagsanjan or by trekking from Pueblo El Salvador Nature Park in Cavinti. (Boat tours are also offered from Cavinti, though, but we haven’t tried it from Cavinti.)''The details below are for those who choose to access from Pueblo El Salvador in Cavinti.''Cavinti Falls is also known as Pagsanjan Falls''How to Get There:''From Manila, board a bus bound for Sta. Cruz, Laguna (P140, 2-3hrs).''From Sta. Cruz, ride a jeepney going to Lucban or Lucena. Ask the driver to drop you off at Cavinti. Fare is P27.''From Cavinti, hire a tricycle going to Pueblo El Salvador Nature Park (P60). This is the jumping-off point to the falls.''*There are two options to get to Cavinti Falls: shoot the rapids or trek. Trekking is the cheaper option.''Budget Breakdown:''Transportation – P227 x 2 = P454 (RT)''Cavinti Falls Fee – P270 (Inclusive of bamboo raft ride to the Devil’s Cave, guide, rappelling gear, life vest)''Food – P150''Tip – P100''TOTAL – P974''Read more:''4 WATERFALLS IN 1 DAY''Taal Volcano, Batangas''If you love admiring it from afar, you’re gonna love it even more when you’re actually on the volcano. It only takes two to three hours to get to the jump off point in Talisay, Batangas. From there, you can rent a small boat to take you to the volcano island. Prep for a rigorous trek because its slopes, while not as steep, can still drain all your energy especially when the sun is harsh.''Although it entails multiple transportation modes, getting to the jump-off point by public transpo is easy. But if you really want to save a bit, it’s best to have your own ride so you can just split the gas cost.''The safest way to get to the volcano is via Taal Lake Yacht Club. They charge P2400 per boat, maximum of 5 pax. That price only applies if you have prior arrangement. For walk-ins, it’s P3300.''How to Get There:''From Manila, take the bus to Batangas and get off at Tanauan City Proper. Fare is less than P100.''Take a tricycle to the where the jeepneys going to Sampaloc. Fare is only P50 per tricycle.''Ride a jeepney to Sampaloc and get off in front of Taal Lake Yacht Club. Fare: 20. It’s on your right side. You can also take a jeepney at Tanauan City to Talisay Town Proper.''An alternative way is to ride the jeepney (terminal beside McDo Tanauan) to Talisay proper, and then take a tricycle to TLYC.''Budget Breakdown:''This assumes you’re a group of five travelers.''Manila to Tanauan Bus (P100 x 2) – P200''Jeepney (P20 x 2): P40''Tricycle (P100/2): P50''Boat Tour (P2400/5): P480''Tourism Tax: P100''Boat Landing Fee: P50''TOTAL: P920''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Top 12 Long Weekend Destinations from Manila (No Flights Needed)''Pililla Wind Farm in Rizal: Windmills Near Manila''BEACHES NEAR MANILA: 10 Uncrowded Weekend Getaways''15 CHEAP BUT AWESOME Destinations Near MANILA''THE DESSERT MUSEUM MANILA: What to Expect''8 Unusual Cemeteries in the Philippines''So you booked your flights using a friend’s or family member’s credit card, and now you’re wondering what to do upon check in. Do you need the actual card? Will a photocopy suffice? Do you need a copy of the ID of the owner of that card?''It’s one of the most confusing airline policies. It’s unclear because every airline has its own rules regarding this and these rules keep changing over time.''So let’s set the record straight.  We reached out to different local airlines and a few others and asked them this:''If I book a flight using a credit card owned by someone who isn’t joining me on the flight, what is your policy when checking in? Do I need to bring a copy of that credit card?''And here are their answers.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Cebu Pacific Air''Philippine Airlines''AirAsia Philippines''Singapore Airlines''EVA Air''JetStar''Years ago when I posted about a trip with my mom, I received a nasty message from another traveler shaming me for being a “grown man traveling with mom.” Whatever for him. It’s not something to be ashamed of.''I remember our first trip together, which was also her first trip abroad. In the middle of our cable car ride in Hong Kong, my mom shed tears. She tried to hide it, but she was obviously crying. When asked, she said she just never expected she would be able to travel overseas.''You see, my mom grew up in a dirt poor family. She only finished 6th Grade because there were seven children in the family and my grandparents couldn’t afford to send all of them to high school. Someone needed to stay at home and help them work. Unfortunately for my mom, it was her. She’s always valued education, but there was nothing she could do. When she started building a family, she promised herself one thing:''that she would do everything to make sure all her children get a college degree''.''I am the youngest. Me graduating from college meant finally fulfilling a promise she made to herself a long time ago. She had never traveled very far, so I promised myself that when I started earning well, I would take her somewhere she had never been before''every year''. That Hong Kong trip when she cried onboard a cable car was our first. We had been to other places since.''My mom is a senior citizen. Traveling with a senior parent is completely different. Their physical condition calls for a plan that is different from when I’m traveling alone or with friends. My mom, for example, although still in good shape doesn’t have that much stamina required for walking long hours or climbing several flights of stairs. Their convenience and comfort become of utmost importance.''We asked the members of our Facebook Group what they think are the best Asian destinations for senior citizens, and these 10 emerged as the top picks!''(Please note that this isn’t based on any official study, just opinions and personal experiences of the members of our FB Group. We don’t necessarily agree with the order. Members are mostly from the Philippines and other ASEAN nations.)'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Singapore''2. Osaka, Japan''3. Hong Kong''4. Taipei, Taiwan''5. Seoul, South Korea''6. Boracay, Philippines''7. Tokyo, Japan''8. Macau''9. Palawan, Philippines''10. Bohol, Philippines''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''1. Singapore''Many of Singapore’s tourist spots lie close to each other: Gardens by the Bay is just next to Marina Bay Sands, the Merlion stands just across the Esplanade area. And even if you must take public transportation, Singapore’s taxi, train, and bus systems are all efficient and comfortable, that commuting isn’t going to be stressful most of the time.''My mom loves theme parks because she never had a chance to enjoy them when she was a kid, and Singapore has more than its share of these parks. Universal Studios Singapore alone can take up an entire day of your itinerary.''Security is also not a problem. Although you still have to be careful (anywhere), you don’t need to be extra-paranoid about safety or your belongings in SG unlike in other destinations in Asia.''READ:''SINGAPORE TRAVEL GUIDE''2. Osaka, Japan''Seniors make up a big fraction of the Japanese population, so naturally its major cities are senior-friendly. The elderly are always given priority. Getting around isn’t difficult. You’ll find elevators at every train station, dedicated seats on every train car, wheelchair ramps at most establishments, and attractions that cater specifically to them. And Osaka is a great primer for the country. It offers many things that the Japanese culture is known for without the insanity of Tokyo. It’s less crowded, less complicated, less crazy.''Osaka’s strategic location enables easy access to Kyoto and Nara too, which means they don’t need to endure long hours to explore tourist favorites in other cities.''Safety is not an issue. Locals are friendly that someone will be lending a helping hand if something happens. And if your senior loved ones have spent most of their lives in the tropics, Osaka will provide a refreshing change in atmosphere that they will surely remember. Think of spring’s cherry blossoms or autumn’s fiery colors!''READ:''OSAKA TRAVEL GUIDE''3. Hong Kong''There’s a reason I chose Hong Kong as my first choice for my first overseas trip with my mom — convenience. Flights to HK are cheap, comfortable accommodations are plenty, the climate is pleasant, and its major tourist sites are all easily accessible. Seniors also enjoy discounts on a lot of things like octopus card and admission fees for attractions.''Around half of the buses in Hong Kong are equipped with wheelchair lifts. The trains are also comfortable, with dedicated seats for the elderly. Most attractions are also family-friendly, from Disneyland Hong Kong to Ngong Ping 360 to Victoria Peak.''READ:''HONG KONG TRAVEL GUIDE''4. Taipei, Taiwan''Taiwan has been gaining popularity over the past few years as an excellent tourist destination, and one of the questions we get the most is:''Is it senior-friendly?''Yes, it is. In fact, Taiwan is committed to being more age-friendly and consciously moving to becoming the best destination for the elderly (and retirees), with the government investing almost NT$2 billion in the medical equipment industry alone.''Taipei’s railway system isn’t as crowded as its counterparts in other East Asian countries. Most of its attractions like its shrines, museums, and parks take little effort to be enjoyed. Elephant Mountain may not be appropriate, but they can climb to the viewing deck of Taipei 101 itself to get a wonderful view.''READ:''TAIPEI TRAVEL GUIDE''5. Seoul, South Korea''Seoul is one of the most age-friendly cities in the world. According to the World Health Organization, the city government started their''2020 Master Plan for the Aged Society''in 2012 and joined the Global Network of Age-friendly Cities and Communities (GNAFCC) in 2013.''Every subway station in Seoul is equipped with elevators and escalators and a map where they are specifically located so you may choose exactly which section of the train to enter. And its extensive and expansive network means there’s a train station nearby almost wherever you are in the city. If not, you can count on the bus, which is also very pleasant and comfortable. Exploring the city’s historic core isn’t an uphill battle either.''Seoul’s winter can be a bit too harsh, which may be a problem to some, but there are a lot of indoor attractions too. Just make sure they’re adequately covered and minimize the time outside.''READ:''SEOUL TRAVEL GUIDE''6. Boracay, Philippines''Update: Starting April 26 until October, Boracay will be closed to the public.''Boracay is small. The island’s key attractions and other points of interest are just a short walk or a short ride away. And because it’s heavily commercialized, you’ll find almost anything you’ll ever need without leaving the island. Its wide selection of hotels means it’s easy to find something that would fit your needs. It’s also pretty accessible. If you’re flying straight to Caticlan, it only takes a 10-minute boat ride to reach Boracay.''Read:''Boracay Budget Travel Guide''7. Tokyo, Japan''As of 2010, Tokyo is home to over 13 million residents and over 2.6 million of those (20%) belong to the aged population (65 years old and up). This means it is now close to becoming a “super-aged society.” No wonder why Tokyo is one of the most age-friendly destinations in the world!''Just like in Seoul and Osaka, train stations have elevators, escalators, and wheelchair ramps. All trains have seats specially for the elderly. There are also attractions that cater specifically to them. For example, Sugamo, a shopping street, is known as the Harajuku for the elderly.''READ:''TOKYO TRAVEL GUIDE''8. Macau''Macau has a lot of things going for it. Many of its key tourist spots are within walking distance of each other. The Ruins of St. Paul’s stand beside the Monte Fort, which is just a stroll from Senado Square. Hotel attractions are mostly indoors and these hotels are clustered together! The Venetian is across the City of Dreams, Wynn is next to Grand Lisboa. Macau’s map is also dotted and shaded by several picturesque parks where the local elderly population spend a few of their hours to relax.''READ:''MACAU TRAVEL GUIDE''9. Palawan, Philippines''Palawan’s top three destinations — El Nido, Coron, and Puerto Princesa — are great for the adventurous and the physically fit. But they can also be easily enjoyed by seniors. In El Nido, most beaches (Seven Commando, Helicopter Island, Simizu, etc) can be reached via a boat ride and don’t require trekking. In Coron, Calauit Safari Park and Maquinit Hot Springs can offer comfortable, unforgettable moments. The Puerto Princesa Subterranean River is also relatively sweat-free.''READ:''CORON TRAVEL GUIDE''READ:''EL NIDO TRAVEL GUIDE''10. Bohol, Philippines''Bohol’s usual Countryside Tour is an unhurried hop-on-hop-off activity, meaning all you need is just hop off of your rented van and voila, you’re already at the site. Although it can still get a bit tiring, it isn’t that physical. The Baclayon Church, Man-made Forest, and Loboc River Cruise can all be done effortlessly. The Chocolate Hills demands a bit more effort, but it’s still nowhere near grueling. Even the island-hopping tours from Panglao are also very comfortable.''READ:''BOHOL TRAVEL GUIDE''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''IS JAPAN RAIL PASS WORTH IT?''TRAVELING WITH KIDS: 10 Asian Destinations for the Whole Family''Amihan Home (Bed & Breakfast): Where to Stay in Boracay, Philippines''Leaving Manila, Landing in Hong Kong: Airport Guide''Hong Kong Family Trip: Summary, Itinerary and Budget''5 Travel Moments When a Great Camera Phone Comes In Handy''I honestly thought I was going to die.''When I reached the top, I dropped to the ground and mustered all the energy I had left to catch my breath. I was vomiting air. My head felt light, pulsating in pain. My chest was starting to tighten. Not here, I said to myself. I had just climbed what many call, aptly, “Heart Attack Hill,” part of the trail around Kings Canyon in the middle of the Australian Outback. The nearest hospital is hours away. Not here.''This post is brought to you by Gatorade''Thankfully, it wasn’t a heart attack. It was probably just overfatigue and dehydration because 10 big gulps of water later, I began feeling alright. It wasn’t even my water.  I finished my bottle before I left the hotel hours ago. That climb kept me grounded both figuratively and literally. This was the first time I experienced something like this.  I remained seated on the rocky ground, wondering how, after so many years of traveling, I was still careless and awfully unprepared.''When we pack for a trip, we usually just think about clothes, toiletries, gadgets. When we research, most of us simply check the weather and take note of directions. Too often, we forget about safety, we forget about our health. It’s surprising because we all know this: Nothing is more inconvenient than falling victim to an illness, attack, or accident when you’re far away from home.''We have more than our share of scares during travel. In this post, we’re listing down things that we always take for granted but shouldn’t because they could save our lives!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Enough fluids.''2. Insect-repellent lotion.''3. First-aid Kit''4. Power Bank (Mobile Charger)''5. Whistle''6. A Good Pair of Shoes''7. Medical ID''With the Taiwanese government relaxing its visa policies for many nationalities, Taiwan is groomed to become a tourism powerhouse in the Asia Pacific region. In the Philippines alone, while Pinoys are eagerly waiting for the implementation of the visa-free entry promise, Taiwanese and local airlines alike have been aggressively promoting the island by lowering fares.''But the truth is, Taiwan destinations are not hard to sell. It has everything going for it. It’s in a strategic location, smack in the middle of the East and Southeast Asian regions. If you’re based in Manila, it’s just 2.5 hours away. It also has a lot to offer, and they’re pretty diverse: from its rugged coasts to its lush inland mountains to its vibrant metropoles. These are all connected by an impressive and efficient railway system, making it so easy to explore. You can easily hop into a train in Taipei and get to other cities like Taichung and see their key tourist attractions too.''And oh, it’s one of the cheapest destinations in East Asia.''If you only have four to five days to explore the island, we’ve built a few sample itineraries that you may use as basis for your own. Feel free to make changes to suit your needs. Also notice that these all assume you will be flying in and out of Taiwan Taoyuan Airport.''We’ve also provided some recommended hotels that you may consider for your stay in Taipei and Taichung.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Itinerary #1: Taipei + Yangmingshan National Park Day Tour''Itinerary #2: Taipei + Taichung''Itinerary #3: Taipei + Hualien''The Kansai Region is the perfect destination if it’s your first time in Japan. It is rich in cultural heritage, evident in the number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites that dot its map, yet its biggest city, Osaka, also feels undoubtedly modern and futuristic. It also prepares you for the craziness and fast pace of Tokyo, if you also plan on paying the capital a visit.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Sample Itinerary''Where to Book Tickets''Where to Book Tours''Top Budget Hotels and Hostels in Osaka (Under $70)''Top Guest Houses in Kyoto (Under $70)''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Sample Itinerary''This itinerary will take you to three of Kansai’s biggest tourist destinations: Osaka, Kyoto, and Nara. This involves spending your nights in Osaka and Kyoto and visiting Nara only on a day trip from Osaka. This also assumes you’re a party of 2, staying in a double room and splitting the cost. Please make the necessary adjustments to match your conditions.''If you follow this 5-day itinerary, prepare to shell out up to''¥45,000 (USD400, PHP20,000)''excluding airfare. That already has a big margin. Better overestimate than under. You can still bring down the cost by staying in a dorm instead or going to the grocery/supermarket for food instead of restaurants. (Yep, the numbers here assume you’re eating out each time.)''If you need more help planning your Osaka-Kyoto trip, this post is for you:''Osaka and Kyoto Travel Guide''Day 0''07:55pm – Arrival at Kansai Airport''10:30pm – Check-in at the hotel''Day 1 – OSAKA''07:00am – Wake up''09:00am – Osaka Castle''12:30nn – Lunch at Endo Sushi''03:00pm – Umeda Sky Building''06:30pm – Tempozan Ferris Wheel''08:30pm – Dotonbori''Day 2 – NARA''07:00am – Wake up''08:00am – Travel to Nara''09:00am – Start DIY Walking Tour: Sarusawa-ike Pond, Kofuku-ji Temple, Isuien Garden, Yoshikien Garden, Todai-ji Temple''01:00pm – Lunch''02:30pm – Kasuga Taisha Shrine, Shinyakushi-ji Temple, Naramachi''05:30pm – Travel back to Osaka''06:30pm – Dinner''Day 3 – KYOTO''07:00am – Wake up''08:00am – Travel to Kyoto''10:00am – Check in at hotel''11:30am – Lunch''01:30pm – Fushimi Inari Shrine''06:00pm – Gion District''08:30pm – Dinner''Day 4 – KYOTO''06:00am – Wake up''09:00am – Arashiyama''12:00nn – Lunch''02:30pm – Golden Pavilion''Day 5''07:00am – Check out''09:30am – Toei Movie Studio Park or Universal Studios Japan''04:00pm – Travel to airport''08:30pm – Flight out''Where to Book Tickets''Universal Studios Japan''This post contains information on how to get a UAE visa if you’re traveling as a tourist, visiting a friend or family, or transiting on your way to another destination. If you’re flying to Dubai, Abu Dhabi or any of the other emirates for work or any purpose other than leisure, this guide won’t be of help.''One of the highlights of last year for me was my short stop in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). I was there for two reasons: to visit one of my closest friends, who moved to Dubai a few years ago, and to take advantage of a stopover. I was coming from a longer trip around Morocco and Turkey, and my flight back to Manila (Philippines) was connecting at Dubai Airport, so I decided to just seize the opportunity and stay there for over a week.''UAE Visa is probably the easiest visa we got. It was expensive, but it was relatively effortless, especially given that we have a friend in Dubai, who served as a sponsor.''Yep, sponsor. If you’re applying for a UAE Visa, you need a sponsor. It can be a family member, a colleague, or a friend. This will make things a lot easier.''If you don’t know anyone there, an airline, hotel, or travel agency can sponsor you.''In the beginning, we had a difficult time figuring out the process. There’s just so much info online and they somewhat say different things because they serve their own interest. For example, some UAE-based airlines also offer visa services but they require flight tickets booked with them. Dozens of hotels are also authorized to process visas, but many of them require that book rooms with them (for obvious reasons). In this post, I’ll try to summarize everything so you have all possible options.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Who needs a UAE Visa?''What does it look like?''Types of UAE Visa''What are the UAE Visa requirements?''Search for hotels: Dubai Hotels''Where to submit your application?''I was checking posts in my News Feed when I noticed that a lot of my friends shared this video, so I watched it. It made me really happy for two reasons: because the narrative was effective, and because its message advocates something that I care about. You can see more at''sunshorts2.com\u200b''.''That something I say I care about?''Being insured''. The video was part of Sun Life’s campaign to highlight the importance of not just their product but financial literacy in general. Coincidentally, I am one of their clients and I got my policy from them early last year.''This post is brought to you by Sun Life Philippines''Vins and I didn’t quit our day jobs blindfolded. We knew it was a risky move financially, so we did everything we could to ensure stability. Before resigning to pursue a life of travel, we made sure our blogs are earning enough and that we have built an impressive portfolio to attract freelance clients should the need arise. We also made sure we had three things:''savings'',''investments'', and''insurance''.''Why insurance? Because I care about my family''. I may be single, but I’m the one sending my niece and nephew to school. And I want them to have what I didn’t when I was a kid. I know how it feels to have almost nothing, to live in a house made of sawdust that can be blown away by the weakest storms, to collect used cooking oil from neighbors to add flavor to my rice. If it weren’t for my mom working tirelessly day and night, I wouldn’t be able to finish college, which eventually turned my life around.''I want an assurance that my family would still be okay in case something happens to me.''You see,''travel isn’t all fun''. Most people think full-time travelers spend all day by the beach, drinking mojito. That’s true at times (LOL), but what you don’t see on their glossy, heavily-filtered Instagram posts are the challenges along the way. Travel is unpredictable and sometimes dangerous. And as a responsible uncle, I have to prepare for all possible scenarios. Because, guess what, I became too close to danger a few times!''Here are some personal experiences that led me to an afternoon meeting with a financial advisor! I’m sharing these not to discourage you from traveling, but simply to show that travel is not all about passport stamps and rainbows.''1. That time I almost fell off a cliff''Lake Holon, our destination.''Mt. Melibingoy, South Cotabato. It rained that morning so the path to Lake Holon was a bit muddy and slippery. Back then, the place was not yet popular. The trail was littered with rocks that were covered in moss. I slipped multiple times, leaving me with scratches all over my arms and legs. But at one point, I was way ahead of the pack when I came across a giant log parallel the trail. I wanted to take photos from a higher vantage point so I climbed onto the log, which was covered by moss. I slipped again. I could have fallen either way: back to the trail to my right side or off the cliff to my left.''I GOT LUCKY. I was lucky I fell to my right because if I followed Beyonce and fell to the left, to the left, I’d be on the papers the next day!''Thank heavens these are all I got when I fell. If I fell to the left, I’d probably be dead.''Key takeaway'': Buy proper footwear (LOL), don’t go climbing logs by the cliff, and get insured for the sake of your dependents.''2. That time I crashed my bike''Struggling to keep my bike straight on the way to Angkor Wat''The cheapest way to explore Siem Reap, Cambodia? By bike, of course. But I had one tiny problem: I didn’t know how to bike. Still, I rented one and taught myself to ride it the entire morning.''Past noon, I was ready! Or so I thought. I spent the entire afternoon biking around town! By nightfall I was already on the way back to the hotel. Just when I was about to celebrate that I survived the day without incident, I crashed and fell in the middle of the road at rush hour! Thankfully,''the vehicle behind me stopped just in time''!''The accident left me with two shallow but wide wounds on my left leg. But that wasn’t the hardest part. I was traveling alone, the wounds did not heal even when I moved on to Thailand, stopping me from doing more. Sayang!''Key takeaway'': Don’t brave the crazy streets of Siem Reap if you just learned how to bike hours earlier. Haha. It’s obvious, I know, but I was brave and dumb. And get insured.''3. That time I went from Marrakech to May Sakit real quick''After two months of non-stop traveling in Japan, UAE, Turkey, and Morocco, it was time to head home and take a break. Many of those days, I was walking or running around with over 30 kilos of luggage on my back. It was pretty standard. I’m used to it. In fact, the whole trip wrapped up without any major incident.''But as soon as I got home, I felt a subtle pain in my tummy. I didn’t think much about it until the pain became so unbearable that I couldn’t move. The slightest movement would cause a lash of pain around my belly. My housemates brought me to the hospital, where multiple surgeons conducted tests but they couldn’t figure out what was causing the pain. The initial prognosis was appendicitis. Soon, I was told not to eat or drink anything as they prepared me for surgery. But then, appendicitis was also ruled out so they cancelled the surgery, but they still had to manage the pain and figure out what’s wrong. I was in the hospital for a week.''From Marrakech to May Sakit REAL QUICK!''Turns out I had umbilical hernia — a condition wherein part of the digestive tract is pushing out of my body via my belly button — something I didn’t know about before. Doctors said it was aggravated because I might have been lifting heavy things. And boy was I constantly lifting heavy things when I travel, LOL.''At the time, I had no health card or Philhealth or any sort of insurance. I had to shoulder all the costs. It was my most expensive staycation to date.''Imagine if it happened while I was abroad! Would have been a lot more difficult. And more expensive.''Key takeaway'': Get a wheeled suitcase instead of a backpack! Get checked! Get insured! Not just life-insured but health-insured too!''4. That time I got Dengue.''This one happened a loooong time ago.''I loved the outdoors even as a child. I enjoyed camping with friends. We would just bring a tent to the beach or the woods, and we would stay there. But when I was 11, one week after another camping trip, my friend and I were both rushed to the hospital because of constant, high fever, rashes, and nose bleeding. Apparently, we had Dengue Fever. We were confined in the hospital for 10 days, until our platelet counts fully recovered.''Damn mosquitoes!''But mosquitoes, the deadliest in the animal kingdom, just won’t leave me alone. I had contracted dengue three more times after that! Imagine! They say that a person can only get dengue four times because there are only four strains, so I’m probably immune to it now. But this time, I have learned my lesson. Dengue isn’t the only disease that mosquitoes carry so I have developed a habit of bringing insect-repellent lotion whenever I travel.''I’d been incredibly lucky that in all instances, I was home when most of the symptoms appeared, so I had easy access to the hospital. Imagine being in the jungle or in a remote village while suffering from it. Yet, mosquitoes are not confined in the wilderness. They’re everywhere: bus terminals, parks, eateries.''Key takeaway'': Always bring insect-repellent lotion! And, wait for it, get insured.''5. That time I was robbed at knifepoint''Sometimes, danger is much closer to home.''The worst crime I fell victim to happened just a few meters from where I lived in Quezon City! I was walking on the way home when a man suddenly lay one arm on my shoulder and pointed a knife to my belly (Why is it always my belly?!!).''“Boss, cellphone lang kailangan ko,” he said. But I didn’t have the presence of mind. I just froze and didn’t move. “Ibigay mo sakin yung cellphone mo,” he added, while moving the knife closer.''I couldn’t move for what felt like forever.''A tricycle drove toward us. I was saved, I thought. But my hope was crushed when the driver spoke, “Gripuhan mo na ‘yan, ayaw yata eh.” At that point I just handed them my phone and then they drove away just like that. They got my phone. I still got my life.''Key takeaway'': Take care not just during travel but every time. And, yep, get insured because if the asshole decided to stab me right then, I don’t think I would still be here.''—-''There have been many other moments too, albeit non-life-threatening. I experienced a long earthquake in Tokyo and got scammed multiple times in different countries. But if you follow our blog closely, you know that the closest I got to death was also my earliest memory of traveling on my own which ended when I fell into a pit of fire that left me with a massive third-degree burn on my left arm. I was just a kid then.''I’m one of the millions of Filipinos who are not that financially literate. Years ago, when there’s an option for an insurance for anything (travel, health, life), I’d be the first to walk to the opposite direction.''But insurance is one of the things you should have, you hope you never have to use, but you or your loved ones will be GLAD you have when time comes.''…''In case you want the number of my financial advisor, it’s 09175045972. Her name is Lysa.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Hack Your Finances to Travel More in 2017''10 Practical Tips I Wish I Followed Before I Started Traveling''How We Earn While Traveling: Online Opportunities''JustFly Reviews: 5 Excellent Ways to Survive a Road Trip''7 Items Travelers Often Forget to Pack''KOREA VISA FOR FILIPINOS: Requirements & Frequently Asked Questions''When I think of Malaysia, the catchphrase “Truly Asia” always follows. And as if on cue, the Petronas Twin Towers will regally rise into the spotlight, like a beauty contestant, greeting my thoughts with: “This is Petronas Twin Towers, Malaysia!” But there’s more to Malaysia than its tourism slogan and skyscrapers. Its capital Kuala Lumpur alone has plenty to offer.''Last month, we visited this city for the fifth time! So when one of our readers asked if we already have a Kuala Lumpur Travel Guide, we were confident we had one. Imagine our surprise when we realized we don’t! All these years, we thought we had it covered. LOL. So here it is now, correcting this injustice.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Kuala Lumpur''How to Get to Kuala Lumpur''By Plane''By Bus (From Singapore and Thailand)''By Train (From Singapore and Thailand)''How to Get from the Airport to Kuala Lumpur City Center''How to Stay Connected in Kuala Lumpur''Where to Stay in Kuala Lumpur''Top Budget Hotels Under USD50''Top Kuala Lumpur Hostels''Search for more: Kuala Lumpur Hotels''How to Get Around Kuala Lumpur''By Train''By Bus''By Taxi''Places to Visit in and around Kuala Lumpur''Petronas Twin Towers''Istana Negara (National Palace)''Sultan Abdul Samad Building''National Museum''KL City Gallery''KL Tower''Tun Abdul Razak Heritage Park''Putrajaya''Batu Caves''Sunway Lagoon''Kampung Kuantan''Other Attractions:''Day Tours from Kuala Lumpur''Melaka (Malacca)''Cameron Highlands''Genting Highlands''Where to Shop in Kuala Lumpur''Sample Kuala Lumpur Itinerary''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Kuala Lumpur''Malaysia is a federal constitutional monarchy composed of 13 states and three federal territories. Kuala Lumpur is one of those three federal territories. It is Malaysia’s largest city, as well as its national capital. Although not as old as Melaka and George Town, the city showcases seamless yet distinct coexistence of old and new, where preservation of structures will let you have a glimpse of what made this city what it is now.''This post is brought to you by Philippine Airlines''Most of the government offices are situated now in Putrajaya (another federal territory), but “KL” remains as the country’s economic and business hub. One of the strengths of this culturally-diverse city, so used to adjusting to changes, is its strong service-oriented economy. Its status as the only alpha world city (global city) in Malaysia is evident in the number of public and private infrastructures all throughout the city, especially the Golden Triangle Area, and even in the suburbs.''What we’ve always loved about it is that it is a melting pot of cultures — a mix of Chinese, Malay, Indian, and even European, due to its colonial past.''Essential Information:''Language'': The official language is Malay (a.k.a. Malaysian). English language is widely spoken.''Currency'': Malaysian Ringgit (MYR, RM). USD 1 is around MYR 4.29; MYR 1 is around PHP 11.71; EUR 1 is around MYR 4.8 (as of June 2017)''Modes of Payment'': Local stores and restaurants only accept Ringgit, but certain foreign currencies and major credit cards (Visa and Master Card) are accepted by most hotels, fine-dining restaurants, and souvenir shops.''Electricity Info'': Most establishments have 3-pin square plugs and sockets at 220 – 240 V AC and 50 Hz.''How to Get to Kuala Lumpur''If you’re holding a Philippine passport, you don’t have to get a visa to enter Malaysia.''By Plane''Two airports serve Kuala Lumpur: Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA) in Selangor and Sultan Abdul Aziz Shah Airport (Subang Skypark) in Subang. At present, the latter mainly functions for turboprop and chartered flights while KLIA, which is 45 minutes away from KL city center, is the main terminal and is also the main hub for its flag carrier Malaysia Airlines and the budget airline Air Asia.''If you’re coming from Manila, know that Philippine Airlines has returned to Kuala Lumpur, offering daily flights. Although you will find “cheaper” flights, note that every PAL Economy booking already comes with 30 kilos baggage allowance for FREE, something that you will have to pay for separately with low-cost carriers.''The sample schedule above is also aligned with the usual hotel check-in and check-out times!''By Bus (From Singapore and Thailand)''Many people initially go to Singapore, then cross the border to Malaysia via land transfer. There are 3 main bus companies serving this route: KKKL, Transnasional, and Konsortium Bas Ekspres Semenanjung (KBES). A bus ticket is around RM50/USD12.53/PHP623 (one way) and travel time is 5 hours.''For those who are coming from Thailand (Hat Yai), there are a couple of bus companies offering this route: Konsortium Bas Ekspres Semenanjung (KBES) and Alisan Golden Coach Express. Bus fare is around RM55/USD13.78/PHP685 (one way) and travel duration is 7 hours.''By Train (From Singapore and Thailand)''Keretapi Tanah Melayu (KTPM) is the primary rail operator in (Peninsular) Malaysia. KL Sentral railway station is the main hub for KTM’s intercity and international trains. They have day and overnight train services which also include Singapore-Malaysia and Thailand-Malaysia routes.''How to Get from the Airport to Kuala Lumpur City Center''You can choose among these modes of transportation: by train, by bus, or by taxi. Well, a taxi would be the last resort or not an option at all (unless you arrive past 1 AM). Note that “KL Sentral” is the main transit hub in Kuala Lumpur.''The Fastest Option:''Kuala Lumpur International Airport Trains (ERL).''There are two types — KLIA Ekspres and KLIA Transit. KLIA Ekspres travels (non-stop) between KLIA and KL Sentral in 28 minutes for RM55/USD13.78/PHP685 (one way). Operation hour is from 5:00 AM to 1:03 AM.''If you don’t want to queue for KLIA Ekspres ticket, Klook is offering a fast and efficient way at a discounted price. All you need to do is to get to KLIA Express barrier gate and have your voucher barcode scanned and you are good to go.''Get Your Ticket Here''Photo provided by Klook''KLIA Transit (stopping at Salak Tinggi, Putrajaya, and Bandar Tasik Selatan) completes the journey in 36 minutes for RM55/USD13.78/PHP685 (one way). Operation hour is from 4:33 AM to 1:03 AM.''These trains also connect KLIA and KLIA2 in 3 minutes for only RM2/USD.50/PHP25.''The Cheapest Option:''By bus. Airport Coach has express buses running between KLIA and KL Sentral in 1 hour for RM11/USD2.76/PHP137 (one way). Operation hour is from 5:00 AM to 11:00 PM.''Star Shuttle buses journey from KLIA to Kota Raya and Pudu Raya (and vice versa) near Chinatown in 1-2 hours for RM12.50/USD3.13/PHP155 (one way). If you are coming from KLIA2 (for low-cost carriers), they offer to take you directly to your hotel, given that your hotel is within KL district for RM15.''How to Stay Connected in Kuala Lumpur''Photo provided by Klook''Traveling is made convenient by various mobile applications that usually work with an internet connection, thus it’s important to stay connected. You can either buy a 4G SIM Card or rent a pocket WiFi device.''For pocket WiFi rental:''Reserve Here''For 4G Local SIM:''Reserve Now''——————''Where to Stay in Kuala Lumpur''Being one of the most visited cities in the world, Kuala Lumpur danced to the rhythm and adjusted well to the growing need for accommodations, hence the presence of not only popular international hotel chains but also local ones. Whatever budget you have for your accommodations, from luxury (Malaysia has some of the cheapest 5-star hotels) to hostels, Kuala Lumpur got you “covered”. If you want to give the 5-star hotels a try, you might want to check''Hotel Istana''located at No. 73, Jalan Raja Chulan, Bukit Bintang, Kuala Lumpur.''To help you further, here are some of the top budget hotels and hostels according to online users.''Top Budget Hotels Under USD50''Taiwan is steadily catching up with its Asian neighbors as a choice travel destination for Filipinos, even more so with the forthcoming visa-free entry policy for Philippine passport holders and other Southeast Asian countries. Its location usually excludes it from the usual Southeast Asian backpacking route, but with its efficient transport system, numerous night markets, awe-inspiring architecture, rising art districts, wide spectrum of shopping options, and most of all, the relaxed and accommodating locals, I firmly believe that Taiwan will rise up and be one of the top destinations in Asia in the coming years.''This post is brought to you by the Taiwan Tourism Board''One surprising fact about Taiwan that travelers, especially the budget-conscious ones, would be delighted to know is that most products and services in Taiwan, if not all, are relatively cheaper compared to other developed Asian countries such as Singapore, Hong Kong, South Korea, and Japan. Whether it’s your first time visiting the country or not, Taipei, the capital and the biggest city, offers a delightful buffet of budget-friendly and, wait for it, FREE attractions and activities that you can surely enjoy. Here is a list of some of the places to visit in Taipei and nearby areas for FREE.''These sites can be reached DIY-style. But if you need a little help navigating, you can pick up a 4G SIM Card at the airport. You can buy a Welldone 4G SIM Card that will allow give you unlimited data without worrying about roaming costs. Each sim also allows unlimited incoming calls. It also includes calling credits (NT$300 credit for 5 days, NT$150 credit for 7 days, NT$100 credit for 10 days). If you buy online, you can pick it up at the airpot when you arrive.''Reserve a Local SIM Here''–'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Elephant Mountain''2. Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall''3. Chiang Kai-shek Memorial Hall''4. Martyr’s Shrine''5. Dalongdong Bao’an Temple''6. Shifen  Old Streets''7. Jiufen Old Street''8. Shilin Night Market''9. Raohe Street Night Market''10. Ximending Youth Shopping District''How to Get to Taipei''Where to Stay in Taipei''If Southeast Asia Backpacking is a college degree, Bangkok is your 101 course.''Smack at the heart of Thailand, Bangkok is widely regarded as the epicenter of the backpacking culture in Southeast Asia. First of all, it is cheap, one of the cheapest travel hubs in the world. Many other destinations in ASEAN can be easily accessed from Bangkok: Vientiane is just a bus-ride away. Siem Reap can be reached within the day. Hence, the tired backpacking trail in the region often begins and ends here. If you think this backpacking thing is a game, Bangkok is Level 1. It only gets harder from here, but you wouldn’t even notice because Bangkok would subtly prepare you for it.''And on top of it all, it is also tourist-friendly. Locals are used to tourists, and scams notwithstanding, it is relatively safe. Truly, Bangkok is an ideal destination for first-time travelers.''And my God, don’t get us started with the food. In 2012, we first visited Bangkok as part of a longer backpacking journey. We have returned three times since, and it’s mostly because of its cuisine!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Bangkok: Asia’s Backpacking Capital''When to Visit Bangkok''How to Get to Bangkok''Where to Stay in Bangkok''How to Stay Connected in Bangkok''How to Get Around Bangkok''Places to Visit in Bangkok''Day Tours from Bangkok''Sample Itineraries''Budget Breakdown''Are “Piso Fares” real?''Yes and no. Yes, because when airlines say PISO FARE, they refer to the''base fare'', the cost of the plane ticket. And yes, they can go as low as P1 or even zero at times. No, because there will be other charges to be added to the fare such as web admin fees and government taxes. Regardless, these promos will give you huge discounts and will allow you to travel on the cheap!''With the rise of low-cost carriers and stiff competition, prompting even legacy airlines to offer budget options, finding cheap fares is not that difficult anymore. Yet, whenever airlines announce promos on their Facebook pages, they are bombarded with all sorts of complaints from users. While some of them have a point, some users just accuse the airlines of being deceptive, claiming that the sale is just some empty promise or a misleading marketing strategy. Some even go as far as saying that the SALE is not real.''Trust me, these promos are real. Just because you can’t find promo seats doesn’t mean they are not. Many of our trips became a reality because of these cheap fares. I have availed of it many times. But we understand where the negativity is coming from. Some get really frustrated because the promo seats don’t appear when they search. And when they do appear, it’s difficult to pin them down.''There are many reasons for this:''The number of seats on sale available is limited''. They can’t put all the seats on sale. Airlines usually publish the number of seats on sale PER DESTINATION on their website so be sure to check it out.''Their websites suck''. They promote their sale to no end, but their website can’t handle the traffic surge, sometimes leading to downtimes and slowing down.''Your connection sucks too''. A slow internet connection will complicate things more.''I used to work as marketing consultant for two local airlines and a global travel aggregator site, so I somehow have a good grasp of how these sales work. It takes skill!''You need to be fast and precise''.''Here are some tips on how to successfully book a promo flight based on my experience as a frequent flyer and as an insider. This applies to local airlines such as Cebu Pacific Air, AirAsia, and Philippine Airlines. Here we go.''1. Follow airlines’ social media accounts.''Stalk them on Twitter and Facebook. Gone are the days when they would surprise everyone. They now announce the sale days ahead.''It’s hard to know when exactly promos will happen, but there have been constant elements over the years: They launch special sales during holidays and important occasions. For example, to celebrate their anniversaries, airlines usually launch massive promos as a treat and a marketing stunt. They also usually have promos on Easter, Valor Day, Independence Day, and New Year’s Day among others. I’m referring to booking periods, not travel periods.''Many frequent travelers I know have turned on the GET NOTIFICATIONS feature of the FB page of airlines so they receive alerts. Downside, they are notified for other shit, too.''2. Sign up for an account before the sale.''This way, you don’t need to type in your details when it’s time to book. Many airlines put a time limit on each booking session. Signing up for an account means you don’t need to type your personal info and credit card details each time you book.''But that’s not all. Register for an account with their Reward Programs too. Airlines usually hold sales that are EXCLUSIVE to members of their Loyalty Programs! That’s''AirAsia BIG''for AirAsia,''GetGo''for Cebu Pacific Air, and''Mabuhay Miles''for Philippine Airlines.''AirAsia flights are also sometimes made available with more discounts for registered users of their hotel aggregator sites''AirAsiaGO''and partner Expedia.''3. Be ready with your companions’ personal details and preferences.''Collect all your companions’ personal details beforehand. Don’t ask your friends for their details and preferences when you’re already in the process of booking. It’s super stressful! Friends take forever to reply! Also because like I said, your booking session might expire. Worse, someone else might book the seat you’re eyeing while you and your companions are still deliberating. Happened to me multiple times: Just when we’ve finally decided, poof, it’s gone.''So before the sale, decide on the following:''Destination''Alternative Destinations (as Plan B, in case you don’t find fares)''Travel Dates''Preferred Time''Here are the personal details you need from your companions:''Full name (including middle name and as written on passport)''Birth date''Email address''Contact number''Passport Number (some airlines require this)''Passport Expiry Date (some airlines require this)''While you’re at it, ask them too if they prefer aisle or window seat and meal choice, if they’re willing to pay for them. LOL.''4. Book by small batches.''This is one thing I have proven so many times. When you book for so many people at once, the site displays “SOLD OUT.” But when you book for just one or two people, you can have that same flight (same plane, same day, same time).''For example, once, during a promo, my friends and I were booking tickets to Cagayan de Oro. There were 5 of us. Every date we chose, we would get a SOLD OUT display. But when we tried just booking for two people, suddenly some slots became available. So what we did was book two flights and then my friend booked the same flight for three people using a different computer. All 5 of us flew to Cagayan de Oro on the same flight.''There are risks, though! These may be the last 2 or 3 seats so if you’re a big group, there’s always a chance you’ll end up taking different flights.''5. Be quick and early. Book on the first day of SALE.''Perhaps the reason I always grab sale seats is because I book early. If the announced sale period is November 3-6, book on November 3. There’s a big chance there won’t be anything left in the following days. The number of seats in a plane is finite and they can only put a few of them on sale but the demand is so big that they tend to get sold out easily.''Some airlines replenish promo seats after a specified period of time so they’re evenly distributed throughout the sale period, but they don’t disclose the exact date and time. The easiest way remains booking at the start of the sale.''If you found cheap fares and you like the dates, book them fast. You have no idea how many users are eyeing those same seats at that moment and you will lose them soon. If you’re booking for other people, make sure you have their full names and birth dates (sometimes, passport numbers).''6. Book in the wee hours.''I know it sounds ridiculous but if you really want to grab a cheap seat, book in the wee hours of announced date of sale. The sale usually activates at 12 midnight. You will have more chances if you’re searching within the first hour.''Also, whenever there’s a sale happening, airline websites can’t seem to handle the volume of users trying to book at the same time, slowing down the system. This also leads to a lot of waiting times and errors. This is what you can avoid when you book while the rest of the world is in slumber.''7. Consider other dates.''If there are no more seats on your chosen dates, pick another. Obviously, weekends tend to get sold-out faster than other days of the week. Be flexible when it comes to dates and timings.''Be patient. I know it can get tiring clicking the Next Day/Previous Day button but if you really want it cheap, you shouldn’t mind going through all dates if necessary. If you have very specific dates that can’t be changed, then good luck to you.''8. Choose a not-so-popular destination.''Davao, Cebu, Bohol and Palawan seem to be the most loved destinations — they go “sold out” even before you consider booking. So come up with alternative places to visit that are also worth your time. For example, Dumaguete offers a heritage-rich experience as well as great beaches. Iloilo is your gateway to Guimaras where beaches are as stunning as in many provinces in the country. Laoag opens your doors to Pagudpud and the best of the Ilocos region.''Also, try using other gateways to the destination you wish to visit. Want to fly to Dumaguete but no more P1 seats? Try Cebu and just take a ferry to Dumaguete. This way, you’ll also get to explore Cebu. No more Caticlan seats? Kalibo is just two hours away. Going to Samar but no more Catarman or Calbayog seats? Try Tacloban. Be open to other possibilities.''Airlines actually disclose the number of available promo seats per sale. Just go to their website and check which destinations have a lot of seats on sale.''…''Bonus''Another trick is to use a VPN to conceal or change your location. Some promos are available only in specific territories. Changing your IP address to that location will allow you to avail of those promos too.''There are also stories online that suggest that using a VPN will allow you to see more cheap fares because they are shown to new, first-time users more than return visitors.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Book Cheap Flights Successfully''How to Book AIRASIA PROMO FLIGHTS''CEBU PACIFIC PROMO FLIGHTS 2018 (And How to Book Successfully)''FIRST TIME ABROAD: Tips and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)''Air Vanuatu: Facts and In-Flight Information''JustFly Reviews: 5 Excellent Ways to Survive a Road Trip''In most cases it is possible to get from the airport to the city by public transport or taxi. However, it might be sometimes difficult to find any of them: if you have ever been to Indira Gandhi Airport in Delhi, you know what I mean. But, when a car is already waiting for you in front of the exit, it is a different story.''The service''Kiwitaxi''allows to book a suitable car in advance and get to your destination comfortably. You can choose a car class and order a child safety seat if you need it. A fixed trip price is another advantage of the service. Unlicensed drivers can drive you sideways to add up a few extra kilometres and raise the price. With Kiwitaxi everything is fair — you will know the precise price for the transfer in advance, and it will not change, even if you get stuck in a traffic jam on your way.''How it works''Ordering a tourist transfer is possible no later than 16 hours before the coming trip.''On the site of the service you need to specify your route and choose a suitable car class. There are many variants: from economy Golf-class to minibuses for 19 people.''Enter the information about the number of passengers, date and time of your arrival, name and surname, contact number and some other details.''Proceed to the payment of your order, once you have completed all the fields. You can pay the full sum or just a deposit (the rest can be paid to the driver).''You will receive an email with a confirmation of your order. If your plans change, you can cancel the transfer 24 hours before the trip, and the money will be returned to your bank card.''The site has a simple interface and all the operations can be made on a hunch. In case you did have difficulties with a booking, visit''the page “Frequently Asked Questions”''.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The advantages of booking a transfer in advance''Order a transfer with Kiwitaxi, when you:''This post is for Philippine passport holders who plan to visit as tourists.''When we were invited to speak at the World Tourism Forum in Istanbul in early 2016, our excitement quickly morphed into worry when we realized Filipinos are required to get a visa to enter Turkey. It wouldn’t have been a problem any other day, but we were traveling abroad and we didn’t have more time to apply for one. But a quick online search revealed that e-Visas were available for Filipinos with a valid multiple-entry Japan visa. It saved us. The application took only minutes.''Sadly,''Turkey no longer accepts Japan visa as a supporting document''. (They limited it to US, UK, Schengen, and Ireland visas.) But it opened our eyes that this whole visa game is more complicated than we previously thought. Some countries are easier to visit if you have existing visas from other countries. For example, having a US visa on your Philippine passport will allow you to access many other countries. And that’s good news for Filipino travelers given that the Philippine passport isn’t all that powerful. At the school of passport privileges, the Philippines doesn’t sit at the table where popular kids like Germany, Singapore, South Korea or the US have their lunch.''Japan is a dream destination for many Filipinos. Over the past few years, visa policies have been relaxed and more forgiving, allowing many to visit Japan easily. But''your Japan visa is more powerful than you think''! It comes with many other perks. With a valid Japan visa, your Philippine passport will get a bit more edge.''Here are some countries that you can visit much more easily with a Japan visa!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Mexico''2. Georgia''3. Taiwan''Bonus: South Korea''So you have only two weeks to travel around Southeast Asia? Well, that’s definitely NOT enough, but you can still have a great time.''This topic — sample 2-week multi-country itineraries for Southeast Asia — is one of the most requested from us. And we get it. Travelers who have very limited time tend to squeeze everything into their itinerary in hopes of maximizing the rare opportunity they have. We’re not really fans of it, and we always advocate staying longer, but alas that’s easier said than done for full-time employees who have finite leave credits.''So here it is!''In this post, we’ll be focusing on Singapore and continental Southeast Asia that are best explored by land: Malaysia, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam. Although it is possible to travel to Myanmar by land, the most convenient way of reaching it is still by plane. For Indonesia, the Philippines, Brunei, and Malaysian Borneo, we’ll be creating separate posts for them, so we’re not including them here.''These are sample 2-week itineraries. Emphasis on''2-week''. If you have fewer days, you might want to check out this post:''Sample Southeast Asian Itineraries (5-7 Days)''If you need help planning or budgeting your trip, this post might help:''Southeast Asia Travel Guide''Important notes:''The sample itineraries here are all multi-country'', which means you will be crossing a border on at least two points during the trip. If you’re an ASEAN resident, no need for visa. If not, make sure you do the necessary paperwork.''Every sample itinerary has an indicated''Estimated Budget range''. The lower end of the range assumes you’re staying at a dorm in a hostel, the higher end if you’re staying in a private double room and splitting the cost with a companion. It also allocates around US$30 per day for activities. The $30/day allowance has a big margin already and should only serve as a guideline. If you spend $50 on a tour today, then pull a DIY or adjust your activity spending the next day.''Hotel Stop''means the city where you will be spending the night. Even if most of your day is spent in Ayutthaya but you will be spending the night in Bangkok, it will be tagged Bangkok. If the day is tagged''Transit'', it means you will be spending the night on the road (overnight train or bus).''Tours are done DIY-style''. But if you want to join a group tour for comfort, we’ve provided links below so you can book in advance.''If your hostel or hotel does not serve free breakfast, visit the supermarket on your first day to buy food (biscuits, drinks, bread).''We’re using major airport hubs as entry and exit points''— Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, and Bangkok — because tickets to these airports are usually the cheapest.''Useful links are provided for each sample itinerary''. This will allow you to book bus transfers or tours. Hotel recommendations are also provided towards the end of this post.''Airfare is not included in the estimate''.''To book bus or train seats in advance,''Reserve Here''!''Powered by''12Go Asia''system'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Route #1: Thailand-Cambodia-Vietnam''Route #2: Thailand-Laos''Route #3: Singapore-Malaysia-Thailand''Route #4: Malaysia-Thailand''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Route #1: Thailand-Cambodia-Vietnam''Stops'': Bangkok + Ayutthaya Day Tour, Siem Reap, Mui Ne, Ho Chi Minh City''Entry point'': Bangkok''Exit point'': Ho Chi Minh City''Estimated Budget'': USD 500-700 (P25,000-35,000)''I’ve done this trip in 2014 as part of a longer journey. (Mine started in Phuket but continued this way.) What I liked about this is that it showcases the key attractions in Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam, and they’re pretty diverse too. The Bangkok stop is more about people and food, Siem Reap about ancient history, Mui Ne about natural landscapes, and Ho Chi Minh City about modern history.''Sample Bangkok-SIem Reap-Ho Chi Minh City itinerary''Bangkok-Siem Reap Bus'':''Reserve Here''Siem Reap Tours:''Angkor Group Tour:''Book This Tour''Siem Reap A Day in a Life Tour:''Check Rates Here''Siem Reap Cooking Class:''Book a Class Here''Ho Chi Minh City Tours''Full Day Excursion To Mekong Delta:''Book This Tour''Half Day Saigon Tour:''Book This Tour''Full Day Saigon Tour:''Book This Tour''Cu Chi Tunnels Experience:''Book This Tour''Saigon Street Food By Night:''Book This Tour''Saigon Cooking Class:''Book a Class Here''___________''Top Budget Hotels in Siem Reap:''Search Here''If my travel history were an Olympic tournament, Singapore would get gold in at least two categories: the first foreign city I have visited in my life, and the country I set foot in the most, a record eight times despite its reputation as the most expensive city in the world.''Yep, expensive. Ask travelers who have set foot on Singapore for adjectives that best describe the city, and “expensive” won’t be absent from any list. Many of the key attractions here can burn a hole in the pocket. But it doesn’t mean that budget travel isn’t possible. There are many ways to reduce expenses if you just know where to go.''__________'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get to Singapore''From Manila''From Kuala Lumpur by Plane''From Kuala Lumpur or Malacca by Bus''Where to Stay in Singapore''Top Singapore Hostels''Top Budget Hotels''Top Capsule Hotels''How to Stay Connected in Singapore''Places to Visit in Singapore''Universal Studios Singapore''Gardens by the Bay''Marina Bay Sands Skypark''Singapore Cable Car''Singapore River Walk''Singapore River Cruise''Chinatown Tour''Little India''iFly Singapore''Limited budget? 7 FREE Things to Do in Singapore.''Day Trips from Singapore''Legoland Malaysia''Sanrio Hello Kitty Town''Sample 4D/3N Singapore Itinerary''Breakdown of Expenses''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to Singapore''Singapore’s Changi Airport is one of the most well-connected and widely regarded as the best airport in the world. If you live in a major city in Asia or Europe or North America, chances are, there are direct flights to Singapore available.''From Manila''The lowest year-round fares are offered by TigerAir, JetStar, and AirAsia. But Cebu Pacific Air and Philippine Airlines also have competitive rates when they have a promo.''Travel time: 3 hours 40 minutes.''If you’re a Philippine passport holder, you don’t need a visa. All you need is a valid passport (with 6 months left before expiration). Just show up at the airport and fly.''If you’re traveling with kids who are not YOUR children, you might need a DSWD Travel Clearance. Here’s how to get one:''DSWD Travel Clearance''From Kuala Lumpur by Plane''Plane tickets from Kuala Lumpur to Singapore are incredibly cheap, with base fares not exceeding USD20.''Travel time: around 1 hour 15 minutes.''From Kuala Lumpur or Malacca by Bus''You can also reach Singapore from KL or Malacca (Melaka) by bus. Travel time from KL is 5-7 hours, depending on traffic. From Malacca, only 4-5 hours. You will be crossing the border overland, but it’s quite easy albeit confusing in the beginning. Just make sure of the following:''Remember your bus details (how it looks, number, etc.) because you will have to get off and hop back on at the border.''Bring your bags with you when you cross the border.''Don’t forget your passport and Malaysia Departure Card.''You can book your bus here:''Kuala Lumpur-Singapore'',''Malacca-Singapore''Powered by''12Go Asia''system''__________''Where to Stay in Singapore''Accommodations in Singapore are expensive by Southeast Asian standards, or by any standard for that matter. Budget travelers have three options: backpacker hostels, BnB, and budget hotels. Because space is scarce in Singapore, don’t expect rooms of generous proportions. Rooms are usually just beds with little space around it, and bathrooms are compact. Capsule hotels are also starting to be popular.''Backpackers hostels''are concentrated in Chinatown, Little India, Clark Quay, Bugis, and Geylang areas. Most of them offer dorm beds and double rooms.''Budget hotels''are mostly in Geylang, Little India, and Balestier.''But here are the best-rated properties in Singapore as scored by online users.''Top Singapore Hostels''Adler Luxury Hostel''265 South Bridge Road, Chinatown, Singapore''Exactly two years ago, I put out my last cigarette.''It was a habit I never imagined I would be able to kick, especially as a traveler. For almost a decade, I lit at least 10 sticks a day. Some days, when things got so stressful, I could finish an entire pack. My cigarettes were my constant companion, a lover I always wanted to dump but I thought could never go without. Our relationship was based on false satisfaction — unhealthy, obsessive, suffocating, but he made me feel so, so good.''Without him, things felt incomplete and unreal. From the balcony of my hotel room, the view of trees enveloped in mist and the foggy outlines of mountains was not pretty enough until I see it through my own sheet of smoke. The karst cliffs rising in the horizon as I laze on the beach were not as arresting until there’s a stick in between my fingers. A meal wasn’t filling (or fulfilling) until I add nicotine for dessert.''But it wasn’t just about pleasure. I felt more useful when smoking. My best stories and marketing strategies were conceived and born in between sips of hot tea or ice cold beer and puffs of cigarettes on rainy nights. And when I was backpacking alone, it helped me make new friends with other, uhm, smokers. Many of the conversations with strangers began with “Do you have a light?” And when there was no one, at least I had something to do while standing outside. I had depended on it for a long time, enslaved by it.''In my sinful affair with smoking, it’s clear who was in control. And it was not me.''But two years ago, I finally cried “Enough!” Good old cold turkey. Funny because travel, which was part of the reason I kept smoking in the first place, had a lot to do with it.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'All about the Money''No Ifs, No Butts''Counting Places and Years''Creating a Batangas itinerary is a tricky exercise. It’s something that I, born and raised in Batangas, has always known from the very beginning. Whenever a friend from Manila or other provinces would come visit and I would try to create one, I spend much more time than I probably should. That’s especially true when it involves beach-hopping.''The good news is, when it comes to beaches, Batangas has a lot to offer. The bad news: Batangas is vast and mountainous, and the best beaches are located so far apart from one another. Not to mention that there is a bigass lake smack in the middle of the map.''This post is actually one of the most requested topics, which tells us we’re probably not the only ones having a hard time. But someone’s gotta do it!''Here are some sample Batangas itineraries for day trip, overnight stay, and one for a long weekend.''Before that, please take note of the following:''In this post, we’re focusing on the beaches. We’ll create a separate posts for mountain treks!''Some itineraries will involve checking at a resort, others encourage camping. Some assumes touring DIY, others suggest taking a private boat because of time issues. These things are explained before each itinerary is presented, so read read read.''The Estimated Budget here is per person, but assumes you’re a group of four and you’ll be splitting costs. You can still bring the costs down if you’re a bigger group. For example, a private boat ride to Masasa Beach from Anilao is P4500, but the boat can accommodate up to 10 people.''Anyway, here we go.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Itinerary 1: BATANGAS BEACH TRAIL (3 Days)''Itinerary 2: Anilao and Tingloy (Overnight)''Itinerary 3: Masasa Beach (Overnight)''Itinerary 4: Fortune Island + Tagaytay (Overnight)''Itinerary 5: Laiya + Malabrigo (Overnight)''Itinerary 6: Malabrigo Day Trip''Itinerary 7: Sepoc Island Day Trip''Bonus: ‘Best of Batangas’ Itinerary''Search for more resorts: Batangas Resorts''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Itinerary 1: BATANGAS BEACH TRAIL (3 Days)''Stops'': Laiya, Malabrigo, Anilao, Tingloy''Estimated Budget'': P6500''Laiya in San Juan, Batangas. Photo by Winston Almendras''This itinerary will take you to what I personally believe are the best beaches in Batangas: Laiya in San Juan, the pebble beach in Malabrigo in Lobo, Anilao in Mabini, and Masasa Beach and Sombrero Island in Tingloy. You can do it by taking public transportation, but having your own car will prove cheaper and more efficient.''This involves checking in at a resort in Laiya and Anilao.''________________''Itinerary 2: Anilao and Tingloy (Overnight)''Stops'': Gulugod Baboy, Sombrero Island, Masasa Beach''Estimated Budget'': P2500''Sombrero Island''Anilao is a barangay in Mabini best known for its dive sites, Mt. Gulugod Baboy (an easy climb), and lately, as a jump off point to the beaches and islands of Tingloy, a neighboring municipality.''This itinerary will allow you to climb Mt. Gulugod Baboy in Anilao and camp there, and then come back down to go island hopping in Tingloy the next day. You’ll get to see Masasa Beach, Sombrero Island, and other beaches in the area.''Recommended Resorts near Anilao''There’s a hole in my heart that only Hong Kong can fill.''Perhaps it’s because of the fact that it is the first foreign city that I explored on my own for leisure and the first foreign destination I have visited more than once. (Singapore was my first overseas destination, but I was there to attend an awards show.) I had been to Hong Kong four times now, and I’m set to return later this month.''Looking back, having my international travel debut in Hong Kong isn’t a bad idea at all. This “modern and futuristic city” is a great destination for a first out-of-the-country trip. The culture is not too different to alienating but not too similar to be boring. It is connected by an impressive, expansive systems of transportation — from its world-class airport terminals to its vast train network to its reliable bus system. They have all their major tourist attractions easily accessible. They also make the cities very friendly to kids and elderly, an important criterion for ideal family vacations. All these combined make it one of the best foreign cities for first-time overseas traveler.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Hong Kong''Best Time to Visit''How to Get to Hong Kong''Manila to Hong Kong''Singapore to Hong Kong''Macau to Hong Kong''Where to Stay in Hong Kong''Search for more: Hong Kong Hotels''How to Get to Tsim Sha Tsui from Hong Kong Airport''By Airport Express Train''By Bus''How to Get Around Hong Kong''How to Use the Hong Kong MTR''Octopus Card''Internet Connection in Hong Kong''Places to Visit: Hong Kong Tourist Spots''iVenture Card''Disneyland Hong Kong''Ngong Ping and Tian Tan Big Buddha''Victoria Peak''Avenue of Stars & Symphony of Lights''Mong Kok''Unique Hong Kong Tours''Macau Day Tour''AquaLuna Symphony of Lights Cruise''360 Lantau Island Sky-Land-Sea Day Pass''Hong Kong Food Tour''Hong Kong Walking Tour – Day''Kowloon Evening Walking Tour''Sample Hong Kong Itineraries''Itinerary #1: Hong Kong Only''Itinerary #2: Hong Kong + Macau Day Tour''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Hong Kong''Although officially a part of China, Hong Kong is worlds apart from the rest of the country culturally, economically and politically because of its unique history. After the British won the Second Battle of Chuenpi, the Qing Empire, who ruled China at the time, admitted defeat. Peace negotiations resulted in the Treaty of Nanjing on 29 August 1842, which formally cedes Hong Kong to Britain and ended the First Opium War.''Since then, Hong Kong was a colony of the then mighty British Empire, except during World War II, when it was occupied by Japan. Britain maintained its rule of the territory until 1997, when it was handed back to China.''Today, Hong Kong is a Special Administrative Region of China. It is part of China, but it has its own economy, currency, and immigration laws. Hence, even mainland Chinese would need to go through Immigration checks upon entering the region.''Hong Kong is one of the busiest and the most developed metropolitan hubs in Asia in terms of trade, business, and tourism. It consists of the Hong Kong Island, the Kowloon Peninsula, the New Territories, and 200 outlying islands. While these areas are connected by sprawling train and bus networks, it is important to be familiar with its geography.''Hong Kong Island''is where the Central area, the political and economic center, is located. Although intimidating at first, it harbors a number of affordable guesthouses and hostels. It is also home to many tourist attractions including the Victoria Peak.''Kowloon''is where you will find most museums, markets, and the Avenue of Stars. It also has the greatest concentration of cheap guesthouses.''The New Territories'', north of Kowloon, is dotted with wetland parks and temples. Lantau Island, one of the many outlying islands, takes pride in Ngong Ping (Giant Buddha and Po Lin Monastery) and Hong Kong Disneyland.''Here are more bits of info you might want to know to prep for your trip.''Language'': Cantonese and English are the official languages. Almost 95% of the population speaks Cantonese. Almost everything a tourist would need has an English translation, so there isn’t that thick of a language barrier. Mandarin is also starting to flourish as more immigrants from the mainland pour in.''Currency:''Hong Kong dollar (HKD). HKD 100 is around USD12.75, EUR10.35, PHP665, SGD17 (as of April 2018).''Money Exchange'': You’ll find countless money changers around Hong Kong, concentrated in the areas of Tsim Sha Tsui (Chungking Mansions and Hankow Centre) and the Central district. ATMs are also aplenty, with HSBC being the most familiar.''Modes of payment'': Most establishments prefer cash payment, but many of them also accept credit card transactions.''Electricity Info'': 220V, 50Hz. Types G and D are used.''Best Time to Visit''The months of''October to March''are a good time to tour Hong Kong. The most ideal is''October-December'', when the temperature remains comfortably cool and the skies delightfully sunny.''January to March sees clear skies too — in fact, January is the driest month — but it can get too cold.''Courtesy of Climate Change Portal''Avoid August if you can. It is the wettest month, sometimes battered by typhoons brewed by the Pacific. September is pretty damp, too.''If you hate big crowds, look away from the days leading to the Chinese New Year, usually in late January or early February.''How to Get to Hong Kong''Okay, before I discuss flights, let me just say this: If you can, visit Macau, too! Macau is easily accessible from Hong Kong! If possible, book a flight to Hong Kong and then take a return flight from Macau, or vice versa. This way, you get to see and discover both cities.''If there really is no way that you can do a Hong Kong entrance-Macau exit (or vice versa), you can also book a roundtrip ticket to either. That means you’re gonna have to take the 1-hour ferry ride to the other.''Manila to Hong Kong''If you’re coming from Manila, the cheapest plane tickets are sold by Cebu Pacific Air and AirAsia. But if low-cost carriers are not your thing, the cheapest legacy airline is Philippine Airlines (PAL). Here are their usual year-round rates:''Singapore to Hong Kong''If you’re coming from Singapore, the fight for the lowest fares is between Tiger Airways and JetStar.''Macau to Hong Kong''Hong Kong is easily accessible from Macau. All it takes is a one-hour ferry ride. From Macau, you can board a ferry at either of these two terminals:''Macau Outer Harbour Ferry Terminal'', located in Macau Peninsula. This is closer to the city center.''Taipa Terminal'', sometimes called Cotai Terminal, just a short walk from Macau International Airport.''These ferries sail to any of these two terminals in Hong Kong,''Hong Kong MACAU Ferry Terminal''along Connaught Road Central, Sheung Wan area in Hong Kong Island.''Hong Kong CHINA Ferry Terminal''along Canton Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon.''These are separate terminals so make sure you get to the right one!''If your hotel is in Tsim Sha Tsui, choose the one in Kowloon so you will just have to walk. If your hotel is in the Central district, board a ferry bound for Sheung Wan.''Where to Stay in Hong Kong''Finding cheap accommodations in Hong Kong is easy. The Tsim Sha Tsui, Mong Kok, and Central areas are littered with guesthouses and hostels offering affordable rooms. They are also consistently cheap throughout the year, ranging from HK300-HK500 for a double room.''I personally love staying in the Tsim Sha Tsui area whenever I’m in Hong Kong because it’s close to almost everything I want to see. You can walk to the Avenue of Stars. Hong Kong Island can be easily reached by ferry or MTR. Mong Kok is also just a few stations away. There are a lot of money changers and ATMs around. And like I said, when it comes to accommodations, you have a lot of options here.''Anyway, here are top budget guesthouses and hostels in Hong Kong as rated by Traveloka users as of April 2018.''V Inn. Image provided by Traveloka.''London Guest House''. Tsim Sha Tsui.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Just Inn''. Tsim Sha Tsui.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Hao’s Inn''. Tsim Sha Tsui.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Geo Home Holiday Hotel''. Mong Kok.''Check Rates and Availability''.''Sandhu Hotel''. Tsim Sha Tsui.''Check Rates and Availability''.''V Inn''. Tsim Sha Tsui.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Search for more:''Hong Kong Hotels''.''How to Get to Tsim Sha Tsui from Hong Kong Airport''If you decide to stay in the Tsim Sha Tsui area, here’s how to reach it from the airport. You have two options: the Airport Express (train) and the bus.''By Airport Express Train''Here are the rates beginning June 18, 2017. Children (below 12 yo) get 50% discount.''BUT if you feel like you’ll be taking the MTR and the bus a lot in the next 3 days (and you will), purchase an''Airport Express Travel Pass''instead. This pass will allow you 1 or 2 single journeys on the Airport Express and UNLIMITED use of MTR, Light Rail, and MTR Bus (Northwest New Territories) for the next''3 days (72 hours)''. Here are the rates:''1 Airport Express Ride + Unlimited MTR Rides for 3 days:''HK$250''2 Airport Express Rides + Unlimited MTR Rides for 3 days:''HK$350''You can also top up the card after 3 days.''You can purchase an Airport Express Travel Pass from Klook as early as now. Check out the link below:''RESERVE A TRAVEL PASS HERE''But here’s the thing: you will need 2 transfers to get to Tsim Sha Tsui. And if you’re carrying gargantuan luggage or traveling with kids, it can be a challenging first day for you, which is why I recommend the other option…''By Bus''It’s cheaper and more comfortable. And you don’t need to switch vehicles!''But if you’re taking the bus, I recommend that you get an Octopus Card. which you can use when riding the MTR and buses. The Octopus Card isn’t necessary — you can do away with it and just pay cash each time instead — but since you will be using the bus and MTR most of the time, you might as well just get one. It’s convenient after all. You won’t need to get a ticket every time you’re taking the train or the bus.''The standard Octopus Card costs HK$100 for adults and HK$50 for kids plus HK$50 deposit. The deposit for both standard and children’s cards is refundable when you surrender the card.''If you don’t think you’d be able to return the card (thereby letting go of your deposit), you can buy an Octopus TOURIST Card via Klook instead. The Octopus Tourist Card is preloaded with HK$50 and you can take home the card as souvenir. You can buy one below.''RESERVE OCTOPUS CARD HERE''Once you have the card, here’s how to take the bus to Tsim Sha Tsui:''Look for this sign!''At the airport, look for signs to the BUS terminal. It’s right in front of the airport building, you’ll see it immediately after the exit.''Board the''A21 Cityflyer Bus''. Look for the A21 sign and queue. Pay using Octopus Card. If you don’t have this card, you can pay in cash but you must have the exact amount.''Alight at''Stop 13''(Cameron Road corner Nathan Road) or''Stop 14''(Middle Road corner Nathan Road), depending on what’s closer to your booked hotel.''Walk to your hotel.''That’s about it! Before your trip, contact your hotel and ask for the closest bus stop so you know where exactly to get off.''How to Get Around Hong Kong''Hong Kong’s MTR system is your best friend in the city. It’s extensive, tourist-friendly, and relatively inexpensive. However, this intricate network can be confusing for first-timers.''I recommend that you download the''MTR Mobile app'', which is available for FREE.''The app is equipped with maps and other information you need about the MTR system. To use it when navigating Hong Kong’s underworld, just enter the stations of origin and destination and it will show you a suggested route, complete with the necessary transfers, fares, and travel time.''Once you choose a route, it’s time to start the journey. If you have an Octopus Card, you just need to hover the card above the sensor at the gates and enter. Otherwise, you will need to purchase single-journey tickets. Here’s how to get one.''How to Use the Hong Kong MTR''This is what the MTR Ticket machine looks like.''At the train station, approach one of the ticket machines. Each machine has a screen and a route map.''Touch the destination on the route map.''Select ticket type. By default, it is set to ADULT.''Insert coins or bills.''Get the ticket and change.''But again, you can make your life easier by getting an Octopus Card.''Octopus Card''The Octopus Card is a prepaid stored-value card that you can use when riding the MTR and buses. When you have the card, you don’t need to buy a ticket each time you travel. Just hover the card above the reader by the entrance and you’re good to go.''Fares are also slightly lower with an Octopus Card. Although the discount per ride isn’t much, it can mean big savings when they rack up.''The standard Octopus Card costs HK$100 for adults and HK$50 for kids plus HK$50 deposit. The deposit for both standard and children’s cards is refundable when you surrender the card.''If you don’t think you’d be able to return the card (thereby letting go of your deposit), you can buy an Octopus TOURIST Card via Klook instead. The Octopus Tourist Card is preloaded with HK$50 and you can take home the card as souvenir. You can buy one below.''RESERVE OCTOPUS CARD HERE''Internet Connection in Hong Kong''You can purchase a 4G/3G SIM Card or rent a 3G mobile wifi. Either way, you can pick it up at Hong Kong airport, for your convenience.''You can reserve one via Klook below:''4G/3G SIM Card''.''Reserve Here''.''3G Mobile Wifi''.''Reserve Here''.''Places to Visit: Hong Kong Tourist Spots''Here are some places you don’t want to miss! Below the pics are more info about the place including the nearest MTR Station and some useful links!''But before that, you might want to avail of the''iVenture Pass''!''iVenture Card''This card which will grant you DISCOUNTS for numerous restaurants and FREE entry to many attractions in Hong Kong and Macau including but not limited to the following:''Ocean Park Hong Kong''Ngong Ping 360 (Hong Kong)''The Peak Tram (Victoria Peak, Hong Kong)''Hong Kong Watertours Pre-Dinner Sunset Cruise''Macau Tower''There are more attractions and establishments covered!''RESERVE iVENTURE PASS HERE''Disneyland Hong Kong''Disneyland Hong Kong''Admission Fee: Adult:''HK$589; Child (Age 3 – 11) HK$419''Nearest MTR Station'': Disneyland Resort''How to Get To Disneyland Hong Kong from Tsim Sha Tsui'':''Read Here''You can skip the lines if you buy your ticket via Klook.''GET DISCOUNTED TICKETS HERE''Ngong Ping and Tian Tan Big Buddha''Ngong Ping 360, Tian Tan Buddha, and Po Lin Monastery''What to See and How to Get There:''Read Here''Nearest MTR Station'': Tung Chung''Although you can access this by bus, the most scenic way of getting there is by cable car, Ngong Ping 360. You can purchase a ticket below.''GET YOUR TICKETS HERE''Victoria Peak''Victoria Peak''How to Get to Victoria Peak from Tsim Sha Tsui:''Read Here''Nearest MTR Station'': Central''The queues to the tram are notoriously crazy long! We tried falling in line and wasted a lot of time. But you can actually skip it if you book a ticket! Peak Tram Passes are often packaged with other attractions at The Peak including Madame Tussauds, Sky Terrace 428, and Trick Eye Museum. You can book below.''RESERVE DISCOUNTED TICKETS HERE''Avenue of Stars & Symphony of Lights''Avenue of Stars''How to Get to Avenue of Stars from Tsim Sha Tsui:''Read Here''Nearest MTR Station'': Tsim Sha Tsui / East Tsim Sha Tsui''Mong Kok''Mong Kok Market''How to Get to Mong Kok from Tsim Sha Tsui:''Read Here''Nearest MTR Station'': Mong Kok''Unique Hong Kong Tours''If you have more budget, you can enjoy these tours to maximize your stay in Hong Kong! Links so you can book these tours in advance or reserve slots are provided below!''Macau Day Tour''You can easily go to Macau from Hong Kong! You just need to buy a ticket from the terminal, board a ferry, and you’ll be there in 55 minutes.''Image provided by Klook''FOR DISCOUNTED TICKETS, BOOK BELLOW''Please take note of the date and time of your trip because rates of sailing on weekends and at night are higher. Just click on any of the following links:''Hong Kong (Sheung Wan) to Taipa Terminal via CotaiJet (ONE-WAY)''.''Reserve Discounted Ticket Here''.''Hong Kong (Sheung Wan) to Macau Outer Harbour Terminal via TurboJet (ONE-WAY)''.''Reserve Discounted Ticket Here''.''Hong Kong/Kowloon to Macau Outer Harbour Terminal via TurboJet (ROUNDTRIP)''. You can board either in Hong Kong Macau Terminal (Sheung Wan) or in China Ferry Terminal (Kowloon).''Reserve Discounted Ticket Here''.''Hong Kong/Kowloon to Taipa Terminal via CotaiJet (ROUNDTRIP)''. You can board either in Hong Kong Macau Terminal (Sheung Wan) or in China Ferry Terminal (Kowloon).''Reserve Discounted Ticket Here''.''Once in Macau, you can take advantage of the free shuttle rides provided by hotels and then just explore on foot! It’s super easy.''More info here:''DIY MACAU TRAVEL GUIDE''.''But if you don’t want to be comfortable, there are day tours being offered in Hong Kong. They will take care of everything, from ferry tickets to your sightseeing in Macau to a sumptuous lunch at a 4-star hotel. If you’re interested in that, you can book below.''RESERVE A SLOT HERE''AquaLuna Symphony of Lights Cruise''Although you can also enjoy the Symphony of Lights from the Avenue of Stars, you can level up your Hong Kong experience by admiring it from a traditional junk boat as you cruise around Victoria Harbour! It comes with DINNER too!''RESERVE A SEAT HERE''360 Lantau Island Sky-Land-Sea Day Pass''This one isn’t really a tour but a day pass that would take you around and over Lantau Island and enjoy the following:''a round trip cable car ride''a boat excursion''unlimited use of the bus system''Big Buddha Statue visit''Tai O Fishing Village visit''HK$20 voucher for the Ngong Ping 360 Souvenir shop''GET YOUR PASS NOW''Hong Kong Food Tour''This tour is recommended by the Hong Kong Tourism Board! Eat your way through one of Hong Kong’s old districts, Sham Shui Po. You’ll get a total of 10 tastings as you learn more about the culture and history of Hong Kong.''RESERVE A SLOT HERE''Hong Kong Walking Tour – Day''Photo provided by Klook''RESERVE A SLOT HERE''Kowloon Evening Walking Tour''This tour will take you across Hong Kong’s Jordan  and Yau Ma Tei neighborhoods to visit the following:''a century-old fruit market''a local art deco-style restaurant''an old-school singing parlour''Temple Street market''fortune tellers''BOOK THIS TOUR''Sample Hong Kong Itineraries''Below are two sample itineraries. The first covers Hong Kong only, while the other will take you to both Hong Kong and Macau. Both itineraries assume the following:''You’re a group of 2'', splitting much of the expenses.''You have a budget of HKD 70 per meal''(lunch/dinner). You’ll find meals much lower than this, but better to overestimate than under.''You’re skipping breakfast''. It’s overrated, according to intermittent fasters. And healthy too. Haha.''You’re staying in a budget inn in Tsim Sha Tsui for HKD300 per night''. As mentioned, Tsim Sha Tsui is an ideal base because it’s close to many attractions.''Just make the necessary adjustments to match your flights and other preferences.''Itinerary #1: Hong Kong Only''Duration'': 3 days, 2 nights''Day 1: VICTORIA PEAK, AVENUE OF STARS''09:55 am – Arrival at Hong Kong Airport''10:30 am – Pick up Octopus Card''10:50 am – Take A21 Bus to Tsim Sha Tsui, HKD33''11:40 am – Check-in at guesthouse''12:00 pm – Lunch, HKD70''01:30 pm – Walk around Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon Park''03:30 pm – MTR to Central, HKD10.5''03:40 pm – Walk to Peak Tram, Roundtrip fare: HKD94''04:00 pm – Explore Victoria Peak, wait for sunset''06:00 pm – Go down via tram, walk to Central Station''06:50 pm – MRT to Tsim Sha Tsui Station, HKD10.5''07:00 pm – Walk to Avenue of Stars''07:15 pm – Explore Avenue of Stars, FREE''08:00 pm – Watch the Symphony of Lights, FREE''08:30 pm – Dinner, HKD 70''09:00 pm – Walk back to hotel''Day 2: DISNEYLAND, MONG KOK''09:30 am – MTR to Disneyland Resort, HKD15.5''10:30 am – Explore Disneyland Hong Kong, HKD 519 (''DISCOUNTED'')''01:00 pm – Lunch, HKD100''07:00 pm – MTR to Mong Kok, HKD23''07:40 pm – Dinner, HKD70''08:30 pm – Explore Mongkok, shop''10:30 pm – MTR to Tsim Sha Tsui, HKD5.5''Day 3: NGONG PING, DEPARTURE''06:00 am – Check out''06:30 am – Take MTR to Tung Chung Station, HKD19.5''07:15 am – Leave luggage at CityGate lockers, HKD40''07:30 am – Take bus to Ngong Ping, HKD17.5''08:00 am – See Tian Tan Buddha, Po Lin Monastery''09:40 am – Bus back to Tung Chung Station, HKD17.5''10:30 am – MTR to Airport, HKD15.5''11:00 am – Check in at airport''12:00 am – Lunch, HKD70''01:30 pm – Flight out''If you spend only HKD 300 per night on accommodations (divided by 2 pax), this itinerary will set you back around''HKD1500''(USD191, EUR156, SGD251,''PHP9,940''), excluding airfare.''Itinerary #2: Hong Kong + Macau Day Tour''Duration'': 4 days, 3 nights''To better understand the MACAU leg of this itinerary, read this first:''MACAU TRAVEL GUIDE''Day 1: VICTORIA PEAK, AVENUE OF STARS''09:55 am – Arrival at Hong Kong Airport''10:30 am – Pick up Octopus Card''10:50 am – Take A21 Bus to Tsim Sha Tsui, HKD33''11:40 am – Check-in at guesthouse''12:00 pm – Lunch, HKD70''01:30 pm – Walk around Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon Park''03:30 pm – MTR to Central, HKD10.5''03:40 pm – Walk to Peak Tram, Roundtrip fare: HKD94''04:00 pm – Explore Victoria Peak, wait for sunset''06:00 pm – Go down via tram, walk to Central Station''06:50 pm – MRT to Tsim Sha Tsui Station, HKD10.5''07:00 pm – Walk to Avenue of Stars''07:15 pm – Explore Avenue of Stars, FREE''08:00 pm – Watch the Symphony of Lights, FREE''08:30 pm – Dinner, HKD 70''09:00 pm – Walk back to hotel''10:00 pm – Lights out''Day 2: MACAU DAY TOUR''08:30 am – Walk to Hong Kong China Ferry Terminal''09:00 am – Ferry to Macau, Roundtrip Fare: HKD310 (''DISCOUNTED'')''10:15 am – Shuttle to the Venetian, FREE''10:30 am – Explore the Venetian''11:30 am – Lunch at the Venetian Food Court, HKD70''12:30 pm – Walk to City of Dreams, explore a bit''02:00 pm – Board shuttle to Senado Square, FREE''02:20 pm – Explore Senado Square & St. Paul Ruins''04:30 pm – Walk to Sintra Hotel (for shuttle)''05:00 pm – Board FREE Shuttle to City of Dreams''05:30 pm – Walk to The Parisian''05:50 pm – Explore The Parisian & Studio City''08:00 pm – Dinner, HKD100''09:00 pm – Board shuttle to Taipa Ferry Terminal''09:30 pm – Board ferry to Kowloon''10:30 pm – Arrive in Kowloon, walk to guesthouse''11:00 pm – Lights out''Day 3: DISNEYLAND, MONG KOK''09:30 am – MTR to Disneyland Resort, HKD15.5''10:30 am – Explore Disneyland Hong Kong, HKD 519 (''DISCOUNTED'')''01:00 pm – Lunch, HKD100''07:00 pm – MTR to Mong Kok, HKD23''07:40 pm – Dinner, HKD70''08:30 pm – Explore Mongkok, shop''10:30 pm – MTR to Tsim Sha Tsui, HKD5.5''11:00 pm – Lights out''Day 4: NGONG PING, DEPARTURE''06:00 am – Check out''06:30 am – Take MTR to Tung Chung Station, HKD19.5''07:15 am – Leave luggage at CityGate lockers, HKD40''07:30 am – Take bus to Ngong Ping, HKD17.5''08:00 am – See Tian Tan Buddha, Po Lin Monastery''09:40 am – Bus back to Tung Chung Station, HKD17.5''10:30 am – MTR to Airport, HKD15.5''11:00 am – Check in at airport''12:00 am – Lunch, HKD70''01:30 pm – Flight out''For this itinerary, you will have to shell out HKD2130 (USD272, EUR222, SGD356,''PHP14,130''), excluding airfare. If you choose to try the rides or watch the shows at a hotel in Macau, that would incur additional fees, which are not covered by this estimate. Much of the expenses were for the entrance fees, with Disneyland taking the bulk.''NOTE'': For both itineraries above, I used the fares charged for single-journey users.''If you have an Octopus Card, the actual fares are a bit lower because of the discounts.''I just used the regular rates just to add some padding. Again, better overestimate than under.''I have to warn you, though, that these itineraries can get extremely exhausting because they involve a lot of walking. Disneyland and Mongkok in one day is no joke and can be physically demanding. You might want to adjust this if you have kids or elderly with you.''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''I recommend that you download the''MTR Mobile app'', which is available for FREE. The app is equipped with maps and other information you need about the MTR system. To use it, just tap on''Train Trip Planner''and enter the stations of origin and destination and it will show you a suggested route, complete with the necessary transfers, fares, and travel time.''In Macau, the currency is the Macanese pataca''. But the Hong Kong dollar is widely accepted at 1:1 rate.''Take advantage of the FREE hotel shuttles in Macau.''You don’t need to have a reservation to board their buses. They’re FREE and you can find them at the ferry terminals and other key spots in the city.''If you’re traveling on a really tight budget, there are a lot of things you can do in Hong Kong and Macau for FREE''. Here are some suggestions:''10 FREE Things to Do in Macau'',''7 FREE Things to Do in Hong Kong''For more information about Macau, read:''MACAU TRAVEL GUIDE''This budget travel guide was last updated in: April 2018.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''HONG KONG and MACAU: Budget Travel Guide''SUPERSTAR VIRGO: Cruise Guide for First-Timers (What to Expect)''10 Kid-Friendly Places to Visit in Hong Kong''Hong Kong Family Trip: Summary, Itinerary and Budget''Mong Kok Night Market: Budget Shopping in Hong Kong''Leaving Manila, Landing in Hong Kong: Airport Guide''We always encourage people to stay longer at destinations, but we all know that’s not possible for everyone. When we were just starting out, when we were still juggling our corporate and travel careers, we were only able to travel on weekends. And the truth is, most of our readers are like that: full-time employees who can only afford to take a leave of absence for a week (or shorter) at a time.''Those who can only spare 7 days to travel tend to try to see as much as they can. It’s no surprise that the topic of this post is one of the most requested by our followers. Southeast Asia is a favorite region for vacationers because it’s cheap, exotic, tourist-friendly, and if you’re an ASEAN resident, close to home. Every day, we get messages asking for sample Vietnam-Cambodia or Cambodia-Thailand or Singapore-Malaysia itinerary. So here it is: a compilation of sample multi-country routes!''In this post, we’ll be focusing on countries in continental Southeast Asia that are best explored by land: Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, Malaysia, and even Singapore (it’s an island, we know, haha). Although it is possible to travel to Myanmar by land, the most convenient way of reaching it is still by plane. For Indonesia, the Philippines, Brunei, and Malaysian Borneo, we’ll be creating separate posts for them.''Related Read:''Southeast Asia Backpacking Guide''Important notes:''The sample itineraries here are all multi-country'', which means you will be crossing a border at one point during the trip. If you’re an ASEAN resident, no need for visa. If not, make sure you do the necessary paperwork.''There is an''Estimated Budget''per itinerary. These estimates assume that you are a group of two traveling in off-peak season, that you will be staying at a double room of a budget hotel or hostel, and that you will be splitting costs.''Every budget estimate has a good allowance''to give you a bit more flexibility.''Hotel Stop''means the city where you will be spending the night. Even if most of your day is spent in Malacca but you will be spending the night in Kuala Lumpur, it will be tagged Kuala Lumpur.''Tours are done DIY-style''. But if you want to join a group tour for comfort, we’ve provided links below so you can book in advance.''If your hostel or hotel does not serve free breakfast, visit the supermarket on your first day to buy food (biscuits, drinks, bread).''We’re using major airport hubs as entry and exit points''— Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Ho Chi Minh City, and Bangkok — because tickets to these airports are usually the cheapest.''Useful links are provided for each sample itinerary''. This will allow you to book bus transfers or tours. Hotel recommendations are also provided towards the end of this post.''Airfare is not included in the estimate''.''To book bus or train seats in advance,''Reserve Here''!''Powered by''12Go Asia''system'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Itinerary #1: Thailand-Cambodia for 6 Days''Itinerary #2: Thailand-Laos for 6 Days''Itinerary #3: Vietnam-Cambodia for 6 Days''Itinerary #4: Singapore-Malacca (5 Days)''Itinerary #5: Singapore-Kuala Lumpur (6 Days)''Itinerary #6: Singapore-Malaysia (7 Days)''One of the trickiest parts of applying for a Schengen Visa, Canada Visa or other first-world visas is getting the flight reservations.''For example, for Schengen Visa, flight reservations are a requirement. Not having these will most likely result in the denial of your application. But here’s the thing: Booking flight tickets before you get a visa is not advisable because in the off-chance that you are refused, it will be a big waste of money. Tickets to Europe are not cheap!''It is important to remember this:''What is required is FLIGHT RESERVATIONS not an actual booking.''Meaning, you don’t need to pay for the flights in full yet. You just need to reserve them.''Where do I get Flight Reservations?''Travel agencies can provide this! In one of our Schengen applications, we booked with an agency called''Gazelle Travel and Tours'', which came highly recommended by a friend. They issue legit reservation proof that we used in our application. We didn’t have any problems with it. (Our applications were approved, no sweat!)''Gazelle Travel and Tours is:''DOT-Accredited (Accreditation No. TOP-R04A-00003487-2016)''DTI-registered''Member of NAITAS (National Association of Independent Travel Agencies – Philippines)''From the day we published our''Schengen Visa Guide'', we get multiple inquiries about how to book with them, so we decided to just make it a lot easier for our readers. We arranged an agreement with them and created a Google Form (see below) where you can simply enter the details of your flight reservation request and they will be the one to contact you via text or email.''Some airlines can also provide this directly, although I haven’t tried it.''What does a Flight Reservation look like?''Gazelle’s looks like this. Click on the pics to enlarge. These are samples only. The actual document varies depending on the airline and the booking system.''How Much Does it Cost?''You have two options: Regular and Rush. Regular takes 3-5 days, while Rush takes 24 hours on weekdays and 48 hours on weekends. The count begins at the moment you have made the payment.''You will be charged P200 per additional flight if you need to book more than 4 flights (regular) or 7 flights (rush).''The rates are PER PERSON per processing. You can make corrections until you give approval. Once you approve, the request is processed, and the reservations have been issued, you can no longer make changes. You will have to start a new request.''How long can they hold the reservation?''It depends on many factors such as:''Airline. Each airline has their own policy when it comes to blocking period lengths.''Airline Booking Class''Travel Period''Gazelle will be informing you of how long the reservation will be valid. If the flights that best fit your needs can only be held/blocked for a short period, you can tell Gazelle to send the reservation document when the date of your embassy appointment or submission is close. You can still book with them now and arrange to have it sent to you on a specific date and remind them when that date is near for good measure.''Do they also offer Hotel Reservation Services?''Yes, you can include hotel reservations too. You can use the same form below. Here are the rates per person:''If booking more than 3 or 5 hotels, you will be charged P200 per additional hotel.''The rates are PER PERSON per processing. Once the request has been processed and reservation copies have been issued, changes can no longer be made.''Do they also offer Travel Insurance?''Yes, they sell plans by Pacific Cross, a trusted name in the insurance industry. For Schengen Visa you can include hotel reservations too. You can use the same form below. Here are the rates:''Click to enlarge''Of the plans above, only the following are Schengen Approved:''Tripguard Privilege Peso''Executive De Luxe Dollar''Prestige Euro''Prestige Plus''We recommend Privelege Peso because it is the cheapest.''Please check with the embassy if they require travel insurance coverage to have extra days allowance beyond your actual travel period, e.g., additional 15 days for Italy, Switzerland.''On top of the published rates, Gazelle will charge a P250 booking fee.''How do I book?''Fill out the form below''. Choose between REGULAR or RUSH. If you want to include hotel reservations, tick the corresponding checkbox. Make sure your email address and contact number is correct.''You will receive a message from Gazelle Travel and Tours confirming the details of your request''. You will also be asked to settle the bill via bank deposit before they could process the request.''Pay via bank deposit''. Please indicate your mobile number on the deposit slip and email a copy to Gazelle.''Wait for your Flight/Hotel Reservation'', which will be emailed to you.''That’s it! Easy, ye?''Please make sure that the information you will submit are correct. This will be the basis for the travel agency when they process your request. You can make corrections until you give approval. Once you approve, the request is processed, and the reservations have been issued, you can no longer make changes. You will have to start a new request.''Flight & Hotel Reservation Request Form''Here’s a sample itinerary for a 5-day, 4-night tour in Seoul. This assumes the following:''You are a group of two.''You will be staying in a twin room at Fully Hong Hostel.''You will be using a T-Money card (T-Card) when taking public transportation.''Your meal allowance is limited to only ₩5000 for breakfast and ₩15000 for lunch and dinner. It’s actually too much for me considering that you will find a bowl of delicious bibimbap for only ₩5000. But I think it’s better to overestimate so let’s leave it at ₩15,000. I’m not a breakfast person, either. But fine, let’s still include breakfast for good measure.''Just make necessary adjustments to match your needs.''Pre-trip expenses''Hotel booking – ₩116,000 (₩58,000 x 4 nights divided by 2pax)''Day 1: ARRIVAL + GYEONGBOKGUNG''01:00pm – Airport to Jongno-3ga – ₩4150 + ₩1250''02:20pm – Check in at hostel''03:00pm – Gyeongbokgung Palace – ₩3000''06:30pm – Cheonggyecheon Stream''08:00pm – Gwangjang Market – ₩15,000 budget''10:30pm – Sleep!''Day 2: ANGUK AREA + MYEONGDONG''08:00am – Wake up''09:00am – Grab breakfast – ₩5000''09:30am – Bukchon Hanok Village''11:30am – Lunch – ₩15,000''01:00pm – Changdeokgung Palace – ₩3000''06:00pm – Subway to Myeongdong – ₩1250''06:20pm – Dinner – ₩15,000 budget''09:30pm – Back to Hotel''Day 3: NAMI ISLAND''07:00am – Wake up''08:00am – Grab breakfast – ₩5000''08:30am – Subway to Gapyeong Station – ₩2250''10:00am – Taxi to ferry wharf – ₩3000''10:20am – Buy ferry ticket – ₩8000''10:50pm – Explore Nami Island''01:30pm – Lunch – ₩15,000 budget''02:30pm – Continue exploring Nami Island''04:00pm – Ferry back''04:30pm – Taxi back to Gapyeong Station – ₩3000''05:00pm – Subway back to city – ₩2250''06:30pm – Dinner – ₩15,000 budget''09:00pm – Sleep''Day 4: HONGDAE & SINCHON''09:00am – Wake up''10:00am – Brunch + Insadong – ₩15,000 budget''01:00pm – Subway to Ewha Women’s University – ₩1250''01:30pm – Ewha Women’s University''02:30pm – Subway to Hongik University – ₩1250''02:45pm – Seoul Trick Eye Museum – ¥15,000''05:00pm – Explore Hongdae''08:00pm – Dinner – ₩15,000 budget''10:30pm – Back to hotel – ₩1250''Day 5: PACK UP + DEPARTURE''Train back to Airport – ₩5400''This itinerary will cost you''₩286,300''(USD 244, EUR 228, PHP 12,170), excluding the airfare.''You can still bring down the cost by staying in a dorm (and there are great options in the city), skipping the Trick Eye Museum (it’s not really unique to Seoul), or cutting down on your food budget (Please don’t. Korean food is awesome!)''If you’re coming from Manila and you’re able to snag PHP7700 fare, the total cost of this trip is''PHP 19,870''.''For more budget travel tips, read:''Seoul Travel Guide''—-''Where to Book Tours and Tickets''Of course, you can add more to the above itinerary or replace some of the activities there. The links below will lead you to Klook, which offers passes and tickets often at discounted rates. You can also book tours (with transpo) if you don’t want to bother with the''getting-there''part.''Everland''We’re supposed to be in India now. For months, we had planned going on a backpacking trip from Nepal to India to Sri Lanka. We had almost everything taken care of including our hotels and an India visa. But something personal came up so we had to cancel the whole thing. I’m still a little bit bummed, but I guess some things are really just out of our control.''The good news is, because I have tried applying for an India visa, I can now write about the experience. I was actually quite surprised to learn that we needed a pre-issued visa to enter India. Filipinos used to be able to avail of visa-on-arrival, but that had been discontinued a couple of years ago.''Today, Philippine nationals visiting India may apply for an e-Tourist visa, e-Business Visa, or e-Medical visa. In this post, we’ll be focusing on the e-Tourist Visa only. It’s actually pretty easy. I finished my application in an hour and got my visa the next day. Here’s how to do it.''1. Make sure you’re eligible for an e-Visa.''Apply for an e-visa if at least 4 days in advance of the arrival date with a window of 120 days. The Embassy site gives this example: If you are applying on September 1 then you can select arrival date from September 5 to January 2.''Your sole objective in India is recreation (tour, sightseeing), visit friends or relatives, or casual business visit.''Your passport must have at least 6 months validity from your arrival date. It must also have at least two blank pages.''You must have a return ticket or an onward journey ticket and enough money to spend during your stay.''Appy for an e-visa only if you’re entering India via any of the following airports because these are the only ones that would accept it:''Ahmedabad''Amritsar''Bagdogra''Bengaluru''Calicut''Chennai''Chandigarh''Cochin''Coimbatore''Delhi''Gaya''Goa''Guwahati''Hyderabad''Jaipur''Kolkata''Lucknow''Mangalore''Mumbai''Nagpur''Pune''Tiruchirapalli''Trivandrum''Varanasi''It is also accepted at the following seaports: Cochin, Goa, Mangalore.''If you’re planning to enter India through another gateway, you will have to get a visa the old-school way. Apply at the Embassy. In that case, I won’t be able to help because I haven’t tried that one.''2. Complete the requirements.''It’s the shortest list of requirements for a visa application that I’ve seen. Haha. Basically, before you apply online, you must have the following:''Scanned copy of the your passport’s bio page.''Recent photo. Front facing and against a white background.''Fee, which costs USD 50 + USD 1.75 bank transaction fee. So that’s a total of $51.75. You can pay via credit card or PayPal.''In addition, you should also have the following details of your trip because you will be asked for these during the online application:''Travel Dates''Airport of entry''Hotel Address and Contact Number''That’s it. Now all you need to do is apply and pay online.''3. Apply Online.''Go to India’s''e-Visa Application Page''.''Accomplish the short form''. Don’t forget to tick''e-Tourist Visa'', and then choose''Recreation/Sightseeing''. Once you’re done. Click''Continue''.''On the next page, fill out the form''. You will be asked for your Personal Details, Family Details, Employment Details, and the details of your trip. It’s pretty straightforward. The only thing that confused me a little bit was the part that asked for''References in India''. If you’re not visiting anyone, you only need to enter your hotel, its address, and contact number. You will also be asked for your reference in the Philippines.''On the next page, upload your photo and a scan of your passport’s bio page.''4. Settle the visa fee.''You will be asked whether you want to pay via SBI or Axis. These are payment gateways. SBI stands for State Bank of India. I chose SBI.''Then you will be asked if you want to pay via''PayPal'',''debit card'', or''credit card''. For Credit Card, Visa and MasterCard are accepted. For Debit Card, Visa, Mastercard and Maestro are accepted.''The fee is  USD 50 + USD 1.75 bank transaction charge. Total of''$51.75''.''5. Wait for your visa!''That’s it! After that, the waiting game begins.''What you’re actually waiting for is an email from them containing your''Electronic Travel Authorization (ETA)''. Here’s what it looks like.''Normally, it takes 72 hours. But I finished my application on May 17 at 4pm and received my visa at 9am the next day. That was super quick.''The visa is double-entry and valid for 60 days!''The visa can also be used within 120 days of issuance. This means that even though my trip was canceled, if I want to, I can still use it within the next four months. Hooray!''6. Confirm that your visa is granted.''Before your journey, you have to double-check that the status of your visa is GRANTED.''To do that, enter your Application ID and Passport Number on this page:''India Visa Status''.''If everything looks fine, you’re good to go! If not, contact the e-Visa Support Center by sending an email to''indiatvoa@gov.in''.''Top Hotels in New Delhi, India''The Imperial Hotel''I’ve been trying to come up with a good intro for this article, but you know what: Screw that. LOL. Let’s get right to it!''Here are some sample Japan itineraries for Tokyo, Osaka, and Kyoto for 4 days, 6 days, 7 days, 8 days, and 15 days. Each itinerary has its own recommended minimum budget to help you manage your finances well.''This post covers only Tokyo, Osaka, and Kyoto. If you’re looking for sample itineraries for Sapporo and Nagoya, we have separate samples in the posts below:''Sapporo Sample Itinerary''Nagoya Sample Itinerary''If you need help on how to start planning a multi-city tour across Japan, this post might help:''Japan Travel Guide''Please take note of the following.''All the itineraries below assume that you are a party of two'', that you will be staying at a double room of a budget hotel or hostel (less than $80 per night), and that you will be splitting costs. The only exception is Tokyo Option 3 and the 15-day backpacking itinerary.''If your hostel or hotel does not serve free breakfast, visit the supermarket on your first day''to buy food (biscuits, drinks, bread).''Set aside ¥1000 for every unspecified lunch or dinner''.''Airfare is not included''in the costing.''Estimated budget indicated is per person.''However, note that this has a big allowance. For example, the ¥1000 budget per meal is often too much because you can actually find a good bowl of ramen, even in Tokyo, for only ¥500. But it’s better to overestimate than under.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Tokyo Budget Itinerary''2. Tokyo + Disneyland''3. Tokyo + Disneyland + Kamakura and Yokohama''4. Osaka and Kyoto''5. Osaka – Nara – Kyoto''6. Osaka – Kyoto – Tokyo''7. Tokyo – Kyoto – Osaka''8. Tokyo – Nagoya – Kyoto – Osaka''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''1. Tokyo Budget Itinerary''Duration'': 6 Days, 5 Nights''Estimated Budget'': ¥35,000 (USD315, PHP15,600)''The BUDGET OPTION. This itinerary replaces the pricey Disneyland visit with a day trip in Odaiba and replaces double room with a bed at a capsule hotel.''2. Tokyo + Disneyland''Duration'': 6 Days, 5 Nights''Estimated Budget'': ¥53,000 (USD475, PHP23,700)''This itinerary removes the visit to Kamakura and Yokohama and adds a visit to Sensoji Temple.''3. Tokyo + Disneyland + Kamakura and Yokohama''Duration'': 6 Days, 5 Nights''Estimated Budget'': ¥56,000 (USD500, PHP25,000)''This is a pretty jampacked itinerary.''If you need more information about traveling on a budget in Tokyo, check this out:''Tokyo Travel Guide''4. Osaka and Kyoto''Duration'': 4 Days, 4 Nights''Estimated Budget'': ¥38,000 (USD340, PHP17,000)''This itinerary assumes you will be landing at Kansai International Airport at night and will be staying in a double room at a budget hotel or hostel for ¥6000/night (¥3000/head).''If you need more help planning your Osaka-Kyoto trip, this post is for you:''Osaka and Kyoto Travel Guide''5. Osaka – Nara – Kyoto''Duration'': 4 Days, 4 Nights''Estimated Budget'': ¥45,000 (USD400, PHP20,000)''This itinerary assumes you will be landing at Kansai International Airport at night and will be staying in a double room at a budget hotel or hostel for ¥6000/night (¥3000/head). You will be visiting Nara but only on a day tour.''6. Osaka – Kyoto – Tokyo''Duration'': 8 Days, 8 nights''Estimated Budget'': ¥85,000 (USD760, PHP38,000)''This itinerary assumes you will be entering Japan via Osaka and leaving via Tokyo. You will also be staying in a double room at a budget hotel or hostel for ¥6000/night (¥3000/head) in Osaka/Kyoto and ¥9400/night (¥4700/head) in Tokyo.''7. Tokyo – Kyoto – Osaka''Duration'': 7 Days, 6 nights''Estimated Budget'': ¥85,000 (USD760, PHP38,000)''This is the reverse of the Osaka-Tokyo itinerary above. This one assumes you’re landing in Tokyo and leaving via Osaka. Your hotel budget here is the same: ¥6000/night (¥3000/head) in Osaka/Kyoto and ¥9400/night (¥4700/head) in Tokyo.''8. Tokyo – Nagoya – Kyoto – Osaka''15-Day Budget Backpacking''Duration'': 15 Days, 14 nights''Estimated Budget'': ¥115,000 (USD1030, PHP51,200)''This one is for budget backpackers. This assumes you’ll be staying at hostel dorm (around ¥2000 per night). Because you will be visiting multiple cities including day tours in Ibaraki and Kawaguchiko, it would be great if you have a JR Pass.''You can check the updated rates or purchase one here:''Check JR PASS Rates Here''Do you really need a JR Pass?''It depends on your chosen itinerary. In this post, we weighed in on the JR Pass. You might want to read it first before making a decision:''For more info, read:''Is the JR Pass Worth It?''____________''Top Budget Hotels in Tokyo''According to TripAdvisor users as of Feb 2017.''Andon Ryokan''Address: 2-34-10 Nihonzutsumi, Taito 111-0021, Tokyo Prefecture''Double/twin room from''USD63 (P3139)''Check Rates''They call it the Banana Pancake Trail.''The tired backpacking route across the Southeast Asian peninsula — Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam — is known in the travel world as the Banana Pancake Trail, so called for the many stalls selling banana pancakes that are widely sold in the cities along the trail. Over the years, as more backpackers explore further and longer, the trail has grown to span a few previously off-the-beaten-path stops and sometimes other ASEAN countries like Malaysia and Myanmar.''This route is popular for a reason. It’s exotic, “tourist-friendly”, and most importantly, cheap, the qualities that make a destination perfect for both seasoned and newbie backpackers, especially those traveling alone. Despite being hackneyed, it is still something I can recommend to first-time backpackers.''When I quit my full-time job in 2012, the first thing I did was head for the Banana Pancake Trail to have my solo backpacking debut. It was one of my most unforgettable trips to date. For a Southeast Asian like me, although the region looks, tastes, and sounds different, it still fosters an atmosphere that made me feel like home. It is no surprise that we returned later that year, and every two years since.''2012: Siem Reap, Bangkok, Chiang Mai, Vang Vieng, Luang Prabang, Ha Long Bay, Hanoi''2012: Singapore, Malacca, Kuala Lumpur, Langkawi, Penang, Cameron Highlands''2014: Phuket, Krabi, Bangkok, Ayutthaya, Siem Reap, Ho Chi Minh City, Phan Thiet, Mui Ne''2016: Myanmar''In this article, we’ll be sharing with you how we plan our backpacking trips across Southeast Asia. Note that this will heavily focus on Continental ASEAN (Indochina) + Singapore. We will be writing separate posts for the Philippines and Indonesia.''If you’re interested in just one destination, here are our specific posts:''Siem Reap''Travel Guide''Bangkok''Travel Guide''Bagan''Travel Guide''Langkawi''Travel Guide''Malacca''Travel Guide''Singapore''Travel Guide''Yogyakarta''Travel Guide''Gili Islands''Travel Guide'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Determine your budget and travel duration.''2. Pick your travel dates''3. List down all your must-visits.''4. Decide on your entry point.''5. Plot your route.''6. Research lodging costs.''7. Build your itinerary.''8. Book Flights, Hotels, and Transfers.''9. Allocate budget for food, tours, and other daily expenses.''Recap: Breakdown of Expenses''When I was invited to speak at the World Tourism Forum in Istanbul last year, I was asked to talk about this:''How does one start a''successful''travel blog?''At first, it seemed like a simple, easy question. But the more I thought about it, the harder it was to find the right words. Any other day, I would have simply answered, “Get a domain name, find a good host, set up the blog, and write away.” But there was a qualifier there, an awfully subjective one:''successful''.''How do you measure success? We all have different metrics: visitor traffic, social media following, awards and recognition. Success can also mean simply being able to express yourself. If you have a goal — no matter how little — and it is achieved, then it is successful. But if we’re talking about blogging as a career, then perhaps a good measure is how the blog is able to sustain itself and generate enough income to support the blogger’s lifestyle. Yep, it is possible to travel the world for free and even get paid for it. You’ll be surprised how many people have built a career out of travel blogging, and I had the pleasure of meeting (and being friends) with many of them.''I’m not gonna pretend like I’m an expert in this field. Every day, I find myself learning more as I wade through the intricacies of the blogging community and the travel industry. But I am an expert in my personal history (LOL), and that’s what I’m sharing with you in this post.''That’s me in Turkey, Iceland, the Maldives, and Morocco.''Nope, I’m not going to tell you to quit your job and travel the world.''As someone who came from a less fortunate family with children to feed and send to school, I know it’s NOT that easy. At least for me, it wasn’t easy at all. It was made even more complicated by the fact that I’m holding a Philippine passport, which entails proving my rootedness and financial capacity before I’m allowed to set foot in many of my dream destinations. I could not just leave everything behind and ride off into the sunset. I had to plan everything, and plan everything I did.''We started this blog from nothing. At the time, I was at the very bottom of the corporate ladder, working as a social media marketing manager for a startup company from 8-5. At first, I was just blogging about our company outings because I couldn’t afford to travel on my own. I had no savings. My salary was just enough for rent, bills, and the tuition of the kids in the family. But we’ve come a long way.''Today, both Vins and I have quit our day jobs and are now full-time travel bloggers. We’ve also launched another blog called''PhilippineBeaches.org''. This blog alone registers almost''a million page views a month''and our two blogs have''over 2 million social media followers''in total. And because of these blogs, we are able to travel any time we want.''Related:''More Info about Yoshke and Vins''More Info about The Poor Traveler Blog''Last updated: February 2018''I wasn’t supposed to return, but it was just too irresistible.''The first time I set foot in the Angkor Archaeological Park, I was on a solo backpacking trip across continental Southeast Asia. Siem Reap was not part of my original route, but it would be such a shame to travel across the region without stopping at the world-famous Angkor Wat. I went out of the way, and it was a good decision. Not only was Siem Reap visually stunning and historically significant, it was also a delightfully affordable city. It didn’t put a dent on my usually fragile finances.''Two years later, my friends and housemates wanted to go backpacking across ASEAN with me, and I was tasked to build our itinerary. This time, I tried to make sure that we won’t be stopping at destinations that I had already visited on my previous journey. But as much as I wanted to skip Siem Reap, I couldn’t deny this experience to my friends. Angkor is a must-see for a reason, and they must see it too.''So I returned. The upside, I get to update this travel guide!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Siem Reap''How to Get To Siem Reap''Search for Cheap Flights Here''Where to Stay in Siem Reap''Top Budget Hotels Under $25''Top Hostels in Siem Reap''Search for more: Siem Reap Hotels''Where to Exchange Currencies''How to Get Around Siem Reap''Places to Visit in Siem Reap''Angkor Archaeological Park''Other Attractions:''Siem Reap Day Tours''Sample Itinerary & Breakdown of Expenses''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Siem Reap''In native Khmer language,''Siem Reap''means “defeat of Siam,” another name for Thailand. The name was said to be bestowed upon the city by King Ang Chan, after a glorious victory over its neighboring kingdom. Thailand and Cambodia have a long history of conflict.''Siem Reap used to be a small village until an expedition into the surrounding forest began in 1901. It was also the year the Angkor was rediscovered, thus changing the fate of the quiet town. Siem Reap gained worldwide attention as the gateway to the archaeological heaven. Since then, the city has enjoyed rapid development. Accommodations from budget hostels to high-end hotels and restaurants from sidewalk eateries to lively dance clubs mushroomed along the streets of the city,\xa0lodging, feeding, and entertaining tourists, who are eager to lay eyes on the ancient structures.''How to Get To Siem Reap''Siem Reap is easily accessible from many other cities in Southeast Asia. Direct flights from Manila, Phnom Penh, Singapore, Bangkok, Jakarta, Hanoi, and Ho Chi Minh City are available. You can also travel by land from other parts of Indochina like Bangkok, Phnom Penh, and Ho Chi Minh City.''From Manila''.''Note: Philippine passport holders can enter Cambodia visa-free.''. The cheapest direct flights to Siem Reap from Manila are by Cebu Pacific Air, but AirAsia offers competitive rates too, although it makes a stop in Kuala Lumpur, thus entailing a much longer travel time. One-way fares below if you book way in advance can go as low as P4500.''From Kuala Lumpur''. AirAsia offers the cheapest fares, which start at USD 27. Malaysia Airlines’ rates, starting from USD 56, aren’t bad, either.''From Bangkok''. From Bangkok, you have three options: by plane, by bus, and by train. Obviously, the plane is the fastest but most expensive option. The lowest fares are offered by Thai AirAsia (travel time: 1 hour) and Thai Smile Airways (travel time: 1 hour and 25 minutes). If you book in advance, the rates are around USD 57. If you take the bus or train, know that you will have to go first to the border town of Aranyaprathet, go through Immigration, emerge in Poipet on the Cambodian side, and take the government bus to Siem Reap from there. We created a separate post for it here:''Bangkok to Siem Reap by Train or by Bus''Search for Cheap Flights Here''Where to Stay in Siem Reap''While biking around the city, I noticed that most of the high-end hotels lie along the road going to Angkor from the city proper. But the more budget-friendly ones are just around the Old Market area. Aside from the budget, another thing to consider when picking a place to stay is how you plan to spend your time in the city. If you’re the type who likes getting drunk and dancing at the club at night (like me), you might want to consider choosing a hotel or hostel near Pub Street. Actually, I highly recommend this location (around the Pub Street area) because there’s so much to do. The Angkor Night Market is also just around the corner.''But here are the top budget hotels and hostels as rated by online users as of May 2017. We considered only properties with at least 20 reviews.''Top Budget Hotels Under $25''The Golden Gecko Villa''Street 20, Siem Reap Central Area''Check Rates''.''Visoth Boutique Hotel''Sok San Road, Siem Reap Central Area''Check Rates''..''Oriental Siem Reap''0503Watbo Village, Salakamreuk Quarter, Siem Reap Municipal''Check Rates''…''Bopha Residence''City Centre, Wat Damnak, Siem Reap Central Area''Check Rates''.''Top Hostels in Siem Reap''Mini Hut Hostel''#332, Siem Reap river street, Wat damnak village, Siem Reap''Check Rates''.''Onederz Hostel Siem Reap''Bugs Street, Siem Reap Central Area''Check Rates''.''Pool Party Hostel''Pash Kraoum Road ,#0568 , Group 5 ,Vihear Chin Village, Svay Dangkum, Siem Reap''Check Rates''.''Oasis Capsules Hostel''Sivatha Road, Mondul 1 Village, Svaydangkum Commune, Siem Reap Central Area''Check Rates''.''Search for more:''Siem Reap Hotels''.''Where to Exchange Currencies''While the official currency in Cambodia is the Riel (KHR), US dollars are widely accepted in Siem Reap. Most of the restaurants I dined at displayed USD instead of KHR although they accept both.''On my first time in Siem Reap, I ended up spending waaaay too much because I carried Philippine pesos (PHP). Many money changers in Siem Reap accept PHP but the rates are terrible, soooo far from the real forex rates. When I returned, I learned my lesson. Armed with US dollars, I got to experience Siem Reap at a much lower cost.''Bottomline, if you’re visiting Siem Reap,''bring US dollars''.''How to Get Around Siem Reap''Siem Reap by Bike''Biking''. It’s the best and the cheapest way to explore the city. Bikes will cost you $1 per day, and it includes a map and a bottle of water.''Tuktuk''. One day tour costs $12 to $15 if you’re alone or a couple, $18 if you’re a party of 3. If you really want to save money, form a group of 3 and just split the cost so you only pay $6 per person.''You’ll find bike rental shops and tuktuks all around the city, but if you want to make sure you won’t be scammed, ask the staff of your hotel or hostel for their trusted contacts. I simply just find someone parked at the Old Market. Done it twice and I never ran into any problem. Feel free to tip your tuktuk driver if you enjoyed his service. Just round off the fare. For example, the last time I was there, we paid $20 instead of $18.''Vins while on tuktuk tour of  Angkor.''Places to Visit in Siem Reap''Angkor Archaeological Park''Like most tourists visiting Siem Reap, my guess is that the primary reason you want to go here is the Angkor Wat so let’s focus on it first. Angkor Wat is such a humongous site that it will take half a day (if not the whole day supposing you’re into the smallest details) to see all its galleries, libraries, corners, and towers. But that’s not the whole picture. It is just the centerpiece of the vast UNESCO inscribed''Angkor Archaeological Park''that hosts dozens of other temples that are equally captivating and interesting.''Bayon Temple in Angkor Thom, Cambodia''To get a ticket, you just need to go the Ticket Counters near the entrance to Angkor. Here are the costs as of 2017:''1-Day Pass: $37''3-Day Pass: $62''7-Day Pass: $72''Do you need a tour guide?''Well, you don’t really''need''it. You can explore the park on your own easily. However, if you want to appreciate the structures better, I highly recommend that you get one. DO NOT get a guide at the site itself. Some people, sometimes children, will offer their services as tour guides on the spot. Many of them are scammers. I fell victim to one. They charged exorbitant fees!''To be sure, you can join a small group tour. Emphasis on SMALL. You don’t want to be part of a big horde that come in bus-fuls. Small, intimate groups ensure a more pleasant experience.''You can book with Klook here:''Angkor Small Group Tour''The following links will lead you to specific detailed posts containing more information about the place and narrating my personal experiences. Feel free to browse like you’ve never browsed before.''Angkor Wat''Angkor Thom and Bayon Temple''Ta Prohm''Thommanon and Chau Say Tevoda''Other Attractions:''Angkor Silk Farm''. See the silk-making process from the silk worms to the fabric-creation. Free shuttle buses are available at Artisans Angkor’s main center in Thmey Street every 09:30am and 1:30pm.''Opening Hours: 8am-5pm.''Entrance Fee: FREE.''Tonle Sap Lake''Preah Prom Rath Pagoda''Angkor Night Market''Pub Street''Old Market''Angkor National Museum''Siem Reap Day Tours''Cambodian Cooking Class''. Offered by Beyond Unique Cooking Class, located at Sivutha Bvld corner Alley West. The class takes place at a village 10 minutes from the city center.''Rates: $24 ($20 if you book with Klook)''Book a Class Here''A Day in the Life Tour''. Join a local host family in a farming village and experience a day with them including a picnic lunch. 5% of the proceeds go to a charity project.''Rates: $42 ($36 if you book with Klook)''Check Rates Here''In Godly Company. Buddhist Monks and some locals walking out of Angkor Thom through the South Gate. Behind them is the row of statues of the gods.''Sample Itinerary & Breakdown of Expenses''Before I show you a sample itinerary, here are the usual prices in Siem Reap. Note that these are just based on my personal experience (so this list depends heavily on the establishments I tried):''Angkor tour by tuktuk (3-4 temples): $15''Airport Transfer: $9''Usual cost of a meal (rice/noodles): $2''Usual cost of a drink (shake/coke): $0.75-$1''Here’s a sample 4-day itinerary with breakdown of expenses. This assumes you’re a group of 2 and you’re staying at a budget hotel with free breakfast (like Golden Gecko Villa) for $25 per night ($12.5 per person).''How much I spent on booze, medicine (I had an accident while biking), and''pasalubong''is NOT covered by this list''.''Pre-trip Expenses:''Double Room: $37.5 ($12.5 X 3 nights)''Day 1'':''Arrival in Siem Reap''Old Market (FREE)''Preah Prom Rath Pagoda (FREE)''Angkor National Museum ($12)''Angkor Night Market''Pub Street''Bike: $1''Day 2:''Angkor Tour''Entrance Fee: $37''Tuktuk: $7.5 ($15/2pax)''Day 3:''Cambodia Cooking Class''Tour Fee: $20''Day 4:''Departure''If you limit your expenses to only $4 per meal, you will only be spending $28. That’s assuming the hotel you booked serves free breakfast. Add $7 for incidentals like bottled water and snacks.''The total cost of the trip if you follow this itinerary:''$150 (PhP 7500)''.''That’s not yet including the airfare and airport transfer (if you’re flying) or the bus/train transfers (if overland).''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Don’t lose your tuktuk driver''. If you’re exploring Angkor by tuktuk, always agree on a meeting point before entering a temple. There are so many tuktuks swarming in front of major structures that it can be difficult to find the one you hired, especially after sunset.''Use a good pair of shoes''. Trust me, Angkor can bring so much pain to your feet if you’re not wearing good hiking shoes.''Avoid getting dehydrated!''This whole Angkor tour can be quite exhausting and draining. Bring a bottle of water or buy fresh coconut juice.''Read up on Angkor and Khmer history in general before your trip''if you don’t have a guide. This will allow you to appreciate the temples and its many features better.''Be wary of “guides” offering to tour you around the temple.''Most of them will ask for a big “donation” after.''Pace yourself''. At first you’ll be like, “Oh! So many temples! I’m gonna see them ALL!” But when you’re actually doing it, the temple fatigue kicks in and you might find yourself not wanting to visit any other temple anymore. The key is to just take your time and not rush.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''SIEM REAP, CAMBODIA: Budget Travel Guide''Angkor, Cambodia: 10 Tips for an Enjoyable Tour''Ta Prohm Temple: The Crushing Embrace in Angkor, Siem Reap, Cambodia''Thommanon and Chau Say Tevoda: The Twin Temples of Angkor, Cambodia''BANGKOK TO SIEM REAP BY LAND: Crossing the Border''Biking Around Siem Reap, Cambodia''We don’t normally write travel guides for theme parks. But Tokyo Disney Resort turned out to be much more complicated than we anticipated.''Yes, complicated. As soon as I began burning my first hour queueing for my first ride, I knew this super popular theme park would merit its own blog post. As our line moved at a pace that would put glaciers to shame, I realized that if you don’t plan your trip here well, you’ll end up wasting a lot of time and enjoying very little.''So here it is, a travel guide especially dedicated to the Tokyo Disney Resort, presented in FAQs (frequently asked questions) format. You’re welcome!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Which is better: Disneyland or DisneySea?''When is the best time to visit?''Where to buy tickets?''How to Get to Tokyo Disneyland or DisneySea?''What are the best attractions?''Is there a way to bypass the long lines?''How can I take advantage of this Fast Pass thingy?''Can I get a Fast Pass for all the rides in my first hour inside?''Do all attractions use Fast Pass?''How can I maximize my time?''Without Fast Pass, how long do I have to wait in line?''Where to eat inside Disneyland/DisneySea''Can I bring food into Disneyland/DisneySea?''What are the hotels near Tokyo Disney Resort?''Top Budget Hotels in Tokyo''Top Hostels in Tokyo''Search for more: Tokyo Hotels''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Which is better: Disneyland or DisneySea?''DisneySea, without question. It’s more visually appealing, and its rides more thrilling. But the most compelling reason you should pick DisneySea is that it is''one of a kind''. You’ll never find any other DisneySea anywhere else in the world, while there are many other Disneylands. Heck, there’s another one not too far away — Hong Kong.''Tokyo DisneySea''Tokyo Disneyland''I’ve only been to just one other Disneyland (Hong Kong), but I can tell you that it is way tooo similar to Tokyo Disneyland. There are differences here and there, but the key attractions and overall experience are the same. So here’s something that would make it easier for you to choose: If you’ve been to Disneyland Hong Kong or planning to go there, pick DisneySea.''That is, if you can choose only one. If you have more time and money, visit both. Why not?''When is the best time to visit?''You already know this, but I’ll just spell it out: Disneyland and DisneySea are incredibly popular. And I mean''incredibly''popular. Any Tokyo-bound tourist traveling with family or kids is most likely to have them in their itinerary. Hence, expect long, long, long lines especially during weekends and peak seasons.''Long Queues''What are the peak seasons? According to most online sources:''Golden Week (April 29 – May 5)''Obon Festival (August 13–15)''New Year (December 31 – January 5)''I’ve been to Disney Resort twice. First time in in late November, and the queues weren’t that bad. The second time was in early April, in the week of cherry blossoms’ full bloom, and maaaaan was it cray cray. I ended up riding just a handful of attractions, and even the queues for popcorn were unforgiving. And that was on a Thursday!''If you already have a set schedule, just try to avoid visiting on a weekend because that handsome money you spent on the ticket won’t be worth it.''There is a website that predicts how crowded Disneyland and DisneySea are going to be on specific dates. The problem is that it’s in Japanese, but you can always use Google Translate. Check it out''here''.''But as early as now, for the sake of your sanity, accept in your heart that you will NOT get to experience everything!''How much is the admission ticket?''Here are the ticket prices (as of 2017):''You can double check the updated rates''here''.''Where to buy tickets?''You can buy tickets from the booths at the entrance. But if you want to save more time, you can buy online. Klook sells 1-day and 2-day passes. You can use the pass for either Disneyland or DisneySea.''You can check the rates or purchase one below:''Disney 1-Day Pass''Disney 2-Day Pass''Booking is easy and hassle-free.''1. Visit this pag''e:''Disney 1-Day Pass''.''2. Select date and quantity''. Click on BOOK.''3. On the next page, enter your details.''4. On the same page, pay using credit card or PayPal.''That’s it! You’ll get a confirmation via email!''Once booked, you just need to print out the voucher on an A4-size paper and bring it when you visit. No need to exchange the voucher for anything. Just go straight to the gates and show your printout. The gate attendants will scan the QR Code printed on your ticket and let you in.''How the Disney voucher from Klook looks''How to Get to Tokyo Disneyland or DisneySea?''We have a separate, more detailed post just for that.''Read it here:''How to Get to Tokyo Disney Resort''What are the best attractions?''Below are the most popular attractions. They have the longest queues!''Disneyland''Space Mountain''Buzz Lightyear’s Astro Blasters''Star Tours: The Adventures Continue''Monsters Inc. Ride & Go Seek!''Pooh’s Hunny Hunt''Big Thunder Mountain''Splash Mountain''Haunted Mansion''DisneySea''Journey to the Center of the Earth''20,000 Leagues Under the Sea''Indiana Jones Adventure: Temple of the Crystal Skull''Tower of Terror''Raging Spirits''Toy Story Mania''Mermaid Lagoon Theatre''Magical Lamp Theatre''Is there a way to bypass the long lines?''Yes, and it’s perfectly legitimate. It’s called''FAST PASS''.''Fast Pass''Disneylands in the US have it too. Fast Pass is a ticket that would allow you to skip the regular lines and go straight to the ride. At every key attraction in both Disneyland and DisneySea, there is a separate entrance for those with Fast Pass tix.''It’s similar to Universal Studios’ Express Pass. The difference is, it is NOT for sale. It’s fair game.''Only one Fast Pass per park ticket is allowed at any given time.''How can I take advantage of this Fast Pass thingy?''Here’s how it works.''Every key attraction has Fast Pass ticket machines installed near the entrance. All you need to do is scan the QR Code of your ticket and it will give you a fast pass for that particular ride. It recognizes QR Code printed on Klook tickets so make sure you don’t lose your printout after entering the park.''The machines will release a small ticket. That’s your fast pass. The ticket indicates the specific attraction you can use it for and two times: the time you can use the pass and the time you can get another Fast Pass.''You cannot use the Fast Pass anytime you want. You can only use it within the period assigned to you. So if your Fast Pass reads you can use it between 1-2pm, you should enter the attraction at any time within 1-2pm. You can show up at 1:55pm and they will still accept it.''Can I get a Fast Pass for all the rides in my first hour inside?''Nope. You’re allowed ONLY ONE Fast Pass every 1.5 hours or so. You’re blocked from getting another pass until the time indicated. Sometimes, even if you get a fast pass in the morning, you’re scheduled for a 3pm ride. That’s how tightly they regulate ticketing. Also, Fast Pass ticketing closes at around 4pm.''So make sure you get a fast pass for only the rides you really, really want to experience. If you’re on the fence about something, don’t get a fast pass for it.''Do all attractions use Fast Pass?''No. Only the most popular ones. See the list of key attractions above? Only those accept Fast Pass. For everything else, you have to fall in line.''How can I maximize my time?''Here’s a good strategy: Get a Fast Pass for your Top 4 attractions. This is, in my opinion, the best way to approach this:''Before the trip, research and identify your Top 6 attractions. Now, get a map of the park and rearrange your Top 6 according to their location. Your #1 attraction should be near #2 and so on.''Come to the park early. The earlier you arrive, the more rides you’ll enjoy.''Once inside, go straight to your #1 attraction and get a Fast Pass for it. Check the assigned time you should enter that attraction and the time you can get another fast pass.''While waiting, queue up for your #2 attraction. When you’re done, enjoy the other attractions nearby.''When it’s your time to get another Fast Pass (you’ll see the time on your first Fast Pass), go to your #3 Attraction and get another Fast Pass.''Once you have your second Fast Pass, go to your #4 Attraction and queue up.''Just repeat the process.''Of course, don’t forget to return to the attractions you got Fast Passes for when it’s time!''Also, be mindful of certain schedules especially of the parade and the fireworks display.''Without Fast Pass, how long do I have to wait in line?''Depends on the attraction. If you’re lucky, 30-40 minutes. But for the extremely popular ones, prepare to wait for 60-90 minutes, sometimes 120 minutes.''Bring something to entertain yourself while waiting. In my case, my phone usually does the trick. I just upload pics and check my social accounts. And oh, bring a power bank (mobile charger).''Where to eat inside Disneyland/DisneySea''There are a number of restaurants inside the parks, but the queues and prices can be scary. A set meal costs ¥900 (sandwich + drink) to ¥1500 (rice meal), and truth be told, they don’t really taste special. Prepare to wait at least 30 minutes to order.''If you want to avoid the lunch rush, have breakfast before coming and have late lunch inside the park instead.''If you really have to dine at a restaurant inside, I recommend the following at Disneyland:''Queen of Hearts Banquet Hall in Fantasyland''. If you’re on a budget, order the chicken meal. It’s pricey at ¥1500 per meal, but at least you get a half-chicken for it, better than ¥1000 sandwich meals at other places. You can just order extra rice and split the chicken into quarters.''Queen of Hearts Banquet Hall’s Chicken Meal''At DisneySea, try the following:''Casbah Food Court in Arabian Coast''. If you’re quality taste instead of price, dine here instead. Their special set meal is at around ¥1500. Serving isn’t that big but food is really tasty, something you won’t expect being served at a theme park food court.''Vulcania Buffeteria in Mysterious Island''. Chinese cuisine. Impressive, immersive location. If you’re having dinner here, choose a table outside so you have a great view of the volcano, which “erupts” every few minutes.''Drinks inside the park cost: ¥300-500. Alcoholic beverages are not allowed.''Can I bring food into Disneyland/DisneySea?''The official policy is:''Outside food is NOT allowed''. There are designated picnic areas with tables and chairs for those who want to bring their own food, but they are located outside the park but near the entrance.''Here’s where the DisneySea Picnic Area is located:''And here’s for Disneyland:''However, on two occasions, I brought onigiri (rice balls) and some cookies, and asked the staff at the entrance if they were allowed, and they said yes both times. They let us through, no problem. So I guess it depends on the type of food you’re bringing in. If it’s something that you can easily consume like onigiri, you’re probably on the clear. But if it’s something that would require utensils, you’ll probably have to step outside.''What are the hotels near Tokyo Disney Resort?''Tokyo Disney Resort has four hotels, but they are all insanely expensive. To give you an idea, here are the rates of a night’s stay in a Standard Room.''Disney Ambassador Hotel:''¥43,200''(P19,300)''Tokyo DisneySea Hotel MiraCosta:''¥51,400''(P23,000)''Tokyo Disneyland Hotel:''¥45,200''(P20,200)''Tokyo Disney CELEBRATION Hotel:''¥20,800''(P9,300)''There are also several high-end hotels close to Disney Resort. They are also expensive but a lot less costlier than the Disney-owned ones. Here are some of them:''Once is never enough.''Heck, when it comes to Coron, four times still won’t cut it. This little tourist town in Palawan one of the first destinations we set foot in as travel bloggers, but even after three more visits, we still can’t get enough of it. Its jagged corners are bursting with natural beauty and cultural significance: from the lakes and lagoons of Coron Island, to neighboring beaches, to shipwreck dive sites and coral gardens, to saltwater hot springs, to postcard-worthy views from its mountaintops. Heck, they even have an African Safari nearby.''Yet, every time we return, we always find something new. Coron changes fast, and it’s both good and bad. All it took was return to the top of Mt. Tapyas and we noticed just how much development has sprawled across this side of the island. New hotels and restaurants flank more of its paved streets. More tours are opened to tourists, whose numbers, I bet, more than doubled since our last visit. Prices climb at a near-scary rate.''Coron transforms faster than we update our travel guides, which is part of the reason why we return to Coron more more frequently than to other destinations. Anyway, here’s our latest, most updated Coron Travel Guide.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Coron and Busuanga''How to Get to Coron''Manila to Coron''Cebu to Coron''Clark to Coron''Puerto Princesa to Coron''El Nido to Coron''How to Get to Busuanga Airport to Coron Town''Where to Stay in Coron''Top Budget Hotels Under P2000''Top Budget Guest Houses Under P1000''Where to Eat in Coron''How to Get Around Coron''If you join a Group Tour''If you charter a private boat''Coron Tours''Coron Island Tour''Coron Town Tour''Calauit Safari Park Tour''Culion Historical Tour''Glittering Fireflies and Plankton Tour (with Buffet Dinner)''Malcapuya Island Tour (aka Island Escapade Tour or Beaches Tour)''Other Tours:''Sample Coron Itinerary + Breakdown of Expenses''Other tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Coron and Busuanga''Coron is just one of the four municipalities that make up the Calamianes, a stellar group of islands that speck the waters of North Palawan. Busuanga Island is the largest of the group and is politically divided into two municipalities: Busuanga and Coron. Coron is the main tourism hub of the region and has more accommodations and tours, and is the usual jump off point to the surrounding destinations, which is why many of the attractions in Calamianes are often associated with Coron even when they are technically part of other towns.''For example, Calauit and Black Island are actually in Busuanga, but most people think they’re in Coron. The town of Culion is also often tagged Coron, when it is, in fact, a separate municipality.''Another confusing bit: Coron Town is NOT on Coron Island. As mentioned, Coron Town occupies half of Busuanga Island. Coron Island, emphasis on island, is a separate smaller island off the coast of Coron Town. Still with us? Here’s a map to help you digest it better.''Map of Busuanga, Coron, and Culion''How to Get to Coron''For tourists, the main gateway to the Calamianes Islands is''Busuanga Airport (USU)'', more formally known as Francisco B. Reyes Airport. It is less than an hour away from the town proper of Coron.''But Coron also has a pier, and over the past few years, new boat routes have opened for tourists coming from Manila and other parts of Palawan like Puerto Princesa and El Nido.''Manila to Coron''Flying is the easiest and fastest way to reach Coron from Manila. Cebu Pacific Air, Philippine Airlines, and Skyjet all operate Manila-Busuanga flights.''We’ve tried multiple dates to compare prices, and found the following:''Skyjet''offers the lowest year-round fares.''Cebu Pacific''does more promos for Coron. So if you’re not in a hurry to travel, you can wait for a Cebu Pacific SALE and you can score roundtrip tickets for as low as P2400 (flights only) or P3100 (with baggage).''Philippine Airlines''has good rates, too. There are dates when PAL has much lower fares.''Cebu Pacific Flight Scan. The highlighted row contains PROMO FARES. Year-round fare is around P3,400.''Philippine Airlines Year-round Fares''Skyjet Fares''Cebu to Coron''Philippine Airlines offers competitive Busuanga fares from Cebu and Clark.''Cebu to Coron Fares (Philippine Airlines)''Clark to Coron''If you book in advance, you might snag these fares.''Clark to Coron Fares (Philippine Airlines)''Puerto Princesa to Coron''2Go Travel''ferries passengers from Puerto Princesa to Coron, leaving every''Wednesday and Saturday at 11:59PM''and arrives the next day at 3PM.''Here are the rates per accommodation type and additional fees.''Sample computation''El Nido to Coron''Montenegro Fastcraft launched in September 2016 a new Coron-El Nido (and vice versa) route, which cuts the travel time to only 4 hours. Schedule and rates below.''How to Get to Busuanga Airport to Coron Town''As soon as you emerge from the airport’s Arrival area, you’ll be greeted by people asking you what hotel you will be staying. Don’t worry, these are barkers looking for passengers. I was hesitant to go with them because they were a bit too proactive, to say the least, but they are legit if they are in uniform. They are asking for your hotel so they would know which van/shuttle you should board.''Travel time'': 30-40 minutes''Fare''is P150 per person''You can also hire the entire van for P1500.''The journey is scenic because you’ll be driving across a ranch. If you’re lucky, you’ll see herds of cows crossing the road.''Where to Stay in Coron''There are so many lodging options in Coron but you might still want to strongly consider booking in advance specially during summer (March-May).''On our last visit, we were hosted by''Coron Soleil'', which is a newly built complex that harbors the Coron Soleil Garden Resort, a 4-star resort. But here’s the catch: located in the same complex is the more pocket-friendly''Coron Soleil EXPRESS'', a 3-star budget hotel. The thing is, guests staying at Soleil Express have access to the amenities of the complex, which means you’ll be able to enjoy 4-star resort amenities at the price of a budget hotel!''Here’s Coron Soleil’s psychedelic swimming pool, the centerpiece of the resort.''Check Rates & Availability''If it isn’t too obvious yet, Japan is''The Poor Traveler''‘s most-loved destination. Between Yoshke and myself, we have been to the Land of the Rising Sun a total of 14 times over the past 4 years. Sometimes, it can be easy for us to think that we’ve experienced the best that Japan has to offer, but every once in a while, we get slapped hard by a giant something that reads: “You ain’t seen nothing yet.” And just recently, that something was Nagoya.''This post is brought to you by JetStar.''When somebody mentions Japan, the first cities that come to mind are Tokyo, Kyoto, and Osaka. Nagoya, more often that not, is an afterthought. I had considered traveling to Nagoya many times before, but then I would see the cost of shinkansen or the time it takes to travel by bus and the plan of going to Nagoya would remain just that — a plan. But here’s the thing, Nagoya and its surrounding regions are more than just a side trip destination. It is home to some of the best sights in Japan! The best part, for those who do not have that much time or budget, Nagoya is becoming more and more affordable and accessible.''Nagoya is the largest city in the Chubu Region and the capital of Aichi Prefecture. With over 2 million residents, it is also the fourth most populated city in Japan. The city offers a lot of both urban and cultural attractions: from the Tokugawa period Nagoya castle, shopping in Sakae, to their famous amusement parks in Nagashima Resort.''Moreover, Nagoya can be your base if you also want to explore neighboring prefectures. It is the closest major city to the incredibly picturesque Shirakawa-go and other attractions in Gifu Prefercture.''Here are a few more facts you need to know:''Language'': Japanese (Nihongo). English isn’t widely spoken. However, most signs have English translations.''Currency'': Japanese Yen (JPY, ¥). JPY 1000 is roughly USD 9, EUR 7.4, PHP 458 (as of Jan 2018).''Modes of payment'': Many establishments accept credit cards, but most still prefer cash.''Electricity Info'':  100V. Plugs have two flat pins.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Best Time to Visit Nagoya''How to Get to Nagoya''By Plane''By Train''Where to Buy JR Pass''How to Get from Chubu Centrair to Nagoya City Station''Where to Stay in Nagoya''How to Get Around Nagoya''Places to Visit in Nagoya''Day Trips from Nagoya''Shirakawa-gō Village''Takayama Old Town''Sample Nagoya Itinerary''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Best Time to Visit Nagoya''Japan in general is tourist-friendly year-round. Each season has its own charms, but spring and autumn are arguably the best and are my favorites. I’ve spent most of my life in the tropics so summer is not doing it for me anymore, and winter just doesn’t fit my sunny disposition in life. Whut. Hahaha. Word vomit.''Spring''(March-May) has great weather and the city turns into a giant garden, with the streets lined with flowers of different colors. The Nabana no Sato (Winter Illumination) remains lit until the end of May, so you can still get to experience these famous lights without the extreme cold.''Fall''(September-November) is also pleasant weather-wise. And just like spring, it transforms the city into a life-size painting as the foliage turns orange and bright red. Perfect for #OOTDs and totally Insta-worthy.''How to Get to Nagoya''By Plane''The Chūbu Centrair International Airport is the primary gateway to Nagoya and the rest of Central Japan. Opened in 2005, it is a first-class airport that was built on an artificial island in Ise Bay, Tokoname City, south of Nagoya.''If you’re coming from Manila, JetStar offers the cheapest direct flights to Nagoya. Flight time is 5 hours and 10 minutes.''By Train''Taking the shinkansen bullet train to Nagoya from other major cities outside Nagoya like Tokyo take you 2 hours and half via Shinkansen. That’s why I highly recommend that you don’t take the train unless you have JR Pass or if you’re on a Japan multi-city tour.''From Tokyo''. If you’re coming from Ueno Station, take the JR Keihintohoku line (¥200, P90) to Shinagawa station. At Shinagawa station, take the Shinkansen Tokaido-Sanyo Shinkansen Nozomi 99 (Hakata) train a to Nagoya Station. Travel time: 1.5 hours. Reserved seat fee: ¥11,090 ($100, P5000). No-reservation regular fee: ¥10,400 ($90, P4600)''From Osaka. At Shin-Osaka Station, take the Tokaido-Sanyo Shinkanses Nozomi 12 (¥6,560, P2,900) to Nagoya station. Travel time is 50 minutes excluding transfer to your accommodation.''Where to Buy JR Pass''If you’re visiting multiple cities in Japan and you’re staying for 7 days, you can save A LOT OF MONEY by getting a JR Pass. Klook offers the cheapest JR Passes available. If you live in the Philippines, the pass will be delivered to you in 7 days.''Check JR PASS Rates Here''How to Get from Chubu Centrair to Nagoya City Station''Upon arrival, travel on foot to the Chubu Centrair International Airport Station.''Take the Meitetsu-Limited Express train headed to Meitetsu Nagoya Station.''Walk 300 meters and you’ll arrive at Nagoya Station''Fare is ¥1230 ($11, P550). You can hop on in the train with unreserved seats (no additional charge).''Travel time: 31 minutes.''Where to Stay in Nagoya''Nagoya is a little less expensive than Tokyo. Hotel prices may vary on the season. For backpackers, there are hostel dormitories that can give you a bed for as low as 2000 yen (USD18, P880).''If you’re not a dorm guy and you have a bit more dough, here are the top budget hotels under $60/night as ranked by Traveloka users as of May 2017.''Hotel Wing International Nagoya''1-4-11 Nishiki, Naka-Ku, Aichi , Nagoya Station / Downtown, Nagoya, Japan''Prior to this trip, Indonesia was never on my bucket list. I would always dismiss it because I had this foolish notion in my head that Indonesia is so much like the Philippines. I thought, “Why would I spend time and money on a place that is too similar to my home country?” But if there’s one lesson that I picked up during my time there, it is this: Never make conclusions about a country until you’ve actually been there.''Indonesia gently drilled its place into my heart. It’s not the kind of in-your-face lightning-fast wonder, but the gradual and lasting one. True, it bears countless similarities with the Philippines. Both are archipelagic states enjoying the similar climate. Both are known for the hospitality of its people. It was also a delight to know that we share countless words: payong (umbrella), langka (jackfruit), anak (child), kanan (right), balik (return), balai (house), balimbing (starfruit), dingding (wall), itik (duck), and kambing (goat), among others. But here’s the thing: I realized that these similarities don’t make this wonderful country less interesting; they provided me the warmth of a home away from my country. And for that, I am truly grateful.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Yogyakarta''How to Get to Yogyakarta''By Air''By Land''Getting Around Yogyakarta''By Bus''By Taxi''Where to Stay in Yogyakarta''Top Jogja Hotels Under USD60''Top Jogja Hostels''Places to Visit in Yogyakarta''Borobudur Temple (Candi Borobudur)''Yogyakarta Palace (Keraton Yogyakarta)''Water Castle (Taman Sari)''Prambanan Temple (Candi Prambanan) Compound''Sendratari Ramayana at Prambanan Temple or Purawisata''Yogyakarta Food Tour''Batik Making Class''Other Attractions:''Day Tours from Yogyakarta''Sample Yogyakarta Itinerary''Side Trip''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Yogyakarta''This trip is part of the Visit Asean @50 campaign of the''Ministry of Tourism of Indonesia'', who hosted us in Yogyakarta.''The Special Region of Yogyakarta is a separate administrative entity ruled by a monarch, the Sultan, with the city of Yogyakarta as its administrative capital. The city is teeming with attractions that interlace the old with the new. It is dotted with historical and cultural landmarks, making it fit for educational trips. For those who are up for adventure and outdoor trips, there are options like ecotourism in Kaliburu, sandy activities in Parangkusumo, or the lava tour in Merapi.''If you want to shop and indulge in local cuisine, Malioboro Street is the place to be! To give you an idea of what Malioboro looks like, picture Binondo of Manila or Pub Street of Cambodia. It is a major shopping street in Yogyakarta with many surrounding hotels, restaurants, and other commercial establishments. Stores along this street sell various kinds of goods such as apparel, arts and crafts, souvenir products, food, and batik. At night, it gets more exciting as many side street restaurants or''lesehan''line along the street, giving off a laid-back and welcoming atmosphere.''Essential Information:''Language'': The official language is Indonesian/Bahasa Indonesia. Javanese is also widely spoken. Most people understand English, too.''Currency'': Indonesian Rupiah (IDR, Rp). USD 1 is around IDR 13,500; PHP 1 is around IDR 265; EUR 1 is around IDR 14,500 (as of April 2017)''Modes of Payment'': Regular stores and restaurants only accept Rupiah, but certain foreign currencies and major credit cards (Visa and Master Card) are accepted by most hotels, fine-dining restaurants, and souvenir shops.''Electricity Info'': Types C and F. Most establishments have two-pin round plugs at 220 V and 50 Hz.''How to Get to Yogyakarta''If you are a Philippine passport holder, you don’t need to secure a visa. The Philippines is part of the 15 countries who secured reciprocal Visa Free Agreements with Indonesia.''By Air''Yogyakarta is served by Adisucipto International Airport. A bigger international airport, targeted to finish in 2020, is set to rise in Kulon Progo (West of Yogyakarta) to better serve the growing tourism industry in Jogja. The airport will have a train with a direct route to Borobudur.''There is no direct flight from Manila to Yogyakarta, but there are various connecting flights offered by different airline companies. Since Adisucipto connects the city to other major cities in Indonesia like Jakarta and other countries like Singapore and Malaysia (Kuala Lumpur), you can choose which route will best serve you.''As for my case, I took Manila (MNL) to Jakarta (CGK) via Philippine Airlines, then Jakarta (CGK) to Yogyakarta (JOG) via Garuda Indonesia Airlines. As what Philippine Airlines is to the Philippines, Garuda Indonesia prides itself as the flag carrier of Indonesia.''The major airport in Jakarta serving international and domestic flights is the Jakarta International Airport also known as Soekarno\xa0Hatta\xa0Airport.''By Land''If you are not pressed for time, you can ride a train, bus, or rented vehicle instead from Jakarta to Yogyakarta.''By Train'': Executive class trains depart from Gambir Station, while cheaper business and economy class trains depart from Pasar Senen Station.''There are two major train stations in Yogyakarta: Lempuyangan Station and Yogyakarta/Tugu Station. Lempuyangan serves budget and economy class trains, while Tugu serves business and executive class trains.''Travel Time:''6 – 8 hrs''Fare:''Executive Class: Approx. USD30/PHP1490''Business Class: Approx. USD22/PHP1090''Economy Class: Approx. USD18-20/PHP895-995''By Bus'': From Jakarta International\xa0Airport, search for the Damri Bus ticketing office. Damri will get you to various parts of the city for only USD3.2/PHP160 to USD6/PHP298. You may purchase a ticket going to Gambir if you are planning to go to Yogyakarta by train. Gambir is near the popular backpacking district, Jaksa.''From the city proper, there are various bus companies offering Jakarta – Yogyakarta route such as Handoyo (w/ Toilet), Pahala Kencana, Laju Prima, Maju Lancar, and Santoso.''Travel Time'': 12 – 13 hrs''Fare'':''Non-AC: USD12/PHP597 to USD15/PHP746''VIP/EXE AC: USD16/PHP795 to USD19/PHP945''Getting Around Yogyakarta''By Train''Maguwo Train Station connects the city to the airport via a tunnel, and it links to Yogyakarta Station at Malioboro St. Here are the fares:''Pramesks Train Service: USD.60/PHP30''Sriwedari Train Service:  USD.90/PHP45''Madiun Jaya Train Service: USD1.5/PHPP75''By Bus''Locals usually use the bus rapid transit system, Trans Jogja or TJ, when taking trips within the city proper or when going to other regencies (nearby places outside the city of Yogyakarta).''Trans Jogja even connects Adi Sucipto International Airport and Prambanan Temple to the city center. As formerly mentioned, Trans Jogja has a bus stop located within the airport carpark.''Operating Hours: 5:30 AM – 9:30 PM''Fare: Around USD.50/PHP25 (within Yogyakarta); USD1-2/PHP50-100 (outside Yogyakarta)''Damri Bus has ticketing station at the airport too. It also travels around (and outside) the city including a stop at Magelang where Borobudur Temple is located.''Operating Hours: 7:00 AM – 9:00 PM''Fare: Around USD3.75/PHP187''Giwangan Bus Terminal''is the Yogyakarta’s main terminal for intercity buses. Bus routes connect the cities all over Java Island, as well as Bali and Sumatra (via ferry).''By Private or Rental Vehicle''There are also some who opt to rent vehicles to better manage their time. Here are the usual rates:''Car/SUV. Approx. USD50/PHP2487 for 12hrs (including gasoline and driver fee)''Mini-Bus. Approx. USD100/PHP4974 for 12hrs (including gasoline and driver fee)''Motorcycle. Approx. USD10/PHP497 per day (excluding gasoline)''By Taxi''Taxis fares are relatively cheap in Yogyakarta. They charge by the meter, but some drivers refuse to use the meter so insist on it. Minimum Fare: USD1.5/PHP75.''Where to Stay in Yogyakarta''Yogyakarta has already established itself as one of the popular travel destinations in Indonesia mainly because of its proximity to Candi Borobudur (Borobudur Temple). The city became the base camp for tourists who plan to explore Borobudur and other sites, so expect a lot of options when it comes to accommodations – from budget to luxury. If you are in the mood to splurge, you might want to check out''Hotel Tentrem Yogyakarta''located at Jalan A.M. Sangaji 72A, Sinduadi, Yogyakarta.''Top Jogja Hotels Under USD60''When we announced on Facebook that we would be hitting Coron for the fourth time, someone asked in the comments section why — given that the Philippines has over 7600 islands — we kept on returning to this Palawan tourist town. Our answer is pretty simple: Coron has so much to offer. And we’re not bullsh*tting you when we say that.''Coron and its neighboring towns and islands offer a wide range of attractions and activities, and they’re oh-so-diverse. You can explore Coron Island’s lakes and lagoons on one day, and then go beach-hopping the next, and then scuba dive the day after. There’s a saltwater hotspring (Maquinit!), a viewpoint atop a mountain (Tapyas), and World War II shipwrecks scattered around the region! There’s even a former leper colony (Culion!) and, believe it or not, an African safari (Calauit). We’ve visited four times now, but it feels like we haven’t seen enough!''Before our trip a few weeks ago, the last time we were in Culion was in 2013, and boy were we blown away by how much the town has changed. Tourists seem to have more than doubled, and development seemed to have worked overtime while we were away. The prices have also gone up considerably, especially of restaurant meals. Tour and boat rental rates have increased, too. But it wasn’t all bad news. There is LTE signal even in the islands! More hotels and transportation options have opened. And the best of all, there are new attractions that can make every repeater’s visit feel like their first-time. Here are some of them!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. New Resort: Coron Soleil''2. New Tour: Fireflies Night Tour''3. New Trek: Mt. Darala''4. New Cafes: Fika Indulgence, Coffee Kong, and La Morena Cafe''5. New Way to Get to El Nido from Coron!''Good news for us Pinoys (and other South and Southeast Asian countries)!''Taiwan will be opening their doors for Filipino visitors without the need to secure a visa''. This move aims to encourage Asian neighbors, especially those in the South and Southeast region, to strengthen trade and economic ties with one another. I was really thrilled when I learned about the news; I can imagine scouting streets for the famous Taiwanese street food experience. I can’t wait!''(There’s news that the implementation of this policy might be postponed though. So let’s wait for an announcement from Taiwan officials.)''Are you thrilled too? Now to help you with your budget accommodation choice (I’m sure some of you have booked or are now booking your flights to Taiwan), here are the Top 10 Hotels in Taipei Under USD50 according to online users as of April 2017 (in no particular order):''Note:''Ranking and rates may change over time, so always double check before booking. (We only considered properties with at least 20 reviews)'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. C U Hotel''2. Taiwan Youth Hostel & Capsule Hotel''3. Hotel Fun – Linsen''4. Colormix Hotel and Hostel''5. Poshpacker Hotel''6. Mei Stay''7. URTRIP Hotel''8. Beimen Wow Poshtel''9. A Simple Place Ximending Taipei''10. Metro Apartment''Search for more: Taipei Hotels''These days, when we hear Nueva Ecija, the first things that come to mind are the Minalungao National Park and its limestone rock formations and bamboo rafts. But tourism isn’t always about adventure. It can also be educational, reflecting the way of life of the locals. And in Nueva Ecija, much of the culture is agriculture.''Agriculture has been a major contributor in the development of the Philippine economy. At present, it shares the spotlight with services and manufacturing as the basis of the country’s economic growth. Visiting areas in the north and learning more about agriculture and how it can further help the economy became one of the highlights of''Lakbay Norte6'', a media tour planned by the North Philippines Visitors Bureau (NPVB), a non-stock, non-profit organization of various Convention & Visitors Bureaus (CVBs) all over North Philippines.''If you are interested in farming, here are some of the sites in Nueva Ecija that might pique your interest.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. PMP PARADISE FARM''2. NATIONAL FOOD AUTHORITY GROUNDS''3. PHILRICE RESEARCH INSTITUTE''4. PUNO ICE CREAM PLANT''5. CAFFE LA TEA''6. MILKA KREM PLANT''7. CHANOS CHANOS''8. SCIENCE CITY TOUR''Recently, we have been invited by Star Cruises to experience sailing from Manila to Ilocos to Taiwan to Hong Kong aboard Superstar Virgo. This wasn’t our first time cruising, so we were a bit more confident this time around. On our first time a few years back, we were so intimidated by the whole cruise thing. You see, we’re used to backpacking so anything that resembles luxury feels alien to us. Preparing for it alone was unnerving.''What do I pack? What should I wear? What travel documents do I need? How expensive is it gonna be? Are there hidden charges? How do I disembark?''This post is brought to you by Star Cruises.''If you’re sailing aboard Superstar Virgo soon and it’s your first time to cruise, this post is for you. This also applies to other routes of the Virgo. I hope this article be able to prepare you for this new, marvelous, and incredibly relaxing experience! Here are 10 things you can expect.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Packing & Pre-Trip Preparations''Boarding''Safety Drill''3 Inclusive Restaurants''Shore Excursions (Shorex)''Room and Amenities''Gala Night and Dinner''Wifi''Staff''Checking Out''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Packing & Pre-Trip Preparations''First things first, travel documents. If you’re joining the Manila-Laoag-Kaohsiung-Hong Kong cruise, no visas needed. You only need to bring your passport and a photocopy of its bio page.''It’s a cruise so it wouldn’t hurt to dress up and achieve your #OOTD goals. We packed at least 2 sets of garments a day: one set of light clothes for touring, and another for the evening shows. Why two sets? It’s pretty cool inside the ship, but things change as soon as you get out of it. In our case, it’s the middle of April! Onboard, I’m clad in shorts and a t-shirt with a polo on top of it. But as soon as we go outside, I had to remove the polo because it would get too hot especially on Ilocos and Kaohsiung stops. Hong Kong was a different story. It rained so hard for a brief moment. Takeaway: check the weather in every stop and prepare accordingly.''The rooms are also equipped with slip-on sandals, bath robes, and toiletries. You will also be provided a see-through plastic pouch wherein you can put your passport and access card (which I will explain later).''Remember: Each passenger is allowed only one piece of check-in luggage free-of-charge. Anything more will incur additional fees.''For the Manila season, the default currency is the Hong Kong Dollar (HKD).''Boarding''Superstar Virgo in Manila''In many ways, the process is similar to that at the airport. You still need valid travel documents, check in your baggage, and pass through an immigration inspection and security checks before boarding.''You will be given a mag card (access card). DO NOT LOSE IT. It’s the most important item as soon as you step into the ship. It serves as your keycard to your cabin and credit card when purchasing something or dining at specialty restaurants. You will also need this when disembarking to explore the ports and when returning to the ship.''You will need to surrender your passport upon boarding. You’ll have it back after the journey.''Safety Drill''As soon as everyone is settled, there will be a safety drill that you are required to participate in. It is extremely important that you are familiar with the ship’s geography and the directions you need to take in case of an emergency.''Safety Drill''Manila Bay Sunset''In Manila, the drill happens right before sunset, so as soon as it’s over, head straight to Deck 12 to have a better view. We’ve been to a lot of places around the world, but Manila offers some of the most spectacular sunsets.''Do it at every stop. Nothing is more relaxing that just watching the sun call it a day.''3 Inclusive Restaurants''“Inclusive,” meaning you can dine here free-of-charge. It’s part of what you paid for. Onboard the Virgo, there are three inclusive dining options:''Mediterranean Buffet''. The most popular, located on Deck 12, just behind the Parthenon Pool. Serves breakfast, morning tea, lunch, afternoon tea, dinner, and supper. No reservations needed.''Genting Palace''. Western and Chinese cuisines. Serves breakfast, lunch, and dinner. This is also where the Gala Dinner takes place. Although it is inclusive, reservation is required.''The Pavilion Room''. Family-style restaurant. In my opinion, of the three, this is the best. Serves breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Reservations required.''Both Genting Palace and the Pavilion offer full-course meals (appetizer, soup, main course, dessert). Drinks will be charged to your room.''Prawns on Angel Hair Pasta at the Genting Palace''Salmon and Hamachi Sashimi at Samurai''Aside from these, there are specialty dining options! There’s the Taj offering Indian favorites, and Samurai serving delectable Japanese cuisine. Samurai have us our best gastronomic experience onboard. From the salmon and yellowtail (hamachi) sashimi as appetizer to teppanyaki as main course and matcha ice cream as dessert, that meal was scrumptious from start to finish.''Shore Excursions (Shorex)''This is the part where you can get off the ship and explore the city where it is docked.''In our case, it has three stops: Laoag, Kaohsiung, and Hong Kong. At every stop, they offer various pre-arranged tours called Shorex (shore excursions). For example, in Laoag, you have a choice among Laoag City Tour, Paoay Sand Dunes, Vigan Heritage Tour, and a couple more.''Other routes will have their own shorex offers, of course.''Hong Kong Island Skyline''You can book a pre-arranged tour or do it on your own (DIY). It’s completely up to you.''If you book a shorex'', you will be joining the rest of the cruise passengers who booked that tour. The great thing about it is that you have everything taken care of for you. You will have a tour guide and a few members of the crew will join the group. They will make sure you’re back at the port in time for sailing. Meals are also often included.''If you pull a DIY'', you have complete control of your time and it’s going to be cheaper. However, make sure you’re back by the prescribed time because the ship will NOT wait for you. Here’s the itinerary/schedule as of April 18.''Either way, you will be given a small sheet of paper upon disembarkation.''READ IT, UNDERSTAND IT, KEEP IT.''It will tell you what time you have to be back. It changes per stop. The boarding deadline in Taiwan is different from that in Hong Kong.''Room and Amenities''Balcony Room''There are four types of accommodations onboard, from the cheapest to the fanciest: Inside Room, Ocean View Room, Balcony Room, and Suite. On our first time, we stayed in an Inside Room; this time in a Balcony Room. In both occasions, the room was always regularly maintained, with multiple cleanups within the day. Complimentary bottles of water also replenish every day.''If you have enough budget for an Inside Room, go for it. Don’t drop the idea of cruising just because you can’t afford the best rooms. In my experience, we spent most of our time outside the room — going on shore excursions, pigging out at the restaurants, and exploring other amenities.''Speaking of amenities, here are some that you can enjoy for FREE:''Gym''. We packed gym clothes but we failed to use them because we would already average 15,000 steps per day just by joining the shore excursions.''Pool''. Located on Deck 12.''Casino''. In case you’re interested. Deck 7.''Parthenon Pool''Duty Free onboard''There’s also Duty Free shops on Decks 7 and 8, and a small store selling chips, chocolates, and biscuits (including Filipino products) on Deck 12 just next to the bar.''Spend your evenings watching a show at the Lido Theater. Some of these performances can be enjoyed for free, while others incur additional charges, including the for-adults-only show.''Gala Night and Dinner''Happens on the fifth night. It’s an event that begins with a cocktail party at the Grand Piazza on Deck 7, where the captain introduces the senior members of the crew. There are also musical performances. Overflowing wine! Loved it!''The captain introducing the senior members of the team.''Gala Dinner at Genting Palace''At around 6pm, enjoy a full-course dinner at the Genting Palace as a pianist serenades you with the endless ocean in the background.''If you intend to join this, make sure you’re dressed for the occasion. Dress Code: Elegant Casual. No shorts and no open toed footwear. For guys, prepare a collared shirt or blazer.''Wifi''We know how important it is to you so we created a separate section for it.''Every passenger is given 1-hour complimentary internet access. If you need more, you’re gonna have to purchase a plan.''24 hrs: HKS 116''24 hrs (Social plan): HKD 54''Whole Cruise: HKD 505''Remember: you’re in the middle of the ocean, sharing the connection with the rest of the ship, so don’t expect lightning speeds, but it’s good enough for browsing, checking emails, social media, and even watching YouTube videos.''Staff''Filipina working at Samurai''What we love the most about the Superstar Virgo is that it feels like home because of the staff. There are a lot of Filipinos working onboard: from the reception to the restaurants to the room services. I’m pretty sure there are more in the non-guest-facing departments, too. And it’s always wonderful to get to talk with them. They are proud of their work!''The rest of the crew is warm, friendly, and always willing to help. You don’t even need to ask for assistance. If they see you looking like you need something (info, direction, whatever), they will be the first to approach you with a smile.''Checking Out''On the day before you arrive in Manila, you will be requested to proceed to Deck 12 for a health check. You will just be filling out a form and pass by a thermal imager.''Pack your stuff before hitting the sack on your last night because they will collect your check-in baggage early in the morning of your last day. You can leave the bag or suitcase outside your door and someone will pick it up.''Don’t forget to settle the bill before disembarking. Know that a gratuity of HKD100 per night is charged to every guest (except infants below 2yo). HKD120 per guest staying in a suite.''I believe I’ve covered everything! Overall, it was a fantastic experience. Vins and I were kind of bummed that the Manila season would only last until May 28 because we wanted to do it again with our parents! Here’s hoping they’d return to the Philippines next year!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''HONG KONG and MACAU: Budget Travel Guide''6 Destinations to Visit in Taiwan Other Than Taipei''HONG KONG ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Hong Kong Family Trip: Summary, Itinerary and Budget''Hong Kong: How to Get to Avenue of Stars from Tsim Sha Tsui MTR Station on Foot''Taiwan Visa and e-Visa for Filipinos: How to Get It Successfully''Abandoned places always captivate me. Being there or just seeing photos of\xa0those once glorious places\xa0heightens my senses and imagination; the breaths made, sighs released, and laughter shared in the past are magnified and revived by the solemnity of the place. Most of the time, I catch myself playing inside my head the hustle and bustle of what used to be busy places, making them livelier to me than ever.''Fortune Island gave me that feeling. When I finally arrived, it did not disappoint. The timing of my visit contributed a lot in enabling me to take in as much as I wanted from the trip – have quality time with friends, appreciate the ruins, enjoy the waves, and revel in the calm blue waters. It was a weekday, Thursday to be exact, and there were only us and two other small groups. At one point, we had the island to ourselves.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'What You Need to Know''Things to Do''Reminders''What to Bring:''How to Get There''By Public Transportation''By Private Car''Summary of Expenses''Contact Information''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''What You Need to Know''Fortune Island is located Nasugbu in Batangas. It used to be a private island harboring an exclusive luxury resort. But it is difficult and costly to maintain a luxury resort without a ready source of fresh water. One cannot drink luxury. Consequently, it ceased its operations in 2006. One remarkable reminder of its grandeur stands atop the island’s limestone cliff overlooking the sea – an acropolis with Grecian pillars and statues.''It was a rough yet thrilling boat ride. The waves were strong and unforgiving, but our boatmen managed to bring us to the island safely. Approaching the island, the Grecian ruins proudly greeted us. Our boat docked at the cliff diving area instead of the beach to prevent the boat from damaging the corals and vice versa. At Fortune Island, you have two options: shallow but rough water or calm but deep water. If you choose the former, head over to the beach and tumble with the waves. If you choose the latter, brave your way to the cliff diving point and plunge into the relaxing clear blue water. Or why choose when you can do both?''Things to Do''Aside from swimming and cliff diving, here are other activities that you can do to maximize your visit (meaning your time and money):''Chill.''The place has its own charm. Find a spot and just relax with friends while enjoying the view. My friends and I brought drinks with us and chose the Grecian ruins as our spot, so we got this scenic setting while we were drinking and catching up with each other.''Strike a Pose.''Take advantage of the Grecian ruins. Strike a “profile picture-worthy” pose, then press the click button to your heart’s content. You can do however you want it: selfie, groupfie, or like a fashion magazine photo shoot. Done with the ruins? On to the next one!''Trek to the Lighthouse.''It will take you around 30 minutes to get to the lighthouse.''Snorkeling.''After exploring and walking around the island, take time to appreciate the beauty of the sea. It is best to bring your own gear.''Scuba Diving:''Go further by plunging deeper into the sea and discover wonders underneath. These are what await you, according to''DivePhil.com'':''–''The Blue Holes:''an interesting underwater feature made up of three sinkholes leading into an open-topped cavern.''–''The Wreck'': located 65ft under the sea, not far from the beach, is the rear part of a Dutch freighter. A Volkswagen minibus can also be found near the freight.''–''Fortune NW:''found between the Blue Holes and the Wreck with coral formations and valleys dropping to over 120 ft.''Camping.''If you want to stay on the island much longer and day trip seems not enough, you can bring and pitch your own tent.''Reminders''You have to rough it out''. No fresh water source, no decent bathroom and toilet, no cottages, and no electricity.''Bring food and water''. There are no meals sold in the island.''Leave nothing but footprints''. Take your trash with you. If you can, pick up other garbage left by other tourists on the island and dispose them properly when you get back to the mainland.''Expect strong waves and rocky coastline''.''Go there early''. For campers, especially during weekends and peak season, it’s better to be there early, so you can find better spot to set your tents. For those going on a day trip, the boatmen will strongly advise and insist that you leave not later than 2pm. In our case, the boatmen wanted to leave the island by 12nn, but we managed to extend until 1pm. We tried bargaining for another extension, but they are very persistent to leave the island. Their reason: strong waves.''If you are bringing your car, you can arrange and secure parking space with your contact person''What to Bring:''Day Trip:''Water!!! Extra clothes, swimwear, water activity gear (goggles, snorkel gear, etc), sun block, head gear (cap, hats, etc), toiletries, towel, malong or sarong, medicine (allergy, asthma, etc), first aid kit, food and drinks, garbage bags, cameras, and power banks.''Camping:''Day trip stuff mentioned above + tent, lamp, flashlight, portable stove (and fuel source) and/or grilling essentials, eating and cooking utensils and tools, ice chest, and lots of water.''Note:''These are only suggested items and things to bring. You are free to bring whatever you think you need for this trip.''How to Get There''By Public Transportation''Take the bus from Manila to Nasugbu, Batangas.''There are several bus companies with direct route to Nasugbu:''DLTB''(Buendia Taft Ave corner Sen. Gil Puyat)''San Agustin Bus Line''(Cubao)''Travel time:''around 4 hours (depending on the traffic)''Fare:''Php168''Tell the driver to drop you off Jollibee-Nasugbu.''Ride a tricycle to Fortune Island Resort in Brgy Wawa.''Fare:''Php10-P15 per person''At Fortune Island Resort, pay entrance fee:''Day Trip:''Php300''Overnight/Camping:''Php400''From Fortune Island Resort (mainland), rent a boat going to Fortune Island.''Travel Time:''1 to 1.5 hour''Day Trip:''Php3000 (5-10 pax) / Php4500 (10+ pax)''Overnight/Camping'': Php4500 (5-10 pax) / Php6000 (10+ pax)''You can find boats for hire outside the resort at a cheaper rate. For example, we found one for only P2500.''By Private Car''Via Cavitex:''Head to Governor’s Road, and then continue onto Nasugbu -Ternate Highway until you reach Nasugbu. You will see Jollibee, and then make a right turn to C. Alvares Street. Keep on driving straight until you reach Apacible Blvd, onto which you will make a right turn. Just stay on that road and you’ll reach Fortune Island Resort.''Via SLEX:''Exit to Sta Rosa, and then turn right. Continue onto Tagaytay-Sta Rosa Road. From Tagaytay, continue onto Tagaytay-Nasugbu Highway until you reach Palico. Make a right turn to Palico-Nasugbu Highway. At the end of Palico-Nasugbu Highway, make a right turn. Continue driving until you reach Nasugbu town proper. Make a right turn to C. Alvares Street, and continue driving. Turn right to Apacible Blvd, and then continue driving until you find Fortune Island Resort.''Summary of Expenses''If you’re a group of 4 and you’re driving:''Gas + Toll: P350/person''Resort Entrance: P300/person''Boat Rental: P2500/4 = P625''Meals and other provisions: P500/person''Mainland Bathroom Fee: P15/person''Total expense per person: P1790''If you’re taking public transportation:''Bus fare: P168/person (one-way)''Tricycle Fare: P15/person (one-way)''Resort Entrance: P300/person''Boat Rental: P2500/4 = Php625''Meals and other provisions: P500/person''Mainland Bathroom Fee: P15/person''Total expense per person:''P1806''Contact Information''Fortune Island Resort:''0917 406 5860, 0915 504 7166''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''BATANES ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Sagada Travel Guide: Getting There, Sample Itinerary and Budget''TOP 10 BATANGAS BEACH RESORTS''SEPOC ISLAND, BATANGAS: Budget Travel Guide & Itinerary''Masasa Beach and Anilao: Travel Guide''MASASA BEACH ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''It was as though life was preparing me for Japan.''When I was a High School sophomore and our History teacher assigned everyone in class a country for a report, I was given Japan. When I was a college sophomore, I was assigned Japan in both our World Cinema and Asian History classes. When my sister became an OFW (overseas Filipino worker), she moved to Tokyo and has since sent us balikbayan boxes filled with Japanese products from instant ramen to a bokken (wooden training sword).''Still, Japan was never in my bucket list. Sure, I grew up gluing my eyes to countless anime series, but I wasn’t really drawn to the country itself. Back then, I wasn’t a fan of Japanese food, I couldn’t care less about its attractions, and I never saw myself being there. Perhaps because I had it carved on my defeatist, unambitious young brain that I would never set foot in it. In a sea of possible destinations, Japan was THE expensive one and their immigration policy at the time was the strictest. It was unrealistic, impractical, impossible. So why bother?''But life had other plans.''Between Vins (my co-blogger) and I, we’ve been to Japan 15 times, spanning over a dozen cities including Tokyo, Osaka, Kyoto, Kanazawa, Hiroshima, Nagoya, Ibaraki, Biei, and Sapporo. And I don’t think we’re done yet. We’re looking forward to more journeys!''A lot has changed over the years. Cost of airfare has gone down drastically and it’s relatively easy to get a visa these days. Japan is no longer an unattainable dream but a reachable goal for many, even those with not-so-deep pockets.''If you have a lot of time, you might be considering visiting multiple destinations. Here’s how we usually plan ours.''If you’re interested in just one destination, here are our specific posts:''Tokyo Travel Guide''Osaka and Kyoto Travel Guide''Sapporo Travel Guide'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Determine your budget and travel duration.''2. Pick your travel dates''3. List down all your must-visits.''4. Plot your route.''4. Research lodging costs.''5. Build your itinerary.''6. Get a Japan visa.''7. Book Flights, Hotels, and JR Pass.''7. Allocate budget for food, tours, and other transportation modes.''Recap: Breakdown of Expenses''Packing is the worst part of travel. Ugh, just thinking about it makes me hate it even more. My dislike probably stems from my difficulty mastering the art (or science) of it. In my first years as a travel blogger, I almost always forgot something important, something that days or weeks before the trip I planned on bringing with me but I would totally forget come travel time. If there’s a stereotype that men are bad at packing, it’s because of men like me. LOL.''Of course, I have improved over the years. When you keep doing it over and over again, you tend to get better. Also, life has thrown at me lessons that made sure I wouldn’t ever forget bringing essentials with me. So you won’t be like me, I have put together a list of things that travelers should make sure are in the bag before they zip it up. Here they are:'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Enough underwear''2. Basic medical supplies''3. A lock''4. Flip flops''5. Plug Adapters''6. Reusable Water Bottle''7. Ear plugs''When people ask me what my favorite destinations are, I have a difficult time responding. To me, a “favorite destination” can mean many things. It can mean a place that I totally fell in love with during my visit. But it can also mean a place where I would want to stay for a looong time or maybe for good. There’s no thin line between these two favorites. For example, the most memorable trip I ever had was in the Australian Outback, but I don’t think I would enjoy staying a month, much less spending the rest of my life there.''In my library of travel experiences, filed under where-I-want-to-settle is Taiwan. It was a surprising addition to a very short list previously occupied only by Thailand and Japan. Taiwan was never in my bucket list, but as early as my first day in Taipei, I realized it was a travesty not wanting to see this island. I had been to Taiwan twice since then, and we’re geared to return on two different occasions this year!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Taipei''Visa-Free Immigration Requirements for Filipinos''When is the Best Time to Visit Taipei?''How to Get to Taipei''How to Get to Taipei from Taoyuan Airport''By Train/Metro''By Bus''Where to Stay in Taipei''Top Budget Hotels Under USD50''Top Taipei Hostels''Search for more: Taipei Hotels''Places to Visit in Taipei''Taipei 101''National Palace Museum''Martyrs’ Shrine''Elephant Mountain''Chiang Kai-shek Memorial Hall''Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall''Lantern Festival in Pingxi''Dalongdong Bao’an Temple''Shilin Night Market''Other attractions to visit:''Day Tours from Taipei''Sample Taipei Itinerary''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Taipei''Taipei City is the capital and the political and economic center of Taiwan. Situated near the northern tip of the island, it is completely surrounded by New Taipei City. (I know this can be confusing, but these are two separate units.) Together with Keelung, Taipei and New Taipei form Taiwan’s largest metropolitan area, which is home to over 7 million people.''For the longest time, tourism was not a major economic driver in Taipei or Taiwan in general. Just like the Philippines, Taiwan is on the so-called “wrong side” of the South China Sea. Most Asia-bound travelers head for Thailand and then travel by bus or train to other parts of the ASEAN peninsula. Taiwan requires plane tickets, which means additional budget and effort. But you know what they say, those who go the extra mile get the reward, or something like that. Hahaha. (Is there such a saying? Let’s make it a thing.)''However, tourism has grown significantly over the past several years! Taiwan has been so aggressive in promoting destinations internationally that immigration policies have been relaxed in many countries.''Visa-Free Immigration Requirements for Filipinos''If you’re a Philippine passport holder, you may enter Taiwan VISA-FREE starting November 1, 2017 for visits no longer than''14 days'', provided that you meet the following requirements.''Your passport must have at least 6 months validity.''A return ticket or onward ticket (to your next destination and a visa for that destination)''A proof of accommodation. It may be hotel booking or host’s contact information or tour arrangements''You must have no criminal record in Taiwan''No need to apply for a visa or a Travel Authorization Certificate.''For more info, visit the''website''of Taiwan Cultural and Economic Office in the Philippines.''When is the Best Time to Visit Taipei?''Quick answer: autumn. November is ideal. But I wouldn’t mind going in winter. The last thing I want is for the rain or typhoons to ruin my plans, and they are least likely to make a mess from November to March.''Lantern Festival in Taiwan''Taipei enjoys a humid subtropical climate that is heavily influenced by the monsoon. This means that although people keep referring to the four seasons, they are not as pronounced as in temperate countries like Japan or Korea.''Summers (June-September) are hot, reaching as high as 35C, and wet, sometimes bringing powerful typhoons.''Autumns are pleasant. October marks the end of the typhoon season, and precipitation drops significantly (although you’ll never know these days). The temperature is also comfortable, playing between 22 and 28C in October, and 19 and 24C in November.''Winters (December-February) are mild, rarely dipping below 10C. But it is the driest period.''Springs (March-May) have comfortable temperatures but are unpredictable in terms of rainfall.''How to Get to Taipei''The''Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport (TPE)''is the primary gateway to the island and the 11th busiest airport in the world. It is also hub of China Airlines and EVA Air.''If you’re coming from Manila, AirAsia offers the cheapest year-round ticket, sometimes as low as USD33 for a seat. Other airlines don’t even come close. The catch is, the flight leaves just before midnight. (In case you’re wondering: This post is''NOT''sponsored by AirAsia. Price comparison websites just reveal they offer the lowest fares.)''Manila-Taipei Flight Scan (Skyscanner for October travel)''If you’re coming from Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur or Singapore, AirAsia shares the budget crown with TigerAir and JetStar. However, some flights require transfers in another ASEAN city.''Bangkok-Taipei Flight Scan (Skyscanner for October travel)''Singapore-Taipei Flight Scan (Skyscanner for October travel)''How to Get to Taipei from Taoyuan Airport''Located in Taoyuan County, Taoyuan Airport is less than an hour away from Taipei City. The two efficient modes of transportation are the Taoyuan Airport MRT and the bus. (Taxis are available too, but they’re expensive so let’s pretend they don’t exist. Haha.)''But wait, before that, you can pick up a 4G SIM Card at the airport''. You can buy a Welldone 4G SIM Card that will allow give you''unlimited data''without worrying about roaming costs. Each sim also allows unlimited incoming calls. It also includes calling credits (NT$300 credit for 5 days, NT$150 credit for 7 days, NT$100 credit for 10 days). If you buy online, you can pick it up at the airpot when you arrive.''RESERVE A 4G SIM CARD HERE''By Train/Metro''Both Terminals 1 and 2 have their own station: A12 Station for Terminal 1 and A13 for Terminal 2.''Operating hours: 6am to 11pm''Travel time: 37 minutes (if Express)''Fare: NT$160''By Bus''Several bus companies ply various routes from the airport. If you have decided where to stay, you may ask the hotel/hostel staff in advance what bus number you should take. For more info, check out:''Taoyuan Airport Bus Info''To book a ticket, go to the Bus Counters near the Arrival section of the terminal. You’ll find it easily. There are a lot of bus signs around the airport. Fare varies depending on bus company, but it’s within the NT$125-145 range.''However, the Taoyuan MRT and most of the buses do NOT operate 24 hours a day. Last trip of these carriers are usually between 11pm and 1am.''If your flight is scheduled to arrive outside these hours, your only choice is Bus 1819, operated by Kuo-Kuang Motor Transport. Bus 1819 terminates at Taipei Main Station. From here, you may take a taxi to your hotel.''Travel Time'': 55 minutes''Fare'': NT$125''Where to Stay in Taipei''Hmmmm. The thing with Taipei is that it’s so convenient to get around and daily commute doesn’t go as crazy as Tokyo (or Manila). Their MRT system isn’t complicated at all. Most tourist spots are located along the Red (2) and Green (3) lines so when it comes to choosing accommodations, as long as you’re staying somewhere near a red or green station, you’re good!''In addition, the areas surrounding the following MRT stations are ideal options:''Taipei Main Station''. Main MRT and bus terminal, so transportation won’t be a problem especially if your flight is set to arrive past midnight. There are also malls around.''ZhongXiao Fuxing Station''. Also a big station, where Lines 1 and 5 connect.''Taipower Building station''. Near Shida Night Market.''Top Budget Hotels Under USD50''If you only have USD50 or less for accommodations, here are the top budget hotels according to online users.''C U Hotel''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Colormix Hotel and Hostel''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Hotel Fun – Linsen''.''Check Rates & Availability''.''Poshpacker Hotel''.''Check Rates & Availability''Top Taipei Hostels''Taipei Taipei Hostel''.''Check Updated Rates''.''Taipei Sunny Hostel''.''Check Updated Rates''.''Sleepy Dragon Hostel''.''Check Updated Rates''Miniin''.''Check Updated Rates''Search for more:''Taipei Hotels''Places to Visit in Taipei''Tap the thumbnails below to read more information about the attraction. (If it’s not clickable, then I haven’t written a post about that specific place. Haha)''I have also included translations so you could easily show this to a local in case you get lost, the operating hours, the nearest MRT stations, and the admission fees. But as you will see, most attractions in Taipei can be enjoyed for FREE.''Image provided by Klook''You can also join a''double decker bus''tour which stops at most major landmarks in Taipei. This is great if you’re traveling with kids or seniors because it’s more convenient. The double-decker bus also offers FREE wifi and headset commentary so you won’t need a guide for the most part.''GET YOUR TICKETS HERE''Taipei 101''Traditional Chinese'': 台北101觀景台''Simplified Chinese'': 台北101观景台''Nearest MRT Station'': Taipei 101 station (Red Line 2)''Operating Hours'': Daily 9am-10pm''Entrance Fee'': NT$600''You can get a bit of a discount and skip the lines if you book in advance with Klook.''BUY TAIPEI 101 TICKETS HERE''National Palace Museum''Traditional'': 國立故宮博物院''Simplified'': 国立故宫博物院''Nearest MRT Station'': Shilin station (Red Line – 2), then take Bus R30''Hours Open'': Daily 8:30am-6:30pm''Entrance Fee'': NT$250 (NTD $150 student)''You can skip lines if you book with Klook! They sell dual-entry tickets to National Palace Museum & Shung Ye Museum.''BUY TICKETS HERE''Martyrs’ Shrine''Traditional'': 國民革命忠烈祠''Simplified'': 国民革命忠烈祠''How to get there'': From Jiantan Station (Red Line 2), take Bus 267, 556, or 902.''Open'': Daily 9am-5pm''Entrance Fee:''FREE''Elephant Mountain''Chinese'': 象山 (Xiàngshān)''Nearest MRT Station'': Xiàngshān station (Red Line 2)''Entrance Fee'': FREE''Chiang Kai-shek Memorial Hall''Chinese'': 中正纪念堂''Nearest MRT Station'': Chiang Kai-shek (CKS) Memorial Hall (Red Line 2 or Green Line 3)''Open'': Daily 9am-6pm''Entrance Fee'': FREE''Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall''Traditional'': 國父紀念館''Simplified: 国父纪念馆''Nearest MRT Station'': Sun Yat-sen (SYS) Memorial Hall Station (Blue Line 5)''Open'': Daily 9am-6pm<''Entrance Fee'': FREE''Lantern Festival in Pingxi''Happens every Chinese New Year (early Feb) in Pingxi (平溪)''How to get there'': At Taipei Main Station, take the train to Ruifang Station. Transfer to the Pingxi Line.''Dalongdong Bao’an Temple''Traditional'': 大龍峒保安宮''Simplified: 大龙峒保安宫''Nearest MRT Station'': Yuanshan Station (Red Line – 2)''Open'': Daily 6:30am-10:30pm''Entrance Fee'': FREE''Shilin Night Market''Chinese'': 士林夜市''Nearest MRT Station'': Jiantan Station (Red Line – 2)''Best Time to Visit'': 5pm-1am''Entrance Fee'': FREE''Other attractions to visit:''Longshan Temple 龍山寺''Nearest MRT Station: Longshan Temple Station (Blue Line 5)''Open: Daily, 6am-10pm''NO Entrance Fee''Ximending Youth Shopping District 西門町''Nearest Station: Ximen (Blue Line 5 or Green Line 3)''NO Entrance Fee''Shida Night Market 師大夜市''Nearest Station: Taipower Building Station (Green Line 3)''Open: 12pm-12am''NO Entrance Fee''Raohe St. Night Market  饒河街觀光夜市''Nearest Station: Songshan (Green Line 3)''Open: 5pm-11pm''NO Entrance Fee''Day Tours from Taipei''These tours can be easily reached from Taipei. You have two options: you can do it on your own (DIY) or you can join a tour.''Yangmingshan National Park''Traditional: 陽明山''Simplified: 阳明山''How to get there: From  Jiantan Station (Red Line 2), take the City Bus R5 or small bus S15 or S17 to Yangmingshan station. Fare: NT$15''Entrance Fee: FREE''If you’re after convenience, you can book a tour online. The tour usually includes coach transportation with hotel pickup and drop off. The tour also includes a visit to the''hot springs''!''BOOK THIS TOUR''Jiufen Village & The Northeast Coast''This tour will allow you to explore the following sites. Coach transportation and hotel pickup are included in the package:''Jiufen Town, famous for its unique teahouse culture''Pitou Cape and its caves and sea cliffs''Rock formations at Nanya''JOIN THIS TOUR''Taiwan’s Northern Coast''This bus tour includes a visit to the following destinations (with hotel pick up and professional tour guide):''Keelung Harbor to enjoy ocean views''Zhong zheng Park for city views and a visit to a 25m white Goddess of Mercy statue''Yehliu Geo-Park’s rock formations''BOOK THIS TOUR''You might also want to consider a day tour of any of these destinations:''Wulai Atayal Aboriginal Village and Hot Springs 烏來''How to get there: Make your way to Xindian Station (Green Line 3), walk to Bus Stop B along Beiyi Road, and take Bus route 849 going to Wulai. Get off the last station. Fare: NT$15''Beitou Hot Springs (Xinbeitou) 北投溫泉''How to get there: From Beitou Station (Red Line 2), transfer to a train bound for Xinbeitou.''Fulong Beach 福隆''How to Get There: Make your way to Taipei Main Station, Nangang Station (MRT Blue Line 5), or Songshan Station (MRT Green Line 3). Then, board a train to Fulong Station.''Sample Taipei Itinerary''Here’s a sample 4-day 3-night Taipei itinerary.''DAY 1''Arrival''Check in at hotel''National Palace Musuem''Shilin Night Market''DAY 2''Yangmingshan National Park''Shida Night Market''DAY 3''Chiang Kai Shek Memorial''Sun Yat Sen Memorial Hall''Taipei 101''Elephant Mountain''DAY 4''Departure''Inter-city travel is fast and convenient in Taiwan so I always recommend seeing other parts of the island like Hualien and Taichung. Here are more sample itineraries that would allow you to visit these other cities:''Taiwan Itineraries''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Have NTD or USD before coming to Taiwan''. Only banks and/or licensed stores are allowed to do currency exchanges, and they don’t accept peso. If you fail to bring NTDs, you can exchange at the airport or withdraw from ATM.''(contributed by: Andrew Del Pilar)''. We prefer withdrawing from ATM.''Taipei is a very walkable city''. It’s clean and safe, and there are wide sidewalks. If your destination isn’t that far, travel on foot! For example, the Sun Yat Sen Memorial Hall is just a few blocks from Taipei 101, which is also not too far from Elephant Mountain.''Get a Metro Pass or Easy Card''if you feel like you’re going to take the train often. Taipei’s MRT system is easy to use (much less complicated than the bus system) and there is often an MRT station near key tourist spots. Having a Metro Pass or Easy Card will allow you to skip getting single-journey tickets every ride. There are many types available depending on validity duration. A 24-hour pass is at NTD180, 48-hour pass at NTD280, and 72-hour pass at NTD380. You can get one at the Information Counter of any MRT Station. For more information\\, visit:''Taipei Metro Pass''There are lockers at many MRT stations''. If you’re coming from other parts of Taiwan and you wish to explore Taipei on a day tour, you can leave your bags inside a locker and wander around the city baggage-free. I’ve tried this myself. Most lockers will give you a small printout of the code. Take a photo of the code immediately just in case you lose it. More info here:''Taipei Lockers''Sample Locker Code''Prepare for language barrier''. Many locals, including many taxi drivers, do not understand English at all. Make sure you have a Translation app on your phone or ask hotel staff to write down the name of the destination for you.''Some of our readers commented that they found Taipei not budget-friendly because of expensive food. Hmmmm, they probably ate at restaurants a lot. I don’t think Taipei food is costly at all. If you’re looking for good but inexpensive places to eat, try Gongguan St., which is located near a university so meals are at student price. I also found small eateries in many parts of the city that serve cheap pre-cooked food. They usually have small trays which they fill with dishes that you want. You’re expected to have 2-3 dishes per tray. And they’re super cheap, like NTD70 per full meal.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Elephant Mountain: In Search of the Best View in Taipei, Taiwan''10 FREE Things to Do in Taipei''SAMPLE TAIWAN ITINERARIES (4-5 Days)''Taipei 101: Reaching New Heights in Taiwan''In Pictures: Dalongdong Baoan Temple at Night in Taipei, Taiwan''The Changing of the Guards at the Martyrs’ Shrine, Taipei, Taiwan''Anybody who’s anybody swings by Los Angeles. It is the city of A-list celebrities, the big names in sports and entertainment. This vibrant metropolis has become synonymous with success. This is where stars are made, attracting dreamers from all over the world. But dreamers are not the only ones drawn to the shimmer of tinseltown — tourists, too!''Over the past several decades, Los Angeles has become one of the most visited destinations in the United States. And as visitors keep flooding in, more accommodation options become available.''Los Angeles has a wide selection of hotels''that can cater to both ends of the budget spectrum.''The list of attractions is constantly growing. New restaurants helmed by acclaimed chefs sprout along its streets. And there’s always a new science, history or art museum that is worth checking out every year. While Los Angeles is often considered one of the most expensive cities in the country, don’t let it deter you from going. Even if you’re on a budget, there are noteworthy attractions that you can visit without pawning your house. In fact, some of them can be enjoyed for FREE!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'La Brea Tar Pits''Venice Canals''Runyon Canyon''The Griffith Observatory''Mariachi Plaza''Annenberg Space for Photography''The Los Angeles City Hall''The Bradbury Building''The Broad''The Visita Iglesia is a Catholic Lenten tradition that has its origins in Ancient Rome, where pilgrims prayed at seven basilicas on the evening of Maundy Thursday as penance. It was brought to the Philippines by Augustinian missioners in the 1560s, which eventually became a Filipino custom and is still widely observed throughout the country even up to this day.''Like most provinces in Luzon, Cagayan is predominantly Catholic. It’s not difficult at all to see just how much influence Spain left in the valley after their 300-year rule. Cagayan is home to numerous churches, some of which are notable for their architecture and history. I had the pleasure of seeing a few of them as part of Lakbay Norte6, a media tour planned by the North Philippines Visitors Bureau (NPVB), a non-stock, non-profit organization of various Convention & Visitors Bureaus (CVBs) all over North Philippines.''Cagayan isn’t the first province to come to mind when looking for Visita Iglesia ideas, but it has a lot to offer to the faithful. Here are some of them.''(It was raining so hard during our visit so taking photos was a real challenge.)'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Basilica Minore de Nuestra Señora de Piat''2. St. Peter Metropolitan Cathedral, Tuguegarao''3. San Antonio de Galicia Church, Iguig''4. St. Philomene Church, Alcala''5. Sto. Domingo de Guzman Church in Nueva Segovia''6. San Jacinto de Polonia Church, Camalaniugan''7. San Lorenzo Church, Aparri''A best-selling author once called Manila “the gates of hell” in one of his novels, and even when it was uttered by a fictional character, the whole thing still sparked controversy. Whether you believe that or not, I think we can all agree that if there is one thing remotely true about the comparison, it is definitely the hellish heat that envelops the city especially in summer. It’s difficult to explore when you feel like you’re in a giant oven burning you to a crisp. Yet, when the rainy season kicks in, it gets even harder.''As a digital nomad who can choose to live practically anywhere I want, I still choose this bipolar city as my base for a reason. There is just so much to do in Manila at a fraction of the price of other major cities. The city itself is teeming with attractions. I’ve been living here for over 10 years, but I still don’t feel like I’ve seen enough! There’s always something new for everyone. So yes, Manila is going to be my preferred home even if that means I would have to deal with the weather. After all, many of Manila’s greatest offerings are best enjoyed indoors, away from the harsh, harsh tropical sun, and without having to pawn your house. Here are some indoor activities to keep you busy this summer!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Get pampered at I’M Onsen Spa.''2. Be awed by the Philippines’ golden history at the Ayala Museum.''3. Raid Food Parks for tasty grubs!''4. Learn a new skill: Climbing!''5. Escape!''Tokyo and Osaka are two of the most popular tourist destinations in Japan, so it’s no surprise that those flying to one also intend to visit the other. And these days, it’s not that difficult at all. Several options are available. It’s just a matter of choosing what fits your budget, schedule, and travel style.''You can reach Tokyo from Osaka (or vice versa) by plane, bus, or train. This post will help you figure out which mode of transportation is best for you by comparing fares and travel times, among others.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Easiest: By Train (Shinkansen)''Pros''Cons''The Fastest: By Plane''Con: Complicated''Pro: Affordable''The Cheapest: By Bus''Pro: Savings!''Con: Travel Time''Find Japan Hotel Discounts Now!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''The Easiest: By Train (Shinkansen)''Traveling by Shinkansen is the most expensive among the three options, but is also the most convenient, in my opinion. I’m a big fan of train travel for many reasons.''Pros''The bullet train is fast. Travel time: 150 minutes.''No annoying multiple security inspections and check-in processes, unlike at airports. You can simply show up, book a ticket, and hop in.''No need to show up an hour in advance.''Main stations are often located centrally, unlike airports which are often located outside the city center. In this case, if you get off at Tokyo Station, you’re already at the heart of the city. If you fly, you’ll still need a 30-45-minute transfer.''The ride itself can be quite an experience too.''Cons''The only problem with the shinkansen is the price. To get to Tokyo Station from Shin-Osaka:''Fare:''¥8750''Seat Fees''Unreserved:''¥4870''Reserved:''¥5900''Green Seat:''¥10,480''Suppose you’re not reserving a seat, that’s still 4870, placing the total ticket fee at''¥13,620 ($123, P6150)''.''If you consider the distance and the speed, though, it’s worth it. Still, I dunno about you, but to me, that’s a lot of money for a one-way ride.''But if you’re planning on purchasing a JR Pass, this is definitely the best choice because you won’t need to shell out any more money. The whole journey will be covered by the pass.''Read Related Post:''Is the JR Pass Worth It?''Check Updated JR PASS Rates Here''.''The Fastest: By Plane''To be honest, labeling this the fastest is an injustice. If we look at the actual travel time, yes, the plane is the fastest. But… there are buts. Let’s start with the disadvantages.''Con: Complicated''We all know how much time it takes to get through all the rituals of air travel. Like I said before, you will need to show up around an hour before the flight and the airport is often far from the city center. Chances are, if they leave at the same time, those taking the Shinkansen will reach the destination earlier than those flying.''The whole stress that comes with having to pack your liquids properly, sorting out what is and isn’t allowed in the carry-on baggage, etc.''Pro: Affordable''Low fares! You can find fares at half the price of a Shinkansen ticket. A quick SkyScanner scan will reveal flights as cheap as 5099.''The Cheapest: By Bus''If money is a concern, the bus is the best option.''Pro: Savings!''Willer Express is the most well-known interregional discount bus company in Japan, and you will find seats for as low as 4320.''Willer Bus. Tokyo-Osaka. Day Bus.''Con: Travel Time''Day buses take around 8 hours, with a few stops along the way. (The view at these stops are great, too!) If you have very limited time, then this may not be for you. You could use the time exploring instead of spending it on the road.''Which is why I prefer taking the''overnight bus''! The overnight bus takes a little longer, around 10 hours, but I just burn the time sleeping.''This saves me a hotel night.''These buses are comfortable. You can even book a more comfy seat on a premium bus for additional fee.''I’ve done this twice before and I didn’t have any issues. I sleep like a log, so I hardly felt the journey. I dozed off immediately at the start of the trip, woke up at Kyoto stop when the bus picked up more passengers, slept again right after, and the next time I woke up, we were already in Tokyo. Hahaha. The experience might not be the same if you’re a light sleeper.''Find Japan Hotel Discounts Now!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''Narita Airport to Tokyo City Center the Cheapest Way''SAMPLE JAPAN ITINERARIES (with Estimated Budget)''How to Get to UNIVERSAL STUDIOS JAPAN''WHERE TO EAT CHEAP IN OSAKA''Incheon Airport to Seoul (Myeongdong, Hongdae, Jongno): The Cheapest Way''To say that Japan is my favorite destination would be a major understatement. I’m writing this post while taking a break from packing my bags for my seventh trip to the Land of the Rising Sun. Let that sink in. This is my seventh trip in a span of 4 years. That’s two trips a year.''Before I continue, I want to make it clear that I am not affiliated with the Japanese Embassy in any way. A good fraction of the messages we receive are about Japan visa, so to avoid having to repeat myself every day, I’m writing this post so I have a ready page to which I can redirect our readers. This is all based on my experience, having been given a total of four Japan visas over the past few years. For context:''My first Japan visa allowed only single entry, as expected.''The second time I applied, I was expecting another single-entry visa, but I was provided a multiple one, valid for three years. I didn’t do anything. The itinerary I submitted clearly called for a one-time entry and I didn’t have that much money in the bank at the time, but they gave me multiple.''When it expired earlier this year, I thought I would be given another multiple. But when I applied for the third time, to my surprise and dismay, I was given a SINGLE-ENTRY visa. It was so puzzling. I have a theory, which I will explain later.''The fourth Japan visa I got, the one I received just last week, was MULTIPLE-ENTRY, valid for five years! Woohoo!''I also took care of the visas of my mom, niece, and nephew, when we went on a family trip last year.''So here are the questions we usually get from our readers who are planning on lodging a Japan visa application, together with our answers.''Oh before I forget: This post is for tourists holding a Philippine passport, applying in Manila. Rules may be different in other cities and for other nationalities.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to apply for a Japan visa? What are the requirements?''I was issued a Japan visa before. How to renew?''Am I eligible for a multiple-entry visa?''How to apply for a multiple-entry visa? What are the requirements?''A friend of mine applied for a visa for the second time. They were given a multiple-entry visa. Does that mean that non-first-timers are granted multiple-entry visas automatically?''What does the visa look like?''Do I need a travel agency to apply?''Do I need to book flights before applying?''Do I need to reserve hotels before applying?''Should I stay in the hotel I wrote on the application form?''How long does it take to process the application?''Should I submit my old passport?''How long can I stay in Japan if I am granted a visa?''How long is the validity of the visa?''How much money should my bank account have to get approved?''I’m a freelancer so I don’t have a Certificate of Employment. What can I submit?''I don’t have an ITR. What should I do?''Can I apply just one week before my intended date of travel?''Can someone else apply for me?''I need to explain something. Will they accept a cover letter?''How much is the visa fee?''What is the address of the Japan Embassy in Manila?''How will I know if my visa application is rejected?''Will I know the reason for the denial?''If my application is denied, can I apply again?''Related Posts''How to apply for a Japan visa? What are the requirements?''We wrote a separate, detailed post just for that. You can find it here:''Japan Visa Requirements''I was issued a Japan visa before. How to renew?''They don’t call it “renewal.” It’s more like applying for a new visa, to be honest. The process is still the same. The only difference is, you don’t need to submit a birth certificate this time.''Am I eligible for a multiple-entry visa?''If you meet any of the requirements below, yes.''schengen-visa-france-itinerary''A person who has travelled to Japan as temporary visitor within the last three years AND has sufficient financial capability to support their trip.''A person who has travelled to Japan as temporary visitor within the last three years AND has travelled as temporary visitor to G7 countries (excluding Japan) several times within the last three years. The other G7 countries are: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom (UK) and the United States (USA).''A person who has high financial capacity (but has not been to Japan in the past 3 years). The keywords here are HIGH FINANCIAL CAPACITY.''Immediate family member (Spouse/Child) of a person who has high financial capacity.''How to apply for a multiple-entry visa? What are the requirements?''We also have a dedicated post for that. You’ll find that here:''Multiple-Entry Japan Visa''A friend of mine applied for a visa for the second time. They were given a multiple-entry visa. Does that mean that non-first-timers are granted multiple-entry visas automatically?''No, not necessarily.''It’s true that the Embassy sometimes grant MULTIPLE-ENTRY visas to returning tourists''even when they’re not asking for it''. It happened to me twice. But it doesn’t mean it happens to everyone every time.''If you look at my Japan visa history at the beginning of this post, you’ll find that I was given a SINGLE-ENTRY visa after my THIRD application, even after having been granted a MULTIPLE-ENTRY visa before. It’s unpredictable because they’re basing it on many factors. It’s still at the sole discretion of the Embassy.''What does the visa look like?''Like this:''Do I need a travel agency to apply?''Yes. Unless it’s a special case, all visa applications must be coursed through any of their accredited travel agencies.''Do I need to book flights before applying?''No. It’s not a requirement. However, on the application form, you will have to write down the specific FLIGHT NUMBER you wish to take. If you don’t have much funds in the bank, write a low-cost carrier flight, JetStar or Cebu Pacific Air.''Do I need to reserve hotels before applying?''No. But again, you should have an idea where you plan on staying because you will need to write it down on the application form. Make sure you have the name of the hotel, the address, and the phone number. You don’t need to book yet. Just pick a hotel.''Again, if your bank account doesn’t have much, choose a budget hotel or hostel. Don’t write down the name of a luxury hotel if you have less than P100,000 in your bank and you’re staying for 15 days. Make sure you can afford it because it matters!''Should I stay in the hotel I wrote on the application form?''No. If your application is approved, you can stay anywhere.''How long does it take to process the application?''It varies. My first time, 5 working days. Second time, 2 days. Third time, 7 days. Fourth time, 2 days.''A friend of mine waited for 3 weeks.''You can never tell.''Should I submit my old passport?''Would be great if you could because it will show your travel history.''How long can I stay in Japan if I am granted a visa?''Single-entry: 15 days, usually.''Multiple-entry: 15 or 30 days.''How long is the validity of the visa?''Single-entry: 3 months.''Multiple-entry: 5 years.''How much money should my bank account have to get approved?''The Embassy doesn’t explicitly say how much money you should have in the bank. The amount isn’t the only factor. It’s probably on a case-by-case basis.''I have applied for a 15-day stay with only P100,000+ in the bank and my application got approved.''A friend of mine applied for a 5-day stay with only P50,000 and got approved. She has a full-time job.''Another friend applied for a 5-day stay with over P200,000 and got denied. She doesn’t have a regular job.''I think the rule of thumb is: how much savings you have should be proportional to how long your stay is. For example, if you have only P50,000, don’t apply for a 15-day stay because that would obviously raise a lot of questions regarding whether or not you can afford the trip.''Also, I think the Embassy is more concerned about whether or not you have a compelling reason to return to the Philippines, which is why they scrutinize your employment status and travel history.''I’m a freelancer so I don’t have a Certificate of Employment. What can I submit?''Get a letter from your clients that could serve as certification that you’re working for them. Make sure that the letter mentions what you do for the company, how much you’re earning, and how long you have been working for them.''I have tried it before. The agency accepted it. The embassy approved my application.''I don’t have an ITR. What should I do?''Write a letter explaining why you can’t produce an ITR and submit more proof that you have a stable source of income (invoices, payslips, other tax documents, etc).''You can also declare that someone else will be paying for your trip, whom they call a “sponsor.” If you choose to do this, you will need to submit the ITR, COE or business registration documents, and bank certificate of the sponsor.''I haven’t done this personally because I always have an ITR even during the time I was a freelancer, but I know people who have done this and were granted a visa.''UPDATE: Okay, I was able to try applying without an ITR during my last visa application. I wrote a letter explaining that I wouldn’t be able to submit my latest ITR because I recently shifted to becoming an entrepreneur and I won’t have a copy of my ITR until the end of the year. I then added that I’m submitting a copy of my ITR for the previous year together with COE from my clients and my business registration docs.''Can I apply just one week before my intended date of travel?''You can, but it’s too close. There’s no assurance you will have your passport with or without visa in time.''It is always good practice to apply at least a month before your travel date so you have time in case they ask for additional documents.''Can someone else apply for me?''I’m not sure if it’s the same for all travel agencies, but some allow it provided that they have a signed authorization letter, ID of the applicant, ID of the representative, and proof of your relationship with them.''Best to just call your chosen travel agency to be sure.''I need to explain something. Will they accept a cover letter?''Yes. I did once. They accepted it.''How much is the visa fee?''Technically, FREE. But the travel agency collects a processing fee, usually playing between P800 to P1800 depending on the visa type.y.''What is the address of the Japan Embassy in Manila?''2627, Roxas Blvd, Pasay, 1300 Metro Manila, Philippines''How will I know if my visa application is rejected?''Your passport will be returned to you. If there is no visa affixed to any of the pages, your application has been denied.''Will I know the reason for the denial?''No, they will not provide a reason or any sort of explanation.''If my application is denied, can I apply again?''Yes, but you have to wait 6 months before you can apply again.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''MULTIPLE ENTRY JAPAN VISA: Requirements & How to Apply''KOREA VISA FOR FILIPINOS: Requirements & Frequently Asked Questions''JAPAN VISA APPLICATION FORM''JAPAN VISA FOR VISITING FRIENDS OR RELATIVES: Requirements 2018''HOW TO APPLY FOR A SCHENGEN VISA & Other Frequently Asked Questions''Where to Stay in Tokyo''Last week, we compiled the 10 best-rated beach resorts in Batangas. A couple of things surprised us: One, that there are a lot of awesome, well-equipped properties scattered around the province; and two — and this is more shocking for us — they are all very expensive. When we averaged the cost of the cheapest room at these 10 resorts, it is somewhere around P8000 per night. Certainly not something a regular traveler can afford.''So for this post, we’re featuring only the beach resorts that charge lower than P3000 per room per night. Here are the top 5, according to ratings by Agoda customers as of March 2017. We included properties with at least 20 reviews.''King Solomon Dive Resort''Location'': 305 Barangay Solo Mabini, Anilao, Batangas''Rooms from:''P2750''CHECK RATES & AVAILABILITY''Anilao Beach Club''Location'': San Jose, Mabini, Anilao, Batangas''Rooms from:''P2835''Planet Dive''Location'': San Teodoro, Mabini, Anilao, Batangas''Rooms from:''P2575''CHECK RATES & AVAILABILITY''Seas Spring Resort''Location'': Barangay Mainit, Mabini, Anilao, Batangas''Rooms from:''P2885''CHECK RATES & AVAILABILITY''White Castle Hotel and Resort''Location'': Balibago, Lian, Batangas''Rooms from:''P2360''CHECK RATES & AVAILABILITY''Photos above were provided by the resorts via Traveloka.''Search for more:''Batangas Resorts''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''TOP 10 BATANGAS BEACH RESORTS''Review: Bagobo Beach Resort in Panglao Island, Bohol''Seoul: Top 10 Budget Hotels Under $60''Casa Rap: The Perks of Slow Cooking in Batangas, Philippines''Paras Beach Resort: Where to Stay in Camiguin, Philippines (Splurge Option)''Hunongan Cove in Caramoan: Camarines Sur, Philippines''It’s been a year since my last visit to La Union, but I still can’t get it out of my head. Most popular as a surfing destination, the coast of Urbiztondo in San Juan has turned into a beach town, with a number of restaurants mushrooming just along the main road and accommodation options sprouting by the beach.''During my visit, I really wanted to try''Flotsam and Jetsam Hostel'', but they were unfortunately fully booked at the time. I ended up trying three other accommodations in Urbiztondo that are on the cheaper end of the spectrum: Chill’n Resort, Urbiz Garden, and Hotel G, all of which were pretty satisfactory for its price. To read of our reviews, go here:''Where to Stay in La Union''.''But if you’re looking for a resort and you have limited budget, we’ve compiled the seven best-rated resorts that cost below P2500 per room according to Agoda customers as of March 2017.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. P and M Final Option Hotel''2. The Little Surfmaid Resort''3. Isla Bonita Beach Resort''4. Puerto de San Juan Hotel Resort''5. Bu-boat Beach Resort''6. Costa Villa Beach Resort''7. Bali Hai Beach Resort''Search for more: La Union Hotels''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''1. P and M Final Option Hotel''Location:''320 Eagle Street Ili Norte, San Juan, La Union''Rooms from''PHP 2,385''Check Rates & Availability''2. The Little Surfmaid Resort''Location: MacArthur Highway, 170 Urbiztondo, La Union''Rooms from:''P2146''Check Rates & Availability''3. Isla Bonita Beach Resort''Location:''117, Velasco Street, Ili Sur, San Juan, La Union''Rooms from''PHP 2,318''Check Rates & Availability''4. Puerto de San Juan Hotel Resort''Location: Manila N Road, La Union''Rooms from:''P1889''Check Rates & Availability''5. Bu-boat Beach Resort''Location: 136 Barangay Road, Baccuit Sur Bauang, La Union''Rooms from:''P2146''Check Rates & Availability''6. Costa Villa Beach Resort''Location: Urbiztondo, San Juan, La Union''Rooms from:''P1545''Check Rates & Availability''7. Bali Hai Beach Resort''Location: Parungao, Bauang, La Union, La Union, Philippines''Rooms from:''P1759''Check Rates & Availability''Photos above were provided by the resorts via Traveloka.''Search for more:''La Union Hotels''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''WHERE TO STAY IN SAN JUAN, LA UNION''WHERE TO EAT IN LA UNION: San Juan Food Trip''LA UNION ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Review: Bagobo Beach Resort in Panglao Island, Bohol''TOP 10 BATANGAS BEACH RESORTS''Where to Stay in Europe: Budget Hotel and Hostel Reviews''We know South Korea is one of the most popular destinations among Filipinos because there’s not a day that goes by without us receiving questions about getting a Korea visa. Hence, we decided to put up this post.''Note that we’re NOT employed by or affiliated with the Korean Embassy in Manila. We’re only writing based on our own experience applying for one. (We have applied three times so far, and everything went smoothly every time.) We’re publishing this simply to have a page that we can redirect users to when they ask us questions about the application process.''And because this post is limited to our personal experiences, we can only answer questions about applying for a TOURIST visa as an employed, self-employed, or freelancing Filipino. For anything outside of this scope, it would be best to contact the embassy directly to have a definitive answer.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'What are the requirements for applying for a tourist visa?''How to apply? What are the steps?''Do I need a travel agency to apply?''Do I need to book flights before applying?''How about hotel reservation? Do I need to book hotels before applying?''Should I stay in the hotel I wrote on the application form?''How long does it take to process the application?''What are OECD visas?''I have OECD Visas. Does it mean my application will be approved?''How long can I stay in Korea if I am granted a visa?''Can I submit just the bank certificate?''How much money should my bank account have to get approved?''I’m a freelancer. I don’t have a Certificate of Employment. What can I submit?''I don’t have an ITR. What should I do?''How early should I apply for a Korea visa? Can I apply months before my actual travel date?''Can I apply just one week before my intended date of travel?''Do I need to show up at the embassy to submit the documents?''I need to explain something. Will they accept a cover letter?''How much is the visa fee?''What is the address of the Korean Embassy?''What time should I be at the embassy to submit?''Is it possible to apply for a multiple-entry visa?''What are the common reasons why Korean visa applications are denied?''If my application is denied, can I apply again?''What does a South Korea visa look like?''What is the Visa Issuance Confirmation in Section 2 of the Application Form?''One of the requirements for employees is the company alphalist. My company doesn’t want to release their copy because it’s confidential. What can I do?''Related Posts''What are the requirements for applying for a tourist visa?''We have a dedicated post about that here:''Korea Visa Requirements''How to apply? What are the steps?''If applying in Manila:''How to Apply for a Korea Visa in Manila''If applying in Cebu:''How to Apply for a Korea Visa in Cebu''Do I need a travel agency to apply?''The Korean Embassy is set to implement a new application system that would require applicants to course their application through any of their accredited travel agencies. However,''that is not in place yet''.''For now, you can still work on the application yourself. The process is actually pretty easy and straightforward. In a nutshell, all you need to do is complete the requirements and submit at the embassy.''Do I need to book flights before applying?''No. It’s not one of the requirements. I’ve tried submitting this before, they removed it from the pile.''How about hotel reservation? Do I need to book hotels before applying?''No. You don’t need it. However, make sure you have an idea which hotel you will be staying because it’s one of the required fields in the application form. You don’t need to reserve, but you need to know where you intend to stay.''Should I stay in the hotel I wrote on the application form?''No. If your application is approved, you can pretty much stay in any hotel or hostel you want.''How long does it take to process the application?''3 working days''– for those with OECD visas applying in Manila''5 working days''– for those without OECD visas applying in Manila''7 working days''– for those applying in Cebu with or without OECD visas''What are OECD visas?''These are visas granted by countries that are part of the OECD (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development). These are the member countries:''Australia''Austria''Belgium''Canada''Chile''Czech Republic''Denmark''Estonia''Finland''France''Germany''Greece''Hungary''Iceland''Ireland''Israel''Italy''Japan''Korea''Latvia''Luxembourg''Mexico''Netherlands''New Zealand''Norway''Poland''Portugal''Slovakia''Slovenia''Spain''Sweden''Switzerland''Turkey''United Kingdom''United States''I have OECD Visas. Does it mean my application will be approved?''Not necessarily. But you have better chances. And that the processing is a lot faster.''How long can I stay in Korea if I am granted a visa?''Regular visas usually allow 59 days. You can apply for a longer stay.''Can I submit just the bank certificate?''No. Starting October 2016, a bank statement showing transactions for the past 3 months is a required document.''So you have to submit BOTH a bank certificate and a bank statement.''How much money should my bank account have to get approved?''I don’t know the minimum amount. I don’t think the embassy explicitly says it. But I have tried applying with P100,000 in the bank for a 4-day stay and got approved.''I guess the key thing to remember here is that how much you have should be proportional to how long your stay is. For example, if you have only P100,000, don’t apply for a 59-day stay because that would obviously raise a lot of questions regarding whether or not you can afford the trip.''To give you a ballpark figure, the Embassy of France requires EUR 120 per day from Schengen Visa applicants. That’s around P7600 per day. Add the cost of airfare and hotel, and that should be the minimum amount in your bank. Again, this is not the official rule. We’re just using the French Embassy’s policy as an example.''I’m a freelancer. I don’t have a Certificate of Employment. What can I submit?''I have tried applying for a visa when I was a freelancer. What I did was, I requested for a letter from my clients that could serve as a certification that I was working for them. The letter also included what I do for them, when I was hired, how much I receive as compensation, and other details.''Here’s the format I followed''.''Sample Certificate Employment PDF''The embassy accepted it, and my application was approved.''HOWEVER, the Embassy seems to have been MUCH stricter these days, so I’m not sure whether or not they still accept something like this.''I don’t have an ITR. What should I do?''I honestly don’t know how to answer this because I’ve always had an ITR even as a freelancer.''How early should I apply for a Korea visa? Can I apply months before my actual travel date?''If you have a target travel date, apply not earlier than 3 months before that.''When a regular visa is issued, it allows the holder to enter Korea at any time within the next 3 months (90 days) of the issue date. So if your visa is issued on July 1, you can enter anytime before October 1.''Can I apply just one week before my intended date of travel?''Just remember that it takes 3 WORKING days for those with OECD visas and 5 working days for those without. Just do the math.''However, it is good practice to have enough time allowance just in case something goes wrong. When the embassy feels like your documents are inadequate, they will call you to submit more papers, which can mean delay in the release of your passport.''Do I need to show up at the embassy to submit the documents?''NO. You can ask someone else to do it for you IF THE REQUIREMENTS ARE COMPLETE.''I need to explain something. Will they accept a cover letter?''Yes. I did once. They accepted it.''How much is the visa fee?''FREE if your application is for 59 days or shorter.''P1800 for 60- to 90-day stay.''What is the address of the Korean Embassy?''KOREAN EMBASSY IN MANILA''122 Upper McKinley Road, McKinley Town Center, Fort Bonifacio, Taguig city 1634, Philippines''Email Address: ph04@mofa.go.kr''Contact No.: (63-2) 856-9210 visa local no. 270, 500''You can also apply in Cebu:''KOREAN CONSULATE IN CEBU''12th Floor Chinabank Corporate Center, Lot 2, Samar Loop Cor. Road 5, Cebu Business Park, Mabolo, Cebu City''Email Address: phi_cebu2015@mofa.go.kr''Contact No.: (63-32) 231-1516(-9)''What time should I be at the embassy to submit?''If you’re applying in Manila, be at the Consular Office of the Korean Embassy from:''8:30am-11am, Monday-Friday. Arrive before 10:30am.''First come, first serve basis only.  No appointment is needed.''However, they do stop accepting application even before 11am if they have enough applications for the day. That’s why you must come early, especially during peak season (March-May).''In peak season, people line up as early as 1am or 2am just to be sure they would get in.''Is it possible to apply for a multiple-entry visa?''YES, but only if you’re qualified. Until December 31, 2019, holders of any of the following credit cards can apply for a multiple-entry visa and are EXEMPTED from providing bank certificates and ITR:''BDO Gold Cardholders: multiple-entry visa valid for 3 years''Gold Visa Credit Card''Gold MasterCard Credit Card''Gold UnionPay Credit Card''Gold JCB Credit Card''BDO Elite Cardholders: multiple-entry visa valid for 3-5years''Platinum Visa Credit Card''Titanium/Platinum and World Elite MasterCard Credit Card''Gold/Platinum/Cathay Pacific and American Express Charge Cards issued by BDO''Diamond UnionPay Credit Card''Diners Club Premiere''BPI Gold Master Cardholders: multiple-entry visa valid for 3 years''BPI SkyMiles Platinum Master Card''BPI Amore Visa Platinum cardholders: multiple-entry visa valid for 3-5 years.''Gold BPI Express Teller Debit Cardholders : multiple-entry visa valid for 3-5 years.''More info:''BDO Cardholders'',''BPI Cardholders''What are the common reasons why Korean visa applications are denied?''I can only speculate, but based on the messages we receive from our followers, the usual reasons are the following:''You can’t prove that you can financially support yourself on this trip''. You probably have insufficient funds or your sponsor is not in a good financial standing.''You can’t prove that you intend to return''(rootedness). You probably don’t have a stable job at this point, newly employed, or newly resigned, and it’s giving the impression that you intend to work there.''Your intention/purpose in Korea is unclear''. This is why it is best to be specific when you’re detailing the reasons for your visit.''If my application is denied, can I apply again?''Yes, but only after 6 months.''What does a South Korea visa look like?''Like this:''What is the Visa Issuance Confirmation in Section 2 of the Application Form?''The Section 2 of the application form calls for details of Visa Issuance Confirmation. This section is only for those with a document called “Confirmation of Visa Issuance.” Many people think it refers to previous Korean visas; NO, IT DOESN’T. The “Visa Issuance Confirmation” is a completely different document, usually issued in Korea.''One of the requirements for employees is the company alphalist. My company doesn’t want to release their copy because it’s confidential. What can I do?''I have no firsthand information about this. Thankfully, one of the members of our Facebook community, Ms. Caye Sadie, got in touch with the Korean Embassy to ask that same question, and here’s their reply.''If the applicant can’t submit the company alpha list (Form 1604 CF with BIR stamp), they can submit an explanation letter. However, it will be subject to approval of the Officer-in-Charge.''But feel free to call the Korean Embassy to confirm. Here are the numbers:''Manila'': (63-2) 856-9210 visa local no. 270, 500''Cebu'': (63-32) 231-1516(-9)''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''HOW TO APPLY for a SOUTH KOREA VISA in MANILA 2018''SOUTH KOREA VISA APPLICATION FORM''HOW TO APPLY for a SOUTH KOREA VISA in CEBU 2018''MULTIPLE ENTRY JAPAN VISA: Requirements & How to Apply''HOW TO RENEW YOUR JAPAN VISA & Other Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)''HOW TO APPLY FOR A SCHENGEN VISA & Other Frequently Asked Questions''I hate answering yes-no questions with “It depends,” but… it depends. LOL.''Depends on what, you ask? On your itinerary: how long you will be traveling in Japan and what your stops will be. You see, the Japan Rail Pass is a complicated thing and there are cases when it will give you huge savings. And there are also times when it isn’t necessary. Let me explain.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'JR Pass? What is it?''How much is a JR Pass?''When is it wise to use a JR Pass?''When is a JR Pass NOT recommended?''Where to Book JR Pass''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''JR Pass? What is it?''The Japan Rain Pass allows the holder unlimited use of the JR long-distance train system across Japan. If you have it, you won’t need to pay for individual ticket per journey, which can mean BIG SAVINGS, supposedly. It is offered to foreign tourists only and is not available for Japan residents.''There are two types of JR Passes: ordinary and green car (first class). And they are available in different validity durations: 7 days, 14 days, and 21 days. These days are consecutive and NOT flexible!''How much is a JR Pass?''As of March 2017, the rates are:''Type''Ordinary''Green Car''7 days''29,110 yen''38,880 yen''14 days''46,390 yen''62,950 yen''21 days''59,350 yen''81,870 yen''Children aged 6-11 enjoy 50% discount.''Pretty steep, huh? But once you see the usual train fares and seat fees, looking at these numbers will feel better.''Did I just say “seat fees”? Yes, I did. Most long-distance trains in Japan charge for seats separately, sometimes even the unreserved ones. But if you have a JR Pass, you can make seat reservations for free!''–''When is it wise to use a JR Pass?''If you’re on a multi-city journey across Japan over 7 days or longer AND the train is your preferred mode of transportation.''For example, if you plan on visiting Osaka, Tokyo and Sapporo, all in 10 days. So this means you’re flying to Osaka on Day 1, taking the train to Tokyo on Day 4 (which is Day 1 of your JR Pass use), taking another train to Sapporo on Day 7 (JR Pass Day 4), and exiting Japan on Day 10 (JR Pass Day 7).''If you do this journey by train without a JR Pass, you’ll be spending this much.''Osaka to Tokyo'':''Seat: ¥5700 ($51, P2550)''Tokyo to Sapporo'':''Seat (Tokyo-Hakodate): ¥11,130 ($100, P5000)''Seat (Hakodate-Sapporo): ¥1550 ($14, P700)''Total Fare Only: ¥18,140''Total Train Expenses: ¥36,520 ($326, P16,400)''.''Now, compare that to the cost of a regular 7-day JR Pass which is at ¥29,110 ($255, P13,000). You’ll be saving ¥7410. Doesn’t look much, but if you’re planning to go on day trips to other cities from your main stops — say, visiting Kamakura or Yokohama from Tokyo, or Himeji from Kyoto, or Kyoto from Osaka — these savings will rack up.''If you have an even more hectic itinerary, the JR Pass will prove useful. For example, if you’re planning on visiting 5 cities and staying just 1-2 days each. It’s not something I recommend, but I have met some travelers who roll this way.''It’s also a good choice for those who prefer traveling by train (like me!). Even when it takes more time than flying, I would usually choose to take the train because it’s pretty straightforward: no baggage check-in, no need to show up 1-2 hours before, and train stations are usually located centrally, unlike airports.''But it is important that you’re also aware that the train isn’t your only option. More about that below.''–''Klook offers the cheapest JR Passes available. Check updated rates or book here:''Check JR PASS Rates Here''.''–''When is a JR Pass NOT recommended?''When you’re staying in just one or two cities. One of the most common questions we get about Japan travel is “Should I purchase a JR Pass?” But what’s surprising to me is that it is often asked by people who are planning to stay in just one city.''JR Pass is ideal for those traveling long distances. If you’re staying in Tokyo and will be exploring Tokyo alone, you won’t need a JR Pass. If you’re traveling within just one region, a regional pass makes more sense, like the''Kansai Thru Pass''for the Kansai region.''Even if you’re going on a one-leg long-distance journey, a JR Pass might still not be the best fit. For example, if the only long-distance trip you’re making is Osaka-Tokyo, the Shinkansen is probably the most expensive option out there (¥14,450). You’ll find flights from Kansai Airport to Narita for only ¥4870 ($45, P2150) and day buses from Osaka to Tokyo for around ¥4300 and night buses for ¥6480.''Skyscanner''Willer Bus. Tokyo-Osaka. Day Bus.''Willer Bus. Tokyo-Osaka. Overnight Bus.''Another important thing to consider: The JR Pass can only be used for JR Lines, and although it is an expansive train system, it does not cover ALL of Japan. There are many parts of Japan that are still best reached through other modes of transportation.''IN SUMMARY:''Purchasing a JR Pass makes sense if you’re visiting multiple cities in a span of least 7 days. Otherwise, you might want to consider other modes of transportation.''Over the past couple of years, Masasa Beach has emerged as a favorite hideaway among the Manila crowd. What used to be a best-kept secret has become a go-to weekend destination especially for campers.''Although relatively remote, Masasa Beach is quite accessible, even if you’re taking public transportation. If you’re used to switching modes of transportation multiple times in one journey, you probably wouldn’t mind spending 3 hours on the bus, another hour in the jeepney, and 45 minutes on a passenger boat.''1. Ride the bus going to Batangas City Grand Terminal.''You’ll find buses going to the Grand Terminal at terminals in LRT-Buendia and Taft in Pasay, and Cubao and EDSA-Kamias in Quezon City.''If you want a shorter travel time (and I know you do), ride the bus with the sign CALABARZON. That bus will bypass the cities of Tanauan and Lipa, which means no traffic.''Speaking of traffic, leave early. Leave in the early morning, if possible, to avoid the horrendous Manila traffic.''Fare: P165 from Cubao, P157 from LRT-Buendia, P127 from Alabang.''Travel time: 2-3 hours, depending on your point of origin.''2. At the Grand Terminal, take a jeepney to Anilao.''The jeepney area is located a short walk from where the buses drop off passengers. Just make your way on foot toward the area where the small canteens and stores are located. The jeepney queues are behind these stores. If you can’t find it, just ask anyone where the jeepneys to Mabini/Anilao are parked.''Travel time: 40 minutes – 1 hour.''Fare: P37.''3. Get off at Anilao Port or Talaga Port.''Anilao Port (aka Mabini Multi-purpose Port) is used from the start of amihan season, sometime in December, until the end of Philippine summer, sometime in June. When habagat season kicks in, they move it to Talaga Port in Brgy. Talaga. There is no fixed date because it depends on the conditions of the waves and currents. But you may call the Mabini Tourism Office to be sure: (043) 410 0607.''The Gulugod Baboy stop is different so don’t get off when the jeepney stops next to a corner along the way and other tourist-looking passengers alight. They’re probably going to Gulugod Baboy, which is NOT your stop. I’ve done this route many times and a lot of people make this mistake. Get off when you’re at the port.''There is a Tourism Office on the other side of the port so if you need assistance, you can pay a visit.''4. Take the public boat to Tingloy Port or Masasa Beach.''Option 1:''Catch the boat to Tingloy Port. Fare: P80. Travel time: 45 minutes – 1 hour. At the port, ride a tricycle to your homestay or to the start of the hiking trail to Masasa Beach (P30 per ride or P10 per person).''Option 2:''Catch the boat that goes straight to Masasa Beach. There are public boats that go directly to Masasa Beach, but they are fewer and their sched is even more unpredictable. Fare: P100.''There is no fixed boat schedule. The boat only leaves as soon as there are 80 passengers onboard, so during off-peak season and weekdays, prepare to wait longer. The last trip is scheduled at 2:30pm.''If you’re visiting on a weekend, you might be overwhelmed by the crowd. Visitors tend to stay and camp on the main beach. But Masasa Beach is long. You can find quieter spots in the farther corners in the area.''Find resorts near Masasa Beach!''If you’re not camping and you don’t do homestay, you may stay at one of the many resorts in Anilao and just visit Masasa Beach on a day tour. Search for a resort below.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Borawan Beach and Dampalitan Island: Budget Travel Guide''Incheon Airport to Seoul (Myeongdong, Hongdae, Jongno): The Cheapest Way''Masasa Beach: Not so Distant Paradise in Tingloy, Batangas''BEACHES NEAR MANILA: 10 Uncrowded Weekend Getaways''Crystal Beach Resort, Zambales: How to Get There from Manila''MASASA BEACH ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Updated! October 2017!''For Filipinos''Starting November 1, 2017, Filipinos may enter Taiwan completely''visa-free''. No need to apply for a visa or a Travel Authorization Certificate. You may simply show up for your flight, provided that you meet the following requirements:''Your passport must have at least 6 months validity.''A return ticket or onward ticket (to your next destination and a visa for that destination)''A proof of accommodation. It may be hotel booking or host’s contact information or tour arrangements''You must have no criminal record in Taiwan.''Your trip is no longer than 14 days.''Just make sure you have the above requirements when you approach the Immigration counters. Enjoy Taiwan!''This visa-free policy is effective from November 1, 2017 to July 31, 2018.''If you need more help planning your trip, read this:''Taiwan Travel Guide''For Nationals of Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Laos, Myanmar, and Vietnam''Nationals of the countries above may enter Taiwan visa-free provided that they secure a''Travel Authorization Certificate''before their trip.''According to the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office (TECO), the following conditions must be met:''Your passport must still be valid at least 6 months from your entry date.''You must have an onward or return ticket (plane or ferry).''You must never have been employed as a blue-collar worker in Taiwan.''You must have at least ONE of the following documents from Australia, Canada, Japan, South Korea, New Zealand, United Kingdom, United States, or any of the Schengen countries:''– Valid entry visa. E-visas are accepted.''– Valid resident or permanent resident card''– Visa or resident card that has expired less than 10 years before your intended entry date in Taiwan.''*Taiwan was added to the list last June 2017. So if you have an existing Taiwan visa or resident card that expired not earlier than 10 years ago, you may use that too. However, Taiwan visas bearing a remark of “FL” (foreign labor) or “X” (others) and resident cards with the purpose of “Foreign Labor” are not eligible.''If you don’t quite fit the bill, no worries. Just apply for an e-visa or a regular visa. Here’s how:''Taiwan Visa and E-Visa for Filipinos''If you meet all four requirements, then you don’t need a visa to visit Taiwan.''But hold your horses!''This doesn’t mean you can just sashay your way through Immigration without doing anything. You still need to secure an ROC Travel Authorization Certificate (aka Visa-Free Certificate). And it’s great because:''It is valid for 90 days. Each stay must be not longer than 30 days.''It can be used for multiple entries.''It is FREE.''The best part, getting one is a piece of cake. The whole process takes 5-10 minutes. Here’s how to do it:''1. Visit the ROC Travel Authorization Application Site.''You’ll find it''right here''.''Update: This process is no longer applicable. Filipinos may visit Taiwan VISA-FREE starting November 1, 2017, provided that they meet the requirements. To see the list of requirements, read:''Taiwan Travel Guide''.''————''Taiwan is one of those destinations that are easy to brush aside. It’s small, barely a dot in the world map. It’s not recognized by most countries as a sovereign nation. And it’s out of the way, detached from mainland Asia or Southeast Asia where backpacking is on overdrive.''It’s a shame, really, because when people ask me to choose destinations where I would rather live, Taiwan is definitely in the top 3. Taiwan is naturally breathtaking, delightfully friendly, and surprisingly cheap.''But it looks like times are changing. Taiwan is slowly gaining more popularity among Filipinos, thanks to more lenient and considerate entry policies. In 2016, the Philippines is among the top 10 countries that sent the most tourists. And the numbers are expected to rise after the implementation of visa-free and e-Visa options.''If you’re planning on visiting Taiwan soon, here’s how to get a tourist visa successfully.''Note: I am not affiliated with the government of Taiwan. We’re simply sharing our visa application experiences. We try to answer questions to the best of our knowledge, but it’s still best to contact TECO for any clarifications especially if yours is a special case.''But wait, determine if you really need a visa in the first place.''Recently, the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office (TECO) in the Philippines announced that some Filipinos will be allowed visa-free entry to Taiwan provided that they meet the conditions.''Your passport must still be valid at least 6 months from your entry date.''You must have an onward or return ticket (plane or ferry).''You must never have been employed as a blue-collar worker in Taiwan.''You must have at least ONE of the following documents from Australia, Canada, Japan, South Korea, New Zealand, Taiwan* (ROC), United Kingdom (UK), United States (US) of any of the Schengen countries. As of June 2017, Taiwan is also included.''– Valid entry visa. E-visas are accepted.''– Valid resident or permanent resident card''– Resident card or visa that has expired less than 10 years before your intended entry date in Taiwan.''If you meet all four requirements, then what you need isn’t a visa but a Travel Authorization Certificate from Taiwan. Here’s how to get one:''Taiwan Visa-Free Entry Procedure''*Taiwan was added to the list last June 2017. So if you have an existing Taiwan visa or resident card that expired not earlier than 10 years ago, you may use that too. However, Taiwan visas bearing a remark of “FL” (foreign labor) or “X” (others) and resident cards with the purpose of “Foreign Labor” are not eligible.''If you’re not qualified, read on!''Right now, you have two options. You can submit these documents online and get an e-visa or you can proceed to their physical office.''To help you figure out which is best for you, here’s a quick comparison site from TECO itself. This is as of March 2017. Make sure you double check with TECO for the updated data.''Option 1: Apply Online for an e-Visa.''The E-Visa is a single-entry visa and is valid for 30 days maximum and cannot be extended. You must also use it within 3 months after the issue date.''The great thing about this is that there is no need for proof of employment and additional financial documents (at least for now).''E-Visa application was launched in October 2016 and is intended for a year-long trial only. We’ll see if this will become a permanent option, but for now, it’s possible to apply online. Here’s how:''Fill out the e-visa application form''. You’ll find it on''this page''. Click on''E-VISA APPLICATIONS.''The form has 4 pages, and they’re quite easy to accomplish.''Read the Acknowledgment and tap “I Agree.”''Make sure that all the info you entered is correct before proceeding. You won’t be able to change anything after this.''Take note of the Applicant Number''that the next page will display. Then click “''Process E-Visa''.”''Enter personal details on the next page'', then hit “Confirm”.''Pay using a Visa, MasterCard or JCB credit card''. Total cost is''NT$1,632''(PHP2670, as of Feb 2017). That already includes the NT$1,600 application fee and the NT$32 online payment processing fee.''Once the payment is accepted, you will receive confirmation via email. And then, the waiting game begins. But it won’t be that long. If everything is fine, you should expect your visa within the next 3 days.''If they have more questions, you might still be asked to submit documents.''Option 2: Apply for a Regular Visa.''Here’s a complete list of requirements if you’re traveling to Taiwan for tourism.''Prepare 1 original copy and 1 photocopy of each!''A duly-accomplished Visa Application Form. To get one, go to''this page''and choose''General Visa Applications''. Once done, print it out and affix your signature.''2 passport-size photos. Size: 1.5”x2”. Background: white. Taken within the past 3 months.''A passport with validity of at least 6 months. If you have old passports, submit those too.''Birth certificate. Must be NSO-issued.''Marriage certificate issued by NSO. Only if you’re married.''Certificate of Employment. (Waived ONLY IF you’re over 60yo.)''Financial statements such as bank statements or bank book. (Waived ONLY IF you’re over 60yo.)''If you’re traveling for business, you must submit these additional papers:''Business Name Registration Certificate and SEC Registration (if you’re the company-owner).''Invitation letter from the inviting company, organization or agency in Taiwan.''Request letter from your employer.''Certificate of employment.''Once you have all these, you may submit these at:''Taipei Economic & Cultural Office in the Philippines''41F, Tower 1, RCBC Plaza, 6819 Ayala Avenue, Makati''Tel: +632 887-6688''When the office deems necessary, they might ask for more documents or schedule you for an interview.''Visa Fees and Processing Times''Visitor Visa'': P2,400, 3 working days''Expedite Processing'': P3,600, 1 working day''Submission Time'': Monday to Friday, 8:45 – 11:45am''Releasing Time'': Monday to Friday 1:45 – 4:30pm''According to TECO:''The validity of the visa, the number of entries shall be determined by the applicant’s purpose of visit.''The duration of stay for a visitor-visa holder shall be determined by the applicant’s purpose of visit.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''TAIWAN VISA-FREE ENTRY: Requirements and How to Do It''SUPERSTAR VIRGO: Cruise Guide for First-Timers (What to Expect)''INDIA VISA FOR FILIPINOS: How to Apply Online''SAMPLE TAIWAN ITINERARIES (4-5 Days)''Countries Filipinos can Visit with a Japan Visa''KOREA VISA FOR FILIPINOS: Requirements & Frequently Asked Questions''The northernmost Japanese prefectural capital, Sapporo is a little bit harder to reach than other cities in the Land of the Rising Sun. Direct international flights are limited to a handful of countries, and the shinkansen reaches only as far as Hakodate in the southern tip of Hokkaido.''But no destination is far enough for a traveler determined to conquer a wonderland.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'By Plane''By Train''No one was expecting it to arrive that early, but it did.''On my last trip to Tokyo, it snowed. It would have been perfectly normal, but it was November and the first snow of the season usually falls in January. It was the first November snow in the Japanese capital in 50 years. And I was there. It was a foreshadowing. I never expected that just two months after the trip, I would be back in Japan. This time, in Sapporo.''Hokkaido has always hugged the top spot on my bucket list, way above other major Japan destinations, mainly for its longer winters and tight embrace of snow. Spending most of my life in the tropics, I’ve been kept hostage by my fascination with snow. Many of us whose roots are planted near the equator once imagined ourselves in that snowglobe we shook dreamily when we were kids. Snow is a reward, something that we could only see if we work hard enough to afford it, after we had been burdened by life’s many responsibilities. While I’m aware that too much of it has a dark side, for the young, naive me, snow is not ice powder but fairy dust, the stuff that magical places are made of. It’s no wonder I had planned on someday being able to join the Sapporo Snow Festival, but like that November snowfall, I never imagined it would come way sooner.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Sapporo City''Best Time to Visit Sapporo''How to Get to Sapporo''By Plane''By Train''Where to Stay in Sapporo''Top Budget Hotels Under $60''Top Sapporo Hostel''Search for more: Sapporo Hotels''How to Get from the New Chitose Airport to Sapporo City Center''How to Get Around Sapporo''How to Stay Connected in Sapporo''Places to Visit in Sapporo''Day Tours around Sapporo''Interesting Events in Sapporo''What to Eat in Sapporo''Sample Sapporo Itinerary''Other Useful Tips''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Sapporo City''This post is brought to you by Sapporo City Tourism Office.''It all began when the tourism bureau of Sapporo invited us to explore their city as part of their strengthened efforts to increase the number of international tourists. The northernmost prefectural capital in Japan, Sapporo requires a bit more effort to reach. Yet, it is the country’s fifth biggest city by population, which has significantly grown only in the past decades. Sapporo is one of the youngest urban areas Japan. According to tourism officials we talked to during our stay, before development began to take over in 1857, there were only 7 people living here. And because it was built not too long ago, the design of the city didn’t come about organically. It was measured and developed according to plan. The city’s blueprint is an almost perfect grid, with the Ekimae Avenue (north to south) and Odori Park (east to west) as the main axes. Much of the public infrastructures, like the subway system, were built in preparation for 1972 Winter Olympics.''Here are a few more facts you need to know:''Language'': Japanese (Nihongo). English isn’t widely spoken.''Currency'': Japanese Yen (JPY, ¥). JPY 1000 is roughly USD 8.92, EUR 8.12, PHP 450 (as of Feb 2017).''Modes of payment'': Cash is preferred.''Electricity Info'':  100V. Type A sockets. Plugs have two flat pins. Type B is sometimes used but not that common.''Best Time to Visit Sapporo''Winter, of course. Although the weather isn’t always comfortable, much of what Sapporo has to offer is best enjoyed in the cold months. It gets 6m of snow a year, and the first of the season usually falls in October. By December, the entire city is already a winter wonderland, and temperatures continue to drop as the season progresses. Here are more reasons to consider visiting when it’s covered in white blanket. (Warning, though: It can get really cold, with average nighttime temperatures reaching as low as -8C.)''Sapporo Snow Festival'', an annual week-long event held in early February, showcases giant ice and snow sculptures in many parts of the city, with the one in Odori Park getting the most attention. Last year alone, it attracted almost 2 million visitors.''Sapporo International Ski Marathon'', a cross-country skiing marathon, starts here.''Sapporo White Illumination''runs from mid-November to December.''Sapporo is a popular choice for skiing and other winter sports.''April is when it gets warmer and snow begins to melt. Have you been dreaming of cherry blossoms but you’re always unable to travel in March or April? Sapporo to the rescue. The first bloom of sakura happens much later in Sapporo than in other major cities, usually in early May.''Autumn is good, too, if you wish to see its landscapes get painted bright red and orange. The Sapporo Autumn Festival happens in September, but make sure to bring a cardigan. If you plan to visit in October, you will need a jacket.''How to Get to Sapporo''By Plane''Sapporo is served by two airports, the new Chitose Airport and the Okadama Airport. If you’re flying to Sapporo from overseas, there’s a big chance you’ll be using Chitose. However, international flights are limited to China, Korea, Taiwan, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Macau, Honolulu, Guam, and Australia. Most journeys make a connection in Tokyo or another major city.''FROM TOKYO.''The flight from Tokyo to Sapporo usually takes 1 hour and 40 minutes. JetStar offers round-trip flights for less than USD 100 (PHP 5000).''Skyscanner''FROM OSAKA.''Flights from Osaka takes around 2 hours but usually costs just a tad higher.''Skyscanner''FROM MANILA.''If you’re coming from Manila, the lowest regular, year-round fares are often offered by Taiwan’s flag-carrier China Airlines.''Manila to Sapporo''But you can find much much cheaper promo tickets if you book the legs of your trip separately. For example, JetStar is known to sell roundtrip Manila-Tokyo promo tickets for as low as P7000. If you’re able to snag that and then book a Tokyo-Sapporo flight for P5000, then you’ll only be spending P12,000 for your full journey.''By Train''Taking the train to Sapporo from other major cities outside Hokkaido is both time-consuming and expensive, which is why I don’t recommend it unless you’re on a multi-city tour around Japan.''From Tokyo''Take the Shinkansen Hayabusa to Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto Station''. Travel time: 4.5 hours. Reserved seat fee: ¥11,130 ($100, P5000).''Switch to Limited Express Hokuto Line''and alight at Sapporo Station. Travel time: 3 hours, 40 minutes. Reserved seat fee: ¥1550 ($14, P700); Unreserved seat ¥1290 ($11.5, P580).''The whole journey takes over 8 hours, not counting the layover time. The total fare for 2 legs is ¥14,140. That’s on top of the seat fees. So the whole journey would cost you around''¥26,820''($240, P12,000). That’s just one way!''From Osaka''To get to Sapporo from Osaka, you will need to make a transfer in Tokyo.''From Shin-Osaka Station (not to be confused with Osaka Station), take the Shinkansen Nozomi to Tokyo Station''. Travel time: 2 hours, 33 minutes. Reserved seat fee: ¥5700 ($51, P2550); Unreserved seat fee: ¥4870 ($44, P2180).''Take the Shinkansen Hayabusa to Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto Station''. Travel time: 4.5 hours. Reserved seat fee: ¥11,130 ($100, P5000).''Switch to Limited Express Hokuto Line and alight at Sapporo Station''. Travel time: 3 hours, 40 minutes. Reserved seat fee: ¥1550 ($14, P700); Unreserved seat ¥1290 ($11.5, P580).''Total travel time is''10.5 hours'', excluding the layovers. The total fare from Osaka to Sapporo is ¥18,140. Add the seat fees and you’ll have to shell out around''¥36,520''($326, P16,400).''See now why we advise against it? Flying is faster and much, much cheaper.''But if you’re visiting multiple cities, then you will get great savings if you just book a JR Pass. This makes sense if you want to explore not just one or two cities. For example, if your itinerary includes Osaka, Tokyo, and Sapporo in 7 days.''Also, riding the bullet train across the Japanese countryside is quite an experience too.''Where to Book JR Pass''If you’re visiting multiple cities in Japan and you’re staying for 7 days, you can save A LOT OF MONEY by getting a Train Pass. Klook offers the cheapest JR Passes available. If you live in the Philippines, the pass will be delivered to you in 7 days.''Check JR PASS Rates Here''–''Where to Stay in Sapporo''Top Budget Hotels Under $60''Below is the highest rated budget hotel in Traveloka as of writing.''Daiwa Roynet Hotel Sapporo-Susukino''2-1 Nishi-1-Chome, Minami-4-jo, Chuo-ku, Susukino, Sapporo''Check Rates & Availability''–''Other Top Budget Hotels in Sapporo:''JR Inn Sapporo-eki Minami-guchi''1-10 Kita 3-jo Nishi, Chuo-ku, Sapporo Station, Sapporo''Check Rates & Availability''HOTEL MYSTAYS Sapporo Station''4‐15, Kita 8jyo nishi, Kita‐ku, Sapporo Station, Sapporo''Check Rates & Availability''Tmark City Hotel Sapporo''Minami 7 jonishi 5-1 Chuo-ku, Susukino, Sapporo''Check Rates & Availability''Top Sapporo Hostel''Ten to Ten Hokkaido Hostel and Kitchen''5-288-5 Minami 8jo Nishi, Chuo-ku, Susukino, Sapporo''Check Rates & Availability''–''Other Top Sapporo Hostels:''Guest House Wagayado -Hale-''8 Chome-3-12 Kita 7 Jonishi, Kita Ward, Sapporo Station, Sapporo''Check Rates & Availability''Sapporo House Seminar Center''Kita 6-jo 6-3-1, Kita-ku, Sapporo Station, Sapporo''Check Rates & Availability''Social Hostel 365''SOCIAL HOSTEL 365 South 5 West 9 Chuo-ku, Susukino, Sapporo''Check Rates & Availability''Search for more:''Sapporo Hotels''–''How to Get from the New Chitose Airport to Sapporo City Center''From the New Chitose Airport, travel on foot to the New Chitose Airport Station (train).''Take the JR Rapid Airport Line headed for Otaru or Sapporo.''Get off at Sapporo Station.''Fare is ¥1070 ($9.6, P480). You may reserve a seat for ¥520 if you want, but you can simply hop on to the cars with unreserved seats (FREE).''Travel time: 37 minutes.''Jozankei Shrine.''How to Get Around Sapporo''Thanks to grid design, it is easy to explore the city center of Sapporo even on foot. You can simply divide the map into four quadrants with the Ekimae Avenue (north to south) and Odori Park (east to west) as the main axes. Each block in the city measures 100 meters so it’s not difficult to keep track how far you are from where you came from. I thoroughly enjoyed walking around even in the cold, cold evenings. And if you’re walking along Odori, it’s''literally''a walk in the park!''For not-so-short distances, there’s always the subway. To make it even easier, go to''Hyperdia.com/en/''on your web broweser. Enter your origin and the station where you’re going. It will then display possible route options including how much the ride costs and transfers needed to get there. At the train station, you can double check the price. Just look at the route map, usually above the ticket machines. The map displays the price based on distance. Sometimes, the map is in Japanese characters only, which is why Hyperdia is useful.''How to Stay Connected in Sapporo''There are a lot of FREE wi-fi spots throughout Japan, but if you want to stay connected 24/7, you can rent a mobile wi-fi or get a local 4G SIM.''Pocket Wifi Rental''The cheapest way of getting connected to the Internet in Japan is renting a mobile wi-fi. It can accommodate multiple users so if you’re a group, you just need one and split the cost. You’ll find a lot of them around, even at the airport. However, based on experience, they are so in demand that every time I try to get one, there’s always none left. Fortunately, with Klook,''you can reserve one and just pick it up at the airport''!''For 4G Wifi Rental:''Reserve Here''—''Local 4G SIM''If you opt with a 4G Data SIM, you can choose between two packages: unlimited 4G data for 8 days (around P1500) and 3GB data for 8 days (around P1100). If you’re a heavy data user, best to go with the Unlimited Plan. You can pick up the SIM card at Chitose Airport.''For 4G SIM Card:''Reserve Here''_________''Places to Visit in Sapporo''Below is a list of Sapporo tourist spots. To see what they look like, check out this video:''Historical Village of Hokkaido''(aka Kaitaku no Mura), an open-air museum that showcases 60 Meiji- and Taisho-era buildings that were moved from different parts of the prefecture. Admission: ¥830.''Hokkaido Shrine'', built in 1869 in honor of the three pioneering gods of Hokkaido. Admission: FREE.''Odori Park'', at the heart of the city, offers a natural respite from the sprawling metropolis. It also hosts the Snow Festival in February. At the end of it stands the Sapporo Clock Tower.''Moerenuma Park'', a great destination for snow activities like sledding and snowboarding in winter. It’s a beautifully manicured park for the rest of the year. Admission: FREE.''Ishiya Chocolate Factory'', where a guided tour will let you see how they make the famous Hokkaido white chocolate.''Jozankei'', which is an hour drive from the city center. Famous for its hot springs (onsen) and shrine.''Sapporo Beer Museum and Beer Garden'', where you can take a free guided tour on Japan’s beer culture. Afterward, you may sample the beers or have what locals call the Genghis Khan, a dish composed of grilled lamb meat and vegetables.''Sapporo Dome'', where the biggest baseball and soccer (football) games are held. There’s also a small exhibit inside.''Okurayama Ski Jump Stadium'', which was the site of the 90m jump competition at the 1972 Olympics. A double lift system takes passengers to a viewing deck atop, for a wonderful vista. Fee: ¥500''Mt. Teine''(Teineyawa).  Another 1972 Winter Olympics venue with slopes perfect for skiing for beginners and professionals alike. 7-hr lift access + Bus fares: ¥6700. Ski set rental: ¥4900''Mt. Moiwa''(Moiwayama) provides one of the most spectacular city lights views in Japan. Accessible via cable car. Fee: ¥1700''Get Your Tickets Here''Sapporo TV Tower''Photo provided by Klook''Book Tickets Here''–''Day Tours around Sapporo''We often advocate traveling DIY-style, but if for whatever reason you can’t do it on your own, you can also join a group or private tour of Sapporo. Klook offers two city tours: one in the morning and another in the afternoon. They have different stops and itineraries, although both tours stop at the Clock Tower and Government Building.''Aside from the city tours, we also listed down below some tours around Hokkaido. The links below will take you to Klook, where you will find information about the tour. If it’s your first time to book, you can use our promo code''KLOOKTPT''to avail of the P200 discount. Valid for first-time PH residents only until December 2017.''Sapporo Morning Bus Tour''Image provided by Klook''Reserve a Seat''____''Sapporo Afternoon Bus Tour''Image provided by Klook''Reserve a Slot Here''____''Hokkaido Otaru Rickshaw Tour''Image provided by Klook''Book This Tour''____''Tea Ceremony in Hokkaido''Photo provided by Klook''Reserve a Slot Here''____''Lake Shikotsu and Lake Toya Tour''Photo provided by Klook''Join This Tour''____''Otaru Bay Story Tour''Photo provided by Klook''Reserve a Slot''____''Interesting Events in Sapporo''Here are some of the biggest happenings in Sapporo that can help you decide when to visit.''Sapporo Snow Festival, February''Sapporo International Ski Marathon''Jozankei Yukitouro (Snow Lanterns), a few days in winter (dates change)''Sapporo White Illumination, mid-November to December''Cherry Blossoms, late April to early May''Sapporo Autumn Festival, September.''What to Eat in Sapporo''Crabs''! Hokkaido is famous for its crabs including King Crabs, Hairy Crabs, and Snow Crabs.''Kaisen Don''(assorted sashimi on rice). Although widely popular all over Japan, Hokkaido’s specialty is seafood!''Miso Ramen''. Every city in Japan has its own signature ramen. For Sapporo, that’s the miso variety.''Genghis Khan''(grilled lamb with vegetables)''Soup curry''is also wildly popular in Hokkaido!''Seafood hot pot''Sample Sapporo Itinerary''Here’s a sample 5-day 3-night itinerary. As always, make the necessary adjustments to match your preferences.''Day 1: ARRIVAL''Arrival in Sapporo''Hotel Check-in''Jozankei Onsen and Shrine''Day 2: Snow Fun Option A''If you want to ski: go to Mt. Teine.''Day 2: Snow Fun Option B''If you don’t want to ski, you can still enjoy other snow activities at Moerenuma Park''Lunch and shopping at JR Sapporo station complex''Mt. Moiwa at night''Day 3: History and Beer''Hokkaido Historical Village''Lunch''Hokkaido Shrine''Sapporo Beer Museum''Dinner at Sapporo Beer Garden''Day 4: Food Trip and Shopping''Shop at Sapporo Central Wholesale Fish Market''Seafood Lunch''Odori Park (Snow Festival, if happening)''Shopping''Day 5: DEPARTURE''Other Useful Tips''Snow can be dangerously slippery''. A good sign that the snow is good to be stepped on is if it’s white and powdery. If it’s gray or blackish and looks compact because a lot of people have stepped on it, there’s a big chance they’re slippery. So be careful. You can also buy those anti-slip… uhm… things (I don’t know what they’re called, haha) that you can attach to your shoes, just not the metal ones. (The metal ones have to be removed when you go inside an establishment.)''Make time allowance for the traffic''. Sapporo’s best attractions are so far apart, and while the subway is there, some can only be reached by bus or by car. If that’s the case, consider the time you’re gonna spend in traffic.''Japanese chocolates and biscuits are a bit cheaper at the New Chitose Airport than in Haneda or Narita''. For example, Royce’s Nama Chocolate costs ¥720 per box in Chitose and ¥780 in Haneda. I know that’s not much, but savings are savings.''If you have low cold tolerance, purchase a heat pack''from a convenience store and keep it near your body (inside your jacket). This will make your trip more comfortable.''Tipping is not common in Sapporo''. To settle your bill, you are expected to approach the cashier on your way out. The cashier is usually stationed by the entrance/exit.''Many vending machines serve both cold and hot drinks''. Most people are surprised to learn about the hot options. Really helpful when you’re out in the cold.''Japanese bills look alike''(same color). What varies is the size of the bill. The ¥1000 and ¥10,000 can be confusing so be careful. However, the Japanese are highly UNLIKELY to take advantage. They will even be the first to tell you.''When using the escalator'', keep left if you’re not moving.''Learn a few Japanese phrases.''The most useful would be''Sumimasen''(Excuse me, sorry) and''Arigatoo gozaimasu''(Thank you).''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''HOKKAIDO MULTI-CITY TOUR: Budget Travel Guide & Itineraries 2018''TOKYO IN WINTER: 7 Awesome Things to Do in and around the City''Tokyo: Top 10 Budget Hotels Under $70''JAPAN MULTI-CITY TOUR: How to Plan a Budget Trip''12 JAPAN WINTER TRAVEL TIPS: What to Pack, Where to Buy''The best thing about Boracay is that it has something fun and exciting for everyone. If you’re a couple on a honeymoon, Boracay can be the most romantic place in the world. If you’re traveling with friends or family, you’ll find a gazillion activities that would suit your need. If you’re traveling alone, this island has the right conditions for you to meet like-minded travelers.''The same applies to its accommodations. Boracay harbors lodging options in all forms, sizes, and prices. Its secluded nooks are occupied by luxury resorts, while its streets are flanked with mid-range and budget hotels.''If you’re a backpacker, you’ll be glad to know that there are hostels too! Most of them foster a fun, energetic atmosphere. Here are the 10 best according to TripAdvisor users as of Feb 2017.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Mad Monkey Hostel Boracay''2. Jeepney Hostel and Kite Resort''3. MNL Boracay Beach Hostel''4. Chill Out Hostel Boracay''5. Second Wind Hostel by MNL''Search for more: Boracay Hotels''Most of our readers who have never been to South Korea mistakenly think that Seoul is an expensive destination. And when we ask them why they make that assumption, many of them point to Seoul’s reputation as a futuristic metropolis and the glossiness of the K-pop culture. Some even bundle Seoul with the cities of its neighbor to the east, Japan, which are notorious for being way pricier than most Asian cities.''But the truth is, Seoul isn’t as expensive as most people think. And its being more affordable than many major Asian cities *cough* Singapore *cough* Tokyo *cough* is evident in the wide array of pocket-friendly lodging options. Travelers who value their privacy have a lot of budget hotels to choose from, and backpackers can pick from a rich selection of hostels!''Staying at a hostel in Seoul is an experience to remember on its own. Most foster a youthful atmosphere and have a quirky vibe. Here are ten of the best hostels in the South Korean capital as rated by online users (as of Feb 2017).''But before you proceed, make sure you have read the following:''Where to Stay in Seoul''Seoul Travel Guide'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. YE4 Guesthouse''2. Gateway Korea Guesthouse''3. Brownie Guesthouse''4. Hostel HARU''5. Dongdaemun EggHouse Hostel''6. Nabi Hostel Hongdae''7. Sam Stay Hongdae''8. ZZZIP GUESTHOUSE in Hongdae''9. Plan A Hostel''10. Blueboat Hostel Myeongdong''Search for more: Seoul Hotels''It started with a drama series.''Like most of us, I learned about Nami Island when it was used as a setting for''Winter Sonata'', a Korean drama that became a phenomenal hit in many Asian countries, adding more fuel to the already unstoppable Korean wave that took the world by storm. But injecting another Korean dose to global pop culture wasn’t the only thing this romantic flick has done. It has also sparked interest in Nami Island as a major tourist destination, with the number of tourists skyrocketing from 270,000 in 2001 to over 650,000 in 2002 to over 3 million in 2014.''But what is Nami Island really? Other than its lanes of metasequoia and ginkgo trees, what else awaits in this cinematic piece of paradise?'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Nami Island''How to Get to Nami Island from Seoul''Where to Stay Near Nami Island''Search for more: Seoul Hotels''Top Hotels in Gapyeong (near Nami Island)''Sample Itinerary and Expenses''Whenever friends from abroad traveling to Metro Manila for the first time ask for lodging recommendations, Makati is always on top of my list. It’s close to the airport and is not too far from Manila’s historical core. Its streets are lined with awesome dining selections, from fancy restaurants to weekend markets. Its mall strips make it a great shopping destination, too. And best of all, lots of lodging options, from hostels to luxury hotels.''If hostels are not for you and upscale suites are beyond what you can afford, then maybe a budget hotel is what you need.''We’ve rounded up the 10 best hotels under P2000 (USD 40) in Makati, as ranked by online users as of Feb 2017. Note that (1) room rates vary depending on travel dates and availability, and (2) the published rates may not yet include taxes and service charge. There are links below each hotel photo where you can double check the final rate.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Hometown Hotel Makati – EDSA''2. BR Block Boutique and Residences''3. Red Planet Amorsolo''4. Hotel Durban''5. Alejandra Hotel''6. Artina Suites Hotel''7. The Clipper Hotel''8. Gervasia Hotel Makati''9. Lorenzzo Suites Hotel''10. Red Planet Makati''Search for more: Makati Hotels''The Maldives is notorious for being expensive. But is it true?''Well, depending on how you choose to travel and where you choose to stay.''One thing you need to know if you’re planning a trip to this stunning archipelago is that there are two types of islands: private and public. Public islands, also known as local islands, are where locals live. Private islands are those occupied by luxury resorts, open only to their guests and staff. As you might guess, local islands are much, much cheaper. If you’re on a tight budget, here’s our''Maldives Travel Guide''. We’ll be creating a separate list of hostels/guesthouses in the local islands.''But if the Maldives is one of your dream destinations, you’ve probably imagined yourself staying in an exclusive resort. The Maldives is a popular honeymoon destination. During my visit, everyone’s paired up and seems to be on a romantic getaway.''The bad news is, most exclusive resorts here are darn expensive. Like,''seriously''. Some charge thousands of dollars per night (the likes of Four Seasons). The good news is, there are exceptions. Some offer rooms for less than USD 200 (PHP 10,000) per night during off-peak season, and $300 (PHP 15,000) in peak season. Sure, they are not as cheap as those you’ll find in Southeast Asia or South America, but if you’re familiar with how high hotel rates can get in the Maldives, you’ll know that $200 is already pretty low.''Most exclusive resorts have two major types of accommodations: beach/land rooms and overwater bungalows (water villas). Of course, staying at a water bungalow looks tempting, but they are usually the priciest rooms. Those on the beach are much cheaper.''But before you book, here are a few notes to consider:''Don’t take published rates at face value''. Most do not include service charges, GST, and other taxes, a total of 23% of the published rates. AIRPORT TRANSFER isn’t included either!''Check the airport transfers arrangement.''For some resorts like Olhuveli, booking airport transfers with them is''mandatory''. At Olhuveli, transfers are via a speedboat, which costs 210 USD roundtrip per person. (That’s still low compared to other resorts requiring seaplane transfers at 500 USD.) But not all resorts are like that. With Filalholi, transfers can be arranged elsewhere, which means cheaper options.''Consider your meal options''. Being in a private island means your only food source is the resort’s free breakfast, restaurants, and in-room dining service. Expect them to be overpriced, too. Rooms may be booked full-board, half-board, and bed-and-breakfast.''Consider your tour options, too''. Being at an exclusive resort means you can only hire them for your touring needs, and their tour rates are much higher than those outside.''Here are the 7 highest-ranking resorts below $200 (off-peak) based on TripAdvisor reviews as of Feb 2017. Note that, like I said above, many of these published rates do not include taxes and other fees. Prices may change without notice so always double check before you book.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Rihiveli by Castaway Hotels & Escapes''2. Vilamendhoo Island Resort & Spa''3. Palm Beach Resort & Spa Maldives''4. Gangehi Island Resort''5. Filitheyo Island Resort''6. Olhuveli Beach & Spa Resort''7. Fihalhohi Island Resort''Search for more: Maldives Hotels''It’s a new year, and with the turning of the calendar page comes an annual tradition: New Year’s Resolutions! For many people, these resolutions center around health and well-being — like losing weight or working out more.  But for others, 2017 brings an opportunity to see the world (or the country) through travel.  Those experiences may be invaluable, but they come with a price tag.  If you have resolved to travel more in 2017, how can you make it happen on your budget?''The first step is to''actually have a budget''.  This is a basic building block of all successful financial planning.  After all, you can’t know how much you have to spend on fun “extras” like travel without first knowing how much you are bringing in and what your fixed monthly expenses are.  Once you have the budget part nailed down, you can move to the next step: hacking your finances to travel more in 2017.  While we can’t promise you''extra income''or fewer expenses to make it happen, we can provide you with some simple tips to make the vacation of your dreams a possibility.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Make the Most of Your Spending''Slash Your Discretionary Spending''Save, Save, Save''Tokyo has always had a reputation for being an expensive city. Although there is some truth in that, it is not as expensive as most people think. Many major cities around the world have overtaken the Japanese capital in terms of soaring cost of living. One can find plenty of ways to avoid bleeding money during their visit.''Still, there are many sides to this bustling metropolis that remain daunting for the frugal traveler, like accommodations. Sure, the industry has found ways to offer cheaper alternatives like capsule hotels. But the truth is, if you’re not into hostels and capsules, lodging remains generally expensive. Fortunately, there are budget hotels that cater to the budget-conscious.''If you have only USD 70 (PHP3500) budget per night and you need specific lodging recommendations, here are the Top 10 Best hotels and hostels for you, according to TripAdvisor ratings (as of Jan 2017).''Before you proceed, we strongly recommend that you read this first:''Where to Stay in Tokyo'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Andon Ryokan''2. Tokyo Hotel Horidome Villa''3. Tokyo Kiba Hotel''4. Agora Place Asakusa''5. Sakura Hotel Jimbocho''6. Hotel Mystays Ueno Inaricho''7. Hotel Villa Fontaine Hatchobori''8. Hotel Mystays Ueno Iriyaguchi''9. Hotel Nihonbashi Villa''10. Premier Hotel–CABIN–Shinjuku''Search for more: Tokyo Hotels''Over the past several years, Metro Manila has been battered by bad rap: unpleasant airport and horrible traffic, just to name a few pet peeves. But for more than ten years now, Manila has been my home. Even when I have that rare opportunity of living a location-independent lifestyle, giving me a chance to stay almost anywhere I want, I still choose Manila. Something about this city is sorely misunderstood. There’s a lot to see and do here, but that’s for another blog post.''The reality is, if you’re traveling to the Philippines, it’s hard to escape Manila. It is the gateway to the country’s most beautiful islands. Most flights come from and return to the capital, and connections can sometimes mean you will need to spend a night here.''Thing is, Metro Manila is huge! Outside the Philippines, what many loosely refer to as simply Manila is actually the National Capital Region, a cluster of 16 cities and one municipality. This makes it even harder to choose where to stay.''The first thing you should do is decide which area you want to stay in the metro. For me, there are four ideal options:''Manila'', the capital city and seat of government. It’s where historic sites, like Intramuros, can be found.''Makati'', where the central business district is located.''Mall of Asia and Bay Area'', along Manila Bay and near the airport.''Bonifacio Global City'', another business district in Taguig.''Most affordable non-BnB accommodations, however, are in Makati and Manila. Although there are a few exceptions, the Mall of Asia area and Bonifacio Global City are generally pricey.''Below are the top 5 hotels below PHP 2000 (USD 40) per night in Makati and in Manila, according to TripAdvisor users (as of January 2017).''Note'': These are budget hotels. I will be writing a separate post for hostels and BnBs.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Makati''Search for more: Makati Hotels''Manila''Over the past decades, air travel has become increasingly popular. And there’s really no surprise there. It is the most efficient mode of getting from point A to point B. It’s fast and gets cheaper every year.''Despite that, many still prefer a good old road trip for many reasons. First, you have full control of the vehicle. You don’t need to be concerned about delays and get hassled by multiple security checks. Second, you have a little bit of privacy. There is no annoying kid constantly kicking the back of your seat or be worried if your voice gets loud a bit. But the best reason of all, it allows you to enjoy not just Points A and B, but also all the stops in between. Stop and get off any time. And if you’re traveling with friends or family, the long drive means more time to bond and enjoy each other’s company.''Yet, if you’re not careful, road trips can turn ugly in an instant. If you’re going on a road trip with the people you love anytime soon, here are some tried-and-tested ways to survive even the most challenging long-term land journeys.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Two drivers are better than one.''2. Take breaks. Seriously.''3. Bring entertainment with you.''4. Pack in the good things.''5. Make yourselves at home.''Here’s a list of the 10 best-rated hotels that offer rooms for as low as USD60 (PHP 3000) per night, according to TripAdvisor users (as of Jan 2017). The rates displayed may vary depending on the room type and travel dates, so it’s still best to double check the current rates when you book.''Related:''Where to stay in Seoul'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Staz Hotel Myeongdong II''2. Makers Hotel''3. HOTEL GS Jongno''4. Youngbin Hotel''5. Hill House Hotel''6. Benikea Noble Hotel''7. Ramada Encore Seoul Dongdaemun''8. Saerim Hotel''9. Hyundai Residence''10. Jongno Amare Hotel''Search for more: Seoul Hotels''When I first quit my full-time job years ago, I foolishly thought I would be able to travel much more smoothly. No more bosses, no more overtimes, and no more filing of a leave of absence or asking for permission if I want to travel somewhere. Boy was I mistaken. It was only hassle-free when I was traveling domestically. But the minute I tried to get out of the country, it became oh-so-clear that as far as international travel is concerned, freelancers have it harder.''Think about it. Being employed full-time proves two things: (1) that you have a steady source of income, and (2) that you have a reason to return after the trip. Most employers set up payroll bank accounts for their workers and have a dedicated HR department that file tax documents and health insurance plans (HMO) on their behalf. Freelancers, on the other hand, don’t have that convenience. They often have to do all these on their own. And because it takes a lot of time and effort, many freelancers choose to just do away with it.''But that’s the problem. If you’re a freelancer and you see yourself traveling abroad frequently in the future, I encourage you to deal with the paperwork as early as you can. Here are some tips to make your travel life much easier, based on personal experience.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Get a Certificate of Employment from your clients.''2. Open a bank account and save up!''3. Beef up your travel history.''4. Get yourself insured.''5. Register as a sole proprietor.''Tokyo is vast.''We often see it as a single city, but it’s actually a lot more complicated than that. It’s a metropolitan prefecture. (Wait, what? Uhm, let me explain.) It’s not a single city but not your usual Japanese prefecture either. It’s something that is unique to Tokyo. Think of it as a cluster of cities, municipalities, and special wards. It’s vast and dense. Together, it is the most populous metropolitan area in the world, with over 37 million residents.''What many refer to as Tokyo is actually what used to be Tokyo City, which is now broken down into 23 Special Wards, each operating as an individual city. You shouldn’t be too concerned about this because in practice, you will hardly feel it. All these wards seem to live and breathe as one giant creature.''The good news is, Tokyo’s vastness means you have a lot of accommodation options. Many of these wards are ideal temporary homes. The bad news is, it can get confusing. But that’s why we’re writing this post.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Ideal Places to Stay''Top 5 Budget Hotels Under $70''Search for more: Tokyo Hotels''Top 5 Tokyo Hostels''Journalist Don Hoefler coined the term “Silicon Valley” in 1971 to refer to the area in California’s Santa Clara Valley where headquarters of “silicon chip” innovators and manufacturers mushroomed. Today, it is home to a high concentration of hi-tech firms including Apple, Yahoo!, eBay, and Google, putting Silicon Valley on the map as the world’s most well-known hi-technology sector and center for innovative businesses and startups, some set up by young entrepreneurs.''But here are more facts about Silicon Valley that new visitors may find interesting!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Stanford Influence''2. The Valley of Heart’s Delight''3. Dot Com Boom''4. An Unknown Story''5. Incubator''Some countries change your life even before you set foot in it.''One lazy day at the university, I was chillin’ with friends at the lobby of our college building when the College Secretary approached us. “I’m looking for volunteers,” she said. Apparently, exchange students from Korea had arrived way earlier than expected. She needed people who could tour them around the campus while they were preparing whatever it was they were preparing. Bored af, I was first to raise a hand.''Many of these exchange students became good friends of mine. They were my first foreign friends.''At the time, my brother was coincidentally working at a factory near Seoul. The computer that I relied on in college was a product of his hard work there. (''Katas ng Korea'', sabi nga nila.) This also means that every now and then, we would receive a package bursting with Korean products, which would then fill our living room racks and kitchen drawers.''After graduation, my first job was with a Korean company that brought Korean students to the Philippines to learn English. So yes, my first boss, the first person who believed in my skills as a worker, was Korean.''South Korea had already changed my life way before I set foot in it. So when I finally did, it felt wonderful. It felt like I was giving thanks. But yeah, the whole time, I was grateful.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Seoul''How to Get to Seoul''Manila to Incheon (Seoul)''Kuala Lumpur to Incheon (Seoul)''Where to Stay in Seoul''Where We Stayed''Top Budget Hotels Under $60''Top Hostels in Seoul''How to Get from Incheon Airport to Seoul City Center''The Fastest Option''The Cheapest Option''The Easiest Option''Internet Connection in South Korea''4G LTE SIM Card!''Pocket Wifi''How to Get Around Seoul''Discover Seoul Pass''Places to Visit in Seoul''Everland''Lotte World''N Seoul Tower''TrickEye 3D Museum + Ice Museum''Hanbok Experience''Other Attractions''Day Tours from Seoul''Nami Island''DMZ and Panmunjom Tours (and See North Korea)''Boryeong Mud Festival''Where to Shop in Seoul''Sample Seoul Itinerary and Breakdown of Expenses''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Seoul''The political and economic center of South Korea, Seoul is home to almost 12 million residents. The larger Seoul Capital Area (Sudogwon), which includes neighboring Incheon and Gyeonggi-do, houses 25.6 million people (half of the country’s population), making it the fourth largest metropolitan area in the world, after Tokyo, Shanghai, and Jakarta.''Like most capital cities in East Asia, Seoul is pulsating with curiosities. Think of it as a younger but more tamed Tokyo. Everywhere you go, there’s always something interesting to find even in a random neighborhood. A regular cafe (often located next to another cafe across another cafe) displays how many calories are in your order for the benefit of the''weight''health-conscious in you. If you’re feeling a bit offbeat, walk into a cat cafe to indulge the animal-lover in you or a toilet-themed one to satiate your appetite for humor. And that’s just the coffee shops!''Seoul is also known for its obsession to beauty, something that became apparent as soon as I passed by half-dozen cosmetic shops after only two minutes of walking. (I LOVE IT. Here, I could step into a cosmetic store without anyone giving me judging stares.) But their constant quest for physical perfection isn’t limited to beauty products. Almost everything here looks pretty! Street food looks gourmet, university grounds are tourist spots, and historical sites are well-preserved!''Language'': Korean. English is getting increasingly common. Most signs have English translations.''Currency'': South Korean Won (KRW, ₩). KRW 1000 is roughly USD 0.85, EUR 0.8, PHP 42.62 (as of Jan 2017).''Modes of payment'': Many establishments accept credit cards, but most still prefer cash.''Electricity Info'': 220 volts. Plugs have two round pins.''Left: Vins at Bukchon Hanok Village; Right: an animal playing around at teh Seoul TrickEye Museum in Hongdae. With a panda.''How to Get to Seoul''If you’re a Filipino citizen, you’ll need a visa.''Here’s how to get a Korea visa''.''Seoul is served by two airports:''Incheon International Airport''(ICN) and''Gimpo International Airport''(GMP). Gimpo is used primarily for domestic and a few international flights (mostly from China, Japan, and Taiwan). Incheon, on the other hand, is used by most international flights. It is the largest and the primary gateway to South Korea. Gimpo is much closer, just 30 minutes away from Central Seoul, while Incheon is roughly an hour away by train or 1.5 hours by bus.''If you’re coming from Southeast Asia, the cheapest flights to Incheon are offered by low-cost carriers. The lowest rates are often from Manila.''AirAsia''has the lowest year-round fares and they get even lower when there’s a promo. Here’s a quick search on SkyScanner.''Manila to Incheon (Seoul)''Kuala Lumpur to Incheon (Seoul)''Where to Stay in Seoul''Seoul has three major backpacking districts: Jongno, Myeongdong and Hongdae. Which is the best? Well, I hate answering with “It depends,” I would have to say “It depends.” Haha. All these areas are close to major tourist stops, so it will depend on which of these attractions you will visit. But here’s a quick summary.''Myeongdong''. Seoul’s main shopping district, dotted with boutiques and department stores. Close to Myeongdong Shopping Street and Namdaemun Market. If you love shopping, stay here.''Check rates of Myeongdong hotels here.''Hongdae-Sinchon''. Seoul’s university belt. This place is driven by Seoul’s youth culture, nurturing a more romantic and underground atmosphere. Lots of creative and quirky shops and food places. Close to: Hongik University Street, Hongik Mural Street, and Ehwa Women’s University. If you’re a foodie, stay here.''Check rates of Hongdae hotels here.''Jongno''. Seoul’s historic core. Its map is littered with shrines, temples, and other traditional sites. In fact, four of the city’s five grand palaces can be found in Jongno. It is also where the Bukchon Hanok Village, Gwangjang Market, and Insa-dong are located.''If it’s your first time in Seoul, stay here''.''Check rates of Jongno hotels here.''I have experienced staying in all three districts, and''I personally prefer Jongno''. There’s just so much to see and explore within walking distance.''Where We Stayed''Here are the hostels and a hotel that I have tried. You can read our reviews here:''Where We Stayed in Seoul''Namsan City Hotel Myeongdong''.''Check Rates''.''Hongdae Pencil Guesthouse''.''Check Rates''.''Fully Hong Hotel''.''Check Rates''.''Top Budget Hotels Under $60''Staz Hotel Myeongdong II''.''Check Rates Here''Makers Hotel''.''Check rates or book here''.''HOTEL GS Jongno''.''Check rates or book here''.''Youngbin Hotel''.''Check Rates Here''Top Hostels in Seoul''YE4 Guesthouse''.''Check Rates''.''Gateway Korea Guesthouse''.''Check Rates''.''Brownie Guesthouse''.''Check Rates''.''Hostel HARU''.''Check Rates''.''For more options, search here:''Seoul Hotels''.''How to Get from Incheon Airport to Seoul City Center''There are three modes of transportation available: train, bus, and taxi. Taxis will be much more expensive let’s not discuss that. Haha.''The Fastest Option''Image provided by Klook''The Airport Railroad Express (AREX) EXPRESS Train. Emphasis on EXPRESS because there are two types (Express and ALL STOP, which I will discuss below. The Express Train usually costs ₩14,800, but I think discounted rates are still in effect, which is only ₩8000 for adults and ₩6900 for children. Travel time is 43 minutes.''You can reserve a seat in advance with Klook!''RESERVE HERE''The Cheapest Option''AREX ALL STOP Train. Will stop at all 12 stations before arriving at Seoul Station. It’s 15 minutes slower (travel time: 58 minutes), but costs only ₩4250.''RESERVE HERE''The Easiest Option''By bus, if your hotel is close to one of the many bus stops scattered throughout the city. I say it’s easiest because there is no need to switch trains. I personally prefer this method because I despise transferring to another train line when I have 20+++ kilos of baggage on my back. The good news is, the three main backpacking districts in Seoul have their own bus stops! Here are the buses you need to catch:''JONGNO'': Bus''6002''(at Gate 5B or 12A). Get off at Jongno 1, 2, 3,4,5, or 6, whichever is closest to your hostel/hotel. Last bus: 11:30pm. Fare: ₩10,000.''HONGDAE'': Bus''6002''(at Gate 5B or 12A). Get off at Hongik University Station. Last bus: 11:30pm. Fare: ₩10,000.''MYEONGDONG'': Bus''6015''(at Gate 5B or 11B). Get off at Myeongdong Station. Last bus: 10:50pm. Fare: ₩15,000.''If your hotel is closer to a subway station than the bus station, then take the train instead.''Internet Connection in South Korea''South Korea has the fastest internet connection in the world! Most establishments like fast food restaurants and cafes offer FREE wifi, too.''But if you want to make sure you’re connected all the time, you can buy a 4G SIM Card or rent a Pocket Wifi.''4G LTE SIM Card!''There are various pre-paid plans available depending on how long your stay is: 5 days, 10 days, 30 days. You can buy one in advance and just pick it up at Incheon Airport so you’re connected as soon as you land.''RESERVE HERE''Pocket Wifi''Take advantage of Korea’s blazing internet speed! This pocket wifi will give you unlimited access anywhere in Korea. It can connect up to 3 devices at once. You can pick it up at Incheon Airport when you arrive. You will be charged per day. But if you reserve with Klook, you just need to pay for the first day and then settle the rest when you return the unit.''RESERVE HERE''How to Get Around Seoul''You’ll find Seoul an extremely walkable city. Walk when you can. If you’re staying in Jongno, most historic attractions are within walking distance of each other. Otherwise, there’s always the subway, which makes Seoul-searching a walk in the park.''Seoul’s expansive subway system is the third largest in the world. It consists of 14 lines criss-crossing underneath the vibrant city. It looks intimidating when you look at it, but it’s actually pretty easy to get the hang of. It uses cards that require a ₩500 deposit, which can be refunded after the ride.''Before the trip, I encourage you to download a FREE app called''Subway Korea''. It is available for''iOS''and''Android''. Here’s how to use it.''Open the app''. You will be greeted by Seoul’s complicated subway map.''Find your station of origin''and tap it. It will reveal options. Choose''Departs From''.''Find your destination station''and tap it. Choose''Arrives at''.''Choose between the route that will get you there fastest and the route that will make the fewest stops''.''It will then tell you the following:''The estimated travel time''(top of the screen)''Number of stops''(top of the screen)''Fare''(bottom, in green)''The recommended route''Here’s how to use Seoul’s subway system.''Find a single journey traffic card ticket machine at the station.''Select your destination.''Select the number of tickets.''Insert payment + refundable deposit of ₩500.''Collect the single journey traffic card that will be released.''After your ride, you can get the ₩500 deposit from one of the payment return machines at your destination.''Each station stems into several routes that lead to exits that are far apart. Check the map displayed near the gates to make sure you’re taking the right exit. Often, signs leading to key tourist attractions are found around the station. Also, when walking inside train stations, keep right.''There are prepaid cards available at every station, too. One of the most popular is the''T-Money Card''. It will save you ₩100 per ride, which isn’t much, but it’s convenient because you don’t need to get a ticket every single time. Another great thing about it is its coverage. You can use it on trains AND buses in many cities including Seoul and even Busan. Just make sure you load it with just enough credit so you don’t need to worry about getting a refund.''Discover Seoul Pass''If you have a pretty packed itinerary, you might want to consider purchasing a''Discover Seoul Pass'', which was created by the Seoul Tourism Organization specifically for foreign tourists. You can choose between the''24-hour pass''and the''48-hour pass''.''Photo provided by Klook''Here are some things that the Discover Seoul Pass can do for you:''FREE access to 22 key attractions''like the palaces and shrines, specialty museums like the TrickEye Museum in Hongdae, N Seoul Tower Observatory using only one card.''Access to the''Seoul City Double Decker Tour Bus''Comes with T-Money''(which I discussed above). But you need to top up before use. If you don’t use all credits, you can refund the remaining balance.''Can be picked up at Incheon Airport''at the time and date you specified''Here are some of the tourist sites that are covered by the Discover Seoul Pass:''N Seoul Tower (Observatory)''MBC WORLD''Trickeye & Ice Museum''HANBOKNAM''Gyeongbokgung Palace''Changdeokgung Palace''Changgyeonggung Palace''You can get the''Discover Seoul Pass''in advance with Klook!''RESERVE HERE''Places to Visit in Seoul''Below are some of the tourist attractions in the city and the nearest subway station.''Everland''Photo provided by Klook''Everland''is Korea’s largest theme park.''Admission Fee: Adults, ₩52,000; Children, ₩41,000.''Nearest Station: Jeondae-Everland (Yongin EverLine, Exit 3).''Klook offers''discounted tickets''if you buy online!''GET YOUR DISCOUNTED TICKET HERE''If you don’t want to bother with the getting there part, you can book an Everland Day Tour instead, which includes the following.''Admission ticket''Transportation from Seoul and back''Tour guide service''This is great if you want to catch the fireworks display at night because you won’t need to compete with the crowd for transportation back to the city. They use a shuttle bus, which can pick you up in Hongdae, Myeongdong or Dongdaemun. Book Below!''BOOK THIS TOUR''Lotte World''Photo provided by Klook''Lotte World''is another theme park that is great for kids.''Admission Fee: Adults, ₩52,000; Teens, ₩45,000; Children, ₩41,000.''Nearest Station: Jamsil (Line 2, 8; Exit 4)''GET YOUR TICKET HERE''N Seoul Tower''Photo provided by Klook''N Seoul Tower'', the city’s iconic skyscraper that allows breathtaking views of the city. It also has a revolving restaurant. It’s accessible by bus, but a scenic approach is by cable car. The boarding station is located 15 minutes from Myeongdong Station (Line 4, Exit 3). Just walk down the street on the right side of Pacific Hotel and you’ll find it soon after.''Admission Fee: Adults, ₩10,000; Children, ₩8,000.''Get a discount if you purchase your tickets online with Klook!''On top of that, you also get a ₩5,000 shopping coupon that you can use at Namdaemun Market for FREE!''GET DISCOUNTED TICKETS HERE''TrickEye 3D Museum + Ice Museum''A “trick art” museum for wacky photos! It’s located in Hongdae. There’s also an annexed Ice Museum.''Nearest Station: Hongik University''GET YOUR TICKET HERE''Hanbok Experience''Photo provided by Klook''Did you know that you can enter Seoul’s palaces and shrines for FREE if you’re wearing hanbok? You can rent a hanbok for 4 hours or 24 hours!''RESERVE NOW''Other Attractions''Gyeongbokgung Palace'', the grandest among the city’s five important palaces.''Admission fee: Adults (19-64yo) ₩3,000, Youths (7-18yo) ₩1,500.''Nearest station: Gyeongbokgung Palace (Line 3, Exit 5)''Changdeokgung Palace'', a well-preserved royal villa that has been standing for more than six centuries.''Admission fee: Adults (19-64yo) ₩3,000, Youths (7-18yo) ₩1,500.''Nearest station: Anguk (Line 3)''Bukchon Hanok Village''harbors traditional houses called hanok, the history of which can be traced back to the Joseon Dynasty. Many of these houses also function as restaurants and shops.''Entrance Fee: FREE''Nearest station: Anguk Station (Line 3, Exit 1 or 2)''Gwangjang Market''. Built in 1905, it is Seoul’s oldest traditional daily marketplace. It’s mostly a food market so make sure you’re hungry when you visit.''Entrance Fee: FREE''Nearest stations: Jongno 5-ga Station (Line 1, Exit 8) or Euljiro 4-ga Station (Lines 2 or 5, Exit 4)''Gangnam''. Prior to the global success of PSY’s Gangnam Style, Gangnam has always been popular among locals for social gatherings and events.''Admission Fee: FREE''Nearest station: Gangnam (Line 2, Exit 10 or 11)''Myeongdong'', one of Seoul’s main shopping districts! If you’re after branded clothes, mid-range restaurants, cosmetic products, and all sorts of street food, this is the place for you.''Admission Fee: FREE''Nearest station: Myeongdong (Line 4, Exit 6).''Ewha Women’s University''. Founded in 1886, it is Korea’s first educational institute for women. The area around it is a popular shopping destination, too. You’ll find a whole bunch of accessories and footwear, and quirky apparel. Since they cater to students (mostly), prices are much friendlier!''Entrance Fee: FREE''Nearest station: Ewha Womans University Station (Line 2, Exit 2 or 3)''Hongdae''. The epicenter of Seoul’s youth culture, it is a place for many students’ self-expression. Lots of creative shops and quirky food places. Visit on a Saturday, when the Hongdae Free Market comes to life. It is a flea market that offers some unique items that are often handcrafted by young student artists.''Entrance Fee: FREE''Nearest Station: Hongik University (Line 2, Exit 9)''Day Tours from Seoul''Many other attractions outside Seoul Capital Area are easily accessible if you want to do it DIY-style.''But you can also join a group tour if you want a hassle-free experience. Many of these tours will provide transportation with hotel pickup and drop off and entrance tickets.''Nami Island''Nami Island''Nami Island'', a half-moon shaped island in the middle of the Han River in Chuncheon. It became the final resting place of General Nami, a well-known historical figure during Joseon Dynasty. Foreigners are most familiar with it as the filming location of''Winter Sonata'', a Korean TV series (koreanovela) that became a hit all over Asia.''How to get to Nami Island'': Travel by train to Gapyeong Station. Walk or take a cab from the station to the ferry wharf, where you can buy tickets to the island. You can also travel by bus. Catch the shuttle bus in Insadong (near the West Gate of Tapgol Park) or Sungnyemun Square Bus Stop in front of Namdaemun Market. Bus leaves at 9:30am. Roundtrip fare is ₩15,000. You can reserve a bus seat by emailing bus@naminara.com or calling +82-2-753-1247.''Entrance Fee'': ₩8,000 for foreigners.''It’s seldom that we find destinations that have desert lands, snow-capped mountains, splendid shores, and bustling metropoles all within their boundaries. That’s why California is such a treasure. Cliche as it sounds, but America’s Golden State has something for everyone: miles of coastline for the beach bum, redwood forests for the nature-lover, ski resorts for the snow rider, Michelin-star restaurants and wine estates for the foodie, and many others.''To many, California is synonymous with Hollywood, so much so that when they finally get to visit, they stay within the comfortable confines of Los Angeles, take a selfie with the Hollywood sign in the background, and call it a trip. There’s nothing wrong with it. But given how widely diverse California’s landscapes are and how much it has to offer, there’s a lot of wasted opportunity if you do it that way.''If you will be making your California dream happen soon, you might want to go beyond the usual trails and get off your usual travel routine and make this trip as golden as the destination. Here are five ways to do just that.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Go on a road trip.''2. Seek the state’s most stunning destinations.''3. Stay at a luxury villa.''4. Join a California fair or festival.''5. Dine at a Michelin-star restaurant.''Since our two-month Euro tour, we have received tons of questions about getting a Schengen Visa. It’s quite expected. Europe is a dream destination for many, and the Schengen Visa is probably the most complicated visa there is. In this article, we’ll try to answer the questions we have been asked the most as adequately as we can.''However, bear in mind that we are writing based only on our own experiences and some contributions from our readers. The goal is to help other applicants have a better picture of the process. But we encourage you to still contact the embassies for more updated info.''Anyway, it’s gonna be a lengthy post, so let’s begin.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'What is a Schengen Visa?''What are the Schengen countries?''Which embassy should I lodge my visa application?''What if I’m spending equal number of days in different countries?''What are the requirements?''What is the application process? What are the steps?''Do we need to book flights before applying for a visa?''Is travel insurance really necessary?''Where to get travel insurance?''Can I book hotels on my own?''What does a detailed itinerary look like?''Can I visit countries that are not in the itinerary I submitted?''If my application is approved, do I have to stick to the itinerary I submitted?''Is a cover letter required?''Are embassies really strict?''Is there an interview?''What are the usual questions they ask at the interview?''How early should I apply for a Schengen visa?''How soon do they release the visa after receiving my application?''How much money should I have in the bank to be approved?''How long is the validity of the visa?''Related Posts''What is a Schengen Visa?''The Schengen Visa is a travel document that allows the holder to enter any of the 26 states that are part of the Schengen agreement. Think of it as an almost all-access pass to many countries in Europe, eliminating the immigration borders within the Schengen zone and the hassle of having to apply for a visa for each individual country.''What are the Schengen countries?''Here they are, all 26 of ’em.''Austria''Belgium''Czech Republic''Denmark''Estonia''Finland''France''Germany''Greece''Hungary''Iceland''Italy''Latvia''Liechtenstein''Lithuania''Luxembourg''Malta''Netherlands''Norway''Poland''Portugal''Slovakia''Slovenia''Spain''Sweden''Switzerland''Which embassy should I lodge my visa application?''It will depend on the purpose of your trip or your overall European itinerary. The rule is:''If you’re visiting just ONE country, apply at the embassy of that country.''If you’re visiting multiple countries, apply at the embassy of the main destination or the country where you will be staying the longest. If you will spend 3 days in the Netherlands, 3 days in Italy, and 5 days in France, apply at the French Embassy.''However, some countries have additional rules. It is best to double check with the Embassy to be absolutely sure.''What if I’m spending equal number of days in different countries?''I honestly can’t answer this based on experience, so I’ll just copy-paste what the''Dutch Embassy''has to say about this:''“If you will be staying an equal length of time in more than one Schengen country and cannot designate one of these countries as the country of your main destination, you must apply for your visa at the mission of the''first Schengen country you intend to enter''.”''This means if you’re spending 3 days in Germany first, then 3 days in Italy and 3 days in France, you should apply at the German Embassy. According to the Dutch Embassy website, that is.''What are the requirements?''List of requirements is right here:''Schengen Visa Requirements''.''I noticed that embassies are asking for almost the same requirements. There are little variations, though, so''make sure you check with the embassy that will process your application''.''What is the application process? What are the steps?''It varies from mission to mission. Some embassies, like the French and the Italian, employ a third party unit to handle most visa applications (VFS Global). Others, like the German Embassy, take care of ’em in-house.''Here are the embassies I have personally tried:''German Embassy''Greek Embassy''French Embassy''I’ll be updating this part of the post to include a link to the processes per country. (Please check back later.)''Do we need to book flights before applying for a visa?''NO. Don’t book your flights yet. They only require flight reservations, not flight booking. Don’t pay for your flights yet. (Unless you grabbed promo fares at a seat sale.) Some travel agencies can reserve flights (often for a fee).''We recommend''Gazelle Travel and Tours'', a DTI-registered DOT-accredited travel agency. You can get flight reservations, hotel reservations, and travel insurance from them online!''For the rates and more info, read:''Flight and Hotel Reservations''Is travel insurance really necessary?''The short answer is YES.''The long answer is still YEEEEEEESSSSS.''Some embassies, like the Italian Embassy, requires an additional 15-day coverage on top of the travel period. Make sure you know these little rules when purchasing travel insurance.''Where to get travel insurance?''You can simply purchase travel insurance online. I have tried''Pacific Cross''and had no problems with it. Their Executive Peso and Prestige Euro plans are both Schengen-Approved.''You can book Pacific Cross travel insurance with Gazelle Travel and Tours too! You can use the same form we made for Flight Reservations. Just tick TRAVEL INSURANCE in the checklist on the form.''More info here:''Travel Insurance''Can I book hotels on my own?''Yep. You can book via third-party websites like Agoda, but book hotels with FREE Cancellation policy so you won’t be wasting money in case your visa gets denied.''You can search here:''What does a detailed itinerary look like?''Like this''schengen-visa-france-itinerary''Can I visit countries that are not in the itinerary I submitted?''Yes, as long as it is within the Schengen Zone.''If my application is approved, do I have to stick to the itinerary I submitted?''Ideally, but not really. But because there are no checkpoints between countries within the Schengen Zone, there’s no way for them to check. You can deviate from your original itinerary if you want. We made a number of changes to our itineraries on the two occasions we visited Europe. But my only guidance is this: At your point of entry, know that you might be asked questions about your itinerary. At the very least, stay the longest in the country where you got your visa so you won’t run into trouble. They have the right to refuse entry even if you already have a visa.''Is a cover letter required?''No. But I highly encourage you to provide one especially if there will be no interview. You can explain the purpose of your trip further.''Here’s a sample''.''schengen-visa-france-letter''Are embassies really strict?''Yes, but some are more strict than others. For example, in my travel circles, the Italian and Spanish Embassies are notorious for being extremely meticulous, while the French, German, Dutch and Austrian Embassies are known for being more forgiving and considerate.''That’s just according to my travel friends. Might not be true in some cases.''Is there an interview?''Some embassies conduct a short interview, some don’t. Usually, when a third party company (like VFS) is involved, there will no longer be an interview.''Here’s what I know so far: Do the following embassies''usually''conduct an interview?''Austrian Embassy – NO''Czech Embassy –''YES''Danish Embassy – NO''French Embassy – NO''German Embassy –''YES''Greek Embassy (for Greece and Portugal) –''YES''Italian Embassy – NO''Norwegian Embassy – NO''Spanish Embassy –''YES''Again,''usually''. Some applicants will be called for an interview at the embassy when they need further clarifications. It really depends on many factors but mostly how strong your case is.''In many cases, even when there is no interview involved, personal appearance is sometimes required. It’s best to check with the embassy to be sure.''If the your embassy requires an interview or you are called for one, just answer their questions''truthfully and confidently''. Don’t lie. Most of the time, they will know.''What are the usual questions they ask at the interview?''I asked my friends what were the questions thrown at them during the interview and here are the most common. True enough, when I applied for a Schengen Visa on two separate occasions, these were asked too.''What is the purpose of your trip?''How long is your trip?''How long will you stay in (country)?''What is your first stop?''What countries are you going to visit?''When will you leave?''When will you be back?''Will this be your first time in Europe?''What countries did you visit on your first trip to Europe and for what purpose?''Do you know anyone in (country)?''Do you know anyone in any other Schengen country?''Do you know anyone in the UK (United Kingdom)?''How are you related to them?''How did you meet?''With whom are you traveling?''How are you related to your companion?''What do you do for a living? (Expect a lot of follow up questions about your job.)''How long have you been with your company?''Does your company know you’re taking this trip?''Do you own properties in the Philippines (home country)?''Based on experience, most of the questions were about three things:''the details of the trip'', which means you must know your itinerary by heart''my connections to anyone in Europe''. In my case, I had none. I have no relatives or close friends there.''my job and my rootedness in my home country''. In both cases, they gravitated towards finding reasons for me to return to the Philippines.''Again, answer truthfully and confidently.''Note that these are just the common questions. They might still ask a lot of other questions relevant to your background and application.''How early should I apply for a Schengen visa?''You can apply up to 90 days (3 months) in advance. While most embassies process applications relatively fast, it is wise to give some time allowance just in case something doesn’t go as planned (e.g. they ask for additional documents). I consider “a month before” too tight. Two months should give you enough time to secure a copy of all required documents and fix a problem should it arise.''How soon do they release the visa after receiving my application?''Depends on the embassy. The French Embassy releases visas after 5-7 days, the German Embassy 7-14 days. Most of the time, the wait is shorter. Sometimes, when they have doubts, it can take longer.''For example, when I applied for a visa for my second Euro trip, the German Embassy took only 6 days. My partner Vins, who was applying for the first time and didn’t submit an ITR, was asked to send more documents to prove his rootedness in the Philippines. He did submit the requested additional papers and finally got his visa after 3 weeks.''On the other hand, I have a friend who applied via the Austrian Embassy and got her visa after only 3 days.''So it really depends on the embassy AND your case.''How much money should I have in the bank to be approved?''No one really knows for sure what the minimum amount is. But remember this: You will be asked to submit flight and hotel reservations and a detailed day-to-day itinerary. So here’s the rule of thumb. Add the cost of the flights you reserved and the cost of the accommodations and EUR 60 per day of your stay.''What’s the EUR 60 per stay? Think of it as your pocket money. Embassies need to be assured that you can afford the trip. Some embassies require EUR 45 per day, some EUR50, some E55. To be on the safe side, use EUR60 per day.''Let’s use this as example. Let’s assume that your roundtrip flight costs EUR1000 and your total hotel stay costs EUR1200 and you’re staying in Europe for 10 days. That’s EUR60 X 10 days = EUR 600.''1000 (flights)''1200 (hotel)''600 (allowance)''EUR 2800 – TOTAL''Of course, that can’t be the only amount in your account. You should have more than that. But my point is, don’t apply for a 10-day visit with only EUR 2000 in your bank account (using the example above).''How long is the validity of the visa?''Depends on the itinerary you will submit and the embassy.''When I applied at and submitted a 5-day itinerary to the French Embassy, I was issued a visa that was valid for 15 days.''When I applied the second time and submitted a 53-day itinerary to the German Embassy, I was given a visa valid for 60 days.''When I applied at the Greek Embassy with an 11-day itinerary, I was given exactly that, 11 days.''Help us improve this post! If you have experienced applying for a Schengen Visa and you have more to add to this list, feel free to contribute information via the Comments Section below!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''HOW TO GET FLIGHT RESERVATIONS for Schengen, Canada and Other Visas''EUROPE ON A BUDGET: How to Plan Your Dream Euro Tour''HOW TO APPLY for a SOUTH KOREA VISA in MANILA 2018''SCHENGEN VISA via FRENCH EMBASSY 2018: Requirements & Application Process for Filipinos''HOW TO RENEW YOUR JAPAN VISA & Other Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)''KOREA VISA FOR FILIPINOS: Requirements & Frequently Asked Questions''In Tokyo’s Nakano district, there was a store called “The shop that sells things people left on trains.” That was the name of the shop. And it sold, well, things that people lost during commute but were never claimed.''I was dying to see what they had in store that I rushed to Nakano on the same day that I learned about it. I swept its maze-like malls in search of it. I didn’t find it. Haha. But it showed me that when they say Tokyo has something for everyone, they probably mean it in every way. Nakano, best known as a place for the otaku, is just one of the many interesting shopping places in the Japanese capital.''My first Tokyo trip coincided with the New Year Sale. Coincided, believe me. I didn’t know it’s a thing. But I was already there so I checked it out. Boy was I blown away. It was like the entire city was on sale. There were discounts everywhere, and these are not just 10% or 20% off. You can walk away with a garment for ¥100 (USD1, PHP 44).''Many stores also offer''tax-free shopping''for purchases bigger than ¥5000. Bring your passport all the time because they’re gonna need it.''With the exception of Ameyoko, Tokyo doesn’t have those almost endless open-air street markets that many other Asian cities are known for, but it has more than its share of shopping places. Here are some of them.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Shinjuku''Shibuya''Ginza''Ameyoko''Grandberry Mall''Odaiba VenusFort''Sugamo''Akihabara''Nakano''Don Quijote''Where to Buy Certain Products''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Shinjuku''A post shared by Gareth Jones (@gareth_jones89)''on''Apr 14, 2018 at 8:19am PDT''There’s a big chance you’re gonna find yourself in Shinjuku. It has one of the two biggest, busiest, and most connected stations in Tokyo. Whether you’re here to visit the Shinjuku Gyoen or just making a train transfer, you might as well check out the shops. They’re aplenty! The station itself is connected to department stores like Keio and Isetan. It’s also here that you’ll find Lumine, an underground retail paradise. And when I said underground, I meant it literally.''If you’re looking for the usual clothing chains, you’ll find their big shops marking the corners of Shinjuku along with well-known upscale brands. But two of the most interesting shops for me are Bicqlo, a merger of the electronics giant Bic Camera and casual wear brand Uniqlo; and Komehyo, a department store brimming with both brand new and pre-loved designer items like watches, bags, and garments.''Nearest station'': Shinjuku''Shibuya''Shibuya''You know you’re not leaving Tokyo without crossing what they say is the world’s busiest intersection. While you’re in Shibuya, take some time to look at their shops.''Like in Shinjuku, department stores abound in Shibuya. Shibuya Hikarie and Shibuya 109 are crowd favorites, but I personally enjoy Loft, a seven-story building housing souvenirs, stationery, and homeware among others. It is also home to three shopping alleys that are popular even among locals: Spain Zaka, Koen Dori,  and Center Gai.''Nearest station'': Shibuya''Ginza''Tokyo’s ritzy side. Ginza is best-known as an upmarket shopping district, boasting designer brands like Christian Dior and Louis Vuitton, although low-cost fashion staples like Uniqlo and Zara also have presence here.''Some of the shopping complexes here include Matsuya, Mitsikoshi, Marronnier Gate, and Tokyu Plaza Ginza.''Ameyoko''Ameyoko''This market street that runs parallel the Yamanote Line between Ueno and Okachimachi Stations is always bursting with people. A wide variety of products are sold here: bags, clothes, accessories, spices, fish. Don’t be surprised if you see barkers announcing discounts while standing on a chair amidst a sea of humanity. The craziness of it all alone is worth checking out, haha.''Nearest station'': Ueno''Grandberry Mall''This complex in Minami Machida is famous for its lane of outlet stores (Adidas, Nike, Coach, Gap, Old Navy, Franc Franc, Mont Bell, Brooks Brothers). The prices here are not really considered “bargain” by anyone’s standards, but they’re definitely lower than department store prices.''Just outside Grandberry Mall is a shop that sells alcoholic beverages, coffee, and tea! This is where I bought much of the pasalubong to the''titas''.''It’s a bit far from the city center, around 40-50 minutes from Shibuya.''Nearest Station'': Minami Machida''Odaiba VenusFort''VenusFort also houses a number of outlet stores including Puma, Levi’s, and Samsonite. If you’re planning on visiting Odaiba anyway, you might as well drop by and check it out.''Nearest Station'': Aomi, Tokyo Teleport''Sugamo''Sugamo’s market street''Often called Old Ladies’ Harajuku, Sugamo is mostly known for its 800-m Jizo Dori, a shopping street that cater mostly to the elderly. It’s popular for shio-daifuku, pounded rice cakes with sweet bean paste and the''red underwear that is believed to bring good luck''. (I know! Should’ve gotten one for myself. Haha.)''When I was here, though, I ended up buying half-dozen bottles of flavored honey and a talking cat toy for my nephew.''Nearest Station'': Sugamo''Akihabara''Akihabara''The electronics center of Tokyo. One of its biggest stores is the 9-level Yodobashi Electronics Store that is loaded with sim cards on the first floor, PC parts and laptops on the second floor, cameras on the third floor, and video games and adult software on the seventh.''Just a short walk from the station, you’ll also find''M’s Pop Life Sex Store'', a 7-story department store selling adult toys and DVDs. The aisles here are pretty narrow, but its packed with whatever it is that floats your boat. Costumes for roleplay? They have it. Gags and whips for some BDSM action? They have it. Lubes and other basics? Of course, they have it.''Nakano''A mall in Nakano''I may not have found the shop that sells things left on trains, but I got to see what Nakano has to offer to the otaku. This is where you should go if you’re looking for anime and manga items. The second and third levels of Nakano Broadway mall are filled with shops that sell action figures, games, comic books, DVDs, and so on.''Nearest Station'': Nakano (JR Chuo Line)''Don Quijote''A department store chain with several branches all over Tokyo, selling a myriad of products from electronics to personal care to household items to stuffed animals. There are loads of cheap finds here squeezed into towering shelves. You might want to devote much time just to see what they have to offer.''M’s Pop Life Sex Shop''Where to Buy Certain Products''Where to buy adult toys''. Akihabara is where you will find''M’s Pop Life Sex Store'', a 7-story department store selling all sorts of intimate items like adult films in its basement, fake genitals, roleplay costumes, lubes, whips, masks and ball gags on the higher levels.''Don Quijote''also sells these items.''Where to buy pre-loved luxury items''. Shinjuku, mostly. My fashion blogger friend showed me around and I was shocked by the amount of branded items on sale. Find''Komehyo''for luxury watches, designer clothing, bags, and jewelry. Two known resale stores —''Daikokuya''and''Ginzo''— also have branches in Shinjuku.''Where to buy pre-loved cameras and lenses''. The third level of Yodobashi in Akihabara has good choices.''Where to buy gadgets''. I’m not sure if it’s just me, but I noticed that Bic Camera’s prices are slightly lower than Yodobashi, even for Apple products and cameras.''Where to buy Japanese KitKat''. KitKat comes in exclusive flavors in Japan. You’ll see them getting sold at discount stores all over the city. But if you wanna score slight savings, head to''Takeya'', also known as the “purple building,” in Ueno. They offer duty-free shopping and has an almost complete collection of Kitkat flavors. Even Meiji chocolates are cheaper here. If you don’t have time and you’re using Narita Terminal 2 on your flight out, there’s also a store there that sells Japanese KitKat. You’ll also find Shiroi Koibito Biscuits (Hokkaido Biscuits) and Pablo’s Cheesecake at the airport.''Where to buy super cheap items''. 100-yen shops (Hyaku En Shoppu). These are pretty common throughout Tokyo. They sell all sorts of items mostly for ¥108 (¥100 without the taxes).''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''Where to Stay in Tokyo''SHIBUYA CROSSING: The World’s Busiest Intersection – Tokyo, Japan''How to Get Around Tokyo by Train''TOKYO ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itineraries''TOKYO IN WINTER: 7 Awesome Things to Do in and around the City''In 2012, I traveled solo for the first time in my life.''I still remember how scared I was before the trip. With only a small backpack, a Neil Gaiman book, a thousand dollars, and a will to get out of my comfort zone, I boarded the plane to Bangkok. As I was checking in, there were no butterflies in my belly, only a great fear that I might find myself unfit for the travel lifestyle and come running back home earlier than planned.''Looking back, I can’t help but laugh at the idea that I almost chickened out. I mean, it’s Southeast Asia! It’s not too far from my comfort zone! But not only would it be my first time traveling alone, it would also be my longest journey yet — one full month across four countries: Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam. I was concerned about many things: safety, scams, funds, my being socially awkward.''Thankfully, they were overpowered by the thought that it was something I had to do not for this blog but for personal growth. I wanted to do things I had never done before, to be challenged again, to be alone again. At the time, I had been in a committed relationship for over three years, and I wanted some me-time even just for a month.''That trip opened so many doors, letting in an ocean of possibilities. The friends I made within that one month were friends I kept even up to this day. (One of them I had visited in Paris twice already!) The ideas that popped up in my head became cornerstones of the career I had since built. And the learnings I collected along the way became the light that guides me during difficult times.''Of course, it won’t be the same for all of us. Solo travel isn’t for everyone, but it’s surely something that I can recommend that you try at least once in your life. But where to start? If you’re like me who is nervous about everything, you’ll be glad that there are destinations that are great for first-time solo travelers — with minimal language barrier, highly organized tour options, and a thriving backpacking culture.''We asked some of my blogger friends for places that are best for a solo travel debut, and these are 12 of our suggestions.''1. Bangkok, Thailand''It’s almost impossible to build this list without a mention of''Bangkok'', the epicenter of Southeast Asia’s backpacking scene. This is where the usual backpacking trails in the region begin and end. Bangkok is so used to tourists, you can visit sites on your own easily.''“For first time international solo travelers, there’s no other city I would recommend,” says Aleah Taboclaon of''Solitary Wanderer''. “In Bangkok, everyone’s free to do their own thing. Locals won’t blink at same-sex couples, and if you want to wear your yoga pants while out and about, you won’t get a second look. Of course, Thailand is more than just Bangkok, but for solo travelers just learning their way, I would recommend Bangkok for their first international destination.”''What’s to love?''Affordable accommodations! Even their hotels are not as pricey as their counterparts in other parts of the world.''Cheap but irresistible cuisine. The street food alone is worthy of several dedicated blog posts.''Plenty of interesting sites to see in the city. From the basics like the Grand Palace and Wat Arun to obscure ones like the Phallus Shrine.''Vibrant nightlife!''Great jump off point for neighboring destinations like Ayutthaya and even Siem Reap in Cambodia.''What you need to know''Scams. When God showered the world with scams, Bangkok got way more than its share. But they’re pretty easy to avoid. You just need to be familiar with them before you go.''If you’re after non-touristy sites, this isn’t for you. Bangkok gets millions and millions of visitors every year.''More info:''Bangkok Solo Travel Tips''2. El Nido, Philippines''The Philippines is said to be on the wrong side of the South China Sea, disconnected from its neighbors. Getting here takes more time and effort, but those who do are rewarded with an unforgettable tropical getaway. Backpacking is still an emerging concept in the country, but not in El Nido.''El Nido has been a haven for backpackers for decades. It’s the top choice for Micaela Rodriguez of''Senyorita''. The best thing about El Nido is that you can still have loads of fun even if you’re going solo. Most tours operate on a system that puts strangers together on a boat for a day-long island adventure. And the prices are regulated, ensuring that tourists do not pay more than they should. It’s something a solitary soul don’t need to be worried about.''What’s to love?''Incredible beaches, karst cliffs, and dive sites. There’s no running short of wonder here.''Sites are “bundled” together in tour packages. Tour A for Miniloc Island attractions, Tour C for Matinloc Island, and so on. You just need to choose the island tour and they’ll prepare everything for you, including lunch.''Affordable accommodations.''Locals are friendly and hospitable.''What you need to know''Because of limited direct flight options, El Nido can still feel a bit isolated. It’s around 6 hours from Puerto Princesa by land and 8 hours from Coron by boat.''Been here 3 times and there are still power interruptions, so make sure you choose a hotel equipped with a generator.''Don’t forget to bring some mosquito-repellent lotion.''More info:''El Nido Tips''3. Siargao, Philippines''Another Philippine destination that has enjoyed an increased backpacker traffic is Siargao, recommended by Sabrina Iovino of''Just One Way Ticket''.''“Siargao is a fantastic place for first-time travelers in the Philippines,” Sabrina declares. “It’s a beautiful island with friendly locals and a relaxed surfers vibe. Even if you don’t surf, check out Siargao, there is plenty to do for non surfers.”''More info:''Siargao Guide for Non-Surfers''Photo by Sabrina Iovino''What’s to love?''If you’re after sun and sand, this is your paradise.''Not as touristy as other beach destinations in the Philippines. Not yet, at least.''Affordable accommodations. Sabrina adds, “If you want to meet people, stay at Kermit Resort or alternatively at Paglaom, the latter one offers dorm rooms, it’s easy to connect with fellow travelers.”''What you need to know''Limited flight options. It isn’t as easily accessible as other islands in the Philippines.''4. Hong Kong''Whenever readers ask us for first overseas travel ideas, Hong Kong is always a top-of-mind recommendation. And it looks like we’re not alone. Girl Rising ambassador and''PS I’m On My Way''founder Trisha Velarmino agrees. “There is only one explanation why a first-time solo traveler should go to Hong Kong,” she shares. “You will have many nights you won’t remember with the people you will never forget. The drama, the charm, the beauty, the breathless energy, the rude but welcoming people — I knew I always wanted to write a story set in Hong Kong.”'"A photo posted by Trisha V. @ P.S. I'm On My Way (@psimonmyway)"'on''Jun 25, 2016 at 9:28pm PDT''What’s to love?''Expansive and reliable transportation system''Unlike other urban hubs like Tokyo and Singapore, Hong Kong enjoys a much lower cost of living.''East meets West feels!''Great food, if you know where to look.''Not much language barrier. English is widely spoken.''More info:''Hong Kong and Macau Travel Guide''5. Siem Reap, Cambodia''The gateway to the Angkor Temples,''Siem Reap''is another crowd favorite for a reason. Before my visit, I knew what to expect, yet I was still blown away by the sheer size of the Angkor Wat, the intricate details of Bayon, and the intriguing charm of the other temples. Yet, what lingers is the feeling of being welcome.''Ron Cruz of''Flip’n Travels''couldn’t help being poetic when describing the city. “She’s neither snob nor clingy, she’s both foreign and peculiarly familiar. She will embrace you regardless if you arrive donned in a crisp shirt or shabbily wrapped in a beer stained jersey. The travelers are young, the culture is old, locals are tolerant, society is ever fleeting. The history is gilded in gold and drenched in blood and recently so wounded that all emotions are not judged.”''And for those with separation anxiety issues, Ron adds, “She’s warm enough to be received with sincerity and cold enough to easily let go.”''What’s to love?''Angkor Temples. There are countless of them so make sure you have at least a day to see the major sites.''Friendly locals''Lots of affordable accommodations''What you need to know''Scams, especially those that use children. You might encounter these at one of the temples you’re visiting. Some will offer to tour you around but will charge exorbitant fees after.''6. Penang, Malaysia''Traveling Light''‘s Claire Madarang has high praises for''Penang''! “The streets of UNESCO World Heritage Site George Town, is a great place to get lost in for hours – even for days, as there is just so much to see!”''“Walk around and take in the beautiful heritage houses, the colorful street art, and the different places of worship, like churches, temples, and mosques, as Penang celebrates diverse cultures and religions. And, eat the delicious and affordable street food, as this place is known not just for its heritage but also its food. Transportation is efficient, with numbered buses going around and also to and from the airport. Affordable solo traveler-friendly accommodations are also available. And, locals are generally friendly and helpful.”''Claire in Penang''What’s to love?''Good location. If you’re planning on continuing your journey, you can easily go to Langkawi (by ferry), Cameron Highlands (by mini-bus), or even Thailand (by train).''Food! Penang is often regarded by many as Malaysia’s culinary capital.''Affordable accommodations''Friendly locals''Read more:''Cute Cats of Penang in Street Art''7. Guilin, China''My personal choice is Guilin.''China has some of the most breathtaking landscapes in the world, and Guilin is a great 101. True, the language barrier can be quite challenging at first but once you’re past it, it’s not difficult at all to fall in love with the city. Unlike China’s major cities like Shanghai or Beijing, Guilin is still relatively laid-back and not as polluted.''In Guilin, fantastic, scenic areas are within easy reach. You can see the famed Li River and its towering limestone cliffs, the town of Yangshuo, and even the Longji Rice Terraces in Longsheng. Many of these sites can be seen on group tours that you can join if you’re alone.''What’s to love?''Natural scenery is incredible.''Cheap transportation and tours. Even taxi rates are not that bad.''Low cost of living''What you need to know''Language barrier here can be frustrating. You can help yourself by using translator apps or asking a friend who can speak English to write things down in Chinese characters for you.''While train rides to other parts of China from Guilin are cheap, they can be overcrowded. In some cars, smoking is allowed. And some restrooms can cause a bit of a culture shock.''If you’re holding a Philippine passport, a visa is required.''8. Cappadocia, Turkey''Turkey has been battered by a series of attacks lately, discouraging potential tourists. It’s sad because in my opinion, Turkey is one of the most beautiful countries in the world.''Take Cappadocia as an example. It has everything a first-time solo traveler can ask for. When we were there, we rode a hot air balloon for the first time, hovering above an endless sea of rock formations, from towering pillars that nature meticulously molded into massive chimneys for over 2000 years to spires that the early Christians carved through to create dwellings and churches centuries ago. It was surreal. Under the surface are dozens of underground cities, many of which are open to tourists.''What’s to love?''It is served by two airports. Domestic flights are so cheap, skipping it should be a crime.''Tours are packaged and organized by color: red for Goreme, green for Ihlara, and blue for Soganli. Solo travelers can easily join one and meet other like-minded solo backpackers.''Goreme, the main tourist town, is small and easy to explore.''Low cost of almost everything, even tours.''Warm, friendly locals''What you need to know''If you’re after hot-air balloons, know that the ride is highly dependent on good weather. There’s a chance it can get canceled in non-summer months.''Not many public transportation options. Hitchhiking is common but you might be in for a long wait.''If you’re holding a Philippine passport, a visa or an e-visa is required.''9. Hualien, Taiwan''Taiwan is a small island bursting with unforgettable attractions. Taipei is a good base if you want to explore much of the capital and neighboring Yangmingshan National Park and Beitou.''Our personal favorite is Hualien on the East Coast of the island. A local friend told me that there is a saying that Hualien lies on “sticky” ground, which refers to its ability to make visitors NOT want to leave. It’s one of those cities that feel more like a big town. It’s relaxed and unhurried. It’s also the gateway to Taroko Gorge National Park.''What’s to love?''The Taroko Gorge is wonderful. We spent a full day just walking in between cliffs and on the banks of its streams yet it still felt like we needed more time. Absolutely magnificent.''Getting in is easy. It’s just 2 hours from Taipei, and multiply trains stop here a day.''Getting around is a piece of cake too. Hualien is small so much of it can be reached on foot. Cheap taxis abound in case you get tired.''It’s cheap! 100 USD go a long way if you know your way around.''Night markets!''What you need to know''If you’re holding a Philippine passport, a visa or an e-visa is required.''10. Osaka and Kyoto, Japan''Osaka and Kyoto are Vins’s choices. And since they sit just next to each other, let’s just treat them as one destination in this list.''Osaka is considered the culinary capital of Japan, boasting several signature dishes including okonomiyaki and takoyaki. On the other hand, Kyoto has always been the cultural center of the archipelago, known as the birthplace of kabuki and the home of the geisha. Impressively maintained and restored ancient temples and shrines dot its map.''While Tokyo can be too overwhelming for the first-time visitor, Osaka and Kyoto are more forgiving. Locals, especially those belonging to the older generations, can barely speak English but their hospitality and kindness make up for it.''What’s to love?''I’ve never seen a more helpful people!''Japan’s efficient transport system also leaves little room for untoward surprises.''Food, food, food!''Safety isn’t a concern.''What you need to know''While not as expensive as Tokyo, they are definitely costlier than other Asian cities like Seoul, Bangkok, or Hong Kong.''The train system can be confusing at first, but you can get the hang of it within your first day.''A translator app can help you navigate better because some signs have no English translations.''If you’re holding a Philippine passport, a visa is required.''11. Seoul, South Korea''Before my Seoul trip, I had this fear that getting around would be difficult. That was not the case in reality. To my surprise, it’s one of the very few destinations where we didn’t get awfully lost. (We still got lost, but not awfully, haha.)''I barely felt the language barrier because most locals could at least understand basic English. And those who couldn’t were very patient and determined to help. Signs and menus are often written in both Korean and Western characters. The subway system isn’t as baffling, and the areas where most hostels are located are not too far from the city’s key tourist spots.''A pagoda inside the Gyeongbokgung Palace grounds in Seoul''What’s to love?''Not as cheap as Southeast Asian cities, but far from the soaring prices of Japan or Singapore''Safe and walkable! Lots to discover at every turn.''Great food! I never appreciated Korean food until I was already in Korea!''What you need to know''If you’re holding a Philippine passport, a visa is required.''12. Bali, Indonesia''Photo by The Pinay Solo Backpacker''For Gael Hilotin, the''Pinay Solo Backpacker''herself, this list won’t be complete without Bali. Images of “a serene tropical paradise clad in exotic culture and dancing maidens on evergreen rice paddies” that you conjured in your head before your trip are easily chased away by the crowded strip of souvenir shops when you arrive in downtown Denpasar. “(But) once you start exploring outside the tourist strip of Kuta,” Gael comments, “you will probably agree that those picturesque images of Bali are not mere romanticization  after all!”''“It’s an ideal destination for solo travelers because of its rich culture, friendly locals, gastronomic fortunes, beaches and architectural medley of temples, artsy cafes, bars and resorts. You’ll never run out of things to do here and overall activities and tours are fairly inexpensive. You can easily join day tours, hire a car or motorcycle to explore the nearby attractions or cross by ferry or fastcraft to Nusa Penida or the Gili Islands”''More info:''Bali Travel Guide for First-Timers''Related post:''Gili Islands Travel Guide''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''TRAVELING WITH KIDS: 10 Asian Destinations for the Whole Family''SOUTHEAST ASIA: Sample Itineraries (5-7 Days)''BANGKOK TO SIEM REAP BY LAND: Crossing the Border''SOUTHEAST ASIA BACKPACKING ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide 2017''SOUTHEAST ASIA: Backpacking Itineraries and Routes (2 Weeks)''Incheon Airport to Seoul (Myeongdong, Hongdae, Jongno): The Cheapest Way''I welcomed 2016 with a lot of hope and a pint of Guinness at a random British pub in Tokyo. Although I was alone in a foreign land, I could sense an air of positivity in the air. It was my first trip since I left my full-time job (again), and I was looking forward to more trips and more firsts. I didn’t know it then, but that year was going to be a rollercoaster ride, to say the least.''You can say what you want about 2016, but you can’t say it was boring. Even up to now, I’m not sure how I feel about it. I don’t think I’m alone in feeling as though it is the year that the universe fucked up the world. There were a lot of times when I just wanted it to end just so I could have that illusion of starting over. I found that every political stand I took turned out to be on the losing side. The only movie I co-wrote this year leaked online while it was still in theaters. And I discovered that I suffer from a medical condition that only became apparent recently, confining me in the hospital for the first time in almost 20 years and stopping me from traveling for the entire summer. Imagine. The struggle is real.''Yet, 2016 is the best travel year so far for both Vins and myself. This is the first full year that both of us were full-time travel bloggers (having quit our jobs at the end of 2015). Despite my medical scare, we had set foot in 27 countries (21 together), including a long-time-coming two-month journey across Europe, a speaking gig at the World Tourism Forum in Istanbul, and winning 3rd place at the first ever #GoogleAdventure in Japan.''But not all of our experiences were awesome! Some were pretty awful, too! Before I spoil this list, let’s begin. Here are our most unforgettable travel moments, both good and bad, in this crazy thing that is 2016.''Let’s get the bad news out of the way first, yes?'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Top 5 Worst Travel Moments''5. Earthquake in the Shower in Tokyo''4. We got scammed in Istanbul.''3. We got scammed again in Marrakech.''2. Skydiving in Prague: CANCELED!''1. Northern Lights in Iceland: NO SHOW!''Top 5 Best Travel Moments''5. Free upgrade to a water villa in the Maldives!''4. Speaking at World Tourism Forum in Istanbul''3. Chasing Waterfalls and Rainbows in Iceland''2. First Snowfall and Hot Air Balloon Ride in Cappadocia, Turkey''1. A Dance in Florence, Italy.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Top 5 Worst Travel Moments''5. Earthquake in the Shower in Tokyo''Over the past three years, I had been to Japan five times (four in Tokyo). Almost every time, weak earth tremors happened. Hence, when my hotel room began to shake that November morning, I felt like there was nothing to be worried about. So there I was, in the shower, getting ready for a big day, not minding the quake. That is, until it became too strong to be ignored. The walls and the ceiling made loud, creaky sounds for what felt like forever. That’s when I started getting scared. Thankfully, it subsided eventually and no one was hurt.''Tokyo''When it was all over, I went to Vins’s room. (The trip was part of #GoogleAdventure and we were given separate rooms.) Vins was as shaken as I was. He was packing when it happened. We immediately went down to the lobby.''4. We got scammed in Istanbul.''Istanbul is one of the greatest cities we had seen, but like most great cities, it has more than its share of tourist scams. Unfortunately, we fell victim to one.''We got our cab in this area.''We were leisurely walking around the Eminönü area when I received a message that we had to attend a dinner party in an hour. Since we didn’t have much time, we decided to get one of the cabs parked by the strait. The driver was friendly and was not suspicious at all — until he offered to take an alternate route to our hotel. It was fishy because it wasn’t our first day in the city, and we knew exactly how to get to our hotel fast. But he insisted because of the traffic jam. We were in the middle of the road so we couldn’t get out. As the ride went on, we noticed that the meter was moving unusually fast. Long story short, he was asking us to pay five times than we probably should.''But it didn’t end there, after handing him our payment, he complained that we gave him the wrong bills. At first we thought we really made a mistake, but then after replacing the smaller bill, he once again complained that we gave him the wrong bills. He was taking advantage of our being unfamiliar with their notes. Anyway, when we started to demand to give us back the money, he sped off.''3. We got scammed again in Marrakech.''Learning from our mistakes in Istanbul, we were very careful when we reached Morocco. We arrived in Marrakech at almost midnight. At the train station, we carefully chose our taxi to make sure we won’t be scammed again. He dropped us off at the edge of Jemaa el-Fna because vehicles are not allowed to go any farther. From here, we needed to find our riad, traditional Moroccan house where we would be staying, on foot. Thing is, the medina of Marrakech is a giant maze. And most riads had barely noticeable signs.''Jamaa el Fna in Marrakech''Still, we were careful. Two guys followed us around, offering help, but we declined. Instead, we asked fruit vendors for directions. It wasn’t enough. We still couldn’t find it.''We continued walking. The two guys kept following us wherever we went. We were deep into the residential area, and there were no vendors that could help us this time. When we spotted a group of locals just chilling, we decided to ask them instead. One of the guys asked for the address and promised to take us to our riad. With him leading the way, we walked down dark alleys. Vins and I started getting nervous. We felt like the guy was misleading us.''I remember telling Vins, if it comes down to it, he should grab him and I’ll kick his balls. Hahaha. We were really paranoid.''It turned out that he was really taking us to our riad. We got there without having to resort to fist fight. But as soon as we reached the riad, the guy started asking for money as token. We gave him what we felt like a good amount, but he demanded more. Equivalent to PHP500 (USD10).''2. Skydiving in Prague: CANCELED!''Between the two of us, Vins is the faint-hearted one. When it comes to extreme activities, I’m always up for the challenge. Vins always needs a lot of convincing. A LOT. When the idea of skydiving in Prague presented itself, I didn’t even hesitate to sign up. Vins didn’t even hesitate to say no. But I know it was gonna be great and that it would be a shame if Vins would miss it. I had to convince him to join. You’re gonna thank me for it, I told him. I spend an entire day and night trying to get him to agree! Not only was he scared, he was also concerned about the money. But mostly scared. This was the cheapest skydiving I’d seen anywhere in the world.''Finally, he said yes. Hallelujah! We registered. Paid in full. Scheduled for the next day.''Canceled jump''The next day, it rained. Our dive was canceled. And we couldn’t reschedule because it was our last day in Prague. Aaaaargh! I spent 2 days trying to bend Vins’s arm to do this and it got canceled just when he was emotionally ready!''1. Northern Lights in Iceland: NO SHOW!''We carefully picked our Iceland travel dates. We took into consideration the moon’s brightness, strength of solar activity, and the weather. But you know weather, it’s fickle and fucked up!''We were in Brussels videos of the Aurora Borealis got viral online. It was special because the lights were clearly visible from Reykjavik. In fact, the government had the city lights turned off for maximum viewing pleasure. We were excited because our next stop was Iceland! We would be there in a couple of days.''Northern Lights''When we arrived, Iceland was covered with thick clouds. They would clear up many times during the day but they evenings were overcast. Ugh! The worst part, there was strong solar activity the entire week that we were there. We just couldn’t see the lights because the clouds were blocking the view. Since Night 1, the Northern Lights tour we booked kept getting canceled and moved to the next night.''But it didn’t end there. On our last day, WE MISSED OUR SHUTTLE TO THE AIRPORT.''We had already locked our AirBnB apartment and left the keys inside, so we were stuck outside in the ICELAND cold at 3am.''At first, we didn’t think we missed it, so we waited. But after almost an hour in the cold, it finally dawned on us that it was not coming and we most definitely missed it. There were no taxis around. We tried calling transfer companies but the voice message said they open at 7:30am. We tried booking online but the next trip was scheduled at 5am. Our flight was at 6am. The airport is an hour away.''At that point, we knew it would be impossible to catch our flight.''BUT THEN, a shuttle from a competing company stopped in front of us, waiting for 2 other passengers from a nearby hotel. They waited, but the passengers CANCELED. There were 2 vacant seats in that shuttle, and we needed a ride. We talked to the driver. “We didn’t book this shuttle, but we missed ours. Would you accommodate us even without prior reservations?” He did! And he didn’t charge us extra.''We made it in time for our flight! Whew! Thank you, universe!''Top 5 Best Travel Moments''5. Free upgrade to a water villa in the Maldives!''It all started when my friend Tonet invited me to go with her somewhere she could relax. She would be coming from a trip in Japan and I from Singapore. Our initial plan was Bagan, Myanmar, but the weather forecast suggested we won’t be riding any hot-air balloon there. Haphazardly, we tried to come up with an alternative, a place that we’d never been before but did not require pre-approved visa. The idea of the Maldives was thrown on the table, and both of us grabbed it.''Maldives!''We both wanted to experience staying at a luxury resort but we had limited budget, so we booked the cheapest room at the cheapest private resort we found. We got one of the beach rooms. Nothing fancy, but comfortable enough. Everything was alright, until one morning when Tonet and I were just walking around the reception. The manager called our attention and approached us.''“How would you like to upgrade to a water villa? There are vacant villas.” the manager said. Knowing how expensive these overwater bungalows are, I looked at Tonet, trying to find a way to say no politely.''“Hmmmmm,” Tonet said.''“It’s for FREE. No charge,” the manager added.''And just like that, Tonet and I answered at the same time: “SURE!”''Hahahahahahaha.''4. Speaking at World Tourism Forum in Istanbul''Istanbul''I’d be lying if I told you I wasn’t a bit scared during this trip. It was scheduled in a period when Istanbul’s most touristy site fell to a terrorist attack. But I never really let fear stop me from traveling to places outside war zones. So even when we were nervous, we flew to Istanbul and honor our commitment with the World Tourism Forum.''It was a great decision because I thoroughly enjoyed the event and Istanbul as a whole.''3. Chasing Waterfalls and Rainbows in Iceland''Iceland didn’t show us its precious Northern Lights, but it gave us something more splashy — waterfalls. Of these wonders, Skogafoss stood out. But not at first.''Iceland''When we arrived, we were a little underwhelmed. The waterfall was great, yep, but after seeing the majestic Gullfoss, we would need more than a cascade. The place looked grey and dreary. They said it normally looks better under the sun, but even the sun was not in the mood. We were just about to leave when we stopped and said, “Let’s wait a bit more. Maybe.”''And just like that, the sun finally showed up. Just like that, a rainbow appeared in front of us.''Sometimes, all you have to do is WAIT a little bit more. FIGHT a little bit harder. STAY a little bit longer. And then you’ll see.''2. First Snowfall and Hot Air Balloon Ride in Cappadocia, Turkey''We had our first snowfall in Cappadocia. Sure, I’ve seen and touched snow before, but it was already on the ground. The first time I saw it falling happened in Goreme, Turkey. A snowflake landed on my glove-less hand and it disappeared almost instantly.''When we arrived at our hostel in Goreme, it was snowing hard. Our hostel had a rooftop cafe, where Vins and I waited while the staff prepared the room. The owner, who welcomed us, kept urging us to go inside. “It’s snowing, come in, come in,” he said.''But we stayed outside. Trying to embrace the snowfall. We looked like idiots!''“You don’t understand,” I told the hostel owner. “It’s our first snow!”''Cappadocia''But that’s not even my most unforgettable first in Cappadocia. On our second day, we rode a hot air balloon for the first time, hovering above an endless sea of rock formations, from towering pillars that nature meticulously molded into massive chimneys for over 2000 years to spires that the early Christians carved through to create dwellings and churches centuries ago. The ride also allows a glimpse of some of Central Anatolia’s mighty peaks, from where the sun would emerge in a breathtaking celestial display. It was surreal.''1. A Dance in Florence, Italy.''Where to begin? From our first look at the Duomo to our last meal in the city, there is so much to love about Firenze! On our first day, we wanted to try a panini behind the Duomo. When the staff asked us what we would like to have, I simply said, “whatever you recommend.” He then asked us to try the ingredients — cheeses and cold cuts — one by one, while he explained what they were and where they got them. We’re talking about a 6EUR panini here. It’s probably something that they do to every new customer that walks through their door, which is more admirable.''Same thing happened in one gelato shop. We were the only ones in the shop, but I couldn’t decide what flavor I wanted. The owner had us taste each flavor one by one so we could make an informed choice.''Florence''It’s little things like these that our memories of Florence for keeps. But one thing I will never ever forget was on one night on the way back to the hotel, there were street performers playing a classical tune. Suddenly, a mother began dancing with his probably 10-yo son in the middle of the street. They were tourists, and they just danced there with everyone watching. It was a tender moment that made me believe that despite all the bad things that happened in 2016, this world is remains brimming with love and beauty, and that life is still worth celebrating.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Where to Stay in Europe: Budget Hotel and Hostel Reviews''Top 9 Istanbul Tourist Attractions: A DIY Walking Tour''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''Cappadocia, Turkey: Hot Air Balloon Ride at Sunrise''ISTANBUL: Top 5 Scams to Watch Out for (And How to Avoid Them)''Where to Stay in Istanbul, Turkey''Taxis are expensive, and buses can be confusing for first-timers. In Tokyo, the train is the most efficient mode of transportation. Tokyo has an extensive and expansive railway system. Wherever it is you’re going, there is most likely a train station very close to it.''Tokyo by train can be a bit overwhelming at first, but it’s easy once you get the hang of it. First, bear in mind that the network is used by almost a dozen operators, including those serving the suburbs. However, in this article, let’s focus on the three companies that serve Central Tokyo:''JR East'',''Toei Subway'', and''Tokyo Metro Subway''. Each of them operate multiple lines that get so entangled, it’s amazing how the Japanese make it work.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'JR East''Subway Lines''Types of Trains''How to Travel By Train using Single Tickets''How to Buy and Use Suica or Pasmo Card''Located 70km from Central Tokyo, the Narita International Airport is the city’s main gateway for international travelers. It’s one of the two airports serving Tokyo, the other one being Haneda, which is mostly used for domestic flights. The bad news is, Narita is farther than Haneda. The good news is, there are more transportation options to the city.''Here are your cheapest bets:'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'By bus.''By train''One of the most difficult questions I usually get is: What’s your favorite destination? It’s tough to pick just one when a mere mention of the word “favorite” opens a floodgate of memories that include the surreal landscapes of Cappadocia, Turkey; camping journey across the Australian Outback; the sights and tastes in Florence, Italy; the out-of-this-world mountain parks of Zhangjiajie, China. I could go on.''But if you ask me where I would want to stay for good, well, that one’s easy — TOKYO.''Over the past three years, I had set foot in Tokyo four times, each lasting as long as my visa allowed. That alone should tell you just how much I adore the Japanese capital. I’m not even sure why. You know how you grew up building on your mind a list of qualities you want your THE ONE to possess? Then you meet someone who doesn’t meet any of those requirements, but for some strange reason, you know they’re the one for you. To me, that’s Tokyo.''Any attempt to search for reason leaves me nauseated. The things that I would normally hate in any other city are things I love about Tokyo. I dislike big urban capitals; Tokyo is a bigass urban capital. I abhor big crowds; Tokyo is overcrowded. I despise too many rules; Tokyo has many unwritten codes that locals and guests are expected to abide by. Yet, with each visit I find myself falling deeper and deeper even though she’s confusing af. She’s zen but wacky, chaotic but organized, minimalist but vibrant, traditional but futuristic, efficient but absolutely insane.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Tokyo''When to Visit Tokyo''Where to Stay in Tokyo''Top Budget Hotels''Top Hostels''Search for more: Tokyo Hotels''What to Prepare Before Your Tokyo Trip''Internet Connection in Tokyo''Pocket Wifi Rental''Local 4G SIM''How to Get from Narita Airport to Tokyo City Center''By bus.''By train''How to Get to Haneda Airport to Tokyo City Center — TO FOLLOW''How to Get Around Tokyo''Tokyo Metro Subway Lines''Toei Subway Lines''How to Travel By Train using Single Tickets''How to Buy and Use Suica or Pasmo Card''Should You Get One of Those One-Day Train Passes?''Should You Buy a JR Pass?''Places to Visit in Tokyo''Tokyo Disney Resort''Tokyo SkyTree''Sensō-ji (aka Asakusa Temple)''Tsukiji Fish Market''Harajuku’s Takeshita-Dori (Takeshita Street)''Meiji Shrine''Yoyogi Park''Shibuya Crossing''The Imperial Palace''Ueno Park''Akihabara''Odaiba''Other Attractions''Unique Tokyo Tours''Robot Restaurant''Tokyo Dinner Cruise''Tokyo Kimono Rental''Sumo Practice''Day Tours Outside Tokyo''Hakone''Kamakura''Lake Kawaguchi''Hitachi Seaside Park''Yokohama''Where to Eat Cheap in Tokyo''Where to Shop in Tokyo''Sample Tokyo Itinerary with Breakdown of Expenses''OPTION 1: TOKYO WITH DISNEYLAND + KAMAKURA + YOKOHAMA''OPTION 2: TOKYO + DISNEYLAND''OPTION 3: TOKYO + ODAIBA (CAPSULE HOTEL)''Other Useful Tips''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Tokyo''We often think of Tokyo as a single city, but it’s actually a lot more complicated than that. It’s a metropolitan prefecture. (Wait, what? Uhm, let me explain.) It’s not a single city but not your usual Japanese prefecture either. It’s something that is unique to Tokyo. Think of it as a cluster of cities, municipalities, and special wards. It’s vast and dense. Together, it is the most populous metropolitan area in the world, with over 37 million residents.''But let’s focus on one area in particular — the 23 special wards. What many refer to as Tokyo is actually what used to be Tokyo City, which is now broken down into 23 Special Wards, each operating as an individual city. (If you’re familiar with Metro Manila, it’s a similar concept. What we call Metro Manila is actually composed of separate, independent cities.) There’s a big chance that most of the attractions you want to see are confined within the collective boundaries of these 23 special wards.''The good news is, if you’re in Tokyo for only a short visit, you wouldn’t even feel the division. All 23 special wards seem to function as one giant urban hub, connected by the most impressive transportation system I have ever seen in my life.''Here are a few more facts you need to know:''Language'': Japanese (Nihongo). English isn’t widely spoken. However, most signs have English translations.''Currency'': Japanese Yen (JPY, ¥). JPY 1000 is roughly USD 8.5, EUR 8.12, PHP 424 (as of Dec 2016).''Modes of payment'': Many establishments accept credit cards, but most still prefer cash.''Electricity Info'':  100V. Plugs have two flat pins.''When to Visit Tokyo''I may be biased here because I’ve lived in the tropics all my life so I always want to visit Japan when it’s a bit cooler. Summer in Japan can get too hot, even for an island guy like me.''Spring''(March-May) is the best time to visit for two reasons: The weather is often pleasant and comfortable. And if your timing is right, CHERRY BLOSSOMS! In Tokyo, the first bloom usually happens in March Week 3-4, full bloom at the end of March, and the last fall within Week 1 of April. Emphasis on''usually''. These days, you can never be too sure. Make sure you check Cherry Blossoms forecast before you book your flight.''Fall''(September-October) is great, too. Not too cold. I find the autumn colors to be a nice treat.''The pond in the paid garden of Meiji Shrine in late autumn''Winter''isn’t really a bad option. I love walking around in the cold as long as it doesn’t snow. Snow is only cute in the first 5 minutes. The first snowfall of the season usually happens in January. (This year, however, it snowed in Tokyo in November for the first time in 50+ years. I was there when it happened!)''Tokyo winter has its market (me!), but it has its pros and cons.''PROS:''Flights and hotels are cheaper.''Most attractions are not as crowded.''Shopping districts go on NEW YEAR SALE (January Week 1), offering amazing deals.''The Emperor of Japan comes out to the balcony of the Imperial Palace and addresses the crowd only twice a year, and both dates are in winter: December 23 (his birthday) and January 2 (for the New Year greeting).''CONS:''Although it’s super cold outside, it can get really''warm''hot inside the train. You might think it’s petty, but shedding off layers and putting them on can be annoying if you do it again and again.''Days are shorter. If you love taking photos, it’s something you need to consider. Daylight is gone as early as 4pm. Establishments close earlier, too.''Where to Stay in Tokyo''Where to stay? Hmmm, tough question. Haha. Before I answer that, let me first explain to you the JR Yamanote Line. (I’ll answer this, I promise. Just bear with me.)''The''JR Yamanote Line''is a train loop that runs around Tokyo, connecting the city’s key areas including Ueno, Shinjuku, Shibuya and Shinagawa. It also marks the boundary of Central Tokyo. The area within the loop is considered Central Tokyo.''Map created by''RailRider'', licensed under''CC''It is important to be familiar with this because most key attractions in Tokyo are situated along this line. This means that you must take this into consideration when choosing a place to stay.''Most online sources recommend three locations:''Shinjuku'',''Shibuya'', and the''Tokyo Station area''. I agree with these recommendations. They’re all close to Yamanote Line and direct airport bus services. There are also numerous shops and restaurants around.''However, I prefer''Ueno''for a lot of personal reasons.''Ueno is only 40-70 minutes away from the airport by train (via Keisei as mentioned above). It is important to me because I dislike switching trains and walking long distances when I have 30 kilos of baggage on my shoulders.''Ueno is also closer to Akihabara than any of the three other locations. Akihabara is my absolute favorite place in Tokyo.''Ueno harbors a number of branches of''Hotel Mystays'', a budget hotel chain that I like.''Asakusa is something to consider too. It may not be along Yamanote Line and it’s not a shopping district, but it has an Old Tokyo feel around it that you might appreciate. Staying here also means you’re close to Senso-ji (Asakusa Kannon Temple).''Wherever you choose to stay, here are some budget accommodation types and usual off-peak rates:''Bed at Capsule Hotel'': as low as USD 20''Bed at a Dormitory'': as low as  USD 28''Single Room'': as low as USD 55''Twin/Double Room'': as low as USD 78''Top Budget Hotels''According to TripAdvisor users as of Feb 2017.''Andon Ryokan''.''Check Updated Rates''.''Tokyo Hotel Horidome Villa''.''Check Updated Rates''.''Tokyo Kiba Hotel''.''Check Updated Rates''.''Agora Place Asakusa''.''Check Updated Rates''.''Top Hostels''According to TripAdvisor users as of Feb 2017.''Emblem Hostel Nishiarai''.''Updated Rates Here''.''Space Hostel Tokyo''.''Updated Rates Here''.''Oak Hostel Zen''.''Updated Rates Here''.''Khaosan Tokyo Kabuki''.''Updated Rates Here''.''Search for more:''Tokyo Hotels''.''What to Prepare Before Your Tokyo Trip''Visa''. Make sure you have the necessary documents to enter Japan. If you’re holding a Philippine passport, you need a visa. Check out this post for the details:''Japan Visa for Filipino Tourists''Appropriate clothes and skin products''. If you’re traveling to Tokyo in winter, make sure you’re well-prepared for the cold. Gloves and scarves will make you comfortable. Don’t forget to bring lip balm and  moisturizer.''Access to''Hyperdia website''. Whenever I’m in Japan, this is my go-to site when I want to check train timetables and routes. All you need to do is enter your origin and destination and it will tell you options on how to get there including travel time, fares, and transfers involved. There is also an Android app version of this site, but it’s not available in most countries.''Google Maps''. You’ll be amazed how incredibly reliable this is in Tokyo. While Hyperdia gets my train routes covered, Google Maps can show you walking trails and bus options. It’s so detailed, they even have interior maps of major train stations indicating the shops inside the building PER FLOOR.''Google Translate App''. You’ll find a lot of signs (especially in non-touristy sites like local markets) that are completely in Japanese and without any translation. This can help a lot. I only use this when I’m in a hurry though. Asking questions is actually a great excuse for me to talk to a local, which I love doing.''Internet Connection in Tokyo''There are a lot of FREE wi-fi spots throughout Tokyo, but if you want to stay connected 24/7, you can rent a mobile wi-fi or get a local 4G SIM.''Pocket Wifi Rental''The cheapest way of getting connected to the Internet in Japan is renting a mobile wi-fi. It can accommodate multiple users so if you’re a group, you just need one and split the cost. You’ll find a lot of them around, even at the airport. However, based on experience, they are so in demand that every time I try to get one, there’s always none left. Fortunately, with Klook,''you can reserve one and just pick it up at the airport''!''For 4G Wifi Rental:''RESERVE HERE''Local 4G SIM''If you opt with a 4G Data SIM, you can choose between two packages: unlimited 4G data for 8 days (around P1500) and 3GB data for 8 days (around P1100). If you’re a heavy data user, best to go with the Unlimited Plan. You can pick up the SIM card at Narita Airport.''For 4G SIM Card:''RESERVE HERE''How to Get from Narita Airport to Tokyo City Center''Tokyo is one of the most visited cities in the world, so accessibility isn’t an issue. In fact, it is served by two airports: Narita, for international flights, and Haneda, for domestic flights mostly.''Located 70km from the city center, Narita Airport is farther from the city than Haneda. Narita Airport has 3 terminals and has more transfer options. Here are your cheapest bets:''By bus.''Keisei Bus''transfer passengers from Narita Airport to Tokyo Station. If your hotel is near Tokyo Station or any of its very few stops, good for you. If not, you might still need to take the train.''Here are the rates:''Regular Hours (5am-12mn)''Adult: ¥900 if you reserve in advance, ¥1000 if you book at the airport''Child: ¥500''Late Night/Early Morning (12mn-5am)''Adult: ¥900 if you reserve, ¥2000 if you book at the airport''Child: ¥500 if you reserve, ¥1000 if you book at the airpot''To book in advance, visit the''Keisei Bus website''and click on the ENGLISH tab in the upper right corner. On the next page, click on TOKYO SHUTTLE. Follow the steps detailed on the next page.''By train''Only Terminals 1 and 2 have their own train station. If you’re landing at Terminal 3, you need to make your way on foot to Terminal 2. You just need to follow the signs. Plenty of ’em around.''The cheapest train option is the''Keisei Main Line Limited Express''. Depending on where your hotel is located, your route will change and you might need to make a few train switches. To check, visit the''Hyperdia website''and enter the train station closest to your hotel.''Assuming your hotel is in Ueno, this is how much this train will take you to Keisei-Ueno Station.''Fare'': ¥1030 for adult (¥520, child)''Travel time'': 70 minutes''Seat'': Free seating''Do not confuse this with the Keisei SKYLINER, for which seats are paid and reservations are mandatory. The great thing about the Skyliner though is that it can take you to the city in almost half the time (but for double the price).''Fare'': ¥1240''Reserved Seat'': ¥1230 (additional fee)''Travel time'': 40 minutes (to Ueno)''More transfer options here:''Narita Airport to Tokyo City Center the Cheapest Way''How to Get to Haneda Airport to Tokyo City Center — TO FOLLOW''How to Get Around Tokyo''Taxis are expensive, and buses can be confusing for first-timers. The train is the most efficient mode of transportation. Tokyo has an expansive railway system. Wherever it is you’re going, there is most likely a train station very close to it.''Tokyo by train can be a bit overwhelming at first, but it’s easy once you get the hang of it. First, bear in mind that the network is used by almost a dozen operators, including those serving the suburbs. However, in this article, let’s focus on the three companies that serve Central Tokyo:''JR East'',''Toei Subway'', and''Tokyo Metro Subway''. Each of them operate multiple lines that get so entangled, it’s amazing how the Japanese make it work.''JR East''controls the all-important''JR Yamanote Line''. Expectedly, this line is used by a good fraction of the population (which is me saying that it’s often crowded, hehe). Aside from Yamanote, JR also runs other lines including Chuo Main, Chuo-Sobu, and the Shinkansen (bullet train).''The subway lines are operated by''Tokyo Metro''and''Toei''. Although separate companies, these two are in great synergy. Often, you don’t need to exit the gates and buy new tickets even if you switch from Toei to Metro lines. (There are cases when you do, though.) Subway lines are marked with an assigned letter in a color-coded circle. For example, Shinjuku Line’s mark is an S in a leaf green circle. Mita Line’s mark is a the letter I in a blue circle. Remember these marks and the companies’ logos because this is how you’ll find them.''Tokyo Metro Subway Lines''Toei Subway Lines''You might be thinking, “Oh cool. That looks easy.” Wrong. It seems easy to understand now, but if you’re a Tokyo newbie, it’s a lot more difficult in practice. These lines are so entangled, and when they meet in major stations like Shinkuku or Tokyo, things get even more complicated. Even I, who have been to Tokyo four times, and my sister, who has been living in Tokyo for years, sometimes get awfully lost.''Aside from the lines, you also might need to know the different train types:''Local''Trains are those that stop at every single station of the line. EVERY. SINGLE. STATION. If your stop is 20+ stations away, it can take a lot of time.''Rapid''Trains are those that skip some stations. Same price as local trains. Same platforms, too.''Express''Trains skip even more stations.''Limited Express''stop only at major stations. Additional fee is usually required.''If it entails waiting only a few minutes on the platform, I would usually just choose a rapid or express train even when the a local train is already approaching. WARNING, though: Board the non-local trains only if you’re sure it will make a stop at your station. You don’t wanna skip your stop. True story. Hahaha.''How to Travel By Train using Single Tickets''Tokyo Subway Route Maps are displayed above ticket machines. Notice the one-day pass offer below it.''On your web browser, go to''Hyperdia.com/en/''. Enter your origin and the station where you’re going. It will then display possible route options including how much the ride costs and transfers needed to get there. At the train station, you can double check the price. Just look at the route map, usually above the ticket machines. The map displays the price based on distance. Sometimes, the map is in Japanese characters only, which is why Hyperdia is useful.''Once you know how much you’re gonna pay, approach the ticket machines.''By default, these machines display everything in Japanese characters. But there is a button there that reads ENGLISH. Press that button and you will hear a voice saying “All train information will be displayed in English.” (I said it out loud in the right intonation when I typed that. Totoo.)''Follow the steps onscreen''. Usually, you will need to press the button (next to the screen) that displays how many passengers you are and then press the corresponding price on the screen. Yep, you should know how much you should be paying before using these machines, hence the first two steps. It will then ask you to confirm your booking.''Get the tickets that the machine will release''. (If after getting the ticket you realize you made a mistake or you just change your mind, don’t worry. Just use the same ticket. Fare adjustment machines are installed at every station. Make the adjustment at the destination.)''Feed your ticket to the ticket slots at the gate''. It will emerge at the end of the gate. Pick it up again. The ticket is small so try your best not to lose it.''Go to the right platform''. To check if you’re in the right direction, check the list of stations usually displayed on a wall before the platforms. There is also a more detailed timetable in the middle of the platform.''Wait for the right train''. The estimated time of arrival of the next few trains and the train type (Rapid, Local, etc) are displayed on electronic screens above the platform.''That’s it! If you get lost or you encounter any problem, don’t hesitate to approach the staff at the window. Every station has one.''Also, if you’re an adult, don’t even try getting a ticket meant for kids just to get a discount. Children’s tickets make a distinct birdy sound when used at the gates to let the staff know that it’s really being used by kids. Yep, birdy.''How to Buy and Use Suica or Pasmo Card''Prepaid IC Cards are also available. It seldom offers discounts, but the beauty of it is that you don’t need to get a ticket each time you’re using the train. You just need to quickly hover the card over the reader and you’re through.''What’s the difference between Suica and Pasmo? The companies offering it, mainly. Suica is sold by JR while Pasmo by Toei and Tokyo Metro. However, both cards work in any Tokyo Metro, Toei, or JR line. As far as the user experience is concerned, it’s very similar.''To get one, you just need to approach one of the PASMO or SUICA machines at the station. There’s no use for me to enumerate the steps here because it’s so easy. Just choose ENGLISH on the welcome screen and follow the instructions.''These cards can also be used on buses. An increasing number of shops and other establishments are also accepting these cards as mode of payment. You can even use it to buy drinks or snacks from vending machines.''Should You Get One of Those One-Day Train Passes?''A lot of them are available but I find most of them impractical.''Tokyo Free Kippu''(Tokyo Tour Ticket) allows you unlimited access to any JR, Toei, or Tokyo Metro line within Central Tokyo for one day. It costs ¥1590. It only makes sense if you’ll be riding the train SEVERAL times in a day.''Tokyo Subway Ticket''grants you unlimited access to all subway lines (Toei and Tokyo metro, NOT JR). Cost: ¥800 for 24 hours, ¥1200 for 48 hours, and ¥1500 for 72 hours. Available at Narita and Haneda airport. This is a good deal only if most of the attractions you’re gonna visit are close to a subway station.''You can book a Tokyo Subway Ticket here:''BUY METRO TICKET HERE''There are many other variations, but the two above are the most common.''Should You Buy a JR Pass?''It depends on your itinerary. Before you purchase one, know that the JR Pass can only be used on JR line rides. You can’t use it on Toei or Tokyo Metro rides. So if you will be staying in Tokyo the entire trip, a JR Pass isn’t really worth it.''It only makes sense to get a JR Pass if you’re on a multi-city journey around Japan. For example, if you will be visiting three cities in 7 days, it could be a great deal.''If your itinerary involves taking long-distance trains often and you’re staying for 7 days, you can save money by getting a Train Pass.''CHECK JR PASS RATES HERE''Places to Visit in Tokyo''Here are some of Tokyo’s notable tourist spots. I also indicated the nearest train station for your reference.''Tokyo Disney Resort''Nearest Station'': JR Maihama Station (Keiyo Line)''This resort complex comprises Tokyo Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea.''More info here:''Tokyo Disney Resort Guide''You can skip the lines if you buy your ticket online! You can simply book, print it out, and then go straight to the gates!''BUY DISNEY 1-DAY PASS HERE''Tokyo SkyTree''At 634 meters, this is Japan’s tallest structure, offering a panoramic view of the megalopolis. The entrance to the tower is on the fourth level of SkyTree Town. The place is usually packed. If you didn’t make advance reservations, approach the staff by the entrance and they will usually assign a time slot. Sometimes, you’re in for a long wait. We went there at 3pm and was assigned a 5pm slot. Fast tickets are available but they’re double the regular price.''Admission Fee'': First observatory, 2060 yen; Second observatory: additional 1030 yen''Nearest Stations'': Tokyo SkyTree Station, Oshiage''You can make an advance reservation online. Klook offers a''SkyTree observatory + Sky Duck combo ticket''!''BUY TICKETS HERE''Sensō-ji (aka Asakusa Temple)''Tokyo’s oldest temple, it was built in 645 as a tribute to Kannon, the goddess of mercy.''Admission'': FREE''Nearest Station'': Asakusa''Tsukiji Fish Market''where you can witness a fish auction or have sushi or sashimi for breakfast. For the best experience, visit this in the early morning.''Admission Fee'': FREE''Nearest Station'': Tsukiji Shijo (Oedo Subway Line)''Harajuku’s Takeshita-Dori (Takeshita Street)''The epicenter of Tokyo’s teenage culture and an extremely popular shopping street flanked with boutiques and restaurants.''Admission Fee'': FREE''Nearest Station'': Harajuku (JR Yamanote Line)''Meiji Shrine''A Shinto shrine completed in 1921 in honor of Emperor Meiji and Empress Shōken''Admission Fee'': FREE. However, the teahouse garden tucked next to it charges ¥500 per person.''Nearest Station'': Harajuku (JR Yamanote Line)''Yoyogi Park''Where locals meet and socialize, play sports, dance or just hang. There are cherry blossoms here, too, but not as many as those in other parks.''Admission Fee'': FREE''Nearest Station'': Harajuku''Shibuya Crossing''Many consider this the world’s busiest intersection. It still baffles me how an intersection became a famous tourist spot, but hey whatever floats your boat. One thing I love doing here though is watch people. Get a seat at nearby Starbucks and go for it. And oh, the statue of Hachiko, the faithful dog, is just in front of Shibuya Station. You’ll know you’re there when you see a crowd building up for their turn to take a photo.''Admission Fee'': FREE''Nearest Station'': Shibuya''The Imperial Palace''It remains the official residence of the Imperial Family. Located at the site where Edo Castle used to stand, the Imperial Palace sits at the center of a large park, scribbled with wide green moats and colossal stone dykes. On January 2 and December 23, the Emperor makes an appearance and greets the audience throughout the day.''Nearest Stations'': Otemachi Station (Exit D2), Nijubashi-mae Station (Exit 6), or Tokyo Station (Marunouchi Central Exit).''Ueno Park''It is surrounded by several museums including the Tokyo National Museum, the Tokyo Metropolitan Art Museum, the National Science Museum, and the National Museum for Western Art, and temples including Kaneiji Temple and Kiyomizu Kannon Temple. But Ueno Park is most popular during sakura season! The park nurtures 1000 cherry trees flanking its main pathway.''Admission Fee'': The park itself is FREE, but charges apply if you enter the museums.''Nearest Station'': Ueno''Akihabara''The otaku’s ultimate mecca and Tokyo’s quirkiest destination. Here you’ll find several electronic stores, manga shops and cafes, maid cafes, Gundam Cafe, Tokyo Anime Center, and a 7-story sex shop.''Nearest Station'': Akihabara''Odaiba''Composed of man-made islands off the coast of the city. Attractions here include a view of the iconic Rainbow Bridge, the giant Gundam statue, Fuji TV Building and Leisureland (with a giant arcade, haunted house, ninja illusion house, bowling alleys and more). It’s also a shopping haven with malls like DiverCity Tokyo Plaza and AquaCity, which also houses a ramen theme park on its 5th floor (offering a taste of varieties of ramen from different parts of Japan).''Nearest Station'': Daiba''Other Attractions''Ghibli Museum'', which showcases the work of Studio Ghibli, the Japanese animation studio that produced unforgettable movies like''Spirited Away''and''My Neighbor Totoro''and was co-founded by Hayao Miyazaki. You need to book in advance as they don’t sell tickets at the museum.''Book here:''Lawson Ticket''Admission Fee: ¥1000 adult, ¥700 for ages 13-18, ¥400 for ages 7-12, ¥100 for ages 4-6, FREE for under 4yo''Nearest Station: Mitaka (JR Chuo Main Line)''Ryōgoku''is the sumo neighborhood of Tokyo. Here stand the Kokugikan sumo stadium and Sumo Museum. The stadium is where the three Tokyo tournaments are held in January, May and September, each running for 15 days. Although limited number of same-day tickets are available, it is best too book in advance on their''official website''. General Admission Ticket costs: ¥2200. If there are no sumo tournament at the time of your visit, you may still check out the Sumo Museum. Open Monday to Friday, 10:00 to 16:30. Closed on weekends and national holidays.''Admission Fee: FREE''Nearest Station: Ryōgoku (JR and Toei)''Tokyo Metropolitan Goverment Building''(aka Tokyo City Hall, Tōkyō Tochō) has FREE observation decks that provides one of the best vistas of the city. From you can see the Tokyo Tower and the SkyTree! This is the one I recommend because I believe that the best view of Tokyo isn’t FROM the Tokyo Tower or SkyTree but has either of these structures in the frame. You can even see Mt. Fuji on a clear day! And did I mention it’s FREE.''Nearest Station: Tocho-mae Station (Oedo Subway Line)''Unique Tokyo Tours''If you’re after comfort and convenience, you may also choose a group tour and experience some of Tokyo’s unique attractions.''Robot Restaurant''Photo provided by Klook''Be entertained by high-tech laser displays and high-energy robot shows! Food is not included in the rates, but if you book  the first performance (4:00pm) on a Saturday or Sunday, you’ll get a JPY500 drink coupon and photo op with the Robots for FREE!''BOOK THIS TOUR''Tokyo Dinner Cruise''Photo provided by Klook''Perfect for couples celebrating a special occasions! This will treat you to a full-course meal as you admire Tokyo Bay’s majestic city lights!''BOOK THIS TOUR''Tokyo Kimono Rental''Photo provided by Klook''Wear an authentic kimono or yukata! They will also style your hair appropriately. Once you’re all set, you can explore the streets of Asakusa and go selfie-crazy! Kimono units must be returned before 4:30pm, though.''RESERVE A KIMONO HERE''Sumo Practice''Photo provided by Klook''Get a closer look at the sumo wrestlers’ morning practice for 2 hours while learning more about this Japanese sport! This small group tour is done in English for you to appreciate it better.''RESERVE A SLOT NOW''Day Tours Outside Tokyo''Outside of Tokyo but easily accessible are several destinations that may be worth your time, although a trip may set you back a few thousand yen. If you can’t visit all of these, I highly recommend to pick the best at the time of your visit. For example, I went to Lake Kawaguchi in December because I also wanted to ski on the slopes of Mt. Fuji. If I visited during summer, it would have been closed.''Anyway, here are some suggestions. I’ll be writing a separate article for each of these so I could discuss them in detail.''Hakone''Hakone offers a closer look at Mt. Fuji. Located 100km from Tokyo, it is one of the favorite day tours among foreign tourists staying in Tokyo. It is part of the Fuji-Hakone-Izu National Park, whose map is shaded with hot springs!''How to get there: From Shinjuku Station, take the train to Hakone-Yumoto Station (2 hours, ¥1190). There are faster trains that could take you there for only 85 minutes but costs ¥1190.''You can also join a group tour! The tour comes with''hotel pick up''and FREE unlimited wifi! It will allow you to do the following:''Enjoy a fantastic view of Mt. Fuji''Cruise around Lake Ashi''Take a 50-minute ropeway up Mt. Komagatake''JOIN THIS TOUR''Kamakura''Kamakura is often called the Kyoto of Eastern Japan because of its countless shrines, temples, and monuments including a giant bronze statue of Buddha. I also did a bit of trekking in its mountains and had my first glimpse of Mt. Fuji along the way. Kamakura was also home to the greatest samurai swordsmith named Masamune, whose descendant Tsunahiro Yamamura (Masamune XXIV) has been carrying the 700-year sword-making tradition and showcasing it at Masamune Sword and Blade Workshop, which you can visit. You may also buy souvenirs at a 100-year-old sword shop here called Sankai-do.''How to get there: From Tokyo Station, travel by train to Kamakura Station (1 hour, ¥920)''Lake Kawaguchi''Kawaguchiko is the second largest, the most popular, the most developed, and the most easily accessible of the Fuji Five Lakes. Located in Yamanashi, it is one hour and 20 minutes away from Tokyo’s Shinjuku Station by direct express train, and two hours by bus or local train. The town is part of the Fujisan Cultural Site, inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2013. From here, you can have a great view of Mt. Fuji. It is also a jump off point for Fujiten Ski Resort, one of the only two resorts on the slopes of Mt. Fuji itself.''How to get there: From Shinjuku Station, take the bus to Kawaguchiko (2 hours, ¥1700, one-way) and Tokyo Station (3 hours, ¥1700, one-way). Visit the Fujikyu Bus official website for the schedule and other details.''Hitachi Seaside Park''This is a 190-hectare garden with flowering plants, taking turns in painting colors to the landscape: nemophila, rose, and zinnia in summer; cosmos and kochia in autumn; narcissuses, tulips, and azaleas in spring. My blogging partner Vins visited in early spring so the flowers weren’t in full bloom. Hahaha. Don’t make that mistake. Check out their website to confirm the best times to visit.''How to get there: From Tokyo/Ueno, take the train to Katsuta Station (¥2270, 70-80 minutes). Take the Ibarakikotsu Bus to Hitachi Seaside Park (15-20 minutes).''Yokohama''Yokohama is Japan’s second largest city. It’s also just half an hour from Tokyo. I’ve been to Yokohama twice now and I enjoyed both times, especially because (1) I love ramen and (2) I love arcade games. The Shin-Yokohama Ramen Museum and Cup Noodles Museum are both located here. I also adore walking around the Minato Mirai area, especially Cosmo World. The thing with arcades here is that it is easy to win prizes.''How to get there: Use the Tokyu Toyoko Line and board the Express or Limited Express train to Yokohama Station or Minato Mirai Station.''Where to Eat Cheap in Tokyo''It is impossible to talk about Tokyo without a mention of its food. The Japanese take their food very seriously. It has more Michelin-star restaurants than any other city in the world (although most of them are pricey and require reservations months in advance).''When in Tsukiji''Unless you’re cooking, the easiest way to save money on food is to hit the supermarket. Japanese supermarkets sell not just raw ingredients but also cooked ones that you can simply heat or eat right away. Convenience stores serve good meals, too.''But you probably didn’t go to Tokyo just to raid their supermarkets and convenience stores (not that something’s wrong with that, if that’s your thing). Even if you’re running on limited fuel (money!), you can still eat out! Here are some of the city’s more-than-good but (relatively) affordable food places. I’ll be writing a more detailed post about this, but here’s a short summary.''Nonbei Yokocho''(aka Drunkard’s Alley), a lane of wooden shack bars and bistros tucked away from the main streets of Shibuya. The bars here are so small, some of them can accommodate only four people at once. The best way to go about this is to just find one with a free space, eat and drink your heart out, exit and move to the next door.''Address: 1-25-10 Shibuya, Shibuya-ku''Nearest Station: Shibuya''Ebisu Yokocho'', also a foodie neighborhood in Shibuya, has a good collection of izakaya and small bars offering sashimi and grilled meat, among others. You can try the sashimi plate of Saiki or the shio ramen of Afuri.''Address: Ebisu Nishi, Shibuya-ku''Nearest Station: Ebisu''Tsukiji Fish Market''isn’t just a place to buy raw seafoods. It’s surrounded by countless sushi bars, the most popular of which are Daiwa Sushi and Sushi Dai. Prepare to shell out a bit more because good sushi doesn’t come cheap in Tokyo, especially if they’re as fresh as the ones served here. A 7-piece serving of nigiri sushi costs ¥2500 and 10-piece omakase sushi from ¥4000. Some queue up before sunrise just to secure a seat. There are seafood kiosks, too! You can try seared scallops, grilled fish, or fresh oysters as you walk around.''Ichiran''is a food chain specializing in tonkotsu ramen. They have several branches throughout Tokyo, and almost all of them have a long queue of hungry patrons during meal times. A Forbes article claims it’s the best ramen in Tokyo. I don’t agree, but it’s really good. My first time was when my sister brought me to the Ichiran branch in Ueno. My second time was when I was walking around Shinjuku and found saw a long queue. I didn’t know what they were falling in line for but when you see a queue in Tokyo, you join. Chances are, you’re in for good food. Anyway, it turned out it was a queue for Ichiran. What makes eating here unique isn’t just the food but the experience. Each diner is given their own space, guaranteeing some sort of privacy while you eat.''Ichiran Tonkotsu Ramen''Ippudo''is another popular chain serving tonkotsu-based ramen. It’s incredibly popular that it has branched out to other countries like Singapore, Korea, and the Philippines. Many claim it’s better than Ichiran. No shade, but Ichiran is miles better for me. Still good, though.''Kaotan Ramen''has been serving simple yet delicious shoyu ramen at their rundown, cozy shack for many decades now.''Menya Hanabi''in Shinjuku is famous for their maze-soba (¥780), which is noodles with minced pork and beef, nori, spring onions, and topped with egg yolk.''Address: 2-8-16 Okubo (Cosmos Bldg., Shinjuku)''Nihon Saisei Sakaba''‘s selection is for the more adventurous eater. They serve pig entrails for ¥150-200 per skewer.''Address: 3-1-1 Nishishinjuku (Beside KDDI Bldg, Shinjuku)''Tsukemen Michi''(or Tsukemenmichi) in Kameari is not for those on a healthy diet. Their signature tsukemen is greasy and high in fat, but that doesn’t stop people for queuing up just to get their lips around their noodles.''Address: 5-28-17 Kameari, Katsushika''Harajuku Gyoza Lou''(aka Harajuku Gyoza-ro) has a very limited, straightforward menu: gyoza dumplings, bean sprouts with minced meat, cucumber with miso soup, cabbage. But of course, most people come here for the gyoza, which is either steamed or fried, original or with garlic and leeks. I always stop by this place and have two plates. A serving of gyoza has 6 pieces and costs ¥200. There’s always a line here, too, so prepare to wait a bit.''Address: 6-2-4 Jingumae, Shibuya''Queue at Harajuku Gyoza-ro''Also, if you want to try other food chains, go ahead. You might be in for a surprise. I was so reluctant to enter''Yoshinoya''because I’m just not a fan of the one we have here in the Philippines, but maaaaan, Yoshinoya in Japan tastes so different. Their''unadon''(unagi or eel on rice bowl) almost made us miss our flight, haha.''There are other cheap food places too. If you see something that catches your attention while you’re walking around, don’t be shy. A lot of these sort-of “nameless” restaurants can be a highlight of your trip. While in Itabashi, we found this small ramen place that serves amazing miso ramen at Y500. Didn’t catch the name, though.''And like I said, if you see a line, join the fun. Locals don’t mind spending minutes queueing if they know that what’s at the end of the line is worth it.''Where to Shop in Tokyo''We created a separate post for this.''Read it here:''10 Places to Shop in Tokyo''Sample Tokyo Itinerary with Breakdown of Expenses''To save time, energy, and money, build your itinerary well. Visit attractions close to each other on the same day. For example, the Meiji Shrine, Harajuku, Yoyogi Park, and Shibuya Crossing area can all be explored on foot in one day.''Here are three sample 6D/5N itineraries. Note that the first two assume that you are a pair and will be splitting the cost, and that you will be staying in a double/twin room at''Hotel Mystays Ueno East''during the off-peak season. Option 3 assumes you’ll be staying at a capsule hotel in Ueno.''I included a visit to the supermarket on the first day so you could buy food (bread, drinks, etc) that should be your breakfast for the next five days. It’s something I have learned to do when I travel. I also allotted ¥1000 for every unspecified lunch or dinner. That’s actually too much. You can find ramen places that offer ¥500-800 per bowl, but I just thought to give it some allowance (for drinks?). There are many other ways to keep the expenses low.''Options 1 includes a day trip to Kamakura. If you prefer another day tour destination, just replace that one day and adjust the cost accordingly. None of these include shopping budget and other miscellaneous expenses.''OPTION 1: TOKYO WITH DISNEYLAND + KAMAKURA + YOKOHAMA''Pre-trip Expenses''Hotel Booking – USD 210 (USD 84 x 5 nights, divided by 2pax) or ¥24,625''Day 1: ARRIVAL''10:30am – Airport to Tokyo – ¥1030''12:00nn – Check-in or drop baggage''01:00pm – Lunch at Ichiran – ¥980''02:30pm – Ueno Park + Tokyo National Museum – ¥620''08:00pm – Hit supermarket for breakfast provisions – ¥3000''09:00pm – Sleep! Early day tomorrow!''Day 2: TSUKIJI + SHINJUKU + AKIHABARA''05:00am – Ueno to Tsukiji-Shijo – ¥280''06:30am – Sushi Breakfast – ¥2500''08:00am – Walk around Tsukiji Market''11:00am – Travel to Shinjuku – ¥270''11:30am – Quick bite – ¥500 budget''12:00nn – Shinjuku Gyoen + Shinjuku Shopping''04:00pm – Shinjuku to Akihabara – ¥170''04:30pm – Explore Akihabara + Dinner – ¥1000 budget''08:00pm – Walk back to Ueno through Ameyoko''Day 3: SHIBUYA''08:00am – Ueno to Harajuku Station – ¥200''08:30am – Meiji Shrine & Yoyogi Park – FREE''11:30am – Takeshita Dori (Harajuku) – FREE''01:00pm – Light Lunch at Harajuku Gyoza Ro – ¥1000''03:00pm – Shibuya Crossing + Hachiko + shop around''07:00pm – Nonbei or Ebisu Yokocho – ¥2000''09:30pm – Back to Hotel''Day 4: KAMAKURA + YOKOHAMA''07:00am – Ueno to Kamakura – ¥920''08:30am – Hike''11:00am – Packed Lunch (Omusubi) – ¥500''12:00pm – Temple-hopping + Great Buddha – ¥800''03:30pm – Leave for Yokohama – ¥340''04:00pm – Ramen Museum – ¥310 entrance + ¥2000 budget''07:00pm – Minato Mirai (Yokohama)''09:30pm – Yokohama to Ueno – ¥550''Day 5: TOKYO DISNEYLAND OR DISNEYSEA''08:00am – Ueno to Maihama Station – ¥390''08:40am – Disney Resort Monorail – ¥260''09:00am – Disneyland/DisneySea* – ¥7400 + ¥2000 food budget''10:00pm – Monorail to Maihama – ¥260''10:20pm – Maihama to Ueno – ¥390''(Food is allowed into the park)''Day 6: DEPARTURE''10:00am – Check out''11:30am – Tokyo to Narita – ¥1030''This itinerary will cost you a total of''¥55,325 (USD472, PHP23,485)''.''But this is a jampacked itinerary. Use this only if you have the stamina (haha) and you really want to maximize your stay. I wouldn’t do this, to be honest. I would probably just extend my trip to accommodate all these. But I just want to put this option out there just in case you’re interested.''Here are more relaxed alternatives:''OPTION 2: TOKYO + DISNEYLAND''This itinerary removes the visit to Kamakura and Yokohama, breaks Option 1’s Day 2 apart, and adds a visit to Sensoji Temple.''Pre-trip Expenses''Hotel Booking – USD 210 (USD 84 x 5 nights, divided by 2pax) or ¥24,625''Day 1: ARRIVAL''10:30am – Airport to Tokyo – ¥1030''12:00nn – Check-in or drop baggage''01:00pm – Lunch at Ichiran – ¥980''02:30pm – Ueno Park + Tokyo National Museum – ¥620''08:00pm – Hit supermarket for breakfast provisions – ¥3000''09:00pm – Sleep! Early day tomorrow!''Day 2: TSUKIJI + SHINJUKU''05:00am – Ueno to Tsukiji-Shijo – ¥280''06:30am – Sushi Breakfast – ¥2500''08:00am – Walk around Tsukiji Market''11:00am – Quick bite – ¥500 budget''12:00nn – Travel to Shinjuku – ¥270''01:00pm – Shinjuku Gyoen + Shinjuku Shopping''06:00pm – Shinjuku to Ueno – ¥170''07:00pm – Dinner – ¥1000''Day 3: SHIBUYA''08:00am – Ueno to Harajuku Station – ¥200''08:30am – Meiji Shrine & Yoyogi Park – FREE''11:30am – Takeshita Dori (Harajuku) – FREE''01:00pm – Light Lunch at Harajuku Gyoza Ro – ¥1000''03:00pm – Shibuya Crossing + Hachiko + shop around''07:00pm – Nonbei or Ebisu Yokocho – ¥2000''09:30pm – Back to Hotel''Day 4: SENSOJI + AKIHABARA''10:00am – Ueno to Sensoji (Asakusa) – ¥170''10:30am – Sensoji Temple''12:00nm – Lunch – ¥1000 budget''01:30pm – Asakusa to Akihabara – ¥170''02:00pm – Explore Akihabara + Dinner – ¥1000 budget''07:00pm – Walk back to Ueno through Ameyoko''Day 5: TOKYO DISNEYLAND OR DISNEYSEA''08:00am – Ueno to Maihama Station – ¥390''08:40am – Disney Resort Monorail – ¥260''09:00am – Disneyland/DisneySea* – ¥7400 + ¥2000 food budget''10:00pm – Monorail to Maihama – ¥260''10:20pm – Maihama to Ueno – ¥390''(Food is allowed into the park)''Day 6: DEPARTURE''10:00am – Check out''11:30am – Tokyo to Narita – ¥1030''TOTAL: ¥52,245 (USD445, PHP22,178)''.''OPTION 3: TOKYO + ODAIBA (CAPSULE HOTEL)''The BUDGET OPTION. This itinerary replaces the pricey Disneyland visit with a day trip in Odaiba and replaces double room with a bed at a capsule hotel.''Pre-trip Expenses''Capsule Hotel Booking – USD 125 (USD 25 x 5 nights) or ¥14,658''Day 1: ARRIVAL''10:30am – Airport to Tokyo – ¥1030''12:00nn – Check-in or drop baggage''01:00pm – Lunch at Ichiran – ¥980''02:30pm – Ueno Park + Tokyo National Museum – ¥620''08:00pm – Hit supermarket for breakfast provisions – ¥3000''09:00pm – Sleep! Early day tomorrow!''Day 2: TSUKIJI + SHINJUKU''05:00am – Ueno to Tsukiji-Shijo – ¥280''06:30am – Sushi Breakfast – ¥2500''08:00am – Walk around Tsukiji Market''11:00am – Quick bite – ¥500 budget''12:00nn – Travel to Shinjuku – ¥270''01:00pm – Shinjuku Gyoen + Shinjuku Shopping''06:00pm – Shinjuku to Ueno – ¥170''07:00pm – Dinner – ¥1000''Day 3: SHIBUYA''08:00am – Ueno to Harajuku Station – ¥200''08:30am – Meiji Shrine & Yoyogi Park – FREE''11:30am – Takeshita Dori (Harajuku) – FREE''01:00pm – Light Lunch at Harajuku Gyoza Ro – ¥1000''03:00pm – Shibuya Crossing + Hachiko + shop around''07:00pm – Nonbei or Ebisu Yokocho – ¥2000''09:30pm – Back to Hotel''Day 4: SENSOJI + AKIHABARA''10:00am – Ueno to Sensoji (Asakusa) – ¥170''10:30am – Sensoji Temple''12:00nm – Lunch – ¥1000 budget''01:30pm – Asakusa to Akihabara – ¥170''02:00pm – Explore Akihabara + Dinner – ¥1000 budget''07:00pm – Walk back to Ueno through Ameyoko''Day 5: ODAIBA''11:00am – Ueno to Daiba via Yorikamone – ¥480''12:00nn – Lunch – ¥1000''01:30pm – Explore Odaiba, shop around''06:00pm – Dinner – ¥1000''07:00pm – Back to hotel – ¥480''Day 6: DEPARTURE''10:00am – Check out''11:30am – Tokyo to Narita – ¥1030''TOTAL: ¥34,538 (USD295, PHP14,661)''Using ITINERARY #3, if you’re from Manila and you are able to snag a''P6500 roundtrip ticket''(yep! Always watch out for JetStar SALE!) and have your visa processed for only P800 (Discovery Tour or Rajah Travel Corporation), you can enjoy 6 days in Tokyo for only''P21,961''.''See more itineraries here:''SAMPLE JAPAN ITINERARIES''Other Useful Tips''Tipping is not common in Tokyo. To settle your bill, you are expected to approach the cashier on your way out. The cashier is usually stationed by the entrance/exit.''Some restaurants and eateries have a ticket machine by the entrance. The menu is displayed and you just need to press the buttons corresponding your order and enter payment, and it will dispense your tickets.''Many vending machines serve both cold and hot drinks. Most people are surprised to learn about the hot options. Really helpful when you’re out in the cold.''Japanese bills look alike (same color). What varies is the size of the bill. The ¥1000 and ¥10,000 can be confusing so be careful. However, the Japanese are highly UNLIKELY to take advantage. They will even be the first to tell you.''When using the escalator, keep left if you’re not moving.''Be quiet inside the train. It’s seldom that you find people having loud conversations onboard. When it happens, they’re usually tourists.''If you have a cold or cough, wear surgical masks in public. Locals wear those not because they don’t want to get sick but because they don’t want to pass on the illness to others.''Learn a few Japanese phrases. The most useful would be''Sumimasen''(Excuse me, sorry) and''Arigatoo gozaimasu''(Thank you).''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''JAPAN MULTI-CITY TOUR: How to Plan a Budget Trip''Get Inspired: 100km Walk Around Tokyo, Japan (Video)''5 Reasons We’re Excited About ANA’s New Tokyo Haneda-New York/Chicago Flights''Tokyo: Top 10 Budget Hotels Under $70''How to Get Around Tokyo by Train''Japan’s largest airline ANA has just announced two additional international routes from Tokyo Haneda Airport, and they’re flying to New York and Chicago! We’re stoked! This couldn’t have happened at a better time because coincidentally, we’re set to visit this side of the States as part of our North American trip this 2017. This announcement by ANA just made us more excited. Here’s why.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Tokyo is our favorite city in the world. And we can’t think of a better stopover.''2. They’re flying from Haneda Airport.''3. It’s about time that we set foot in the Big Apple.''4. Chicago is another must-visit city for us!''5. ANA has consistently been among the best airlines in the world.''As soon as we walked into our room in Munich, I had to say it. “I hate to admit this,” I told my blogging partner Yoshke, who was in charge of booking our accommodations, “But you did great finding these hotels.”''“Of course,” he answered. The smug look on his face turned smugger. But giving credit to where credit is due, it was truly amazing how he was able to find good hotels and hostels that are within the very limited budget range and the multiple restrictions that we set for this two-month European trip.''More than snagging cheap flight tickets or tours, it was booking rooms that was the most time-consuming and painstaking part of preparing for this journey. If this happened years ago, it would have been a lot easier. Years ago, we were okay with dorms, and searching for dorm beds is a piece of cake most of the time. Over the past couple of years, both Yoshke and I started snoring loudly, scandalously, relentlessly. (Between the two of us, Yoshke is way worse, though.) We didn’t want to upset roommates so we settled with private rooms. It’s a bit pricier, but we do it for world peace.''You might be thinking, why do you have to book rooms in advance? Isn’t travel more fun when done spontaneously? Well, yeah, travel is more fun without a plan, but the thing is: This is Europe and we’re holding a Philippine passport. Hotel reservations are REQUIRED when applying for a visa. And we had a very limited budget, we couldn’t afford any costly surprises.''But before you read our short reviews below, please take note of the following:''WE PAID FOR THESE HOTELS IN FULL''. None of these are sponsored. None. Nada. Nil. Zilch. You can count on these reviews to be unbiased and absolutely objective.''The rates displayed here are the actual amount we shelled out when we booked them''. The figures may change depending on the season and demand. We traveled from mid-September to mid-November, which is considered shoulder period. If you travel in June-August or December, rates may be higher.''Book early!''We booked just a few weeks before the actual trip. There were better and cheaper options but they were fully-booked already. But we would always check the website to see if there were slots that opened up.''These are all private rooms.''However, some of these don’t have a private bathroom. We actually don’t mind shared bathrooms and toilets as long as they’re clean. We were cool with it.''With only a couple of exceptions, almost all of those we booked are situated so close to most attractions or the train terminal or both''. If you’re on a multi-city Euro trip, you might want to do the same because walking around with a heavy backpack can be exhausting.''Now that we have that out of the way, below is a list of all the hotels, hostels, and apartments where we stayed, including what we thought about them, what we liked, what we didn’t like so much, and what else you might need to know.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Paris: Au Royal Mad''Brussels: 2GO4 Quality Hostel''Reykjavik: Helga’s Apartment (AirBnB)''Copenhagen: Globalhagen Hostel''Malmo: Hotel Continental Malmo''Amsterdam: Inner Hotel''Prague: Hotel Opletalova''Vienna: Wombats City Hostel Vienna – The Lounge''Munich: Euro Youth Hotel''Zurich: Ramada Hotel''Florence: Bronze Horse Guesthouse''Rome: Hotel Leone''Locals have a word for it:''hatsuyuki'', the first snow.''No one expected it, but there it was, swirling in the air and clinging to whatever surface it lands on only to melt away in an instant. December was still a week away but Tokyo just had its first dusting of the season, its first November snow in 54 years. Winter came a bit too early.''I wasn’t really prepared for it. But even when I packed with autumn in mind, I wasn’t concerned that the Japanese capital was less warm than anticipated. I’m no stranger to Tokyo winter. I had spent two Januaries in its cold, cold embrace before and found that it’s not difficult to find warmth if you know your way around.''Tokyo is a year-round destination. You’ll find plenty of incredible things to do and places to visit at any time of the year. Spring tends to be the most popular, as cherry blossoms magically attract tourists from around the world. But winter is not to be overlooked.''My fascination with winter maybe unusual because I spent most of my life in the tropics, but maaannnnn, I love winter. It’s the year when I can finally drop my tees and pick up outerwear without being worried about sweating a lot. Also, I enjoy getting a bit dressy. But the magic of winter goes beyond my taste in fashion, lol. Like most destinations, flights to and hotels in Tokyo are way cheaper. Travel dates of most Tokyo seat sales fall within December to March! Moreover, most attractions are not as crowded. Okay, it can still get pretty jampacked, but not as crazy as the spring and summer months.''Of course, it has some disadvantages too. One thing that annoys me is that it can get really warm inside the train. When its cold outside, you tend to put on a lot of layers, but you’re gonna have to shed them off inside and put them back on again on your way out of the station. Also, days are considerable shorter. As someone who likes taking pictures, I always find myself trying to beat the sunset. Daylight is gone as early as 4pm, and some establishments close earlier, too. Finally, I hate snow. Snow is cute only in the first five minutes. But that’s just me.''Anyway, if you’re Tokyo-bound this winter, here are some amazing things you can do!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. See the Emperor at the Imperial Palace''2. Shop ’til you drop!''3. Join the locals in their first temple visit of the year.''4. Ski near Mt. Fuji!''5. Bury your face in bowls of ramen!''6. Get warm at an onsen or sento.''7. Be enchanted by Plum Blossoms.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''1. See the Emperor at the Imperial Palace''The Imperial Palace is the official residence of Japan’s Imperial Family. Located at the site where Edo Castle used to stand, the Imperial Palace sits at the center of a large park, scribbled with wide green moats and colossal stone dykes. The East Gardens are accessible to anyone for the rest of the year (except Mondays and Fridays), but the inner gardens are only open to the public on two occasions, both of which fall in winter: December 23, for the Emperor’s birthday; and January 2, for the New Year Greeting.''Japanese flags waved instantly when the Emperor appeared.''You can sense that he’s well-loved by the people. I was able to see the Emperor and listen to him address the huge crowd in 2014, and it was organized af. Even when security measures were thorough and the lines stretched for kilometers leading to a sea of humanity, they moved pretty quickly.''How to get to Imperial Palace: Take the train to Otemachi Station (Exit D2),  Nijubashi-mae Station (Exit 6), or Tokyo Station (Marunouchi Central Exit). It is a short walk away from here. On January 2 and December 23, when the Emperor makes an appearance, officials assign specific entrances and exits. Please check the official website to know the nearest station to the assigned entry point.''2. Shop ’til you drop!''I’m not really a big fan of shopping because I usually don’t have money to shop with (haha), but for some reason, I genuinely enjoy it in Tokyo! Its map is shaded with several shopping districts and lined with countless shopping streets, teeming with interesting finds and curious collectibles.''Tap for details''If you’re a shopaholic, try to schedule your visit within the first week of January and experience the NEW YEAR SALE. It’s as though the entire megalopolis is on sale and great deals are everywhere. And we’re not just talking about 10 or 20% discounts. You can walk out of a store with a 100-yen garment!''Read more:''Where to shop in Tokyo''3. Join the locals in their first temple visit of the year.''Speaking of New Year, don’t expect endless firework displays and massive street parties in Tokyo. Locals prefer to welcome the new year by making their first visit to temple. They call it''Hatsumōde''.''Queuing up for their first temple visit''Big crowds build up at temples (throughout Japan), but the biggest is possibly at Meiji Shrine. One of the popular activities during Hatsumōde is purchasing what is called omikuji, a piece of paper on which your supposed fortune is written.''4. Ski near Mt. Fuji!''This one isn’t really in Tokyo but is easily accessible from the city. Mt. Fuji has only two ski resorts around its base:''Fujiten Snow Resort''by the northern slope and''Snow Town Yeti''south of the mountain. These ski resorts are open from early December to late March. The quality of the powder here doesn’t come close to ski destinations in other parts of Japan (heck, in early December, the snow isn’t even real), but the ambience is wonderful.''Fujiten Snow Resort''I’ve tried Fujiten and I just loved that I was skiing with Mt. Fuji standing so close in the background. No entrance fee was collected from us, but gear rental and lift tickets cost ¥3000 and ¥4500 respectively. And it was also only accessible via taxi, which cost us a fortune.''I haven’t tried Snow Town Yeti, but Klook is offering tours to this ski resort including roundtrip transfers from Tokyo, ski or snowboard rental fee, boots rental, and ski lift access.''Reserve a Slot Here''.''5. Bury your face in bowls of ramen!''The best thing to do when it’s cold? Eat ramen, of course. Tokyo has a gazillion ramen places, ranging from reservation-only Michelin-starred choices to popular ramen chains to wallet-friendly corner ramen bars. If you want to sample the different flavors of ramen as served in different parts of Japan, head to the Ramen Food Court in AquaCity Odaiba.''Ramen, ramen, ramen!''But if you’re really serious about ramen, hop on a train and visit Yokohama, where you can find the Shin-Yokohama Ramen Museum, where you can also sample various ramens from around Japan, and the Cup Noodles Museum in Minato Mirai, where you can also learn about the history of the beloved instant ramen.''6. Get warm at an onsen or sento.''You’ll find two types of bath places that are engrained in Japanese culture: the onsen and the sento. In a nutshell, onsen harnesses volcanic hot springs, while sento uses heated tap water.''Back in the olden days, Japanese houses were small and didn’t have their own baths, which is why the traditional sento became an important part of the Japanese social custom. The bad news is, traditional sento are in decline. However, more modern ones have emerged, many are equipped with other facilities like sauna and cold pools.''The onsen is more fascinating. Being one of the most volcanic countries in the world, Japan has over 3000 onsen. However, only a handful of them are in Tokyo. If you want an unforgettable onsen experience, it would be best to make your way to Hakone, which is naturally gifted with hot springs that come with magnificent views.''7. Be enchanted by Plum Blossoms.''During the Nara period (710-784), when they held “flower viewing” festivals, they were admiring not the sakura or cherry blossoms, but the ume or Japanese plum blossoms. Over the centuries, however, cherry blossoms and their dramatic visual appeal overpowered the more timid appearance but sweeter, stronger scent of the plums. Still, some locals continue to adore them especially during Ume Matsuri (plum festival).''The ume is usually the first blooms of the year, happening in from mid-February to March, which is why most people see it as the first sign of spring. In Tokyo, you can enjoy the plum blossoms at the following parks:''Koishikawa Korakuen (Korakuen Station, Marunouchi Subway Line), Hanegi Park (Umegaoka Station, Odakyu Line), and Yushima Tenjin Shrine (Yushima Station, Chiyoda Subway Line).''For more Tokyo tips, read:''Tokyo Budget Travel Guide''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''ARASHIYAMA, KYOTO: A DIY Walking Tour''Win a Trip to Japan! Join the Brother ’10 for Tokyo’ Challenge!''10 Photos of Cherry Blossoms in Japan''Where to Stay in Tokyo''Tokyo: Top 10 Budget Hotels Under $70''The Northern Mariana Islands is a commonwealth of the United States composed of 15 islands dotting the northwestern part of the Pacific Ocean that is surrounded by Japan to the north, Guam to the south, Hawaii to the west, and the Philippines to the east. Of these 15 islands, Saipan is the biggest (and the second biggest of the greater Marianas Group, next only to Guam). Only 23 km long and 8 km wide, it can be easily explored, perfect for those seeking a quiet, relaxing tropical holiday.''This trip was made possible by Blogapalooza and the Marianas Visitors Authority.''Saipan is divided into 30 villages, but some of those you might come across with are Garapan and Susupe, the hotel districts, and Chalan Kanoa.''Tourism is one of the biggest drivers of its economy, so visitors are well-taken care of and sites are well-maintained. Because all attractions here are tourist-ready and the size of the island doesn’t demand a lot of transportation options, renting a car makes the most sense if you’re on a budget. But if you wish to have a better understanding of these places, you may also hire a travel agency or tour operator.''If you plan your way around Saipan, it is easy to find incredible things to do that does not cost anything. As simple as watching the dramatic sunset from the beach will already give you a much needed dose of wonder. But here are some of the island’s most important destinations (some of which can be enjoyed for FREE).''Saipan Sunset'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Bird Island (FREE)''2. Grotto Dive Site''3. Forbidden Island (FREE ACCESS)''4. Garapan Street Market (FREE ENTRANCE)''5. International Festival of Cultures (FREE ENTRANCE)''6. Last Japanese Command Post''7-8. Suicide Cliff and Banzai Cliff (FREE)''9. Mt. Tapochau''10. Managaha Island''Some tips to consider''I’m writing this at four in the morning. Wrapped in a thick blanket and sipping a cup of tea, I have given up on catching some sleep tonight. I seem to have left my mind in Europe, unable to adjust. Every time I close my eyes, I am bombarded with an endless succession of wonderful memories from our Euro trip. I still can’t believe two months went by that quickly. It feels like it was just yesterday. It’s been a week but I still look at prices and count in euro. It’s been a week but it’s like I could still sense the sweet scent of truffle and waffles. Water tastes like beer. Or wine.''It’s been a week since we wrapped up our two-month backpacking journey around Europe, the first of three Euro trips that we’ve been planning for the next couple of years in an effort to visit all countries in Europe. On this leg, we visited 16 countries. It took careful, meticulous planning because we wanted to do as much as we could within the short time the embassy allowed.''As soon as we announced we were in Europe, our inbox was flooded with inquiries asking for more details. We promised to share our full itinerary and cost in a blog post. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this post is NOT it. Not yet. We’ll share the details of our entire two months in another post soon. In the meantime, we’ll tell you HOW we planned our trip and HOW you can plan yours, instead of simply posting our itinerary. Here are the reasons for that:''We all have different dreams and tastes.''There are items in our bucket list that may not be in yours. There are experiences we would love to try but you wouldn’t even dare.''We all have different budget and time restrictions.''We were allowed to stay in Europe by the German embassy for 60 days. Initially, we wanted to stay longer —- our original plan is 3 months! —- but our budget forced us to trim it down to just 2. All in all, we spent around P250,000 for our 2-month stay (including airfare, tours, visa fees).''If you have a bigger or smaller budget and your dream destinations vary greatly from ours, there really is no point in simply sharing our itinerary.''Besides, planning a trip to Europe goes beyond simply building an itinerary. There are a lot of things to consider. The cost of living, climate, language, and the culture in general vary from country to country, which will all affect your preparation.''Anyway, here’s the method we took in order to successfully fulfill our dream European adventure, presented as a step-by-step guide!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Determine your budget.''2. Determine WHEN you want to go.''3. List down all your must-visits!''4. Find out lodging costs.''4. Plot your route.''5. Reserve hotel/hostel rooms.''6. Apply for a visa.''7. Book flights, trains, and hotels.''8. Allocate money for food and tours.''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Although it may have a lot to offer in the warmer months, winter in London is unlike anywhere else in the world and still welcomes legions of travelers during the festive season. From iconic ice skating rinks and fireworks displays to bustling markets and hundreds of cosy pubs, the city really does come alive in winter and very much has its own unique character.''However,''with so much to see and do'', those travelling on a budget may be worried about how much they can realistically squeeze in. This is why we’ve put together a list of 5 amazing things you can see and do in London this winter for under a tenner.''So, if you’re looking to get the very most out of your London trip without breaking the bank, check out our recommendations below.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Get your skates on at Somerset House''2. Check out the Lord Mayor’s show and fireworks.''3. Grab a bite at East London’s Urban Food Fest.''4. Lose yourself in Hyde Park’s Winter Wonderland.''5. Discover Greenwich Park and its stunning Observatory.''It’s interesting that, given the proximity of Kyoto and Osaka from each other (less than half an hour by train), each city radiates a distinct vibe that distinguishes itself from the other. I noticed it as soon as I stepped off the train station: while Kyoto is all about heritage and tradition, Osaka is fast-paced and adventurous. Kyoto has its temples, shrines and UNESCO sites; Osaka has its cuisine, shopping districts, and amusement parks.''This unique relationship has existed since bygone times. Indeed, an old Japanese saying perfectly describes the two cities’ dichotomy: “Wear kimonos till you drop in Kyoto, eat till you drop in Osaka”.''This post is brought to you by Cebu Pacific Air.''Yet these differences only make me want to explore the two cities even more, if only to complete the experience. This yin-and-yang, complementary relationship had me convinced that the two cities are somehow designed to be enjoyed as one single destination.''For budget-minded travelers, planning for not just one, but two cities teeming with (pricey) attractions can be quite the chore. Thankfully, these cities are more accessible to tourists than ever before. Not only have the visa restrictions loosened, low-cost carriers have been more and more aggressive and competitive in promoting flights to Kansai International Airport, the gateway to Osaka and Kyoto.''Cebu Pacific Air'', in particular, has been offering cheap fares for Osaka five times a week, with the lowest year-round fare at P6399. That is a great deal already. But you can count on CEB to bring it even lower during seat sales, which happen more often these days. (Tip: Follow them on Facebook and turn on your notifications for their page so you get an alert when they have a new post!)''Cebu Pacific Air flies to Osaka 5 times a week.''When you’re already in Osaka or Kyoto, everything should be easier. Not everything fun in these destinations should break the bank. In fact, several draws here are affordable to the average traveler. Some are even FREE. Here are seven budget-friendly activities you can do in the two cities; these can easily add a day or two to your itinerary, without the hefty extras to your expenses.''1. TREAT THE HISTORY NERD IN YOU AT OSAKA CASTLE''Osaka Castle stands imposing over the entire castle grounds, like a full-armored feudal lord overseeing his vassals. An important monument to Japanese political history, the castle was built by Toyotomi Hideyoshi, the daimyo responsible for uniting the whole of Japan during the Azuchi-Momoyama period (1573-1603 AD).''Osaka Castle''The castle is the crown jewel of the 106-hectare Osaka Castle Park, where age-old moats and fortifications exist alongside stadiums, restaurants and other contemporary buildings. Osaka Castle is itself a blend of the old and new: while the exterior has remained relatively faithful to the original design, the inside is modern in every aspect, with air-conditioned halls, an elevator, and an observation platform. A silent witness to numerous battles during less peaceful times, the castle now serves primarily as a museum.''Aside from the main tower, spread across the castle grounds are 13 structures deemed culturally significant by the Japanese government. Many of these landmarks come with bilingual inscriptions detailing their role in history.''The park itself is FREE, but entrance to the Osaka Castle museum and other structures require an entrance fee (JPY 600 for the museum). If traveling by train, the park is most accessible via Osakajokoen Station of the JR Osaka Loop Line.''2. IMPROVE YOUR GOOD FORTUNE AT KIYOMIZU-DERA''Kiyumizu Dera''If for some reason you only have time to visit one Buddhist temple in Kyoto, Kiyumizu-dera (Pure Water Temple) in Higashiyama-ku, eastern Kyoto should be on top of your options. Founded by the Hosso Buddhist sect in the 8th Century AD, the temple got its name from the clear waterways over which the temple premises were erected.''Kiyomizu-dera’s foremost attraction is its Main Hall, a favorite subject among Japanese painters, poets and photographers. Housed within is a statue of the Kannon Bodhisattva, the Buddhist goddess of mercy. Overlooking a panoramic view of Kyoto is the Main Hall’s sizeable veranda, which is supported by 13-meter-high wooden pillars noted for not using a single nail during construction.''There was a time when jumping off the veranda was practiced by devotees in a desperate attempt to have their wishes granted by Kannon. It has long since been prohibited, but even today, if a Japanese friend tells you to “to jump off the stage at Kiyomizu”, he means that you take the chance and throw caution to the wind.''Otowa Waterfall is another popular venue within the complex, a set of three small water channels that flow to a man-made pond. The three channels represent good health, success in studies, and a fulfilling romance, and drinking from each channel will grant the drinker its respective benefit. Drinking from all three is discouraged, though, as it is considered greedy.''Entrance to the Main Hall requires a JPY 400 entrance fee, while the rest of the complex is free.''3. EXPERIENCE THE KYOTO OF YORE IN HIGASHIYAMA DISTRICT''Just outside Kiyomizu-dera is Higashiyama District, a quaint little village that would fit nicely in a Kurosawa period film. Many pilgrims pass by this village to get to Kiyomizu-dera, and the road leading up to the temple is lined with mom-and-pop stores, confectionery stands, and teashops. Traveling the two-kilometer, uphill stretch is never dull, not if you have a box of mochi in one hand and some matcha ice cream in the other.''Higashiyama District''The old-fashioned houses have been serving visitors for centuries, and can be quite festive and jam-packed during holidays. This is especially true during the Hanatoro festival in March, when the shops extend their service hours and the streets are illuminated by thousands of lanterns.''Both Kiyomizu-dera and Higashiyama District are a little far-off from the railway network, and your best option to get here is a 15-minute bus ride from Kyoto Station to the Kiyomizu-michi bus stop, followed by a ten-minute walk. Bus tickets start at JPY 230.''4. IMMERSE IN OSAKA’S URBAN CULTURE IN DOTONBORI AND SHINSAIBASHI''Originally a theater district, people go to Dotonbori for its cheery nightlife and ample food choices. The variety of neon signboards, entertainment centers, restaurants, and street food kiosks (yatai) within the district are a feast for the senses. Landmarks include the Glico Man giant signboard, with his signature winning pose, the Dotonbori Canal, and the National Bunraku (Puppet) Theater. Delicious street food can be yours for as low as JPY 200 per serving. Have your fill of Osaka staples like okonomiyaki, takoyaki, and kushi katsu.''Dotonbori''Where Dotonbori is a food lover’s paradise, Shinsaibashi is a haven for shoppers. Shinsaibashi boasts a 600-meter covered stretch full of fashion boutiques, retail outlets, sporting-goods stores and electronic shops. One of the oldest shopping districts in Japan (founded by a Japanese merchant in 1622), Shinsaibashi has something for everyone, from posh designer bags to hundred-yen novelties. Most stores offer duty-free privileges if you have a passport to show.''The Dotonbori and Shinsaibashi districts are adjacent to each other, and located within the Chuo-ku ward. They can be reached via a 10-minute walk from the JR Namba Station of the Yamatoji Line.''5. VISIT THE SHRINE OF FOXES AT FUSHIMI-INARI TAISHA''Among the dieties of the complex Shinto pantheon, probably the most revered is Inari, the patron of rice, tea, and merchants. One in every three shrines throughout Japan is devoted to Inari, and many business owners – even heads of large corporations – visit these shrines for blessing and guidance. Fushimi-Inari Taisha, located in Kyoto, is Inari’s principal shrine.''Fushimi Inari Shrine''Located at the foot of a mountain also named Inari, Fushimi-Inari Taisha is well-known for two reasons: the hundreds of vivid red torii gates that cover the walkways leading up to the shrine precincts, and the dozens of stone foxes that guard these shrines. The fox statues, known as kitsune, serve as messengers of Inari, and are frequently portrayed clutching an item significant to the deity, be it a jewel, a scroll, or rice. Those seeking Inari’s blessing bring offerings to kitsune in hopes of gaining their favor.''If you feel adventurous, you can hike up the mountain to access the higher precincts and catch an impressive view of the city. The walkways span about four kilometers, and can take a couple of hours to traverse. Back at the entrance, shops offer trinkets, souvenirs, and sweets to bring home.''Fushimi-Inari Taisha is free and easily accessible by train: the Inari Station of the JR Nara Line is located just outside the shrine entrance.''6. HONE YOUR POKÉ-TRAINING SKILLS AT POKÉMON CENTER UMEDA''Pokemon Center''From a concept its creator Satoshi Tajiri derived from insect collecting, Pokémon has since evolved (no pun intended) to a universally-recognized media franchise and lifestyle brand. The mobile game Pokémon GO only added a fresh multitude of dedicated “trainers”, all trying to be the very best, like no one ever was.''Any true-blue Pokémon fan visiting Osaka can’t afford to miss the city’s own Pokémon Center, located at the 13th floor of the Daimaru Umeda Department Store within Osaka Station City. Essentially a toy and hobby shop, the Pokémon Center is also a de facto gathering place for Osaka Poké-fans. You can swap Pokémon, trade cards, play arcade games, or simply hang out with fellow enthusiasts. And yes, it has its own Pokémon GO gym, in case you and your Snorlax are confident enough to take on Osaka’s best trainers.''It won’t cost anything to drop by Pokémon Center Umeda, but with all those Pikachu plush toys staring at you doe-eyed, the effort to not bring one (or three) back home can get real fast.''7. PAUSE AND MEDITATE AT SHITENNO-JI''Shitenno-ji in central Osaka is the oldest Buddhist temple in Japan, founded in 593 AD by the mythical Prince Shotoku. A devout Buddhist at a time when the religion was not prevalent in Japan, Prince Shotoku built the temple in honor of the Shitenno, the four heavenly kings of Buddhism.''Shitenno-ji''Because of its popularity with devotees, the surrounding areas are always busy with vendors selling food, herbs, and novelty items. However, the hustle and bustle is hushed once you get inside the temple premises.''The main attractions here are the Kondo or main hall (where a shrine for the Prince is located), the five-story pagoda, the treasure house, and the Gokuraku-jodo Garden. Carefully landscaped white sand and pebble formations (called karesensui) accentuate the temple and aid visitors in their meditations. Gokuraku-jodo Garden, located at a separate area nearby, was designed based on the Sukhavati, the Buddhist Western Paradise.''To get inside the Kondo, the treasure house, or the Gokuraku-jodo Garden, you need to shell out JPY 300 each. Shitenno-ji is a five-minute walk from the Shitennoji-Mae-Yuhigaoka Station via the Tanimachi (Subway) line, or a 10-minute walk from Tennoji Station of the JR Osaka Loop line.''8. GO TEMPLE-HOPPING IN ARASHIYAMA.''This iconic district just in the western fringes of the city is a nationally designated Historic Site and Place of Scenic Beauty. When you visit for the first time yet you have that strange feeling that some parts are familiar, don’t freak out. You’ve probably seen it before in paintings or postcards, especially when the area is dressed in the fiery colors of fall. Concealed in its deciduous forests and bamboo groves are temples that are worth a visit including Horinji Temple, one of the five head Shingon Buddhist temples in Kyoto; Tenryuji Temple, the best among the Five Great Zen Temples of Kyoto and a UNESCO World Heritage Site; and Nonomiya Shrine, a Shinto shrine founded around 800 AD.''With the exception of Tenryuji Temple which collects a Y500 admission fee, acccess to Arashiyama’s temples are free of charge.''Arashiyama Bamboo Forest''USEFUL TIPS:''Be on the lookout for budget fare promos''. As we all know, a huge bulk of one’s travel budget go to airfare. Low-cost carriers like''Cebu Pacific''regularly offer great deals, allowing budget travelers to focus more on the ‘traveling’ and less on the ‘budget’.''Prepare for some serious walking''. Bring water, sunscreen, a nice pair of walking shoes, and really comfortable socks. Many of the attractions listed here require a lot of walking, sometimes stretching for kilometers on end, and you don’t want your Japan trip ruined by dehydration or blisters.''Don’t be afraid to ask for directions''. The Japanese definitely know how to accommodate their visitors, and some even go out of their way to help you out with directions. Major train stations also have their own travel service centers of you need more detailed information about your trip.''Google Maps is your best friend''. Not only is Google Maps useful for pinpointing specific locations, it also offers the most efficient ways to get there, be it by walking, car, or public transport. It even displays fare prices so you can calculate the costs on the spot. Plus, it’s a great way to discover lesser-known gems tucked in between the more popular spots.''Get a digital phrasebook''. The phrases “Sumimasen” and “Eigo ga hanaseru”, plus tons of hand gestures, have gotten me out of tight spots more often than I would like to admit. Spare yourself the embarrassment and download some free Japanese digital phrasebooks and practice before the actual trip.''Special thanks to our friends from Cebu Pacific for making this trip possible. From Manila, Cebu Pacific flies to Osaka four to five times a week. They also provide flights to Tokyo, Fukuoka, and Nagoya.''If you’re staying in Japan for at least 7 days and you’ll be taking long-distance trains a lot, you can save money by getting a Train Pass. Check the rates here:''Japan Rail Pass''.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''SAMPLE OSAKA-NARA-KYOTO ITINERARY (with Costs)''OSAKA AND KYOTO: Budget Travel Guide''SAMPLE JAPAN ITINERARIES (with Estimated Budget)''10 Photos of Cherry Blossoms in Japan''10 Food Delights to Try in Japan''New Zealand is one of those destinations that need no introduction. There’s a big chance that you — my friend, reading this post right now — have either dreamed of visiting at least once in your life or have already decided to visit in the near, far, or''far, far''future. New Zealand is spellbinding in that way. Just a mere mention of its name captivates, conjuring up images of a fantasy world: magical, enchanting, and absolutely epic.''New Zealand’s largest city, Auckland is the most accessible gateway to the country. It is home to 1.45 million people, a third of New Zealand’s population. During my stay, I tried to document as much details as possible so I could create this quick travel guide on how you can enjoy a piece of it too.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'When to Visit''How to Get to Auckland''How to Get from Auckland Airport to City Center''Where to stay in Auckland''How to Get Around Auckland''Places to Visit in Auckland''How to Get from Auckland to Hobbiton and Rotorua''Places to Visit from Rotorua''Where to Stay in Rotorua''Sample 5D-4N Itinerary and Expenses''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''When we started this blog over six years ago, we didn’t know what we were doing. Back then, we were full-time employees who couldn’t even afford to travel on our own. The first few posts on this blog were actually chronicles of company outings and business trips. But I knew travel was what I wanted to do for a long time.''My first personal do-it-yourself trip was in Iloilo and Guimaras. I was so dumb and unprepared, I ended up seeing almost nothing. Good thing the Ilonggos are such friendly and helpful people, it was still a memorable trip. But because of this, I had my next trips arranged by budget travel agencies. I joined group tours, which was nice but I was disappointed that I had no control of my time. I switched back to arranging my personal trips myself, and slowly but surely, I was able to find my beat.''Two years later, even when my friends told me they didn’t think I was cut out for travel, I still quit my job and went for it anyway.''Back then, I was a completely different person. I was so shy and timid and clueless. I grew up introverted, so being out there was such a risky move for me. Everything I know now, I learned through experience. And today, six years later, I still have a lot to learn, but I’d like to think that I’m wiser than the dude who started this blog. If I could go back in time and give advice to the newbie-traveler-me, these ten tips would be it.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Use comparison apps, and catch flight and hotel promos.''2. Don’t always go with the cheapest. Go with what gives the best value for money.''3. Don’t try to do it all.''4. It’s okay to be afraid, but don’t let fear control you. Relax!''5. If you’re a freelancer, register as a sole proprietor.''6. Set up a Travel fund.''7. Get a credit card, but use it wisely.''8. Invest in a good pair of shoes.''9. Pack light. Pack light. PACK LIGHT!''10. Familiarize yourself with your medical records.''We were all set to hit the beach. When Chevrolet tapped us to try the new SAIL for a weekend, we immediately planned a road trip to the beach. We had our swimming clothes packed, sunglasses ready, and sunscreens applied.''But rain poured that morning, we knew plans would have to change. The beach, no matter how stunning, loses points under tearful skies. It was our signal to switch gears and turn to Plan B. We knew exactly where to go: LAGUNA.''Through Sail’s sunroof.''This post is brought to you by Chevrolet.''Laguna is one of the provinces we often overlook partly because its edges aren’t laced with pearly beaches. But paradise isn’t always made of sand and saltwater. Much of Laguna is almost untouched, still covered with dense rainforests concealing several magnificent waterfalls. Many of its historic towns retain many pieces of its glorious past. And its cuisine showcases some of the best of Southern Tagalog’s. The best part: Laguna doesn’t lose its charm even when it rains.''If anything, Laguna is one of the few destinations that are great (even greater, sometimes) during the rainy season (June-November). It’s especially true if you’re going there for its many majestic waterfalls, which are splashier and more spectacular after the rain. (But remember: visit in the rainy season but not immediately after the rain. After a downpour, the water turns brown and murky, and the trail muddy and slippery. Give the trail time to dry.)''Unpredictability makes travel exciting, and we welcomed the challenge without any grudge toward Mother Nature.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'DAY 1: Driving to Caliraya Lake''DAY 2: Chasing Waterfalls in Luisiana''Most people think that Iceland is expensive.''Well, I hate to break it to you but, uhm, Iceland is really expensive. Reykjavik, its capital, is probably the most expensive city I’ve set foot in. It could cost you an arm, but you know what? It will treat your senses to an endless succession of wonder that you will gladly give your other arm for another go at it.''That’s not to say that splurging is the''only''way to go. There are ways to minimize expenses, as we learned during our stay. And that is what we’re gonna share in this post.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Iceland and Reykjavik''When is the Best Time to Visit''How to Get to Reykjavik, Iceland''How to Get from Keflavik Airport to Reykjavik City Center''Where to Stay Cheap in Reykjavik''How to Get Around Reykjavik City Center''How to Visit Nearby Parts of Iceland from Reykjavik''Day Tours from Reykjavik (And a Night Tour)''Places to Visit in Reykjavik Proper''Where to Eat Cheap in Reykjavik''How to Stay Connected in Iceland''Sample Itinerary and Expenses''More Budget Tips''When TLC invited us to join them in retracing Anthony Bourdain’s steps in touring Pampanga, we were definitely psyched. We’re fans of great food and fans of Bourdain, so we started off bright and early to join TLC and SkyCable for the FoodSteps Culinary Tour in Pampanga for a day of eating and learning.''This post is brought to you by TLC Asia.''As we stepped into our ride by The Luxe Bus, we knew we were in for a treat. It was the swankiest bus we’ve ever been in, and there were two attendants who cheerily welcomed us in and immediately handed us a menu of drinks that they could prepare for us the whole trip whenever we wanted, and however much we wanted to get. There were also two widescreen televisions that were showing Bourdain’s show Parts Unknown, that got us psyched (and hungry) for what was to come. We ordered a couple of waters and cappuccinos to perk up our bodies and refresh our minds before our first stop, Kusina Matua ni Atching Lilian.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Kusinang Matua ng Atching Lilian Borromeo''2. Bale Dutung by Chef Claude Tayag''3. Susie’s Cuisine''4. Cafe Fleur''As soon as we emerged from the Charles de Gaulle Airport, a middle-aged woman approached me and my friend and tried to communicate using sign language. She was deaf, I thought, which was supported by the piece of paper on a clipboard that she showed us. I caught the words “deaf” and “petition,” as the woman handed a pen to my friend. As he was signing, I excused myself and took photos of the airport for this blog. When I came back, the woman was already demanding money from a friend. Too bad for her, we didn’t have cash and our ticket to the city was already settled even before we exited the airport terminal.''It was one of the many tourist-targeted scams that have been rampant in Paris. Four days later, as I was having dinner at a house of a local friend, I was told that that most of them, if not all, are not really deaf. They just pretend to be able to swindle gullible tourists. It’s just one of the many scams in the city. Here are five of them.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Petition Scam''2. The Teenage Girls Group Scam''3. The String Bracelet Scam''4. The Gambling Game Scam''5. The Did-You-Drop-This Scam''Note: This post is not meant to discourage anyone from traveling nor does it aim to imply that this is the case for everyone all the time. This blog is filled with positive articles, but we also have to acknowledge this side of travel, that this exists, that this happens to some people. Can’t always be about rainbows and unicorns.''I’d be lying if I said I don’t envy travelers from developed countries. I envy them sometimes. I envy them more often than I would like to admit.''When I was backpacking across the Southeast Asian peninsula four years ago, I became great friends with a woman from Paris. We met at a hostel in Thailand, traveled through Laos together, and parted ways in Vietnam. Every single night we were together, she never failed to invite me to come over to France so she could show me around.''“Before the year ends, please?” she said. But the number of times she said “please” never changed my response:''“It’s not that easy.”''Not only was money an issue, securing a visa for a guy like me was waaay more difficult and complicated than she was probably thinking. At the time, I had just quit my job and had emptied my bank accounts. There was no way the embassy would approve my Schengen visa. I was able to finally see her again two years ago, but it involved saving up and slowly beefing up my travel history.''It’s moments like this that envy, which under normal circumstances lies dormant inside me, is jolted awake. Here are the reasons why.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Applying for a visa can sometimes be a grueling process.''Applying for a visa can sometimes be a humiliating experience.''Going through Immigration is just as tough for many.''Getting picked for a “random” inspection.''Our hard work seems to be worth less.''In December 2017, the French Embassy implemented a new Schengen visa application process. The visa guide below no longer applies.''A more updated visa guide can be found here:''France Visa''There are three things that I always make sure I experience when I’m on an island getaway, and they all start with S: the sea, the sunset, and loud, scandalous sss.., uhm, singing. Yep. sea, sunsets, and singing. For real.''When it comes to the sea and sunsets, the famed Gili Islands off the coast of Lombok, Indonesia, will not disappoint. This trio is composed of Gili Trawangan, the largest, most populated and the most developed of the three; Gili Meno, middle and the smallest; and Gili Air, the second biggest and closest to mainland Lombok. The band is located off the northwestern coast of Lombok and dots the southern edges of Bali Sea.''It is the most popular destination in Lombok, initially riding on the tourism pull of Bali and often a favorite side trip for Bali vacationers who are seeking more island and diving adventures. Its first waves of tourists were made up of divers and snorkelers. Over the years, the islands have seen rapid development — mostly concentrated in the largest of the three, Gili Trawangan — with cafes, bars, and other establishments mushrooming along the beach. Slowly, it has earned a reputation of being a “party destination.” Yet, it still is far more relaxed and laidback than Bali, something that I really enjoyed about the place.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Best Time to Visit Gili Islands''How to Get to Gili Islands''Where to Stay in the Gili Islands''Things to Do in Gili Islands''Sample Itinerary''This post is brought to you by HUAWEI.''As a travel blogger, there are two things that are essential in my journeys: a smartphone and a camera. Currently, I am using an old but still functional DSLR and two big-ass lenses. It’s a kit that has been with me for years. Despite its broken flash and tight zoom, it still gets the job done brilliantly. The only problem I have with it is that it’s bulky and heavy, something that doesn’t really help when you’re also carrying a 30-kilo backpack as you explore an unfamiliar city.''The other one is a smartphone. It still is, after all, the single handiest gadget around, something I can carry in my pocket but can perform a multitude of tasks. With it, I can write posts, manage my social media accounts, research and plan my trip, get in touch with my loved ones back home, and take photos.''Mobile photography has seen a sudden surge in popularity recently, thanks to apps like Instagram and smartphones that are getting more and more powerful these days. Take the''Huawei P9''as example. Huawei sent us a unit a couple of months ago and we’ve been using it lately. To be honest, I wasn’t that keen on writing about it at first because I don’t really like blogging about gadgets in general. Also, I already have a phone. How different could it be? But when I started using it, I was really blown away by it. Its camera is just wow. Co-engineered with Leica, it flaunts a dual-lens camera, which enables it to take topnotch photos. Its RGB sensor captures colors and combines it with the details collected by its monochrome sensor. It is compact and light, making it a wonderful travel companion.''When taking photos, I still use a bulky DSLR most of the time. But there are times when I know it’s best to leave it untouched, so I make sure that my smartphone is properly equipped to capture unforgettable travel moments. Here are some of those moments.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. When in transit''2. When you’re concerned about security''3. When you’re out partying''4. When you need to share the photos online fast''5. When taking selfies''When I was seven years old, there was this toy boat that my mom would not buy me because we were short on cash. It wasn’t that expensive, to be honest. But for a family who had almost nothing, even a cheap toy was regarded as a luxury. I remember not getting upset about it. I was raised in an environment where it was clear as day that we don’t always get what we want. But I really wanted that toy boat.''One day, as I was staying with my grandma, who lived just next door and owned a small sari-sari store protruding from the facade of the house, when I got an idea.''Why don’t I sell something so I could have money to buy that toy?''I thought. I immediately scurried to our kitchen, rummaged through our supplies, and found a bottle of Sunny Orange. (I’m not sure if everyone knows this brand, but it was this concentrated orange juice that I loved growing up.) In no time, I had a mini-stall set-up on the balustrade next to my lola’s store: a pitcher and two glasses. My grandma thought I was just playing. Little did she know, I was selling glasses of orange juice to kids passing by at a losing price. Just a few hours into it, I had emptied the bottle of Sunny Orange, to the dismay of my mother who arrived from work later that afternoon. I did not earn enough to buy a new bottle of it, but I had enough to buy that toy. My mom didn’t get mad at me. She smiled, ruffled my hair, and said I would later be a businessman, which would be good for the family. That, after gently reminding me never to do it again without her permission.''When people say that I’m lucky that I get to travel for a living, I can’t help but feel bad a little. Sure, a little luck has had a hand in it. After all, through the years, I had met others who had a lot less, some had none at all. I had something to begin with, and I thank my mom for it. But it somehow dismisses the fact that much of it was achieved through hard work. You don’t win a travel blog in the lottery. You don’t acquire a lifestyle overnight. It takes a lot of strategy, patience and — once again — hard work. It’s something that was instilled in me since I was a child. I was told many times by my parents, like''Melania Trump''Michelle Obama (LOL), “the only limit… is the reach of your dreams and your willingness to work for them.”''For people who are not born wealthy, being able to pursue your passion requires a lot of work. When we started this travel blog, we were just your typical office worker who could not even afford to book domestic flights. But there was a loud, restless need in us that was conjuring images of beautiful destinations one after another. I knew I had to do something. I had to do something else. My eyes and heart were dead set on two goals, one short term and one long term. The short term goal: save enough to be able to fund my next travels. Long term: build myself up and create a career that would allow me to work remotely. After almost 2 years, I was able to hit both. I quit my desk job a long time ago. And for the past couple of years, I’ve been traveling for a living.''If travel is your passion, here are some ideas on how to support your wanderlust.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Work Part-time.''2. Work online.''3. Work abroad.''4. Start a business.''5. Cut down on your spending.''Located 141 km from Seoul, the coastal city of Boryeong in South Chungcheong Province is just three hours away, making it one of the most accessible summer destinations in Korea. It’s well-known domestically for its beaches and island destinations. But it is most famous for the Boryeong Mud Festival, an annual celebration in July where locals and visitors alike cover themselves in mud and enjoy several mud games on one end of Daecheon Beach.''If you’re Boryeong-bound soon, here’s some information on how to get there from the Seoul-Incheon Airport and from downtown Seoul.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Incheon Airport to Boryeong / Daecheon Beach by Train\nIf you’re going to Boryeong straight from the airport, you need to board the Airport Railway train to Yongsan Station, where you will take a Korail train to Boryeong.  To get to Yongsan Station, take the Airport Railway line to Gongdeok Station (where you will alight).\nTransfer to Gyeongui Jungang Line, bound for Yongmun.\nAlight at Yongmun Station.\nAt Yongmun Station, board a Korail train to Daecheon Station.  Incheon Airport to Yongmun Station\nTravel Time: 63 minutes\nFare: 4150 won (3.7 USD, 172 PHP)\nYongmun Station to Daecheon Station\nTravel Time: 2 hours, 40 minutes\nFare: 11,700 won (10.5 USD, 485 PHP)\nSome online sources that there is a bus that plies the Incheon Airport-Daecheon route once a day, but I wasn’t able to find it when I was there.  Seoul City Center to Boryeong / Daecheon Beach by Train''Seoul City Center to Boryeong / Daecheon Beach by Bus''Summer is when the Korean city of Boryeong gets down and dirty.''It’s not what you’re probably thinking. We’re talking about the Boryeong Mud Festival. It all started in mid-1990s when a cosmetics brand launched products using the mineral-rich mud found at Boryeong mud flats, which is believed to be good for the skin. In 1998, as part of a massive promotional campaign, the company trucked the mud to Daecheon Beach and initiated mud games, thereby launching the first ever Boryeong Mud Festival. Almost 20 years later, it remains one of the biggest summer celebrations in South Korea. It is held over a period of two weeks in July.''Boryeong is a port city located 141km from Seoul. Koreans sometimes refer to the place as Daecheon because the present-day Boryeong is a merger between Daecheon City and Boryeong-gun. Hemmed in by the waters of the Yellow Sea in the west, it is a popular summer destination, with Daecheon Beach as a top place to visit. During the festival, giant inflatable slides, a performance stage, and other attractions are set up along Daecheon Beach, where all the fun happens.''Boryeong Mud Festival'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get to Boryeong / Daecheon Beach''Day Trip, Overnight or Longer?''Where to Stay in Boryeong or Seoul''Things to Enjoy at the Festival''Things to Bring''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Sample Itineraries''Budget Breakdown''How do you wake up a sleepy town? With a giant splash of cold water.''The municipality of Luisiana in Laguna has been dormant, barely earning a blip in the tourism radar. But as more and more Manila-based adventurers scour the surrounding provinces for amazing attractions that are easy to reach, it was only a matter of time for Luisiana to wake from slumber. And the mighty Hulugan Falls takes credit for that.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Hulugan Falls''How Many Waterfalls Would You Like to See?''Best Time to Visit''How to Get to Hulugan Falls from Manila''By Private Car''By Public Transportation''Where to Stay Near Hulugan Falls''Sample Day Tour Itinerary''More Tips for The Poor Traveler''Budget Breakdown''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Hulugan Falls''While Laguna is most well-known for cradling the largest lake in the Philippines, it is also home to several waterfalls that punctuate the rivers that the lake spills into. Hulugan Falls is one of them.''Hulugan Falls''It was relatively obscure, known mostly to the locals, until word-of-mouth pushed it to prominence, attracting a growing number of tourists. “There was one day in summer when we had around 1200 visitors,” our tricycle driver said, although we failed to confirm it with tourism officials. If true, that’s remarkable for a destination that is relatively a newcomer in the tourism scene, something that is evident in the infrastructure in the area (or the lack thereof). We spotted only two stores in the vicinity and one set of public restrooms. (We hope it wouldn’t be too commercialized, to be honest.) Yet, in a short time since it was “discovered”, they were able to pave the road to a jump-off point much closer to the waterfall.''It’s hard to imagine how one waterfall could change the lives of the townsfolk. A road has been paved, a system has been set in place, and jobs have been created and boosted. But when we reached the end of the trail and had our first look at Hulugan, we understood. It was spectacular.''How Many Waterfalls Would You Like to See?''Hulugan Falls isn’t the only treasure in the forests of San Salvador. There are two others: the smaller, two-tiered Talay Falls and the aptly named Hidden Falls. Before heading there, decide how many waterfalls you want to visit because it will dictate which trail to take and how much preparation you need.''Hidden Falls''Talay Falls''I want to see Hulugan Falls only''. The descent to Hulugan Falls is easy and should take around 30 minutes. It’s the climb back up that can be quite exhausting but still very manageable.''I want to see all 3 waterfalls''. Each waterfall would take 30 minutes, which makes the entire one-way journey 1.5 hours long. You hike down to the river and cross it to see Talay Falls. It gets a bit less relaxed from here because the path to the next stop, Hidden Falls, is more challenging and steep. From the Hidden Falls, you will climb down to Hulugan Falls. It can get pretty dangerous when the trail is muddy (after the rain!) and you’re not sporting the proper footwear.''Best Time to Visit''Trail to Hulugan Falls from Hidden Falls''The cool-and-dry months of December-February are the best time to visit because you can always count on the weather to not ruin your trip. The summer months of March-May are good too, if you don’t mind sharing the journey with a big crowd. However, call in advance because our guide told us that when it hasn’t rained for a long time, there’s a risk there’s very little water running, which may disappoint visitors expecting big splashes.''Waterfalls are at their most stunning after the rain so don’t dismiss June-November just yet. The key is to visit in the rainy season but not immediately after the rain. The water becomes brown and murky, and the trail muddy and slippery. Give the trail time to dry. Don’t be like us. We did the 3-waterfall trek the day after a downpour in August, and I slipped twice, the second time sliding down a few meters. But that’s because I was wearing flip flops because I’m stupid sometimes (or most of the time, lol). Do not attempt to walk barefoot because it’s even more slippery. (Trust me, I tried. I tried.)''Whatever month you choose, you must remember two things:''Visit on a weekday to avoid the crowd. Know that its primary market is the yuppies, who work from Monday-Friday.''Wear hiking shoes if you’re going to visit all three waterfalls. It will make your time there safe, comfortable, and much more enjoyable.''All good? Good.''How to Get to Hulugan Falls from Manila''Located in Barangay San Salvador in Luisiana, Hulugan Falls is just three hours away, making it one of the most easily accessible cascades from the metro.''Public transportation is available, but we highly recommend bringing a car because:''It will make things much easier for you to explore the area. You can even make side trips to other places nearby without hassle.''You have a place to keep your things. Remember, the place isn’t developed yet. You won’t find lockers or baggage counters anywhere. (Which is also why you shouldn’t bring too much or anything that would weigh you down if you’re commuting.)''Most importantly, if you’re a group of 3 or more, you will end up spending less because you only need to settle the toll fee and gas.''We went to Hulugan using a car that''Chevrolet SAIL''let us borrow for the weekend, and we only spent P940 on toll and gas, split into 4. That’s only P235 per person.''Thanks, Chevrolet SAIL, for having us covered that rainy weekend!''By Private Car''Take the South Luzon Expressway (SLEX) and exit in Calamba.''Stay on the national road (highway), passing through several towns including Los Banos, Sta. Cruz, Bay, and Pagsanjan.''Before you reach Cavinti Town Proper, turn right to Cavinti-Luisiana Road.''On Cavinti-Luisiana Road, watch out for a San Salvador/Hulugan Falls signage at a corner TO YOUR RIGHT. It’s very easy to miss, but just be on the lookout for adjacent roads because there are not many. You’ll find the Information Desk at the corner. You will be given a tour guide.''Once you’re assigned a tour guide, drive on that (adjacent) road or follow your guide until you reach the Captain’s House where you will register. You can park on the side of the road in front of that house.''By Public Transportation''Make your way to Cubao or Taft, and ride a bus going to Sta. Cruz, Laguna. Fare: P140.''Ride a jeepney going to Lucena or Lucban and alight in San Salvador. It is highly possible that you will miss the right stop so make sure you tell the driver to drop you off in San Salvador. Fare: P30. If you miss it, alight in Luisiana Town Proper and just take a tricycle to San Salvador.''At the corner, you will find an Information Desk at a waiting shed. You will be assigned a tour guide here. He will then take you “sa Bahay ng Kapitan” (Captain’s House), where you will register and pay the Tourism Fee, which is now P20.''Whether you take public or private transportation, the Captain’s House will be your jump-off point. From here you will be taking a tricycle (P10 per person) to the start of the trail. The ride should take a minute or two.''Where to Stay Near Hulugan Falls''Most people visit Hulugan on a day tour and the truth is, accommodation options are very limited. One popular choice for the adventurous is overnight camping. Fee is P50. You will be assigned a guide who will be looking after you, but you need to bring your own tent.''If you need a room to stay, the nearest towns with plenty of accommodations to offer are Lucban (Quezon) and Pagsanjan.''Other options include resorts near Caliraya Lake, which are a bit pricey and are only a good choice if you have your own ride. Regardless, here are their rates:''Caliraya Mountain Lake Resort''. Standard room, P2400 per night.''Lagos del Sol Resort''. Room with meals, P1490 per night.''Sample Day Tour Itinerary''Here’a a sample day trip itinerary, which will allow you to visit all three waterfalls in San Salvador. Feel free to make the necessary changes if you want to visit just the Hulugan Falls.''06:00am – ETD Cubao, Quezon City''09:30am – ETA Luisiana, Laguna''10:30am – Start trek''11:00am – Talay Falls''11:45am – Hidden Falls''12:30pm – Hulugan Falls (Lunch if you bring food)''02:30pm – Depart Falls''03:30pm – Freshen up, leave''08:00pm – ETA Manila''If you want to also visit Cavinti Falls (Pagsanjan Falls), check the itinerary below. I intentionally removed the other 2 falls in Luisiana because of two reasons: time and energy. You can actually squeeze them all in a day (we did on our second visit) but we wish we didn’t. We should’ve stayed longer at Hulugan instead. Another reason is energy. The trek to Cavinti Falls from Pueblo El Salvador Park is tough, tougher than Hulugan. The trail from Pueblo to the falls involves rappelling and VERTICAL climbs! If you’re an inexperienced hiker (like us), it will be sooooooooo exhausting to do all four waterfalls.''06:00am – ETD Cubao, Quezon City''09:00am – ETA Luisiana, Laguna''09:30am – Start trek''10:15am – Hulugan Falls (Lunch if you bring food)''12:00pm – Depart Falls''12:45pm – Leave for Cavinti Falls''01:15pm – Pueblo El Salvador, start trek to Cavinti Falls''02:30pm – Cavinti Falls Rafting/Swimming''03:30pm – Start trek back to Pueblo El Salvador''04:30pm – Shower''05:00pm – ETD Cavinti''08:30pm – ETA Manila''The last bus to Manila leaves Sta. Cruz at 9pm. Go make more side trips or have dinner if you want, but make sure you’re at the terminal before 9pm.''More Tips for The Poor Traveler''Yummy bibingka at the start of the trail! (3 for P100)''Here are more tips to consider.''You can take a dip at the natural pool below the column.''If you can swim, you can even get close to the cascade. But be careful climbing rocks. Some of them are off-limits. Always check with your guide which areas are prohibited.''Bring a waterproof camera.''It’s one super splashy waterfall and it’s not afraid to show off.''Have your meal before you make a turn to Cavinti-Luisiana Road.''There aren’t many food options around the site. They serve meals at Captain’s House at carinderia price, but that’s about it.''There’s a bibingka (rice cake) stall at the start of the trail.''The bibingka (P35) is super delicious. And if you buy three pieces (3 for P100), you also get a cute basket made from weaved coconut leaves. This bibingka got us through the whole trek on our first visit (Sunday). On our second visit (Friday), that same store was closed.''There are a lot of fruit stalls on the roadside before reaching San Salvador.''Great for baon if you’re really hungry and you can’t find a place to eat. Just make sure you bring a trash bag with you when''There are shower rooms or restrooms at Captain’s House.''Rates: P15, P10, P5 for ligo (shower), dumi (poo), ihi (pee) respectively.''MOSQUITOES!''Bring insect repellent lotion.''Budget Breakdown''Here are the cost of items you will be spending on.''Bus fare to Sta Cruz (one-way):''P140''Jeepney fare to Luisiana:''P30''Toll Fee: P214''Shower Room Use:''P15''Tourism Fee:''P20''Tour Guide Fee:''P300, P600, up to you actually''The tour guide fee is a bit tricky, to be honest. There is no standard rate for it. If you ask the guide or anyone working there, they will tell you the same thing: “It’s up to you, whatever you think is appropriate.” It’s tricky and a bit annoying if you don’t have anything to compare it to, but it’s probably because they haven’t standardized or formalized the processes yet. According to other sources, P300 is good if you’ll be visiting just one waterfall, and P600 if you’re visiting all three, regardless of how big your group is.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''LAGUNA ROAD TRIP: Budget Travel Guide & Itinerary''4 Laguna Waterfalls for Less than P1000: Hulugan, Cavinti Falls, and More''Katibawasan Falls: A Splash of Nature in Camiguin, Philippines''Kuang Si Waterfall: Making Splashes in Luang Prabang, Laos''I Found My Childhood at Casa San Pablo: Laguna, Philippines''A Rainy Road Trip in Laguna with the Chevrolet SAIL''The first two times I heard of Yuntai Mountain was (1) when they opened a newly constructed glass bridge and (2) when they discovered cracks on the glass panels just weeks later. Not a very good first impression, to be honest. If the mountain were a guy in a bar, he would need a better come-on because every interest I had just died right then.''Glass walkways no longer had the effect it once had on me. I had experienced one before, also in another scenic park in the Chinese highlands, and it was amazing. But it wasn’t new anymore. I had seen only two mountains in China, but boy are they unforgettable. These two peaks, Tianmen and Tianzi in Zhangjiajie, are the most spectacular mountains I had ever had the pleasure of leaving footprints on. With the bar set that high and the glass walkway losing its appeal, I came to Yuntai Mountain in Henan Province without any expectations, lest the proverbial shoes not be filled adequately. Still, the great Yuntaishan blew me away.''Situated just an hour and a half away from Zhengzhou Airport, Yuntai Mountain is increasingly becoming more popular especially among domestic tourists. Yuntaishan Geopark, as it is formally called, is a UNESCO-inscribed World Geologic Park and Henan Province’s only national scenic area and national forest park. This 190-sq. km site has eleven scenic areas, but we only got to experience three of them. With or without the glass bridge it is oh so proud of, Yuntaishan has enough to attract even the most discriminate tourists. He is naturally sexy. His edges are masterfully chiseled, his sides artfully tattooed with valleys, skin naturally carpeted with thick canopies, and his stare promises glorious waterfalls under his belt.''Here are four places that make a date with Yuntai Mountain one that you will never forget (and what you can do to not ruin it).'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Red Stone Gorge (Hongshi Gorge) – Day 1''2. Tanpu Gorge (Xiaozhai Valley) – Day 1''3. Cornel Peak (Day 2)''4. Glass Skywalk (Day 2)''It’s the age old question, isn’t it? How much do we really want to know about our neighbors?''About my actual neighbors, not much, to be perfectly honest. I’m not one to actually stick my nose in the dirty laundry of the Bree Van De Kamps of the world. (So sorry for the the Desperate Housewives reference. I’m ancient.)''But in the context of international tourism, hell yeah! I grew up in the Philippines, a country that is somewhat isolated from the rest of the world by a highly controversial sea to the west and a little puddle called the Pacific to the east. Our closest neighbors are situated down south. Indonesia, for example, is just a boat ride away from the southern edges of the country. Yet, with the exception of a short chapter about Javanese and Sumatran civilizations in our high school textbook and occasional Bali and Borobudur daydreaming, there really isn’t much that''we''I know about Indonesia.''The island of Sulawesi, just across Celebes Sea, is something I only see on Asean maps. But it wasn’t until I was already there that I learned much about it. We arrived in Makassar, capital of the province of South Sulawesi, after a two-hour flight from Jakarta. Makassar is an old port city, well-known for its obsession with sailing and boat-building and well-loved for its streets that are flanked with historical buildings. The good news is, it was my first time here and there was so much to discover. The bad news is, we would be staying for only three days.''But if these five places are the only things I know about our neighbor so far, I am absolutely looking forward to seeing more of Makassar.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Bantimurung National Park (Day 1)''2. Kodingareng Keke Island (Day 2)''3. Pulau Samalona (Day 2)''4. Losari Beach Sunset (Day 2)''5. Fort Rotterdam Historical Tour (Day 3)''Bagan can be overwhelming even for the most seasoned of travelers. First, the natural conditions can be unforgiving, sometimes unbearable. If you visit in the wrong month, you’ll be wiping thick layers of dust off your face in the 43C heat. Second, the sheer number alone is daunting. Over 2200 temples and pagodas! I always joked that if you close your eyes and throw a rock aimlessly, you’re probably going to hit one. And lastly, an ocean of ancient structures that stand not too far from one another isn’t easy to navigate.''Okay, right now I’m just making excuses for starting our journey lost. The truth is, the Bagan Archaeological Zone can be quite confusing on the first day. Looking at the map, we immediately assumed that since the key temples were marked, it would be easy to find them. But not all the pagodas and stupas are on the map. While you’re at one, you can already see the next and the one next to it. It’s easy to mistake one for another. Excuses, I know. I’m just an idiot.''But no matter how you start your day, Bagan has a way of blowing the bad vibe away, dust and all. The locals are some of the nicest, friendliest I’ve met ever. Everyone we asked willingly equipped us with the much-needed directions (which we may or may not have remembered) that led us to the some of the site’s major temples.''Major temples, eh? Yes, major temples, because not all temples were created equal. (Some are not even temples.) These are usually the biggest and most historically significant (not always, though). The downside is, these are also the most crowded.''Remember: make sure you wear clothes that cover your shoulders and knees, and remove shoes and socks when you enter. These sites are sacred to the locals so please respect their culture.''Here are photos of seven of Bagan’s most popular temples and pagodas with a little bit more info just to keep your expectations in check.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Shwesandaw Pagoda''2. Ananda Temple''3. Dhammayangyi Temple''4. Thatbyinnyu Temple''5. Htilominlo Temple''6. Shwezigon Pagoda''7. Sulamani Temple''Three words and I was sold: hot air balloons.''A simple mention of Bagan conjures up an image of hot air balloons floating above an ocean of temples at dawn. If that wasn’t enough to convince me to someday pay a visit, I don’t know what could. Even when I had to endure a total of 10 hours on the plane (I was flying from Dubai) and another eight hours on the bus from Yangon, I was a happy traveler. Too bad, there were no hot air balloons when I arrived because, uhm, I didn’t plan this trip well. (And you should learn from me. That’s why I’m creating this guide. LOL.)''Still, I was not complaining. Bagan may be smack at the heart of a vast, almost barren land, but it is brimming with beauty, there’s hardly any place for disappointment.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Bagan''Best Time to Visit Bagan''How to Get to Bagan from Yangon''Where to Stay in Bagan''Search for hotels here: Bagan Hotels''Getting Around Bagan''Temples to See''Tips for the Poor Traveler''Things to Watch Out For''Sample Itinerary + Breakdown of Expenses''There’s a lot of hot and spicy stuff in the latest of episode of SceneZoned.''The second installment of Globe Studio’s travel show features YouTube vlogger Wil Dasovich going on what they call the “hottest road trip in the Philippines,” trying out the spiciest dishes that the province of Albay has to offer.''The video begins at a sili (chili) farm, where Will had a sample of two types of chili peppers that had him crying in no time. He then begins the food trip! Here’s a quick recap of the five dishes he has tried (and enjoyed) in the video and where to find them.''For more details and to have a good picture of what it’s like to try these, watch the video above.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Pinangat by Zeny’s''2. Pancit Bicol Express by Balay Cena Una''3. Pasta Bicolandia by Jasmine Restaurant''4. Bicol Express Dessert by Lila’s''5. Sili Ice Cream by 1st Colonial Grill''As I dipped my toes in the sand and watched yet another glorious sunset, I began to wonder why I had never been here before.''La Union isn’t that far and I had frequented destinations more remote and harder to reach than this, but this was my first time in this often overlooked province since I started travel blogging six years ago. To me, La Union was just one of the provinces to pass through en route to Ilocos or Baguio City. Such a shame really, especially upon seeing first-hand just how enjoyable a quiet moment here can be. A small crowd of surfer was cheering in the distance, but their laughter was more like a gentle score playing as the waves danced. La Union is absolutely worthy of a stop.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding La Union''Best Time to Visit La Union''Where to Stay in La Union''Top Resorts and Hotels in La Union''Search for more: La Union Hotels''How to Get to La Union''Things to Do in La Union''Where to Eat in San Juan, La Union''Sample Itinerary + Budget Breakdown''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding La Union''Cornered by the Cordillera Mountains to the West Philippine Sea, La Union is an arid strip of land that gained prominence over the past years as the Surfing Capital of Northern Luzon. Of all the surfing hotspots, it is one of the most easily accessible, only 6-7 hours on paved roads, and one of the most tourism-ready, boasting a steadily growing number of resorts and restaurants.''While surfing remains what most tourists visit La Union for, more and more sites are starting to come into view. One of the restaurant-owners we had spoken to even said that she had been living in the province all her life but never knew that there are waterfalls nearby that are worth seeing.''Best Time to Visit La Union''It depends on the purpose of your visit. La Union has unusual travel seasons. While most destinations in the Philippines come to life during summer (March-May), San Juan’s peak season runs from October to March, when the big waves make their appearance to play with the town’s growing surfing community. But remember that October and November are rainy months. If you’re surfing but don’t want uncaring weather, December-March is your safest bet.''If you’re planning on just relaxing by the beach, the summer months of April-May are ideal. The waves may not be present, but who can refuse the call of a relaxing beach getaway? Note though that summer weekends are usually packed.''Where to Stay in La Union''Check Hotel Rates Here''Two of the most popular destinations in La Union lie just next to each other. San Fernando, the capital city, and San Juan, the surfing hub. Which to pick depends on your itinerary and desired type of accommodations. San Fernando is where you’ll find Thunderbird Resorts, not for the budget-conscious.''But for a budget traveler like me, San Juan is the better option. San Juan has a wide array of inns and hostels in a much better location, by the beach and along the national highway. If you’re visiting La Union to swim or surf, stay in San Juan.''During my visit, I really wanted to stay at''Flotsam and Jetsam Hostel'', arguably the most well-known hostel in Urbiztondo Beach, but they were fully booked at the time. I was able to try three others:''Urbiz Garden Bed and Breakfast''.''G Hotel''. A newly opened budget hotel. Not beachfront but surrounded by the town’s best restaurants. P1700 for a double room, P1900 triple room.''Chill’n''. Typical budget resort. Neat, close to the beach but not beachfront.''For more information about my experience in the hotels above, check out:''Where to Stay in La Union''Top Resorts and Hotels in La Union''If you have a bit more dough to spare, you might want to consider the following hotels and resorts. These are the top 4 accommodations in La Union according to Agoda users.''Awesome Hotel''Location: 319 Eagle St. Ili Norte San Juan, La Union''Check Rates''P and M Final Option Hotel''Location: 320 Eagle Street Ili Norte, San Juan, La Union''Check Rates''Kahuna Beach Resort and Spa''Location: Urbiztondo, San Juan, La Union''This Maldives Travel Guide was last updated in 2017.''The forecast was sunny, but it was raining when we landed in the Maldives. Naturally, I began to worry about the coming days. I didn’t come all the way here to see grey clouds looming over gloomy seascapes. The thoughts of shallow waters gently swaying below iconic water bungalows that these islands have been known for started to drift away.''But sometimes, the universe has a way of surprising us.''The next morning, we were greeted by the sun, shining above the ivory beach. It would never rain again at any time during our stay.''The Maldives is one of those countries I never imagined I would be able to visit. If you asked me ten years ago if I would like to go to the Maldives, I would probably laugh in your face not because there’s something wrong with the idea of being there but because I knew it would never ever happen. Even the me of five years ago, someone who was just starting to travel blog, would have never guessed. At the time, there were only three things that I knew about the Maldives:''It is an archipelagic nation in the middle of the Indian Ocean.''It has a lot of private luxury resorts that I could never afford.''It is expensive to go and stay there.''But like I said, the universe has a way of surprising us. Before I knew it, I was sitting on a wooden platform, trying to dip my toes on the most turquoise lagoon I had ever seen in my life. Maldives was never a dream for me, but when I was there, I felt like I was living in one.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding the Maldives''Where to Stay in the Maldives''Staying at a Private Island Resort''Search for more: Maldives Hotels''Staying in a Local Island''Best Time to Visit the Maldives''How to Get to the Maldives''How to Get to your Resort or Hotel from Male Airport''Things to Do in the Maldives''Sample Itineraries + Budget Breakdown''OPTION A: Stay at a Local Island''OPTION B: Stay at an Exclusive Resort''More Tips for the Poor Traveler''Things to Watch Out For''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding the Maldives''Beaches are what tourists come to the Maldives for, but you need to ask yourself what type of beach holiday you want to enjoy here. As far as cost is concerned, there are two ways of doing this: budget and luxury.''Olhuveli Island''For me to explain that better, I need to tell you more about the islands. Located southwest of India and Sri Lanka, the Maldives is a tropical country, made up of 26 coral atolls that fragmented into 1,192 islands, only 200+ of which are inhabited. Tourism powers its economy. In fact, 80+ of the inhabited islands are exclusive luxury resorts, designed to attract tourists.''Where to Stay in the Maldives''So basically, there are two types of islands here: private and public. The public islands, also called “local islands”, are those inhabited, meaning there are locals living there. This also means that there are establishments available to everyone such as grocery stores, tour agencies, shops, etc. The private islands are usually occupied by luxury resorts, most of which are open only to their guests and staff. Some of these private islands are open to non-guests who are staying elsewhere but on a day tour. (Will discuss this later.)''Hulhumale is a local island. Photo by Antoinette Jadaone''One of the key differences between the local and private islands other than the cost is that most restrictions do not apply to the latter.''Staying at a Private Island Resort''If you’re after luxury and privacy and you don’t mind spending much on this trip, you might want to consider staying at an exclusive resort. This is a good option for honeymooners and those on romantic getaways.''Exclusive resorts come in all forms, too. Some charge thousands of dollars per night (the likes of Four Seasons). But those in the lower end of the spectrum are slightly more affordable. For example,''Fihalhohi Island Resort Island Resort''and''Olhuveli Beach and Spa Resort''offer beach rooms for only 200 USD (low season) and 300 USD (peak season).''Iconic water bungalows''Most exclusive resorts have two major types of accommodations: beach/land rooms and overwater bungalows (water villas). Of course, staying at a water bungalow looks tempting, but they are usually the priciest rooms. Those on the beach are much cheaper.''If online users are to be believed, here are the 6 best resorts that are on the lower end of the budget spectrum.''Rihiveli by Castaway Hotels & Escapes''The humming of the car engine was just about to lull us to sleep when I spotted a giant white fan sticking out in the distance. All of a sudden, everyone was alive, scanning the horizon, watching out for more.''If I didn’t know exactly where we were at the moment, I would easily assume we had reached Bangui in Ilocos Norte. But we were just driving for over an hour from Paete, Laguna, making our way back to Manila. And this place isn’t along the shores of Ilocandia but in the highlands of Rizal. Outside Ilocos Norte, it is the first of its kind in Luzon.''Located in the humble barangay of Halayhayin in Pililla, to be more precise, the Rizal Wind Farm is the newest addition to the growing list of tourism hotspots within close proximity of the capital, just two hours away. According to  Alternergy Wind One Corp, the company that leads the operations of the farm, Pililla is an ideal setting for a wind farm because “it is part of a natural wind corridor created by the unique geographical features surrounding the lake.”''A lane of 27 wind turbines stand atop sloping hills at 300 meters above sea level, towering over Laguna de Bay and standing along the NW-SE line to capture the Amihan from October to March, whose speeds can reach 36km/hour. Each turbine can produce 2MW. The entire farm is estimated to be able to generate almost 150 Gigawatt hours of electricity every year.''Rizal Wind Farm''Rizal Wind Farm''Rizal Wind Farm''A''2015 Inquirer article''reports that this $100-million project was built to supplement energy supply in Rizal and Metro Manila, the country’s largest electricity demand area.''“This means the electricity generated by this wind farm only needs to travel a short distance to be consumed, ensuring all the electricity generated here will be used without grid constraint or transmission loss,” Alternergy adds.''There were a dozen vehicles occupying the parking lot when we arrived, so it isn’t exactly a secret anymore, but many of them simply made a stop here on the way to or from the capital. Other than gawking at the humongous fans and learning more about renewable energy, there isn’t much to do here. But if you’re touring parts of Rizal or Laguna, a stop here can be a refreshing addition to your itinerary. We visited at noon and couldn’t stay any longer for many reasons, but if you can, stay until sunset, when the golden rays of the sun make its way through the windmills.''How to get to Rizal Wind Farm in Pililla:''By Private Transportation (Driving Directions)''If you’re coming from EDSA, drive to Manile East Road through the towns of Taytay, Angono, Binangonan, Cardona, Morong, Baras and Tanay.''Stay on Manila East Road until you make it past Villa Lorenza Resort (should be on your left). At the fork, turn left (the other road is Pililla-Jala-Jala-Pakil Road).''Keep driving until you reach another fork. The entrance should be on your left. You’ll know you’re there when you see a parking lot.''By Public Transportation''From Starmall Mandaluyong (opposite Shangri-la Plaza/Megamall on the other side of EDSA) or Araneta Center in Cubao, Quezon City, take a van or FX to Tanay Public Market in Sampaloc. (Fare: PHP 70)''At the market, take a tricycle to Pililla Wind Farm. (Fare: PhP 300 per way.) Make sure you negotiate for a roundtrip cost.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''7 PLACES TO VISIT NEAR MANILA Under P1000''Bangui Windmills: Ilocos Norte, Philippines''Corregidor: 5 Reasons to Stay Overnight (Other than Ghost-Hunting)''Ilocos Weekend Trip: Summary, Itinerary and Budget''Tianmen Mountain Cable Car, China: The Most Scenic Ride of My Life''The Drenched Humor of BANTAYAN ISLAND, CEBU''When Captain John Lort Stokes of the Beagle reached a harbor in Northern Australia in 1839, he thought about a friend and former shipmate who would probably like the area had he been part of the crew — Charles Darwin. Yet, the Darwin himself never set foot in the port city that would later be named in his honor.''When asked why the Captain named it after the renowned evolutionist, no one in our group was certain. “Perhaps he saw the many remarkable species that walked the land at the time,” our tour guide theorized. And it could be true. From the white ibis birds that roam the shores to the saltwater crocodiles that rule the rivers, Australia’s biodiversity is quite fascinating, to say the least.''Despite its natural beauty, however, Darwin isn’t really the first that comes to mind when we think of Australian cities. It’s the Jon Snow among the Stark children, the Tyrion among the Lannister siblings, the Dorne of the Seven Kingdoms. Isolated. Outcast. Somewhat out of place. It’s laidback when the others are bustling, tropical when others are temperate. Yet, it survives, thrives, and leaves a unique imprint among the lucky souls who would come visit.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Darwin''When to Visit and What to Wear''How to Get to Darwin''Where to Stay''Places to Visit''How to Get Around Darwin''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Sample 5-Day Itinerary''Budget Breakdown''One sure way to make us smile is to mention Australia. Whenever a friend asks us a simple question about our time there, we can’t seem to stop talking passionately. Australia is incredible. It may be the world’s smallest continent, but it is teeming with adventures.''Within a month, we were able to visit four cities (Darwin, Sydney, Cairns, and Brisbane), three towns (Alice Springs, Yulara, Airlie Beach), and five national parks (Litchfield, Kakadu, Wattarka, Kata Tjuta-Uluru, and the Great Barrier Reef). It is the most unforgettable trip we have been on to date, and we can’t wait for our readers to experience what the Land Down Under has to offer.''Fortunately, it is easy to get an Australian tourist visa. While you can still apply via''VFS Global'', a more hassle-free way is to do everything online.''First, let’s look at how Australia defines a “tourist.” The visa type you need is called''“Visitor visa” (subclass 600)''. Under this visa, there are two streams: Tourist and Business. According to VFS, a tourist is a person visiting Australia temporarily “for a holiday, for a visit to relatives or friends, or for other short-term non-work purposes, including study for less than three months.”''The visa that we got was valid for 3 months, and must be used within 6 months of issuance.''Note that this post is for Filipino citizens applying for an Australian TOURIST Visa. If you’re eyeing another type (long-term study, business, residency visas), I’m afraid we can’t help you because we haven’t experienced it.''Here’s exactly how we did it.''Australian Immigration Website Interface'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Sign up for an ImmiAccount.''2. Accomplish the Application Form.''3. Pay the Application Fee.''4. Submit Supporting Documents.''Frequently Asked Questions''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''1. Sign up for an ImmiAccount.''ImmiAccount means an account with Immi.gov.au, the Australian government’s official Immigration website. It is important to create an ImmiAccount because the whole process will be done on this website.''Important: Make sure you use a working email address. Any update about your application will be sent to this email (including the acknowledgment of receipt of your application and the actual visa grant). You will also get notified every time you log into your account.''To register, go to''this site''.''2. Accomplish the Application Form.''Once you have an account, you’ll receive a confirmation link via email. Check your inbox and follow the link.''Once confirmed, you may start filling out the application form. This is the equivalent of''Form 1419''(Application for a Visitor visa – Tourist stream), except you don’t need to print this out. It will retain the information you enter as long as you save them.''What if you start accomplishing the form but can’t complete right then? It’s okay. You can SAVE the changes and continue editing in the future. As long as you SAVE it (and NOT SUBMIT), you can keep on editing the form.''DO NOT SUBMIT THE FORM''if you’re not done yet.''3. Pay the Application Fee.''Online payments are done via credit card only.''If you have one, good for you.''The fee is now AUD 135 (PHP 5387)''(although at the time I applied, the fee was only AUD 130). A credit card surcharge was also collected. (In my case, it was AUD 1.34.)''If you don’t have a credit card, you can ask a family member or a friend who has one.''Can you pay even without submitting the supporting documents? Yes. You can upload the additional docs later.''4. Submit Supporting Documents.''On your application dashboard, you will find a field where you can upload the required and not-required-but-great-to-have documents. The key is to submit as many types as you can. Better safe than sorry.''Here a list of SCANNED items that I believe are of utmost importance.''Info page of passport.''PSA birth certificate.''Passport-size photograph''Previous and Current Visas.''We scanned all the pages of our old and current passports that have stamps.''Evidence of sufficient funds''to prove that you have the financial capability to do this trip. The more of these documents you can provide, the better: personal bank statements, pay slips, tax records (ITR) or credit card limit. In my case, I submitted a copy of my bank statement, pay slips, and ITR.''Evidence of strong ties in the Philippines''. Any document that can prove you’re returning to the Philippines:''–''If employed'', certificate of employment stating your intention to return to your job''–''If self-employed'', business registration documents''–''If student'', certificate of enrolment''– You can also submit documents proving you own property or other significant assets (land titles, etc.)''Daily itinerary''for your stay in Australia.''Here are more documents that I did not submit because these didn’t apply to me, but if they apply to you, make sure you have them.''Letter of invitation.''Only if you’re visiting a friend or relative. Best if you have photos with that friend and relative showing that you really know each other.''Identification Documents of Sponsor.''If you declare that your trip will be paid for by someone other than yourself.''Evidence that your sponsor in Australia can financially support your trip.''If you declare that your trip will be paid for by someone other than yourself.''Marriage Certificate.''If your current last name is different from your last name in your birth certificate.''Here are additional documents that are not required but I believe can help your application go smoothly. (I submitted the following.)''Cover Letter.''This isn’t required, but it would help you a lot if you upload a letter explaining why you want to visit. Make sure that the letter summarizes and supports everything else you’re submitting. Remember, there will be no interview so it is best to let them know what you plan to do in Oz.''Roundtrip flight and hotel booking.''You are actually discouraged to book flights and hotels before you’re granted a visa (so your money won’t go to waste should your application be denied), but in our case, we already had confirmed bookings so we thought we might as well submit them. This might be helpful if you snagged low fares via seat sale. But if you don’t have tickets yet, don’t book. Wait for your visa before making flight arrangements.''I know friends who also submitted their latest''credit card statement''. This is to show them that you have additional source of travel funds. I have a credit card but didn’t submit mine.''That’s it! Once you have submitted your application, you should receive an Acknowledgment of Application Receipt in your email.''I got mine on the same day of submission.''From here, it’s gonna be a nerve-racking waiting game. Note that they will never give you an update from the moment you submit until a decision is made. This means that the next email you’re going to receive from them will tell you whether you have been granted or denied a visa.''Frequently Asked Questions''1. When will I be informed of the results of my application?''The processing can take a few days to one month, depending on your case. Ours took almost a month. I submitted my application on May 9 and received my visa on June 5. This was in 2015.''However, it seems like it’s much faster lately. Some of our friends who had applied in the past year got theirs after only 1-2 days!''2. How long is the validity of the Australian visa?''In my case, even though I applied for a 3-week stay, I was granted a visa valid for 3 months. I think that’s the standard length for non-working visas.''3. How early should I apply for an Australian visa?''Not earlier than 6 months before your trip.''In the visa, the last day I can enter Australia was clearly specified: 6 months after the visa was granted. Again, I’m not sure if this is the case for everyone, but that’s what was indicated on mine.''4. How much money should I have in the bank to get approved?''No one knows exactly. They don’t explicitly say. But to give you an idea for a ballpark figure, the Embassy of France now requires from Schengen visa applicants''EUR 120 per day of stay''.''5. What are the reasons why my application would be denied?''You can’t prove that you intend to return to the Philippines''. You probably don’t have a stable job at this point or are newly employed or newly resigned, and it’s giving the impression that you plan on staying longer than your declared duration.''You can’t prove that you can financially support yourself on this trip.''You or your sponsor may not be in good financial standing.''You seem to not know the details of your trip''. You may have appeared as though you’re not really doing what you declared you would be doing, which may raise some red flags.''Your purpose in Australia is unclear''. This is why it is best to be specific when you’re detailing the reasons for your visit.''6. What does an Australian Visa look like?''Here’s what the Australian Visa looks like when you receive it online. It doesn’t get attached to the passport. Just bring a copy and show the Immigration Officer when you arrive:''If you have questions or something to add to this post, holler in the comments section below! 🙂''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Mindil Beach Sunset Market in Darwin, Australia''4 Highlights of our Kakadu National Park Day Tour, Australia''Alice Springs YHA Hostel: Where to Stay in Alice Springs, Australia''Anzac Hill, Todd River, and a Brief History of Alice Springs, Australia''Passions of Paradise: Michaelmas Cay and the Great Barrier Reef, Australia''5 Rooftop Bars with Cheap Eats in Brisbane''When we began our journey across Australia’s Red Center, our tour guide-slash-driver handed us a marker and told us to write our names on the window of the van. It’s a way for everyone in the group to easily remember each other’s name.''Since then, every time I looked out the window, I saw my name etched in every dawn and dusk, every starry sky, every vivid picture that sped past me. Through the glass, every place is a canvass. Every moment a masterpiece. The Outback is a wild, insane artist.''Our destination: Uluru, Australia’s most iconic landmark. Regarded by many as the heart of the Outback, Uluru is located almost at the center of the continent. The nearest major town is Alice Springs, where our trip began.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Alice Springs & Uluru''How to Get to Alice Springs or Uluru''When to Visit''Where to Stay''Places to Visit''How to Get Around''Other Tips for the Poor Traveler''Sample 5-Day Itinerary''Budget Breakdown''Travel insurance can be had through several different means nowadays. Some banks offer their customers travel insurance with their current accounts, while it is also possible to take out travel insurance at a reduced cost with a home insurance policy.''However, the travel insurance offered through these separate products is often lesser in cover to separate policies, which is obviously a very important consideration.''As a result, we recommend that you''compare the market''to find a policy and a level of cover that’s right for you.''Not sure what to look for? To help you out, below you will discover everything you need to know about travel insurance to make sure that your jollies are, well, jolly!''So without further ado, we’ll start things off with some essential need-to-knows:'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Essential things you need to know about travel insurance''The different types of travel insurance''Where are you going?''Optional extras''How much should you pay?''“We’re in the middle of nowhere,” I whispered as I picked up another stick.''Middle of nowhere. No other collection of three words had been as overused since we first set foot in the vastness of the Australian Outback. In this part of the world, almost everywhere is the “middle of nowhere.”''Our group was divided into pairs, all collecting firewood in between low trees and tall shrubs, sparsely fringing the red dunes. It had all the makings of a tragic thriller: temperature dropping, light dwindling, and dingoes howling in the distance. Every stick we picked up from the ground was followed by a deep sigh (or a silent prayer, had I been a theist). It was always a relief not finding a venomous snake or spider underneath. Australia’s deadly reputation is hard to shake off.''I wrapped my left arm around a stack of half-dozen sticks and dragged a whole slender tree trunk with my right to the side of the road, where our van was parked. Then, we broke the big, long branches into smaller pieces before handing them one by one to Nick, our tour guide, who stood atop the trailer and ensured that every firewood, down to every last twig, was in place.''“We’re gonna need these to sleep soundly tonight,” Nick said as he jumped off the vehicle. “We’re spending the night in the middle of nowhere.”''There’s that phrase again.''“And by ‘middle of nowhere’, I mean the middle of fckin’ nowhere,” he added before climbing back to the driver seat. We followed suit, finding our spot inside the van, where we spent the next hour wondering where the hell we were. Soon, the concrete road turned to dirt and the van shook as we headed straight into pitch darkness. After several minutes, we pulled over and braved the cold.''“Welcome to the middle of nowhere,” he said as he started a small fire, allowing us a look at our home for the night. And he wasn’t kidding.''This was just the first night of our three-day camping trip that straddles 1500 kilometers across Australia’s Red Center. Bundled with our accommodation arrangement at Alice Springs YHA, this epic journey organized by The Rock Tours began in Alice Springs, the Outback’s biggest settlement.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Day 1: Alice Springs and the Kings Canyon''Night 1: Getting the Swag''Day 2: Kata Tjuta and Uluru Sunset''Night 2: A More Comfortable Sleep''Day 3: Walking ‘Round Uluru''The moment I reached Brisbane, a weird feeling took over my senses.''There I was, at the sixth and final stop of our tour around Australia, but it felt as though I was just starting the journey. Weeks of being in the middle of flat, barren deserts and isolated, small islands had left me adjusting again. Suddenly, multi-story buildings and parades of cars are strangers that I needed to get to know or lost friends I would need to reconnect with. Perhaps the feeling was brought about by sheer exhaustion. By the time we hopped off the train from the airport, we were almost bereft of energy.''The more we walked, however, the less we wanted to stop. Brisbane may be a bona fide metropolis, but it isn’t as bustling or chaotic as other cities. If anything, it isn’t chaotic at all. Despite the concrete pavements and tangled streets, life here seems to move at a gentle pace. We discovered something pleasant at every turn. On our way to Riverlife at Kangaroo Point, for example, we stumbled upon many interesting sites including the Nepalese Peace Pagoda, the Streets Beach, and the Queensland Maritime Museum. Curious (sometimes out-of-place) artworks are scattered across the city and the suburbs. What’s more, many of these can be enjoyed at no or little cost. Here are some of ’em.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. King George Square, Brisbane City Hall, and Brisbane Museum''2. Albert Street Literary Trail''3. Queen Street Mall''4. City Botanic Gardens''5. South Bank Parklands''6. Streets Beach''7. Fashion and Art Weekend Markets''8. Food Trip''9. BBQ Picnic at Kangaroo Point''10. Live Music''I was this close to thinking I was living in a giant oven.''The sun was mercilessly toasting everything its rays touched, heating up the concrete ground. It was a midsummer noon, and I was walking around town trying to find a good place to stay for the next night. A working air-conditioning system, a requirement.''The town of San Juan, La Union, has unusual travel seasons. While most destinations in the Philippines come to life during summer (March-May), San Juan’s peak season runs from October to March, when the big waves make their appearance to play with the town’s growing surfing community. Yet, summer weekends still see a significant swell in the number of tourists. The waves may not be present, but who can refuse the call of a relaxing beach getaway?''This is perhaps the reason why most resorts (and restaurants) are packed that weekend. But to be honest, finding good accommodations shouldn’t be difficult. (I’m just a professional procrastinator. Don’t be like me.) There are plenty of good options along the beach and along the main road. I actually wanted to stay at Flotsam and Jetsam too, but they were fully booked. Here are some of those I was able to try (in no particular order).'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Chill’n Hotel''Urbiz Garden Bed and Breakfast''G Hotel (Planet G)''Search for hotels here: La Union Hotels''Top Resorts and Hotels in La Union''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Chill’n Hotel''I was in La Union for an event called “''Save Our Seas Coastival'',” an effort to inspire beachgoers to be more conscious of the products they bring into the open water. As one of the sponsors of the event, Chill’n hosted some of the participants (myself included) for a night. I took the opportunity to write about the place. (No one asked us to.)''Chill’n Hotel Double Room''Chill’n Hotel Bathroom''Chill’n is your typical budget resort. The room we were assigned was neat, spacious and air-conditioned. It has a tiled floor and is equipped with only the basic facilities such as wooden furnishings (a side table and a desk), a clean toilet and bath, and a flat screen TV. That’s about it. If you’re in La Union for a staycation and expecting  top-notch amenities, this isn’t the place for you. BUT if you’re here to explore the outdoors and only need an affordable place to stay, this could be a good choice.''The best thing about Chill’n is that it’s close to the beach. Service was good, too. The staff was approachable and helpful. There’s also a swimming pool outside.''Urbiz Garden Bed and Breakfast''When the event was over, I had to find a new place to spend the night, and Urbiz Garden was my top-of-mind choice. From the outside, it looks like your dream beach house, surrounded by shady trees and facing the sea. Bougainvillea shrubs and vines cover some walls, adorning it with fuchsia flowers and lots of good vibes (haha). While there were no available rooms at the main house, there was one vacant beach cabana, which I gladly took.''The cabana looks like a honeymoon hut. It was secluded in a fenced corner of the resort, making me feel like it was my own private spot. The room itself was cozy, with only little space surrounding the bed, but fully air-conditioned. The toilet and bath were outside, though, and were more like cubicles than proper restrooms. The arrangement didn’t bother me at all, since the area was somewhat cloistered.''Urbiz Garden Bed and Breakfast''Urbiz Garden Cabana Toilet and Bath''Urbiz Garden Cabana''Urbiz Garden Common Area''All bookings come with free breakfast, composed of dried fish and rice, which can be served near your cabana or at the common area. The common area was a good place to work — I finished a screenplay here — or just unwind. Overflowing coffee is available, and there’s a cold water dispenser thoughtfully stationed in a corner.''G Hotel (Planet G)''One of the newest accommodations in San Juan, La Union. Strategically located within PLANET G, a complex of restaurants, it is at the very center of the village. The beach, other restaurants, and tricycle terminals are all within easy reach from here.''We booked a premium double room. Spacious, air-conditioned, and had a view of the adjacent road. Because the building was new, the room was squeaky clean. Staff was very friendly; we found ourselves exchanging jokes and having a good laugh with them. The rate was pretty reasonable at P2000 per night. There are cheaper rooms:''Good for 1 pax:''PhP 1500''Good for 2 pax:''PhP 1700''Good for 3 pax:''PhP 1900''On our first day, however, there was no water. (It was town-wide, they say.) So there’s that.''Also, the hotel is located on the third floor of Planet G building, with no elevators. So if you don’t feel like going on a trek every time you want to go to your room, this might not be the best option for you.''Planet G Hotel Premium Double Room''Planet G Hotel Bathroom''Search for hotels here:''La Union Hotels''Top Resorts and Hotels in La Union''If you have a bigger budget, here are four of the best-rated hotels and resorts in Traveloka as of 2017.''Aureo Resort La Union''Location: San Fernando, La Union, Philippines, 2500''Check Rates & Availability''Marand Resort and Spa''Location: National Highway, Baccuit Sur, Bauang, Philippines, 2501''Check Rates & Availability''Costa Villa Beach Resort''Location: Mac Arthur Highway, Urbiztondo, San Juan, Philippines, 2514''The municipality of San Juan in La Union has been hit by a series of waves.''The first wave of tourists was composed mainly of swimmers and sun-worshippers. For decades, San Juan was known simply as a beach town, just one of the many that freckle the map of Northern Luzon. But as roads stemmed deeper into the more remote corners of the island, the ever-fickle tourism shifted its focus to several more dazzling coves, including those in Pagudpud to the north and in Pundaquit to the south.''The next wave brought with it a new breed of beachgoers — surfers. From July to March, the shores of San Juan are slapped with swells of five to six feet, pumping new life to the sleepy town, paving the way to become the region’s surfing capital, and putting La Union back on the tourist map.''When we visited the place recently, we were hoping to start another wave. A marine conservation event in which we participated was held on the beach of Urbiztondo, the province’s surfing epicenter. Called “Save Our Seas” Coastival, it was an effort led by''Human Nature''in cooperation with Save Philippine Seas, WWF for Nature, and other environmental groups. “It was our answer to LaBoracay,” the organizers enthusiastically declared. LaBoracay is just one on a recent wave of beach festivals that attract hordes of tourists and piles of trash.''It was a one-day event, and I intended to come home as soon as the program was over. Summer may be at its peak (with temperatures hitting almost 40C), but the seascape was as flat as I would love my belly to be. The air may be fresh, but the season deprived it of any coolness. But as I walked around town, I found a reason to stay a little bit longer:''shirtless men''food.''Urbiztondo Beach''San Juan is the most easily accessible surfing hotspot from Manila, ensuring a steady and constant supply of tourists, which means good business. A strong food scene has begun to emerge. Along the beach and the parallel road, lanes of restaurants offering a wide array of cuisines are punctuated by cafes and street food stalls. Here are some of those I was able to try during my brief stay. (In chronological order, not by quality.)'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Urbiztondo Grill House''Angel and Marie’s Place''Gefseis Greek Grill''Surf Shack''Flotsam and Jetsam Hostel''El Union Coffee''Mad Monkeys''Tagpuan''Top Hotels in La Union''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Urbiztondo Grill House''This is your typical traditional Filipino eatery. And when I say “typical,” I mean it. They serve a whole lot of dishes, but their specialty are the grilled ones (duh). I ordered Grilled Tuna Belly (P175) and Adobong Pusit (P220). They weren’t bad-tasting, but there was nothing special about ’em either. The freshness of the seafood could not be denied, though.''Warning, though. The place is enclosed but not airconditioned. There are several fans around, but during hot summer days, they may not be enough if you’re expecting to kind of relax a little bit while waiting for your food.''As for the prices, most seafood dishes are at P220, vegetables at P90, chicken at P120, pork at P140, and beef ranging from P165-P345.''Angel and Marie’s Place''One of the best known places to stay in San Juan is Angel and Marie’s Surfer’s Retreat, run by a couple who are well-loved in the surfing community. They also have their small diner, which just like Urbiztondo Grill House, serves mostly Pinoy dishes. I was walking to another bar when a chalkboard that screamed OMELET caught my attention. At first, I thought it was closed because it was dimly lit, but it was just meant to be that way.''I ordered Tomato and Onion Omelet and Squid Adobo Rice. Nothing about the omelet stood out, to be perfectly honest. The adobong pusit was a bit above average, having a perfect blend of salty and sour, and mixed with large pieces of tomatoes and onions. Food preparation took time, but they were upfront about it even before I ordered.''Angel and Marie’s Place''Onion Tomato Omelet''Squid Adobo''Gefseis Greek Grill''A quick Google search of recommended restaurants in San Juan will most likely lead to Gefseis. It is well-covered by bloggers and is a constant in top 10 lists. Novelty is a big part of it, I guess. After all, we do not see that many Greek restaurants outside of Manila. Needless to say, expectations were high for this beachfront, blue-and-white open-air restaurant.''At this point, my friend''Mica''had caught up to me and joined me for lunch at Gefseis. She ordered Spaghetti Salad (P240), which is a combination of fresh tomato, bell peppers, onions, olives, feta cheese, and oregano topping a big serving of noodles. It was my first time to try a spaghetti dish with fresh (uncooked) ingredients. It’s a matter of taste, but it’s just not to my liking. Mica seemed to enjoy it, though.''Gefsies Restaurant''Spaghetti Salad''I had a plate of Kontosouvli (P200), a chunk of spiced pork slow-roasted overnight, which was nothing remarkable. It was dry and was hard to chew. The saving race was the Moussaka (P200), something that I order at every Greek resto I find myself in, and this one did not disappoint. The potato and eggplant were tender, and the bechamel sauce and cheese had the right milky sweetness that complemented the rest of the ingredients.''Kontosouvli  (P200)''Moussaka''Surf Shack''It was the first dining experience in La Union that I thoroughly enjoyed (partly because I was half-drunk the whole time). With music from a live band filling the air, Surf Shack is more of an outdoor bar than a proper sit-down restaurant. The menu lists mostly bar favorites like pizza, buffalo wings, and other finger food delights. Their best-sellers: Mommy Lou’s Gourmet Tuyo Pizza and Ilokano Pizza (with Vigan longganisa). But that evening, I was not in the mood for tuyo — I had enough of it that morning at Urbiz Garden — so I ordered Roast Garlic and Shrimp Pizza and Buffalo Wings.''Surf Shack''Buffalo Wings''But Surf Shack, with its open-air setup and laidback atmosphere, is more like a food community. Its entrance is flanked by a shawarma kiosk and a barbeque stall (selling Pinoy grilled faves like isaw, gizzard, and liver). While they are completely separate establishments, they have the same owner. You can buy from any of these stalls and dine at any of the tables within the complex. We’re such suckers for isaw and other entrails, but the only one available at the time was grilled gizzard, which tasted great and was cooked perfectly. (The vinegar that came with it was a bit wanting, though.) The Beef Kebab Rice was a delightful surprise. I’ve been used to having kebabs that are a bit too dry, but this one wasn’t. It was a humongous serving, too.''Beef Kebab Rice''Grilled Gizzard''Flotsam and Jetsam Hostel''Although more popular as a hostel, their kitchen is open to guests and non-guests alike. I would have liked pizza that noon, but pizzas were not available until 4pm, they said. We ended up ordering a bunch of rice meals. Mica ordered Lechon Kawali, and I had Crab Meat Rice and Carbonara. I loved every bit of all three. These are simple dishes, but they were all perfectly prepared. This was definitely the best dining experience we had in San Juan, and that’s not yet considering how airy the whole place was, facing the beach.''Carbonara''Crab Meat Rice''Lechon Kawali''El Union Coffee''Right after a satisfying meal at Flotsam and Jetsam, we moved to the famous El Union Coffee. It was a Monday, and the place was not as packed as usual. I had Iced Latte and Horchata, both of which were truly refreshing. What I liked best about both drinks was that they weren’t overly sweet.''Iced Cappuccino and Iced Latte''El Union Coffee''With Mica of Senyorita.net''The ambiance was great, too. Although not really as close to the beach as I expected, it fostered a relaxing, intimate atmosphere that encourages conversations with other customers. We were able to chat with the staff, the owners, and other tourists. Everyone seemed to be having a fantastic time during our visit.''——————-''Well, that’s about it. But there are a couple more dining spots that I planned on giving a try, but did not have enough time. Here they are:''Mad Monkeys''Mad Monkeys''A burger joint, and a pretty popular one at that if the number of people dining here is any indication.''Tagpuan''Tagpuan''A hole-in-the-wall type gotohan. This is where people who spent the past hours drinking usually go to sober up.''Top Hotels in La Union''Aureo Resort La Union''Location: San Fernando, La Union, Philippines, 2500''Check Rates & Availability''Marand Resort and Spa''Location: National Highway, Baccuit Sur, Bauang, Philippines, 2501''Check Rates & Availability''Costa Villa Beach Resort''Location: Mac Arthur Highway, Urbiztondo, San Juan, Philippines, 2514''We watched as the sun took a dive, leaving behind a luminous, honey-colored splatter across the sky. Spending most of my time in big cities, I have learned to appreciate every moment I am treated to a clear view of a glorious sunset. And I stood there, atop the cliff, just taking it all in, not minding at all that I am in what many consider one of the most haunted places in the Philippines. Darkness was creeping in, but our tour was just beginning.''Corregidor is known by many nicknames: “Fort Mills” during the American era, “The Rock” for its terrain and fortifications, and “Gibraltar of the East” for its resemblance to Mediterranean Sea’s peninsular fortress. Because of its strategic location, at the mouth of Manila Bay, it played a pivotal role during the Pacific War. Its fall signaled the start of the Japanese occupation of the Philippines (1942-45). Thousands of souls from both sides perished in the island: most killed during battle. Others chose to end their lives instead of waving the white flag.''This violent history has made the island notorious for eerie, creepy encounters. Many choose to explore the island on a day tour and refuse to spend even just one night here. Who can blame them, really? It is the picture that media has painted, scaring would-be visitors and restricting many of those who dare to short day tours. And it’s a shame. While this island offers a lot of enlightening insights and picturesque vistas under the sun, its best is served in the dark. Here are five reasons to stay overnight in Corregidor.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Hospital Ruins Tour''2. Sunset from Battery Grubbs''3. Lateral Tunnels Tour''4. Sunrise over the Tail End.''5. South Beach.''Few joys beat the ecstasy of being on a luxury holiday at a top-notch hotel. And while some tourists are happy with a conveniently located hotel that provides all the basic necessities and comfort, others want more. For intrepid travelers like me, one of those few joys is staying at a quirky hotel that has a personality of its own, because when you’re splurging, shouldn’t it be on something phenomenal?''From a glass-shaped ‘treehouse’ in Sweden to an inn that is shaped like a dog in Idaho, here are eight hotels recommended by HolidayMe (''EN''|''AR'') that are guaranteed to give you unique experiences that you wouldn’t want to miss out on:'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. SAS Attrap’Reves, France''2. Sun Cruise Resort, Donghae, South Korea''3. Inntel Hotel Zaandam, Amsterdam, Netherlands''4. Treehotel, Harads, Sweden''5. Faralda Crane Hotel, Amsterdam, Netherlands''6. The Dog Bark Park Inn, Idaho, USA''7. Montana Magica Lodge, Panguipulli, Chile''8. 9 Hours Capsule Hotel, Kyoto, Japan''The Other Poor Travelers''is a series where we feature other backpackers who inspire us not just with their ability to travel on a budget but also the tales and lessons they pick up along the way. In this edition, we give you S. Bedford, author of''It’s Only the Himalayas and Other Tales of Miscalculation from an Overconfident Backpacker.''When my best friend and I set out on a round-the-world trip, I expected what I thought to be the quintessential backpacker experiences. Being awed into humility before the rose gold hue of the Taj Mahal at sunset, for example. Or discovering tranquility in the Popsicle blue waves in Loh Dalam Bay. Or even “finding myself” in that ambiguous sense while gaping at the tremendous mountain-scape surrounding Annapurna Basecamp.''In fact, we spent more time dodging guys with one hand on their camera phones and the other on their trouser crotches than admiring India’s most celebrated tomb, and Koh Phi Phi’s Popsicle blue waves were undulating reminders of the way-too-many cocktails I’d imbibed the night before. As for what happened in the Nepali Himalayas… well, I didn’t so much find myself as I did have my ass handed to me.''Here are three of the craziest, most unexpected moments that occurred during my year abroad. Lonely Planet didn’t warn me about any of this…''At Taj Mahal'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Getting Chased by Lions in Zimbabwe''2. Starring in a Bollywood Commercial for Men’s Underwear''3. Battling My 2 Worst Enemies on a Mountaintop like a Japanese Cartoon Character''“What are the essentials you can’t leave the country without?” As a travel blogger, it’s a question that I am regularly asked.''But it’s a question that I always have a ready answer to: a good pair of shoes, a good book, a passport (!) and a good smartphone. A perfect pair of shoes allows comfortable and enjoyable endless walks, the only physical exercise I do these days. A good book inspires and allows me to think and feel; it’s like a mental and emotional workout. A passport – well, that’s self-explanatory!''But the most powerful must-have for me is the one I keep in my pocket – a smartphone. Sure, as travelers, you can argue that we actually can travel without them (although it’s going to be a dull trip). But when blogging is involved, it’s a different story. It becomes an essential, at least for us. Living a nomadic life entails ensuring that we connect with our readers regularly, keep ourselves updated with what’s happening around us and back home, and empower ourselves with the right tools. And tools are aplenty. There are thousands of travel apps that you can use for a safe, rich, and memorable journey. It’s just a matter of picking the right ones for you, depending on your travel style and habits. These are the twelve that we use most often.''Kayaking in El Nido'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. SkyScanner (Flight Search)''2. Facebook (Social)''3. Instagram (Social/Photography)''4. Snapchat (Social/Video)''5. Google Maps (Navigation)''6. Waze (Navigation)''7. Uber (Ride-Sharing)''8. Converter (Utility)''9. Google Translator (Utility)''10. Splittr (Utility)''11. TripAdvisor (Reviews/Utility)''12. GoSkyWatch (Astronomy)''When someone mentions the beach, we immediately think of a long stretch of white sand, sandwiched by a lane of coconut trees and turquoise waters. But if there’s one thing that traveling has taught us, it’s that this world is a trove of incredibly, unbelievably diverse treasures. Even beaches come in different forms, shapes, and colors. Some are strewn with powdery sand, others freckled with curious rock formations. Here’s a list of 6 beaches that best represent the different types of seaside wonders.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Matira Beach, Bora Bora''Bowling Balls Beach, California''Chandipur Beach, India''Perissa Beach, Santorini, Greece''Pink Beach, Zamboanga City, Philippines''6. Giant’s Causeway, Northern Ireland''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Matira Beach, Bora Bora''We begin with what many consider the poster beach of all tropical destinations – Matira. This fantastic piece of heaven is located in the French Polynesian Bora Bora Island. This is your typical white beach paradise, which has become a permanent resident of lists of the best beaches in the world.''Matira Beach in Bora Bora''Matira indeed is breathtaking. With perfectly white sand, amazingly warm water, and the chances to scuba dive or snorkel to explore gorgeous underwater, your trip to this beach will surely be unforgettable. While many think that traveling here is expensive, there is actually plenty of''cheap Bora Bora hotels''that you can book online.''Bowling Balls Beach, California''Bowling Balls Beach in California''Stones and pebbles are probably not really your idea of what make up a good beach. But if you find yourself in this Californian beach, you’ll be amazed by round, perfectly shaped stones that look as though they were deliberately placed by professional bowling player. Stones are best seen at low tide. They are neatly polished and neatly arranged on the coast – as if someone specifically put them there.''Chandipur Beach, India''Chandipur Beach in India''Facing the Bay of Bengal, Chandipur Beach is located in Odisha (Orissa), India. At first glance, this looks very ordinary. But twice a day, it gets interesting. Chandipur Beach is like playing hide-and-seek with the sea. At low tide, the water moves away from the coast for about 5 km. At that point, you can enjoy a walk on the beach and see a variety of sea creatures, corals, shells and red crabs, without worries of getting soaked. We guarantee that pictures taken in this place will be breathtaking too!''Perissa Beach, Santorini, Greece''Perissa Beach in Santorini, Greece''Perissa coastline is better known as the black beach due to millions of small black stones found in there. To be fair, swimming at this beach is dangerous, it is slippery due to large polished stone bars in the bottom. But here you can see the other side of the popular Santorini, a more authentic and more interesting. The long black beach extends along the entire coast of the island, so there is enough space for all travelers. Do not forget to take your flip flops here as well – black sand gets super hot during the hot day, and you can burn your foot!''Pink Beach, Zamboanga City, Philippines''Pink Beach in Zamboanga, Philippines. Photo by Marcos Caratao.''The Philippines is made up of 7107 islands, and so it’s expected that it harbors a gazillion beaches: white sand, cream sand, black sand. They even have beaches littered with not sand but volcanic ash. But it still has a lot of surprises, like PINK BEACHES! The Pink Beach in Zamboanga City is just one of a handful of pastel-colored beaches in the country. Part of Sta. Cruz Grande Island (Great Sta. Cruz Island) in Zamboanga City, its shore is covered in pulverized red organ-pipe corals (Tubipora musica) that, when mixed with white sand, create a pink hue.''6. Giant’s Causeway, Northern Ireland''Giants Causeway in Northern Ireland''Giant’s Causeway is Northern Ireland’s coast was formed as part of the largest lava plateau in Europe. This geological formation took shape about 60 million years ago when the North American and''Eurasian''continents were starting to break apart. It is indeed one of the most extraordinary beaches in the world. Here you might not want to dress down and lie to get a tan, but just to just sit quickly and enjoy the masterpiece of nature: perfectly shaped hexagonal columns, masterfully carved by nature.''That’s it! Can you add anything to this post? Let us know in the comments section below!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''9 FREE Things to Do in Los Angeles''4 Extraordinary Beaches in the Philippines to Visit in 2018''From London to Paris – The Inexpensive Way''Travel Goal: INDIA’s GOLDEN TRIANGLE''Masasa Beach: Not so Distant Paradise in Tingloy, Batangas''ATHENS IN WINTER: 7 Things to Do''It’s that time of the year again!''You know that another Game of Thrones season has begun when your Facebook news feed is flooded with cheers of excitement, cries of anger, and death threats for friends who are posting spoilers. It is not difficult to understand why HBO’s highly entertaining and often wildly brutal adaptation of the George RR Martin novels has reached the legendary status in pop culture. It has all the right ingredients: compelling characters, convincing production, unpredictable plot twists, and the right amount of fantasy. And dragons! Put it all together and you get a weekly serving of wonder. Brutal at times, but still pretty mindblowing.''But there’s one more thing that always captivates me about this phenomenal hit. On the Season 6 premiere, for instance, when the khalasar made their way to Khal Jhaqo with Daenerys Targaryen in tow, I was so drawn to the arid landscape that surrounded them that I googled it right away. Bardenas Reales in Spain, it turned out.''I have been so fascinated with GoT’s choices of filming locations that I have come up with a mission: visit as many of them as I can. The first that I set foot on was Essaouira in Morocco, which was where all Astapor scenes were shot (including that part where Khaleesi freed the Unsullied and ordered them to kill their masters). And when I backpack across Europe later this year, I’m certainly making stops in Northern Ireland, Croatia, and Spain.''So I decided to make a list of the fictional places in the series and their real-life counterparts, where they were primarily filmed. But before we begin, some notes:''This list covers exterior shots only.''Many of the interior sequences were actually done elsewhere. For example, Dobrovnik’s streets and coastal walls are used mainly for King’s Landing, but interior shots (Red Keep, Iron Throne, etc.) are done in sets in Northern Ireland.''This is not 1:1.''King’s Landing may be filmed mainly in Dubrovnik, but they also took supplementary footage of Essaouira and Malta as the Westeros capital. Dubrovnik also stood in for the City of Qarth in Season 2.''Many of these sites have been digitally modified or enhanced by the show.''Winterfell, for example, is almost unrecognizable as Castle Ward.''This is not complete.''I will update this as the series moves forward.''Now that we got the caveats out of the way, here it is: a Game of Thrones fan’s travel bucket list!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. King’s Landing: Dubrovnik, Croatia''2. Winterfell: Castle Ward, Northern Ireland''3. The Wall and Castle Black: Magheramorne Quarry, Northern Ireland''4. Beyond the Wall: Iceland''5. Dorne: Seville and Guadalajara, Spain''6. Iron Islands: Ballintoy Harbour, Northern Ireland''7. Dragonstone Island: Downhill Strand, Northern Ireland''8. Kingsroad: the Dark Hedges of Armoy, Northern Ireland''9. Pentos: Malta''10. Meereen: Split, Croatia''11. Braavos: Šibenik, Croatia''12. Astapor: Essaouira, Morocco''13. Yunkai: Aït-Ben-Haddou, Morocco''14. Vaes Dothrak: Almeria in Andalusia, Spain''15. Dothraki Sea: Bardenas Reales, Spain''Milan: A Once-in-a-Lifetime Itinerary by Unique Tours Factory''Unique Tours Factory''(UFT) is a new private tour company operating in fifteen European cities with sixty professional and seasoned guides and one hundred and twenty exceptional tours. This company aims to extend to other continents by the end of 2016 to become a global private tour company. The unique aspect about this company is that they offer more than just a standard tourist experience. By hiring professional and knowledgeable guides, you get a vibrant and genuine tour without missing a single thing.''We thought it would be great to try their services and visit Milan from a local’s point of view. We have decided to try their services and book the''Milan Fashion Tour''with Fausta Adele who will take us to the Armani Silos Museum and to a fashion workshop. To complete the tour we will have a nice Italian dinner in the canals area. We will also visit all of Milan`s most popular destinations with a local travel guide. The city of Milan has imposing monuments, beautiful historic mansions, as well as restaurants and cafes that serve the best of Italian cuisine. Our tour will start at the iconic Duomo Cathedral, the most famous Gothic monument in Italy. We cannot wait to visit the Duomo Cathedral! From what we have seen, it has beautifully crafted walls decorated with different statues.''Apart from the Duomo Cathedral, we plan to visit the Galleria Vittorio Emanuelle II and the Sforza Castle. We also plan to tour the extraordinary museums to see masterpieces by Leonardo da Vinci. The UTF guide will book tickets so that you can experience the famous Last Supper art piece by Leonardo da Vinci. This is a breathtaking moment considering that the painting has undergone restorations to reveal its original colours and beauty. A visit to Milan cannot end without visiting the Brera Art Gallery and Brera Palace. If you are an art lover, you will be stunned by the amazing collection of paintings that represent all the big names of Italian paintings, from Caravaggio, to Mantegna to Raphael.''With a UTF guide, you will be taken to all the museums to see many artworks and monuments. The UTF guides are fun and informative and will take you off the beaten track and also suggest some delicious spots for having lunch and dinner. They are planning on offering 120 tours soon. If this is your first tour of Europe, you will have a splendid time: the UTF guide is excellent and will give you lots of tips during your stay.''Please visit their website if you would like to have more information about their tours:''uniquetoursfactory.com''.''I partnered with the brand for this article.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Where to Stay in Europe: Budget Hotel and Hostel Reviews''FLORENCE ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Top 10 Best and Worst Travel Moments of 2016''Pagburnayan: Old School Pottery in Vigan, Ilocos Sur, Philippines''9 FREE Things to Do in Los Angeles''Mandalay Inn: Where to Stay in Siem Reap, Cambodia''As soon as we hopped out of the van, he drove off. Our driver dropped us off where the road almost meets the sea, and just left us there with no explanation, no suggestion on where to go or what to do, no fcks at all. I looked at my equally confused co-visitors and let out a gentle laugh. We all thought we signed up for a tour. Apparently, what they meant for tour was simply a ride.''For a brief moment there, I doubted whether we were in the right city. Although along Morocco’s Atlantic coast, Essaouira looks more like a Mediterranean town with a North African attitude. The citadel is predominantly white, rising from a rocky shore, accented by cerulean boats. Gelato shops mark some corners, and European restaurants punctuate some streets. Yet, a walk is impossible without running into locals clad in djellabas and being treated to the aroma of cumin-mixed tagines. And while it is home to multiple ethnic groups, it is distinctly, undeniably Moroccan.''“So where do we go?” said one of the Londoners in our group. Shrugs were our response.''It wasn’t really a problem. Essaouira is quite small, and many of the key attractions are within a few minutes’ walk. Some of us followed the crowd to the beach. Some followed the walls to the medina. But we followed the irresistible scent of grilled fish, which led us exactly to the place we wish to visit in this side of Morocco — the ramparts.''Me having a photo op with the medina in the background''Vins having his turn.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Essaouira Ramparts and Skala du Port''Food Trip at the Fish Market''Shopping at Medina''Gnaoua World Music Festival''Sidi Mohamad Ben Abdellah Museum''Beach Walk''The Village of Diabat''Goats on Argan Trees''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Essaouira Ramparts and Skala du Port''Essaouira means “little rampart,” referring to the walls that surround the area. The fortress was built under the command of the Portuguese. Called by its old name Mogador at the time, Essaouira was one of the six Moroccan towns that the Portuguese seized and ruled. It is a great example of an 18th century fortified port city.''The port area appears to retain its old charms. Many of the original canons remain in place, adorning the bulwarks. Its bastions are still standing. And its signature blue boats are docked at its feet. This ancient vibe is what has allowed the city to penetrate pop culture, having been chosen as locations for Orson Welles’s Othello and, more recently, HBO’s Game of Thrones. Yep! Essaouira is actually where most scenes in Astapor was shot, including the unforgettable and iconic scene wherein Daenerys Targaryen bought and freed the Unsullied. Dracarys!''At the center of it all is Skala du Port, a square tower crowned with a turret in each corner and flanked by circular bastions. It is from the top of this tower that postcard-worthy views of the walled medina are best enjoyed while also dodging a flurry of seagulls that fly past and above it.''Essaouira as Astapor''Essaouira as Astapor''Essaouira as Astapor''This was used as a Game of Thrones location.''Skala du Port  and the cannons''This is me hiding in one of the turrets atop Skala du Port. Walled medina in the background.''Entrance fee: MAD10''Food Trip at the Fish Market''Just down by the harbor lies a fish market that has become popular among tourists. Essaouira is a coastal city, which makes seafood a major part of the local diet and a must-try for visitors. Purchase their freshest catch at the market (per pack or kilo), have it grilled in one of the adjacent stands, and dine outside. It’s not much (especially knowing that it’s actually a bit more expensive here) but having lunch in the middle of blue boats can be quite a unique experience.''Dining out!''If your tastebuds aren’t itching for seafood, head over to one of the many restaurants in the medina.''Shopping at Medina''Inscribed to UNESCO’s World Heritage List in 2011, Essaouira’s walled medina is incredibly well-preserved. A walk down any of its streets is a walk back in time.''Its inner alleys are lined with whitewashed houses bearing colorful doors. Every block has a restaurant serving its own Moroccan, French, or Italian specialties, and vibrant souks selling dresses, slippers, souvenirs, and Berber carpets. It’s not as labyrinthine as the medina in Marrakech so a stroll around here is more inspiring than confusing.''Essaouira Medina''Beef Couscous at one of the restaurants in medina''Seagull Overhead.''Essaouira Medina''Entrance Fee: FREE.''Gnaoua World Music Festival''If you’re visiting Essaouira in May, don’t miss the Gnaoua World Music Festival, an annual event that showcases the music of foreign and mystical Gnaoua artists over four days. Over 500,000 people flock to the city and many performances are open to the public for free.''Sidi Mohamad Ben Abdellah Museum''Named after the founder of the modern-day Essaouira, this gorgeously refurbished museum narrates the history of the city though numerous artifacts — pottery, jewelry, carpets, weapons, costumes — all housed in a 19th century mansion.''Entrance Fee: MAD 10''Beach Walk''Adjacent to the ramparts is a long stretch of beige to golden sand that laps up the restlessness of the Atlantic. To say it’s completely relaxing can be misleading as the wind can be strong and the waves turbulent. It may not be welcoming to casual swimmers, but it has become a haven for the more adventurous ones, particularly those who enjoy watersports. Kitesurfers and windsurfers add a lot of energy to what many consider the favorite hangout place for Essaouirans.''Walk farther from the town end and you’ll find horse and camel rentals. Their owners will be following you around and insisting that you go on a ride, but just say no politely (and patiently) if you’re not interested.''That’s a looooong beach.''Entrance Fee: FREE.''The Village of Diabat''Keep walking and you’ll find the Bordj El Berod, ruins of a watchtower half-buried in the sand. Legend has it that this was the inspiration for “Castles Made of Sand,” a song written and recorded by Jimi Hendrix, an American rock icon (in case you’re not familiar like some people, ahem ahem) and somewhat a local hero.''Even farther is the Berber village of Diabat, located 3-5km south of medina and is accessible by taxi or on foot (if you have the time and the stamina). Here you can enjoy horse treks or horse rides around Essaouira, an interesting way of exploring the city. Zouina-cheval, a tour operator, offers rides for old-timers and beginners alike (even children). Rates are steep though, around MAD 160 per hour.''Goats on Argan Trees''This is not actually in Essaouira but on the way there from Marrakech. Apparently, in this part of the world, goats can climb trees. I didn’t know they were realize until I noticed one of them move. I was like, “You did not, you goatee!”''Goats on Argan Trees''Goats on Argan Trees''Food is so scarce that they have learned to rummage through Argan trees for their berries. And some locals have learned to turn curiosity into money. They would intentionally display the goats perched on the branches of trees just along the road. They charge for taking photos and holding one of the superstar goats.''Argan trees are useful to locals. Its berries contain seeds from which argan oil is extracted. This oil is popular in Europe and is believed to be of higher quality than olive oil. I’ve never tried it, really, but there are a lot of argan oil shops in Essaouira, Marrakech, and even Casablanca.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''15 Game of Thrones Filming Locations that You Can Visit''VISA-FREE MOROCCO: 8 Places to Visit''12 MUST-VISIT BEACHES IN BATANGAS, PHILIPPINES''South Batan Tour: 12 Must-Visit Spots in Batanes''Sabtang Island, Batanes: 6 Awesome Places to Visit on a Day Tour''Corregidor: 5 Reasons to Stay Overnight (Other than Ghost-Hunting)''The first thing I said to myself when I stepped in the town of Lucban was “OMG, I belong.” I’ve always loved anything bright and vibrant. It’s like if I die and I get reincarnated into a Philippine Festival, I’d probably be Pahiyas. (Not that festivals are living things. But you get the point.)''The Pahiyas Festival is celebrated every May 15 in Lucban, Quezon, in honor of the municipality’s patron saint, San  Isidro Labrador (St. Isidore the Farmer). It’s the locals’ way of giving thanks for the bountiful harvest over the past year. After an early morning mass at Lucban Church, a parade goes around town, passing by houses that are adorned with vegetables, fruits, handicrafts, and kiping, leaf-shaped paper-like decors made from rice. The grander, the better. The more colorful the house is, the more people it attracts.''If Pahiyas is your kind of festival too, make sure that you’re well-prepared for a visit.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get to Lucban, Quezon''What to Do in Lucban''Where to Eat in Lucban''Where to Stay''Sample Itinerary''Budget Breakdown''Almost every decade, a new destination rattles the world of Manila-based beach chasers. In the 1950s, Matabungkay was put on the tourist map after two German travelers “rediscovered” it. In the 1970s, all roads led to Puerto Galera after UNESCO declared it a protected area. In the late 2000s, the hype was all about Anawangin, reborn 20 years after the catastrophic eruption of Mt. Pinatubo.''The search for the nearest it beach paradise doesn’t stop. We always need a go-to destination where we could forget about the constant jolts of the city — traffic, noise, air pollution. Who could blame us, really? The more people Metro Manila takes under her wing, the more we want to escape her claws. We love Manila, yes, but when it comes to beaches — let’s face it — she will break your heart (and poison you, if you swallowed enough). Sometimes, all we want to do is run away from her and have an affair. With nature, that is.''But where do we go now? The things we have loathed about the city have snuck their way out to the countryside. Matabungkay, trash problems. Puerto Galera’s White Beach, overdevelopment. And Anawangin, ah, some boatmen in Pundaquit now call it Divisoria for a reason. We’ve expanded our search to a couple of hours further to include outlying islands. Some of them are a bit difficult to reach and requires multiple transfers. A few of them can still be a bit swarmed during summer weekends, but they’re not as insanely crowded as the popular ones.''If you’re always on the lookout for a beach destination that will make you feel like you actually left the city, here are 10 suggestions.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Silanguin Cove''Talisayen Cove''South Beach''Mariveles and Bagac Beaches''Cagbalete Island''Tambobong Beach''Verde Island''Sepoc Beach''Cape Santiago''Malabrigo Beach''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Silanguin Cove''Silanguin Cove''Location'': San Antonio, Zambales''Silanguin is the least crowded of all the newly rediscovered beaches of San Antonio; thanks to its remoteness.''Be warned: the sand here isn’t white, not even off-white. It is light gray, at best. But don’t judge a beach by its color. Unlike the other coves, the water here is much shallower and less violent, making it more ideal for swimming (soul searching, if you’re into that thing). The reddish soil of the surrounding mountains combined with the bright greenery also makes for the best view in San Antonio.''If you have more time'': Go fishing! The waters of Zambales are so rich that fishing tours are starting to make waves. Ask your boatman about it before the trip.''How to get here'': From Pundaquit, boats (good for 4 pax) can be rented for P2000-P2500. Travel time: 5-6 hours. Alternatively, you can also get here by boat from Subic, but entails a longer travel time.''More info'':''Anawangin and Nagsasa Travel Guide''.''Where to Stay:''Zambales Hotels''Talisayen Cove''Talisayin Cove''Location: San Antonio, Zambales''Of all the ashen coves patching the coastline of Zambales, Talisayen is the quietest. It’s like that one guy back in high school who sat at the very back of the class, not saying a word unless asked. Often overlooked because he wasn’t as popular as his seatmates.''How to get here'': From Pundaquit, boats (good for 4 pax) can be rented for P2000-P2500. Alternatively, you can also get here by boat from Subic, but entails a longer travel time.''More info'':''Anawangin and Nagsasa Travel Guide''.''Where to Stay:''Zambales Hotels''South Beach''Corregidor South Beach''Location'': Corregidor Island''Corregidor isn’t all about barracks and batteries. It also hides a short, quiet beach that most Manila residents know nothing about. The South Bank Beach isn’t littered with fine, white sand, but it is good enough for a relaxing getaway. Scattered around are what they call “bloodstones,” medium-size pebbles tainted with a red material that looks like blood spatters. There are also a lot of activities that can be enjoyed here, the most popular of which is kayaking.''How to get here'': Book a tour with Sun Cruises (Rates: PhP2350 on and PhP2549 on weekends and holidays). Email them at corregidortours@suncruises.com.ph. The ferry terminal is at One Esplanade (near SM Mall of Asia) in Pasay City.''Where to Stay'': Corregidor Inn''Mariveles and Bagac Beaches''Location'': Bataan''Bataan’s jagged coastline cradles a number of short coves. The municipalities of Bagac and Mariveles, in particular, are starting to rise as tourist destinations. If you’re expecting sand with Boracay-like qualities, you’ll be disappointed. Most beaches range from beige to light gray, but are nevertheless picturesque.''If you have more time'': Drop by Las Casas De Filipinas De Acuzar Heritage Resort, a sprawling complex that features 27 Spanish-era heritage houses known as bahay-na-bato.''Yasa Point at Las Casas Filipinas De Acuzar Heritage Resort''How to get here'': From Cubao, take a bus (Fare: P200-250, Travel time: 2-2.5 hours) to Balanga, Bataan . Bataan Transit & Genesis Transport have daily trips that leave hourly. At the Bataan Transport Terminal, transfer to a bus bound for Bagac (Fare: P40-50, Travel time: 45-60 mins).''Where to stay:''Bataan Hotels and Resorts''When the light began to dwindle, I rose from a curl and found a spot among the tourists that stood with their jaws dropped and breaths taken. The horizon was a giant magnet and we were but paperclips drawn to the edge of the rooftop, watching the clouds bare their silver linings and the sun go for a dive. The honey-colored sky became the perfect backdrop for the mighty Eiffel Tower that rises from a concrete maze. It was a glorious view that begs to be captured, so glorious every single one in the crowd whipped out their smartphones and cameras to take home a piece of the moment.''I was in a trance. I have always had an intense fascination with anything French. I tried to learn the French language, obsess with classic French cuisine, and hold Francois Truffaut – my Film god – on a pedestal. There I was, at the top of Tour Montparnasse, living a moment that for the longest time was just a flight of fancy.''It was my first Parisian sunset, my first time in France, my first night outside Asia. And that moment was the first in what felt like an endless succession of firsts over the next seven days. First, first, first. While there is thrill in embracing experiences novel to us and joy in being caught off-guard, Europe’s poster city can also be quite overwhelming. Paris is confident, but she can be intimidating. Beautiful but flawed. Efficient but imperfect. Like many other foreign cities, she can be unforgiving to a lost and confused first-timer. Here are some tips to make your time in Paris as smooth as how you picture it in your dreams.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Don’t try to do it all.''2. Treat time as currency.''3. Know your way around.''4. Go on a side trip outside of the city.''5. Beware of scams.''6. Stay positive.''It’s funny how, sometimes, we know so little about the places closest to us.''I grew up in a small Batangan municipality called Lemery, next to the more famous historic town of Taal. Lemery and Taal have always been twin units: Lemery used to be part of Taal during the Spanish era. Their poblacions lie next to each other, separated only by the narrow Pansipit River. My sister owns a house in Taal. My nephew goes to school in Taal. During my teen years, I was there every weekend. It’s practically my second home. Yet, when someone asks me for a restaurant recommendation in Taal, I usually don’t know what to answer.''The truth is, when I’m in Batangas, I don’t eat out. And to be fair, there are not that many options. Taal hasn’t really exploded as a tourist town (yet) and most locals would rather cook at home or dine at one of those fast food chains. So when we were driving and spotted an inconspicuous signage that read “Cafe at the Ranch,” I had to stop. We turned onto the dirt road next to the sign, which led to MGM Ranch. In the middle of it stands an old bahay-na-bato, the traditional dwelling of noble families during the Spanish era, which houses a restaurant. It looked like your typical ancestral house, which confused us a little bit. For a moment, we thought we made a mistake or maybe the cafe wasn’t open for business anymore, so we had to ask somebody. Open it was! Lucky, lucky us.''Cafe at the Ranch in Taal, Batangas''Cafe at the Ranch in Taal, Batangas''The staff welcomed us and ushered us to our table. Unlike its sister restaurant Casa Cecilia (also in Taal), their menu revealed a more Western selection of dishes, which includes pasta, baby back ribs, and crepes. There are local options too, but limited to the rice meals (breakfast). After placing our order, the waiter promptly warned us that it would take a while to serve our dishes since there was only one cook. Totally understandable.''Other than a couple, which were just about to leave, we were the only customers at the time. It was a dainty place with just four tables. The ambience was vintage but had some quirky accents. The chairs were those old rounded ones with wooden seats and metal backs, legs, and spindles. The tables were made of wood, too, but painted white and then boasting colorful calligraphy and vine drawings. There was a small bucket of colored pencils on each table, and an image of an Easter Bunny. (It was a week after Lent.) There were inspirational quotes written on the walls, too.''While waiting, we munched on Tutti Fruity Ice Candies (P50). It’s weird that we had dessert first, I know. But it was a sunny, sunny day and the summer heat can be overpowering. Each serving consists of five pieces: sweet corn, chocnut, cantaloupe, etc.''Ice candies (P50 per 5 pieces)!''Cafe at the Ranch in Taal, Batangas''Cafe at the Ranch in Taal, Batangas''After 15 minutes, the soup — Chunky Crab Bisque — was served. The scent coming from the bowl when it was laid on the table was promising. And for its price, I delivered, too. It had just the right saltiness, although the crab flavor tasted artificial. Texture and visuals were a bit one-dimensional, but it tasted really good.''The pasta and rice meals were served ten more minutes later. We ordered rice meals — Ranch-style Fried Chicken, Jack Daniel’s Baby Back Ribs, and Adobo sa Dilaw Flakes — all of which came with either turmeric rice or java rice on the side. The two-piece fried chicken was fabulous. It was crispy on the outside and juicy inside, and could give Jollibee Chickenjoy a run for its money. The only difference was that the breading was thinner, but did not take away from the overall taste.''The Jack Daniel’s Baby Back Ribs was savory and smokey, and the sauce really had a strong kick. The unfortunately austere serving of meat was on the tough side, perhaps a little bit overcooked. I’ve had bigger and tastier half-slab at a much cheaper price. The adobo flakes was crispy but a bit greasy. The turmeric rice smelled and tasted wonderful. That’s maybe because turmeric is one of my favorite spices in the world.''We also ordered a plate of pasta with sun-dried tomatoes and shrimps, which was delightful. The noodles were al dente, covered in a thin but flavorful sun-dried tomato sauce and topped with fresh, fresh shrimps and parmesan.''Cafe at the Ranch Menu''Chunky Crab Bisque (P165)''Ranch Style Fried Chicken (P250), Adobo sa Dilaw Flakes (P200), and Jack Daniel’s Baby Back Ribs (P350)''Adobo sa Dilaw Flakes (P200)''Sun-dried tomato and shrimp pasta (P240)''The restaurant collects a 5% service charge on top of the bill.''We also had a glass of home-made iced tea, which was way sweeter than I am used to. But I’m not complaining. That meant I could have more. All I did was ask for a glass of water and I now had two glasses of great-tasting iced tea.''Crepes are their signature dessert, but we loved most of what they served that there simply wasn’t any room for dessert. Maybe next time.''Overall, Cafe at the Ranch was a hit-or-miss for me. But it is definitely something I would return to over and over again. Although there are a few letdowns, when it is good, it’s really good. The atmosphere was also light, distinct, and full of character. It’s one of those places that’s great for a long catchup with friends (perhaps over lunch) or a romantic date. Most of all, there’s no other like it in this side of Batangas.''Cafe at the Ranch''MGM Ranch and Farm,''Barangay Mahabang Ludlod Taal, Batangas''How to get to Cafe at the Ranch'': If you’re coming from Manila and taking public transportation, you may take a DLTB or JAM Bus bound for Lemery (P178, terminals are in Buendia, Pasay). Tell the conductor to drop you off at Flying V at the corner of the Taal-Batangas Road and Diversion Road. (Just say Flying V Diversion and the conductor knows exactly where it is.) Walk a little further and you’ll find a small signage dangling next to a dirt road, which leads to the restaurant. It’s just a short walk.''If coming from Taal Heritage Town, take a tricycle to the restaurant. They might not know where Cafe at the Ranch is so tell them MGM Farm in Mahabang Ludlod.''Where to stay in Taal:''Taal Hotels''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Bulalo: The Signature Soup of Batangas, Philippines''Casa Rap: The Perks of Slow Cooking in Batangas, Philippines''Cafe de Lipa: Reviving Kapeng Barako Glory in Batangas, Philippines''KAINAN SA DALAMPASIGAN: Where to Eat in Nasugbu, Batangas''Lomi King: Where to Eat in Lipa, Batangas, Philippines''Cafe Milflores: Where to Eat in Batangas City, Philippines''I had never felt the carnivore in me more alive than on that Black Saturday. After a week of avoiding meat in observance of the Lent, I decided to end it with a bang. But finding a good Japanese restaurant in Pampanga isn’t that easy, as options are rather limited.''I was born and raised in Pampanga. When I finally moved to Manila, people always tell me that Pampanga is the Philippines’ culinary capital. But when I’m asked what Pampanga’s culinary capital is, I’m always taken aback. But I’m sure Angeles City is a top contender. Angeles City’s primary draw is its food. It harbors a number of notable restaurants that Manila-dwellers travel two hours for. It is also the birthplace of sisig, a dish that has made its way to dining tables all throughout the country, among others.''It’s no wonder that when gluttony takes over my entire being, the first thing I do is drive to Pampanga’s City of Angels. And drive we did that Black Saturday in search of a good meatshack. What we found instead was a Japanese restaurant, Yufuin.''Located on 1st Street, Balibago, Yufuin is not hard to miss, with its huge signboard screaming to potential diners near SM Clark. It looked like I wasn’t the only one breaking the fast. The restaurant was packed, something we easily had an idea of just looking at the number of cars parked next to it. We were greeted by the friendly staff. “Yakiniku, sir?” they asked. Who could resist such an offer when the room was filled with the inviting smell of grilled meat. They ushered us up to the second floor where the grills were.''Yufuin offers a variety of dishes. Their thick menu properly categorizes their dishes. Price range is about 200 to 500 pesos for the regular menu. While the yakiniku sets range from 900 to 4500 pesos.''Lunch Sets''Teishoku (pre-set meal — a main dish, with miso soup, a bowl of rice & salad dish''Nigiri Sushi (hand formed sushing raw fish meat)''Maki and Temaki Sushi (rolled sushi)''Sashimi (sliced raw fish meat)''Nabe (hot pot stews)''Ramen''Udon & Soba (thick & thin hot noodles)''Hiyashi Men (cold noodles)''Donburi (rice topping meals)''Curry Rice Dishes''Gohan (rice)''Yakimono (ready grilled meat)''Kushiyaki (skewers of pork, chicken and seafood)''Teppanyaki (mixed and sauteed dishes)''Tempura and Agemono (deep fried)''Dessert''Appetizer''Drinks & Cocktails''Yakiniku Set (grilled assorted meat dishes)''We ordered for the following:''Ebiten Soba''(Soba noodle soup with shrimp tempura). One of the best soba noodle soup I had in the Philippines. It comes with two pieces of ebi tempura and lots of soup. The aroma of the broth was too inviting, I had to have a taste of it immediately. The soup had the right amount of saltiness, the dashi flavor coming through with every serving. The tempura’s crispy batter added texture to the fresh shrimps, elevating its flavor. P320.''Yakiniku & Seafood Set''(good for 2-3 persons). This set has variety of meats including karubi (special boneless beef short rib), harami (beef skirt), bara (pork belly), ebi (shrimp), tuna, shake (salmon) and ika (squid). The karubi, harami and bara had a special tare sauce coat that gave the tender meat an extra kick. The seafood choices were served fresh and unseasoned (?). P990.''Yakiniku and Seafood Set – Karubi (Special Boneless Beef Short Rib), Harami (beef skirt), Bara (pork belly), Ebi (shrimp), Tuna, Shake (salmon) and Ika (squid)''Yufuin Set''(2-3 persons). Composed of karubi, harami, tan (beef tongue), bara, maruchou. Similar to Yakiniku & Seafood set, all meat were coated in a special tare sauce. P1,150.''Karubi, Harami, Tan (beef tongue), Bara, Maruchou''While the menu would tell you that the yakiniku sets are good for two to three persons, I think it could feed up to four. Even their soups and noodles are good for sharing. The servings here are generous, which is always a good thing for a glutton like me.''We actually ordered Yaki Udon too, but they forgot to fire it so we ended up canceling it. The service felt slow at times, too. It took them around 15 minutes to issue the bill, despite us buzzing and following up six times just to get the attention of the staff. I guess it’s because the house was full that time. Afraid that the complimentary 2-scoop ice cream would take much time too, we decided to pass on it.''Despite that, the staff were warm, friendly, and apologetic.''Overall, Yufuin offers delicious Japanese food in a family-friendly setting. While the staff are accommodating, service pace can still be widely improved. Will I eat here again? Definitely. But not during peak hours.''How to get to Yufuin Japanese Restaurant''. If taking public transportation, there are buses bound for Dau/Mabalacat Terminal at Bataan Transit, Cubao, Quezon City (Fare: P150). Take a jeepney to Clark Maingate or SM Clark (fare: P7). Look for the Yufuin signage.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Donguri Okonomiyaki Dining: Where to Eat in Kyoto, Japan''Pasta de Waraku: Where to Eat at Changi Airport, Singapore (Splurge Option)''4 Restaurants We Tried in Pampanga: A Food Tour Itinerary''Dotonbori: Sensory Overload in Osaka, Japan''Kakigori: The Grandmama of Halo-halo''Cafe Uno: Where to Eat in Vigan, Ilocos Sur''The Other Poor Travelers''is a series on this blog where we feature other travelers who inspire us not just with their ability to move on a budget but also the tales and lessons they pick up along the way and share with the world.''2011. I’m a senior analyst. Every two weeks, a solid paycheck hits my bank account. I own a lot of nice ties. I even have a job that I like. I was lucky that when I joined a corporation I was able to join a new venture and be part of growing that venture for three years.''Fast forward to September 2014. I resigned. Not because I was burnt out but because a flame had been stoked. The greatest part of my job was building analytical models, automated reports, and solving business problems with those tools. I realized that I wanted to build more.''My wife was the catalyst for moving. She knew I wanted to learn to program and she was bored with our routine. She researched living abroad, convinced me, got a job lined up to teach English, and quit her project management job. It was zero to Thailand in two months. Since leaving that September Brianna and I have been to:''Hong Kong''Vietnam''Thailand''Indonesia''Malaysia''Singapore''India''Belgium''France''Italy''And now Spain'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Greed is Good''Unleashing My Time''Standing Still?''It’s Up To You''If you ask me to enumerate all the things that I love about Japan, you’ll probably not gonna hear the end of it. From its simple but sublime cuisine to its rich but action-packed history to their gentle but efficient way of life, Japan has always captivated me since childhood.''But one thing that I have always been fascinated with is the cherry blossoms. Perhaps it’s because of how my favorite manga and anime shows have romanticized the way their petals gracefully fall to the ground and slowly get blown by the wind. Perhaps it’s the way their pink and white foliage paint a new character to the landscape. Whatever it is, it is one of the many reasons Japan was a long-time dream destination.''Cherry blossoms are the flowers of many trees that belong to the genus Prunus. Most common of these is the Japanese Cherry Tree (Prunus serrulata), which is locally known as — you know this — sakura.''Two years ago, I had the opportunity to visit the Land of the Rising Sun again. It wasn’t my first time in Japan; I had seen it in summer and winter. But boy was it magnificent during spring! It was early April, and I wasn’t expecting I could still see the cherry blossoms. Bloom forecast said it would be over by then, so I was pleasantly surprised to see them adorning the streets and parks of Osaka, Kyoto, Tokyo and Ibaraki. Here are some photos that I took along the way.''In Kyoto''In Osaka''At Osaka Castle''At Osaka Castle''At Osaka Castle''At Ueno Park, Tokyo''At Ueno Park, Tokyo''Cherry Blossoms is locally referred to as “Sakura”''At Hitachi Seaside Park''At Hitachi Seaside Park''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''HITACHI SEASIDE PARK: Early Spring Blooms in Ibaraki, Japan''JAPAN MULTI-CITY TOUR: How to Plan a Budget Trip''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''ARASHIYAMA, KYOTO: A DIY Walking Tour''SAMPLE JAPAN ITINERARIES (with Estimated Budget)''Snapshot: Lovers in Arashiyama Bamboo Forest – Kyoto, Japan''I could still taste the Turkish tea from our pre-flight buffet breakfast when we reached the site. Unfolding the envelopes, each balloon operator had their own spot. The early ones were all set, their giant bubbles already in full form. As the staff fired flames, I walked around to not feel the February cold. Four layers of winter wear, yet I was almost shaking and starting to dread the ex-lover-reminiscent temperatures up there.''Cappadocia is widely known for its stunningly rugged landscape. But over the past few years, it has become synonymous with hot air ballooning. “Most tourists come to Cappadocia just to ride the balloons,” our pilot Suat Ulusoy shared proudly. “This is one of the three greatest ballooning sites in the world. The others are Loire Valley, France, and Serengeti, Tanzania.”''Getting prepped up!''On a high!''Flying balloons for over 20 years, Suat is the most senior pilot here. “Not by age, but by experience,” he clarified. The history of these drifting bulbs in this part of the world can be traced back to pilots Lars-Eric Möre and Kaili Kidner, who operated the first commercial passenger balloon for a German travel agency in 1991. Before that, locals relied heavily in agriculture and pottery to earn a living. Today, tourism powers the region’s economy.''Hot air balloons in Cappadocia''Hot air balloons in Cappadocia''To be considered a great ballooning destination, you need to look at three factors. First, the availability and reliability of operators. And here in Cappadocia, there are plenty of them. All you need to do is look up to the sky at dawn and you’ll see.''Second, balloon-friendly conditions. Cappadocia offers balloon tours year-round, almost every day in summer. “You were lucky,” said one of the locals we talked to, pointing out that it snowed so hard for three days before our trip. And it’s true. It was snowing when we arrived in Cappadocia, but the skies cleared up the next day. “I personally loved the view during winter, when the hills and columns are covered in snow,” he added.''The only downside, he said, is that winter weather is quite unpredictable. From January to February, there’s a risk that rides be canceled. One of our guides even mentioned that he had seen tourists cry over not being able to do the tour, since some of them came here just for that.''Winter wonderland! Cappadocia when covered in snow.''Cappadocia Sunrise''The third factor is the view, what’s in store for you when you’re up there. Beauty is abundant here, too. From above, Cappadocia is an endless sea of rock formations, from towering pillars that nature meticulously molded into massive chimneys for over 2000 years to spires that the early Christians carved through to create dwellings and churches centuries ago. The ride also allows a glimpse of some of Central Anatolia’s mighty peaks, where the sun would emerge from in a breathtaking celestial display.''A Royal Ride''From above, we could see tour vans and trucks tracking their corresponding balloons. Roads cut across almost barren lands that, at the time, nurtured only naked apricot trees and grape shrubs. We went where the wind took us — “We can only control the going up and down,” said Suat — and found ourselves in between cliffs, above small towns, and among dozens of other balloons carrying mind-blown tourists. We saw mosques and cave cathedrals, fairy chimneys and real ones, and bare and snow-clad houses while listening to the conversations of ten other passengers with us. The words''amazing'',''beautiful'', and''unforgettable''became a staple in their sentences.''We were drifting above towns.''The town below us.''But the word we heard the most during the entire ride was''magical''. This was especially true when we approached the Love Valley. “Don’t ask why it’s called such,” Suat joked. I didn’t ask, but I have a theory. I looked around and was greeted by imposing columns that formed over years of''erection''erosion. The whole site is like a homage to male fertility. Or maybe I’m just a pervert.''Seriously, though, phalluses or no phalluses, the Love Valley is so magical — there’s that word again — that you’ll start doubting if all that you’re seeing is real. It’s as though it came straight from the mind of Ray Bradbury or George Lucas.''The sight of this alien-looking valley was also the signal that the trip was about to end. The ride lasted for almost an hour and a half, and it felt like minutes. You know what they say about time and having fun.''Love Valley.''Love Valley.''Hot air balloons in Cappadocia''Royal Balloon is something that the staff are super proud of. You can argue that it’s their job and all, but you can tell in the way they talk about how differently they do things. “We are not a mass balloon operator,” they claim, underlining the proposition of focusing on quality rather than quantity. Our basket can accommodate 16 passengers, but there were only 12 of us, making the journey comfortable. All passengers are also insured with the best policy.''Not to mention that they have a perfect 5 rating on''TripAdvisor'', from over 1300 glowing reviews.''But the thing I loved the most about our ride was how knowledgeable Suat is and how much he loves the place. As a veteran pilot and historian, he knows every nook-and-cranny and past-and-present of Cappadocia and talked about it as though he’s describing family. He fires hilarious jokes too in between bits of information. He made the trip not just enjoyable but also enlightening and entertaining.''After a perfect landing, we gathered around for the awarding of the “I conquered Cappadocia” medals. It was a cheesy idea, but I can tell you that I’m going to keep it for the rest of my life (because I’m cheesy as fck too). Every single one of us was happy and satisfied with the tour. We may have hit the ground but it kept us on a high even up to now.''And with a glass of locally produced sparkling wine in one hand and a strawberry in another, we shared a toast for a Cappadocian experience that was safe, royal, unforgettable, and — wait for it — magical.''On the way down''Vins bragging about his medal, and Suat leading the toast. Cheers!''The staff of Royal Balloon having a good time with a guest''Suat Ulusoy, Royal Balloon’s Chief Pilot''Royal Balloon''Address: Avcilar Mahallesi, Dutlu Sokak, No: 9, Göreme – Nevşehir / TÜRKİYE.''E-mail: royal@ Signroyalballoon.com''Website: www.royalballoon.com''Rates: EUR 150-175''Where to stay'': Castle Inn offers some of the best accommodations in Cappadocia (with fast wi-fi connection). Located not in Goreme but in quieter Ortahisar, Castle Inn offers a more authentic experience. Set in a newly restored 150 year old Cappadocian house, the stay alone is quite unforgettable. They have a 5 rating in TripAdvisor and was voted Traveler’s Choice in 2015.''Book here:''Castle Inn Cappadocia''.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''CAPPADOCIA ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Top 10 Best and Worst Travel Moments of 2016''Where to Stay in Istanbul, Turkey''Top 9 Istanbul Tourist Attractions: A DIY Walking Tour''ISTANBUL: Top 5 Scams to Watch Out for (And How to Avoid Them)''BOH Tea Plantation: My Cup of Tea in Cameron Highlands, Malaysia''If you’re looking for a place to stay in Istanbul, it is important to understand its geography. Of all the cities I have set foot in, it definitely has the most interesting layout. The city sits on two continents — a half in Europe, another in Asia — and separated by the Bosphorus Strait that connects the Black Sea to the north and the Sea of Marmara to the south. A major inlet called the Golden Horn almost cuts across the European half.''Istanbul has a total of 39 districts. But for tourism purposes, let’s simplify this a bit. Let’s group these districts into four areas.''Asian side''. Mostly residential. Because of the high cost of rent on the European side of the Bosphorus, many locals choose to stay here. While it is always a great idea to pay a visit, I do not recommend staying here to tourists because most places of interest are on the European half.''Sultanahmet''. Often referred to as Old City, this is in a district called Fatih, south of the Golden Horn. Many of the city’s iconic structures and landmarks are here: Hagia Sophia, Blue Mosque, and the Grand Bazaar, among others. There are a number of hotels and hostels here.''Beyoğlu (Galata)''. Opposite Fatih, on the other side of the Golden Horn, is the district of Beyoğlu. Like Sultanahmet, it harbors many of the city’s tourist attractions including Taksim Square, İstiklal Caddesi, and the Galata Tower, dominating the area’s skyline. This area has the greatest concentration of accommodations.''New Istanbul and the Bosphorus''. Further north are four more districts: Beşiktaş, Kağıthane, Şişli, and Sarıyer. This is where Istanbul gets modern and a little bit artsy. At the center of it is the city’s central business district, surrounded by some pretty bohemian neighborhoods. Although a bit far from the key attractions, there are several hotels and hostels scattered across the area.''Where to stay depends on your itinerary. If you’re planning to spend more time in the city’s historic core, then book a place in Fatih (Sultanahmet). If you dig the busyness of Galata, go for Beyoğlu. Or if you want a more modern vibe, stay in the New City.''We were in Istanbul primarily because we were invited to speak at the World Tourism Forum. The venue was in Şişli, so were hosted by W Hotel in nearby Beşiktaş. But since we wanted to maximize our stay, I decided to check in elsewhere while my blogging partner Yoshke stayed at W Hotel for the entire duration of the event. Here are some quick thoughts about them.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Puffin Hostel''Galata West Hostel''Batangas is known for many things:''centuries-old churches'',''irresistible delicacies'', a''volcano within a lake'', a strong accent, and the balisong (butterfly knife). But more than anything else, the one thing that first comes to mind when Batangas is mentioned — beaches. Even the Eraserheads knew this, when they sang about driving to the beach.''This early, I have to tell you that Batangas doesn’t have powdery beaches that are as white as the Oscars. If you’re looking for Boracay-like sand strewn over kilometers of shore, you’re gonna be disappointed. That’s not to say that a trip to a Batangan beach won’t be enjoyable.''Fringing the southwestern tip of Luzon, Batangas harbors an impressive shoreline, made up of various types of beaches. Some are sandy, some pebbly, some rocky. Some are totally secluded, others fully developed. Each has its own charm. Each has its own market. But the top thing that makes Batangas beaches popular is its proximity to Manila. Just a three- to four-hour drive from the capital, this Southern Tagalog province offers an easy respite to the weary urbanite. Here are 12 beaches in Batangas that are worth the trip.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Laiya, San Juan''Verde Island, Batangas City''Manuel Uy Beach, Calatagan''Masasa Beach, Tingloy''Sombrero Island, Tingloy''Fortune Island, Nasugbu''Calayo Beach, Nasugbu''Pulo Island, Nasugbu''Bituin Cove''Malabrigo Point, Lobo''Matabungkay Beach, Lian''Burot Beach, Calatagan''Top Beach Resorts in Batangas''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Laiya, San Juan''Laiya is one of the most developed beaches in Batangas. And it’s not hard to see why. Its long and wide stretch of sand attracts thousands and thousands of tourists especially during summer. Countless resorts, both high-end and budget, have mushroomed along the coast over the past years, making this a great option for those who want to just relax and be comfortable. Laiya is also a favorite for corporate events.''Laiya Beach''Note though that the sand here isn’t white or fine. It’s coarse and more on the beigh-light brown side, but it still makes up a good view.''Check hotel rates here:''Laiya Hotels and Resorts''Update (11/2016): We got word that this is currently NOT OPEN to the public anymore.''It was a road trip that needed to happen.''My friend Victor had been in the Philippines for a few months already, but he had never really gone anywhere since he returned from Canada. Just weeks before, he lost a parent to cancer. “I need a break,” he said. So even when I was still a very nervous driver, I picked him up and took him to one of the most serene places I know — Calatagan, Batangas.''I have fond memories of Calatagan. I grew up in Batangas, and I remember camping with classmates on the shores of Calatagan as early as 11. (Yep, my feet were already restless even when I was little.) I remember the countless starfish that hid in its calm, shallow waters. I had come back again and again but it never seemed to change much. Other than several giant companies that scrambled to get a chunk of its shoreline, it seemed to refuse to embrace harsh development.''But although I would always find myself in Calatagan, this was my first time in Burot Beach.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Road to Burot Beach''The Beach''Overnight Stay''Some Tips''Me vs Michelin''is a column featuring the writer’s experience and random musings while dining at a Michelin Star restaurant. This is not a review.''Hindi nakaka-Project 8, oo, but eating at Michelin star-rated restaurants in cities we visit has been a fascination. AWUW. Kahit one star lang, ma-feel lang ang feeling na sa Ayala Alabang nakatira. Try natin ‘tong food blogging, pero San Joaquin-style pa rin.''Ah, so ganito pala ang lasa ng totoong soba. Sensya, bilang soba from the root words Nissin Yakisoba lang ang alam kong soba. Nanibago pa ang MSG-trained taste buds ko sa white cold soba, pero okay naman. (Shet, hindi nakaka-foodie ang okay naman, pero ganun talaga, okay naman!)''Director Dan Villegas, who was with me, is a soba fan. At sabi niya, super sarap daw. (Hindi na naman nakaka-foodie ang “sarap”, pero bakit ba, foodie ba ‘ko?!) Best soba he’s ever had, he said. Sabehhh?''Pero ang pinaka-bet ko ay ang tempura with sushi roll. Sumkinda may tempura sa loob ng sushi roll (sabi ko nga, kaya ‘yun ang tawag eh). Siguro kasi mahilig talaga ako sa sushi, at familiar ang dila ko sa tempura. Ah so ganun pala ang sawsawan ng tempura — hindi matamis? Sa Tokyo Tokyo kasi na-train ang dila ko sa tempura sauce, sarrehhh.''Si Ateng may-ari ay super-super friendly. In-explain niya ang mga fudam sa menu na naka-Japanese. (Walang English menu, so that’s a good thing, they say). Paulit-ulit naming sinabi ang oishi! (delicious!) at saikou! (excellent!) kay Ate. Sa sobrang tuwa niya, binigyan niya kami ng orange peel chocolate for dessert, compliments of the chef. Ang sarap nung panghimagas, bilang diabetic ang dila ko!''Thank you, chef! Oishi, saikou, kampai! Ay, sa alak pala yun, sarrehhh.''No photos allowed inside, kaya exterior at kalsada na lang kinunan ko. Unassuming and quiet street, sino’ng mag-aakalang nandito si Michelin?''Over-all, if you like soba, gora na sa Masa!''Sobakiri Masa''Specialty: Soba''Address: 1-16-12 Utsubohonmachi, Nishi-ku, Osaka''Rating: 1 Michelin star''Price: approx PhP2,000/pax''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Donguri Okonomiyaki Dining: Where to Eat in Kyoto, Japan''10 Food Delights to Try in Japan''JustFly Reviews: 5 Excellent Ways to Survive a Road Trip''JustFly Reviews: Top 10 Best Restaurants in New York City''High On Inspiration: 5 Asian-Inspired Restaurants in Dubai''Endo Sushi: Where to Eat in Osaka, Japan''Born and raised in a Catholic household in Batangas, I was used to spending a day of the Holy Week on the road for our family’s annual Visita Iglesia. Also called the Seven Churches Visitation, Visita Iglesia is a Roman Catholic Lenten tradition that originated in Ancient Rome. Back then pilgrims prayed at seven basilicas on the evening of Maundy Thursday as penance.''It was brought to the Philippines by Augustinian missioners in the 1560s, but it has changed over the years. It doesn’t need to be on Maundy Thursday anymore, and one can make more than seven stops. I remember waking up early in the morning, squeezing myself in a fully packed rented jeepney, and hopping from one church to another under the scorching summer sun.''Batangas is predominantly Catholic. For over 300 years, the Spaniards built a number of stunning churches and monuments all over the province. It is also home to some sites that the faithful believe to be miraculous. No wonder it is a favorite visita iglesia destination for many.''This itinerary is actually the route that our family takes every year. The difference is, we do it the other way around. Here are some notes to bear in mind if you wish to follow this.''This is a seven-stop itinerary, but feel free to skip or add''. There are many other notable churches, but these are what I recommend not just for their historical, cultural, and religious significance to the Batanguenos, but also because they are conveniently located along an easy, smooth route.''This itinerary assumes you’ll be coming from Manila''. If you’re coming from Tagaytay, Silang, Dasmarinas (Cavite), or Santa Rosa (Laguna), you might want to do it the other way around like our family does.''Start early''. If you’re coming from Manila, you might want to catch the first mass at the Lipa Cathedral at 5:30am. I know it’s too early, but this is a packed itinerary. The churches are far apart and will take the entire day. Know that the Caleruega Chapel, the last stop, closes at 5:30pm.''Use a private car''. It’s a lot easier. Taking the public transportation is not advisable as most people are taking a break and observing Lent, too. Having a private ride allows you to control your departure times from each spot.''Be patient.''Most of the population is Catholic, and many people from neighboring provinces visit Batangas during the Holy Week, especially on Good Friday. Traffic can be terrible. Expect long queues especially at the Caysasay Chapel''Bring water.''The summer heat can be unforgiving, and the crowd doesn’t help.''Be a responsible traveler.''Don’t just throw your garbage anywhere. Keep a trash bag inside your vehicle.''Let’s get started.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. San Sebastian Cathedral, Lipa City''2. Mt. Carmel Chapel, Lipa City''3. Immaculate Concepcion Church, Bauan''4. Basilica de San Martin de Tours, Taal''5. Caysasay Shrine and Sta. Lucia Well, Taal''6. San Rafael the Archangel Church, Calaca''7. Caleruega Chapel, Nasugbu''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''1. San Sebastian Cathedral, Lipa City''According to the Lipa City Tourism Council, the history of the Cathedral can be traced back to as far back as April 30, 1605, when it was administered by the Augustinians under the title “Convent of San Sebastian in Comintang.” The original building was made from only light materials.''But the construction of the Cathedral that we see today, done in the Romanesque tradition, started in 1779. It has big circular dome, giant walls and columns, balconies, and arches. Standing proudly in front of the church is a bell tower, which, like the dome, is decorated with moldings.''More information:''Lipa Cathedral''Lipa Cathedral''The dome of Lipa Cathedral''2. Mt. Carmel Chapel, Lipa City''Known throughout Batangas as simply “Carmel,” the Monastery of Our Lady of Mt. Carmel is the site of the multiple apparitions of Mary Mediatrix of All Grace. The Virgin Mary was said to have appeared to nun Teresita Castillo at the garden here.''This is also the site of the miraculous shower of petals that occurred on 24 January 1991.''Its chapel is open to everyone who wish to see the statue that the Lady asked to be built in her image and venerate the Lady. The convent was actually founded in 1946, two years before the Apparition, right after the Second World War. It became the home of the Carmelites who transferred to Lipa from Manila.''More info:''Mt. Carmel Chapel''Carmel Chapel''The garden where the Lady appeared''3. Immaculate Concepcion Church, Bauan''Not to be confused with the Immaculate Concepcion Basilica in Batangas City or Immaculate Concepcion Church in Balayan.''More commonly known as Bauan Church, it is a neo-classical structure that houses what many call “Mahal na Poon ng Banal na Krus.” It is a cross that is believed by devotees to be miraculous. The cross is 2.5m long with 1m crosspiece. At the part where two arms meet is a golden sun embossed with a human face. It has a remarkable tale surrounding it too.''There are two versions. Legend has it that in the 16th century, a faithful and kindhearted woman was always forced by her cruel husband to fetch water from the lake, a dangerous undertaking especially at night. One day, asking for mercy, she prayed near an anubing tree (a local hardwood). Suddenly, water sprung out of the tree. Since then, she no longer had to go down the ravine to get it from the lake. The place was called Dingin (a place of worship) in Alitagtag. Word got out that the tree performed wonders, so the friars had a cross built out of it. It was originally enshrined in a place now called Binukalan (literally “where water springs up”).''But according to local archives, the cross was a sturdy post of a demolished house in a village in Alitagtag in 1595. It was transformed into a cross and was said to drive away ghosts and protect the area from plagues and calamities. There were also accounts of it moving around the village.''In both versions, the cross was moved to the parish church in neighboring Bauan. It was kept in a silver case because people used to chip away a part of the cross and use it as talisman. Miracles are also attributed to these little pieces. But when Alitagtag had its own parish, the cross was split into two. One remains in Bauan Church and the other in Binukalan Chapel, near the site where it first appeared in the first version of the story. They are called “magkapatid na krus” (sibling crosses). And they are both venerated by the faithful, believing that it would grant your wish and protect you if you pray enough. Some dance the subli, a native Batangan dance, to pay homage to the cross.''4. Basilica de San Martin de Tours, Taal''Taal Basilica''The largest Catholic church in Asia, Taal Basilica is 96 meters long, 45 meters wide, and 96 meters tall. This colossal Baroque structure was made of coral stones and adobe. Sitting on top of a hill, Taal Basilica towers over the old heritage town of Taal. It is a very dominant structure and is visible in most parts of the town proper and even in some parts of the neighboring town Lemery.''This is actually the second church. The original edifice, which was devastated by the eruption of Taal volcano, was in present-day San Nicolas.''More info:''Taal Basilica''5. Caysasay Shrine and Sta. Lucia Well, Taal''Caysasay Shrine''The Shrine of Our Lady of Caysasay is a chapel built to shelter and honor the 17th century image of the Virgin Mary that many residents and devotees revere. It was said to have been found by a fisherman named Juan Maningcad while fishing in the Pansipit River in 1603. The image was said to be glowing. The Parish Priest learned about the event and upon seeing the image he, too, prostrated and adored it. He then tasked Madam Maria Espiritu to look after the image. Maria then discovered that the image would disappear in the evening and reappear in the morning. It would happen over and over until one day, the image did not return at all.''In 1611, a native girl by the name of Catalina Talayn was by the spring at a hillside when she saw the image of the Lady brilliantly reflected in the springwater. Local stories narrate that she and a companion saw the Lady with two candles on her side on a Sampaga tree branch, surrounded by kasay-kasay  birds (casay-casay, kingfisher). It was just the beginning of the series of sightings of a brilliant light near the spring.''Today, the site is marked by a huge arch made of coral stone, crowned with a bas relief of the Lady. The arch stands on top of the 11-ft deep wells. We call the site''Banal na Pook''(literally Holy Place).''Our Lady of Caysasay''Sta. Lucia well''I remember when I was a kid, my family would fall in line from the side of the Caysasay Chapel through the staircase all the way to the second floor at the back of the church for our turn to honor the Lady. And then we would go to the well, now referred to as''Sta. Lucia Well'', to light candles and pray. The water here is believed to have healing properties.''Don’t be surprised to see a big crowd (and a lot of garbage) here during Holy Week.''More info:''Caysasay Church''6. San Rafael the Archangel Church, Calaca''A post shared by BellaDonna (@belladonna2810)''on''Oct 23, 2014 at 4:12am PDT''Another image that people believe to be miraculous is that of St. Raphael the Archangel, cradled in the centuries-old church of Calaca. St. Raphael is the patron saint of healing, and people from all around the country would come to the church to pray and pay tribute to the saint.''7. Caleruega Chapel, Nasugbu''More casually called Caleruega, the Transfiguration Chapel isn’t really historic, unlike the other churches in this list. But it is one of the most picturesque, making it one of the most popular wedding venues and retreat destinations in the region. Perched on top of a garden-adorned hill, it offers a spectacular view of the Batangan countryside, with Mt. Batulao dominating the landscape.''It’s the much-needed breath of fresh air in this itinerary.''A post shared by Almond Garden Tagaytay (@almondgardentagaytay)''on''Mar 15, 2018 at 3:31am PDT''The reason I put Caleruega last is so you could have a more relaxing finish. This is quite an exhausting itinerary because the churches are far apart. This arrangement will also allow you to stay overnight in either the beaches of Nasugbu or Tagaytay highlands, where accommodations are plenty.''Again, you can do this the other way around by passing through Tagaytay and then to Nasugbu. But note that Caleruega opens at 8am.''Where to stay:''Batangas has a lot of good hotels as well as beach and lakeside resorts. You may choose or check rates here:''Batangas Hotels''If you prefer to spend the night in Tagaytay, see rates here:''Tagaytay Hotels''Interactive map:''This is going to be your route.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''12 MUST-VISIT BEACHES IN BATANGAS, PHILIPPINES''Cagayan: 7 Notable Churches for Your Visita Iglesia Itinerary''Basilica of the Immaculate Conception: Batangas City, Philippines''St. Monica Church in Alburquerque, Bohol''Mt. Carmel Church and the Rose Petal Shower in Lipa City, Batangas''Taal Basilica, Batangas: Asia’s Largest Catholic Church''I was wandering alone, taking snaps of the Blue Mosque, when a man asked me to take a photo of him with the mosque in the background using his phone. Being the kind person that I am (haha, yes, I have to insert that), I obliged. I even took a considerable amount of time because the obsessive-compulsive in me wanted it to be perfect. I waited for the crowd behind him to clear up and made sure the light hit him right. Funny how it was all for nothing!''After taking his pic, I returned his phone and bade goodbye, but he had another idea. He started getting friendly, asking me questions about where I was from and how I was liking Istanbul so far. But he asked me something that rang the alarm bells: “Are you with someone?”''Hmmmmm. Hmmmmmmmmmmmm.''You only ask that question for either of these reasons: you want to''screw''with me (wink, wink) OR you want to screw me over. And I’m guessing he had the latter in mind (because look at me!). Too bad, he was cute.''I answered I was with someone, which is true, and walked away to meet Vins, my ever reliable blogging partner, by the Sultanahmet Park fountain. He had an interesting story. He said that as he was photographing Hagia Sophia, a man asked him to take a picture with his phone. Then the guy tried to strike a conversation, asked if he was alone, and brought up the idea of them exploring the city together. Vins left immediately. Two super friendly strangers at two places doing the exact same thing? I highly doubt that it’s a coincidence. My bet is they’re part of an elaborate, organized scam.''Istanbul is a great city. But like most great cities, it has its share of bad people trying to take advantage of our being new and naive. Here are five scams to watch out for and how their modi operandi (MO) work.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Taxi Scams (Meter Tampering and Money Switching)''2. Shoe Shine Scam''3. “Let’s Have a Drink” Scam''4. The Carpet Shop Scam''5. Restaurant Scams''Istanbul has many off-the-beaten-path attractions, but don’t leave the city without seeing its top tourist sites. They’re popular for a reason. Most of these are part of the “''Historic Areas of Istanbul'',” inscribed on the World Heritage List in 1985. This trail will take you on a tour around these iconic spots. It is a combination of walking and using Istanbul’s pleasant tram line.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Preparing for this Tour''1. Grand Bazaar (Kapalı Çarşı)''2. Blue Mosque (Sultan Ahmed Mosque)''3. Hippodrome of Constantinople (Sultanahmet Square)''4. Basilica Cistern''5. Hagia Sophia (Ayasofya)''6. Topkapi Palace''7. Spice Bazaar (Mısır Çarşısı)''8. Galata Bridge (Galata Köprüsü)''9. Galata Tower (Galata Kulesi)''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Preparing for this Tour''This is a long tour and will take an entire day. To prepare for this, take not of the following:''Have breakfast.''This tour starts from 8:30am and ends at nightfall. Make sure you have had breakfast before starting the tour.''Wear a good pair of walking shoes.''All stops in this trail is connected by the T1 Bağcılar- Kabataş tram, a  but I recommend that you do some parts on foot so you could see more of the city at a slower pace.''Get connected.''This is a Do-It-Yourself tour, which means that you will not have a tour guide to show you around. Instead, I strongly recommend that you make sure you’re connected so you could easily get more information online should you stumble upon something that catches your attention.''Istanbul’s New Mosque at sunset''Wear long pants and top with sleeves.''You will be visiting a mosque with a strict dress code. More details below.''Beware of scams.''Like most touristy cities, Istanbul has its share of people trying to take advantage of unsuspecting visitors. Always be mindful of your belongings and surroundings. More information here:''Top 5 Istanbul Scams''.''Don’t forget to have lunch.''Although this trail doesn’t have a lunch stop, don’t forget to stop and refuel. You’ll find restaurants around the area. What we did though was just munch on street food every now and then, so we never really felt hungry.''1. Grand Bazaar (Kapalı Çarşı)''Nearest tram station'': Beyazıt-Kapalıçarşı''Entrance fee'': FREE''Opening hours'': Mondays-Saturdays 08:30am-7pm''The trail starts at the Grand Bazaar, one of the oldest covered markets in the world. To get here, you may take the  T1 Bağcılar-Kabataş tram to Beyazıt-Kapalıçarşı station. It’s just a short walk from there. (The bazaar is on your right if you’re coming from Kabatas.)''Grand Bazaar''Inside Grand Bazaar''This massive labyrinthine market houses 61 streets under one roof, harboring around 3000 shops, selling a wide array of products. Carpets and lamps are two of the most common. The construction of this enormous site began in 1455 right after the Ottomans had taken over the city.''It is easy to get lost here. If you have an internet connection and a Google maps app, you should be fine. You can walk to the next stop (which is the Sultanahmet Mosque). If not, just exit where you entered so you could find your way back to the tram station. Then get off at the Sultanahmet Station.''2. Blue Mosque (Sultan Ahmed Mosque)''Nearest tram station'': Sultanahmet''Admission Fee'': FREE''Blue Mosque''Coming from the Grand Bazaar, you’ll actually pass through the Hippodrome of Constantinople to get to Sultanahmet Mosque. However, I’m putting the mosque ahead of the square because of its complicated schedule. The mosque is a functioning house of worship, which means that they have to close it to tourists during prayer, which happens five times a day (from sunrise until nightfall). Each pray time lasts 90 minutes.''The mosque opens to tourists at these times:''The mosque opens at these times:''The mosque closes at these times:''08:30''11:30''13:00''14:30''15:30''16:45''I’m placing this ahead so you would know what to do. If you arrive in the area when it’s open to tourists, perfect. Go inside the mosque. If it’s closed when you get there, explore the square and probably the Basilica Cistern first and then come back when it’s open. You can come at least 30 minutes before opening time so you have time to explore the outside of the building.''The Sultanahmet Mosque is more casually referred to as Blue Mosque for the blue tiles that dominate its interior. It was named after Ahmed I, who ruled the city when it was built between 1609 and 1616. He had it constructed as a testament to the Ottoman power, symbolically placing it between the Hippodrome of Constantinople and the Hagia Sophia. Marrying the Byzantine Christian and traditional Islamic designs, the mosque is crowned with 13 domes (5 big and 8 smaller) and six minarets.''Inside the Blue Mosque Look at those domes!''Dress Code at Sultanahmet Mosque''Take note of these upon entering the mosque.''Remove your shoes before entering the mosque''. They will provide a small plastic bag where you can put your shoes. There are also small open lockers where you can temporarily place your plastics.''Follow the dress code above''. For men, make sure you wear long pants. For women, wear something that can cover below the knees and cover your head. You can also get a head cover at the entrance (free of charge).''No flash photography''.''3. Hippodrome of Constantinople (Sultanahmet Square)''Nearest tram station'': Sultanahmet''Entrance fee'': FREE''Opening hours'': All day''Sultanahmet Square''Just outside the Blue Mosque lies the Hippodrome of Constantinople, more popularly called today as Sultanahmet Square. The word hippodrome literally means “horse way” in Greek. The site was a horse and chariot racing venue during the Byzantine era.''A number of historic artifacts still survive here, including the Obelisk of Thutmose III, the Walled Obelisk, and the Serpent Column.''German Fountain''. On the northern end of the square is the German Fountain, a neo-byzantine gazebo with octagonal dome and gold mosaics. It was made in Germany but was later transported to Istanbul in 1898. This was the site of the bombing of 12 January 2016, less than a month before my visit. It was actually quite chilly when I was here despite the incident remaining fresh in everyone’s memory. But there was no fear around. (If people were afraid, they wouldn’t be here.) But I felt a little uneasy.''Obelisk of Theodosius''. Originally known as Obelisk of Thutmose III, it was first erected at the Karnak Temple Complex in Egypt under the command of Pharaoh Thutmose III who ruled between 1479-26 BC. But in Year 357, Roman Emperor Constantius II had it moved to Alexandria. But in 390, Emperor Theodosius the Great brought it to Constantinople. To do that, he had it cut in three pieces. Today, only the top third survives.''Serpent Column''. What people now call the “serpent column” was actually just a part of the Tripod of Plataea, a monument built at the Temple of Apollo at Delphi to celebrate the Greeks win over the Persians during the Persian Wars. Emperor Constantine had it moved to Constantinople’s hippodrome. The original structure had a golden bowl on top, supported by three serpents. Only the bodies of the snakes, forming one column, remain today. The bowl was stolen by the Fourth Crusaders and the snakes’ heads were destroyed after the 17th century.''Walled Obelisk''. Standing on the southern end of the square, the 32m Walled Obelisk was built from cut stones, adorned with bronze plaques, and topped with a sphere. It was set up under the orders of Constantine VII. However, the plaques were melted during the Fourth Crusades in 1204.''4. Basilica Cistern''Nearest tram station'': Sultanahmet''Entrance fee'': TRY 10''Opening hours'':''mid-April to September 9am-6:30pm,''November to mid-April 9am-5:30pm''If you didn’t know about this beforehand, you’d probably miss this. The Basilica Cistern, colloquially called the Sunken Palace, is the largest of the hundreds of ancient cisterns underneath Istanbul. Byzantine Emperor Justinian had over 7000 slaves construct these subterranean structures after the devastating riots of 532.''5. Hagia Sophia (Ayasofya)''Nearest tram station'': Sultanahmet''Entrance fee'': TRY 30''Opening hours'':''15 April-25 October 09:00-19:00,''25 October-15 April 09:00- 17:00''Hagia Sophia''Perhaps the most iconic landmark in Turkey, Hagia Sophia can be seen as a microcosm of Istanbul. It was initially a Christian church: Orthodox Christian cathedral from 537-1204, 1261-1453, under the Byzantine Empire; Roman Catholic cathedral from 1204-1261, under the Latin Empire. It was then transformed into an imperial mosque during and after the Ottoman Empire (1453-1931). But in 1935, it was converted to a museum (Ayasofya Müzesi).''Often regarded as one of the greatest examples of Byzantine architecture, it has a giant dome covering marble pillars and ornate mosaics. It was also the largest cathedral in the world from its completion to 1520, eclipsed by Seville Cathedral in Spain.''Hagia Sophia''Inside Hagia Sophia''Inside Hagia Sophia''Inside Hagia Sophia''Inside Hagia Sophia''Some parts of the interior was still under reconstruction/restoration during my visit. A massive scaffolding occupied almost a third of the site. Lit chandeliers hang from the majestic ceiling, with the dome’s windows allowing filtered lights in. Attached to the columns are giant medallions bearing the names of Allah, Muhammad, and the first four caliphs among others. These were added in 1847-49 during the restoration ordered by Sultan Abdülmecid.''You would know it wasn’t originally a mosque because the mihrab (prayer niche) was built inside the apse at an angle. The mihrab must always face the Mecca and the apse was built without considering that because it was a Christian church at first.''Don’t forget to go up to the second level, where you could see amazing wall artworks and mosaics that survived the many transformations of the place. Go peek out one of the windows and you’ll also see the Blue Mosque.''6. Topkapi Palace''Nearest tram station'': Sultanahmet''Entrance fee'': TRY 30''Opening hours'':''October 26-April 15 9am-4:45pm''April 15 – October 26 9am – 6:45pm''Topkapi Palace''From Hagia Sophia, there will be signs that will lead you to Topkapi Palace, one of the residences of the sultans during the Ottoman rule. Sultan Mehmed II, who took control of the city from the Byzantine, ordered its construction in 1459. Today, it is a vast museum complex, which may take quite some time if you want to explore most of it. Some of the most treasured artifacts inside are the cloak and sword of Muhammed, among other relics considered holy in Islam.''The most intriguing part of the palace for me was the Harem, a 400-room building which sheltered the sultan’s mother (the Valide Sultan or Queen Mother), the sultan’s wives and concubines, and the rest of his family.''7. Spice Bazaar (Mısır Çarşısı)''Nearest tram station'': Eminönü''Entrance fee'': FREE''Opening hours'': Mon-Sat 8am-6pm, Sun 8am-7pm''After your visit to Topkapi Palace, make your way to Gülhane Station (or if you take the exit near Hagia Sophia, make your way back to Sultanahmet Station), and board the tram. Get off at Eminönü Station. You’ll see the stunning New Mosque behind you if you’re facing the water. Next to it is an unassuming building, the Spice Bazaar.''Spice Bazaar''Turkish Delights''Spice Bazaar is referred to as Mısır Çarşısı in the vernacular, which literally translates to Egyptian Bazaar. The reason: it was built in 1660 using the earnings from the eyalets (primary administrative division of the Ottoman Empire) in Egypt. The covered market cradles 80 shops selling mostly spices, dried fruits, cheese, and other products. But what most tourists come here for is the Turkish delight (lokum), a sweet delicacy based on a gel of sugar and starch. The confection comes in many flavors, but I have found the plain ones the best-tasting.''8. Galata Bridge (Galata Köprüsü)''When you emerge from the spice bazaar, all you need to do is follow the aroma of fried fish and you’ll get to the next stop.''Crowd thickens as the sun sets''One of the many fish stalls and restaurants''The Galata Bridge not only connects the two sides of the Golden Hors but also serves as a fishing spot for locals. You’ll find a lot of them lined up on the bridge, waiting for their next catch. For tourists, it is a perfect viewpoint to watch the sunrise. But for this tour, it is where you’ll get your tummy refilled.''You’ll find a lane of restaurants under the bridge. And on the adjacent square, you’ll see docked boats serving fish sandwiches (among others).''9. Galata Tower (Galata Kulesi)''Nearest station'': Karaköy''Admission Fee'': TRY 25''Opening hours'': 9am-8pm''View of Galata Tower from Topkapi Palace''One of the city’s most recognizable icons, the Galata Tower is a medieval tower that sticks out from city’s skyline in the Karakoy side of the Golden Horn. The Romanesque-style cylindrical stone building was erected in 1348 as Christea Turris (Tower of Christ). It has nine stories and is 66.9 meters tall, making its balcony a good viewpoint. Offering a 360-degree view of Istanbul, it allows you to watch the sun set behind the other side of the Golden horn. From here, you can see the Blue Mosque, Topkapi Palace, and Hagia Sophia, and witness the city transform into a blanket of lights at nightfall.''View of Hagia Sophia and Blue Mosque from Galata Tower''Lovers at Galata Tower Cafe''Hagia Sophia at Night as viewed from Galata Tower''Istanbul at Night as seen from Galata Tower''It has to be noted that the queue can be long and the balcony overcrowded. There is also a cafe and restaurant on the top. We tried the cafe and was surprised that it was not that pricey. But the food was disappointing.''Where to stay:''We stayed at''Puffin Hostel''(cheap and recommended),''W Istanbul Hotel''(excellent and highly recommended but pricey!), and''Galata West Hostel''(awful, not recommended).''To check rates of affordable hotels and hostels, visit:''Istanbul Hotels''DIY Walking Guide:''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''ISTANBUL: Top 5 Scams to Watch Out for (And How to Avoid Them)''Top 10 Best and Worst Travel Moments of 2016''Where to Stay in Istanbul, Turkey''ISTANBUL ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''7 Heritage Sites in Chinatown Singapore: A DIY Walking Tour (Updated: 2014)''Taal Heritage Town, Batangas: A DIY Sightseeing Walking Tour''One of the most unique parts of California is the city of San Francisco. Its liberal, artsy culture, makes it a hotspot for anyone looking to express their true selves without fear of judgment.''An indirect benefit for tourists is that there is plenty to do in San Francisco that is completely free. It gives you a great opportunity to take the weight off your pocket, and have fun without having to blow your budget.''These are 5 of the best free things to do in San Francisco.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Golden Gate Bridge''2. Amoeba Music’s free shows''3. Art Galleries''4. Open-mic poetry slams at Cafe Royale''5. Lombard Street''Earlier this year, I was fortunate to have been invited to witness and participate in the 36th Thailand Tourism Festival, which was held at Lumpini Park for the second straight year. The theme for this year is “Discover Thainess. Enjoy Amusement of Siam.”''The country’s largest domestic travel fair, the festival featured the five great regions of Thailand (North, Northeast, Central, East and South) and their respective cuisines, tourist attractions, and cultural heritage. We were there on its opening day, which started at noon and ended late at night. The inauguration ceremony started with cultural processions, followed by a special performance highlighting the Thai way of life.''I had the chance to roam around the park, which for that weekend appeared as a microcosm of the kingdom. I was bombarded with a barrage of Thai food, clothing, and other products that best represent their regions. While Thailand has always been one of the world’s most visited countries, many only get to experience only Bangkok. It was the perfect venue to showcase more of the kingdom, especially its provinces.''Related Post:''Bangkok Travel Guide & Itinerary''“Tourism Authority of Thailand plans to elevate the festival to an international level and to develop a further understanding of environmental mindfulness among Thai tourists,”''TAT Governor Mr. Yuthasak Supasorn''shared. “We will encourage Thais to be good hosts and join us in the development of our country’s tourism to sustainability, so that Thailand can be a role model for other players in ASEAN to look up to given our long-standing experience as one of the world’s top tourist destinations.”''Here are some photos from the event.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''10 Free or Cheap Things to Do in Bangkok, Thailand''Siriraj Medical Museum: Freaky Forensics and Deathly Displays in Bangkok''Goddess Tuptim Shrine: The Hundred Phalluses of Bangkok''6 Popular Attractions in Bangkok: A DIY Boat + Walking Tour''THAI FARM COOKING SCHOOL: Hot and Spicy Lessons in Chiang Mai''Bangkok, Thailand: The Grand Palace and the Temple of the Emerald Buddha''The most wonderful thing about Bangkok is that it has almost everything for everyone. It is a city that embraces its past and treasures its heritage. You can see it in their magnificent temples. You can taste it in their delicious and rich cuisine. You can feel it in the warmth of its people.''Yet, Bangkok is a modern city. Malls are on the rise, and shopping districts attract more and more locals and tourists alike. And what’s a visit to Bangkok without a taste of its nightlife?''The best part, many of these attractions can be enjoyed at very little cost! Here are ten cheap things to do in Bangkok that you may consider in your next visit.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Do the usual Temple Run.''2. Cruise down the Chao Phraya River.''3. Sample Bangkok’s Kerbside Cuisine.''4. Have a great meal at Krua Apsorn''5. Satisfy your curiosity at Siriraj Medical Museum.''6. Explore Asiatique Riverfront.''7. Indulge in the Backpacking Culture in Khao San Road.''8. Visit the Phallus Shrine.''9. See Bangkok Chinatown.''10. Shop at Chatuchak Market.''The video begins with a quote by Gustave Flaubert: “Travel makes one modest. You see what a tiny place you occupy in the world.”''And from there, it took me on an emotional virtual tour around Chile.''There are countless of travel videos out there, but it is seldom that we stumble upon a video that wonderfully captures the soul of the destination. One of these rare finds is the''Exploring Chile''video by Rahela Jagric, a filmmaker and a traveler from Slovenia.''In 2015, Rahela traveled to picturesque Chile, where she recorded scenes from wild Patagonia in the South to the arid Atacama Desert in the North. “My boyfriend and I started the journey at the very south in Punta Arenas and in one month traveling by bus, we reached Atacama Desert,” she shares. “Every single day in Chile was an adventure for us, and we truly hope to visit this beautiful country again.”''Exploring Chile''from''Rahela Jagric''on''Vimeo''.''What I loved the most about the video, which was shot using a Canon 5D and a GoPro Hero, was its sincerity. It’s the work of someone madly in love with Chile. If Chile were a person, Rahela successfully captured her raw beauty: when she just woke up, when she’s not looking. Her beauty is one that does not have pride, that isn’t aware. Rahela was able to film simple but powerful images that are able to stir some sort of emotion: sometimes curiosity, other times just pure wonder.''She made me fall in love with Chile.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Get Inspired: 100km Walk Around Tokyo, Japan (Video)''Get Inspired: 6 Stunning Destinations Near Washington, DC (Video)''8 Unique Hotel Experiences from Around the World''10 Philippine Travel Blogs You Should Read and Follow''12 Female Travel Blogs for the Empowered Filipina''Quit Your 9-5 to Live and Work (David Getman)''I was walking around the graveyard feeling a bit too spirited. And by spirited, I mean tipsy. There I was, exploring what many consider the world’s most visited cemetery, half-drunk. It was four in the afternoon.''I never planned on having a drink on the way here. How it happened is a a long story, but here’s the short of it. Having worked all morning and having nothing but a serving of crepe the night before, I finally emerged from my hotel totally hungry. No, famished. It was past two, and I was too starved to actually care about where to eat. I could eat the first person that I could grab in the streets of Paris, and I wouldn’t mind. With my fingers shaking and tummy grumbling, I swore to dine at the first restaurant I would lay eyes on. A block later, I was standing in front of a pizzeria.''“Bonjour,” greeted the waitress smilingly. (I know, people always say to me that Paris has the grumpiest waiters, but I never encountered any of ’em grumpy ones the whole time I was in town.) She told me that the place was open, but since my timing was weird, all that was available was pizza.''“And it might be too much for one person,” she warned.''“Oh, don’t worry about that. I am ready.”''She laughed. She then asked me if would like some wine. Of course I would''love''some wine, you kidding me? What size? Now, here’s the thing: This is my first restaurant experience in Paris, and I didn’t know how big the usual serving is. So I just said the medium carafe would do. When she returned with the wine, I was surprised to see that it was enough for three helpings. That’s too much for me, a guy whose ego is inversely proportional to his alcohol tolerance. But what could I do? I had my first glass and loved it. I was almost done with the wine when the pizza arrived. By the time my meal finished, I was already radiating that notorious Asian glow and sweating as though it was mid-summer.''Crématorium du Pere Lachaise''A metro ride later, I was finally at the Porte Gambetta Entrance to Père Lachaise. Why I chose this gate instead of the main entrance was simple. The site isn’t flat. In fact, the cemetery sprawls over a 44-hectare area of a hill in the 20th arrondissement. Gambetta is on higher ground, which means I would have to walk downhill to make it across.''With a small map and a shaky posture, I began my way around the gravestones, whose blocks are fringed with towering trees. Two things dawned on me as I made my first steps. First, it’s easy to get lost here. Second, it’s easy to forget you’re in a burial site. Sure, there are 70,000 plots and tombstones all around. But many of them feature impeccable busts and carvings; it’s more like a sculpture garden or an outdoor art museum. Many funerary art styles can be found here, including ancient mausoleums, modern glass, Haussmanian, and Gothic. There’s also a Neo-Byzantine-style crematorium and columbarium, designed by Jean-Camille Formigé in 1894. The cemetery was named after Father François d’Aix de La Chaise, King Louis XIV’s confessor.''Towering trees flank the main streets of the cemetery''There are more than 70,000 tombs and burial plots in Pere Lachaise''The neo-Byzantine design of Crématorium du Pere Lachaise''The back of the Crematorium.''What makes Père Lachaise so well-known is that it is the final resting place for many famous personalities in the worlds of the arts, literature, and politics. Notable people include playwright Molière; actors Sarah Bernhardt and Yves Montand; writers Balzac, Proust, and Colette; and painters Pissarro and Delacroix. But I was here for these three: Oscar Wilde, Frederic Chopin, and Jim Morrison.''The easiest to find among the three was Oscar Wilde’s. I didn’t even have to look at the map; I just followed the crowd. Led by sculptor Jacob Epstein, construction of his tomb completed after ten months. It also features a plinth by Charles Holden and an inscription by Joseph Cribb. What makes this tomb interesting is not just the Indian-Egyptian-Assyrian-influenced design. More arresting are the kiss marks surrounding it. Apparently, many visitors would kiss the tomb, leaving a mark. A glass barrier was set up around it in 2011. It kind of didn’t stop the kissing tradition.''Oscar Wilde’s Tomb. See all the kiss marks?''After seeing Wilde’s tomb, I went on to find the other two. I chose to walk through the area where a lot of famous people were buried so I could also see them along the way. But there were too many of them. I would even stumble upon tombs of figures I didn’t even know lay here. Many times, I found myself alone, which did not scare me at all.''Honoré de Balzac, a legendary French novelist and playwright.''Visitors taking photos with the grave of Balzac''Casimir Delavigne, a French dramatist and poet.''Tomb of Eugene Delacroix,  a French Romantic artist often considered the leader of the French Romantic school.''More funerary artworks adorning the graves''More funerary artworks adorning the graves''A tomb for Belgian Soldiers who died in Paris from 1914-1918''Père Lachaise Cemetery''Jean Baptiste Delpech, an engineer, according to the incription''Before I knew it, it was already six o’clock. (The cemetery closes at six!) Thanks to the wine, I was so confused and disoriented, I had a hard time navigating around the site. Also, I didn’t realize that at the time, the sun set much later in Paris. (I was used to the tropics.)''Still I attempted to make my way across the cemetery to have a look at Chopin’s and Jim Morrison’s, but the staff stopped me and asked that I make my way to Gambetta. I didn’t get to see them.''I blame the wine.''Père Lachaise Cemetery''16 rue du Repos & bd de Ménilmontant, 20e''Phone: +33 1 43 70 70 33''Website: www.pere-lachaise.com''Opening hours: Monday-Friday 8am-6pm, Saturday 8:30am-6pm, Sunday: 9am-6pm''How to get to Père Lachaise Cemetery:''Take the Metro Line 2 or 3 to Père Lachaise Station. The Main Entrance is just a short walk from here. But if you’re like me who tire easily, you may take Line 3b to Gambetta Station and walk to the Gambetta Entrance, which is on higher ground, ensuring that your walk across the site will be an easy downhill stroll.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''8 Tourist Attractions from Champs-Élysées to The Louvre: A Paris Walking Tour''First Time in Paris: 6 Tips to Remember''The Best View of the Eiffel Tower: Tour Montparnasse, Paris''7 Unusual Attractions in Paris''5 Reasons to Stay at Le 123 Elysees Hotel on Your Next Trip to Paris''From London to Paris – The Inexpensive Way''Sampran Riverside is a 70-acre property located on the banks of Ta Chine River in Nakhon Pathom province. Formerly known as Rose Garden Riverside, the resort was famous for its, er, roses. They were a major supplier to flower businesses in Bangkok back in the 1960s.''Today, the family-run resort harbors a 4-star riverside hotel, a swimming pool, a lake, four restaurants, a 10-acre organic farm and a Thai Village cultural center. Its unique marketing approach positions the property more as a community promoting authentic Thai way of life. Guests get an opportunity to learn and experience the region’s culture, instead of merely offering a place to stay. They encourage preserving their natural resources and cultural heritage by engaging their guests and connecting them to the local community. We find this very appealing because when we joined their eco-cultural tour, we appreciated how things were done in the old days.''View of Ta-Chine river at the 14th floor of Sampran Riverside hotel.''“Thailand is not only Bangkok,” commented Philippine Star columnist Ricky Lo, who was with us on the tour. “There’s more in the countryside.” I agreed. To each his own, I know, but I tend to enjoy the countryside a little bit more too.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Organic Farm''Thai Village''As I stood on the edge of the Kangaroo Point Cliffs, I tried to remember the last time I did abseiling (or rappelling, as it is called where I’m from). It brought me to my high school years, when I was a little bit more physically fit and nimble. That was probably 15 years and 50 lbs ago. I remember the first time I did it, I had no qualms at all. I stood atop a cliff unshaken and fearless. I even volunteered to be the first to do it among my friends, when no one else would step forward.''For some reason, it was different this time around. Over the past decade and a half, I have evolved into this overthinker who paints every possible scenario in his head. I knew I had nothing to worry about. Stuart, our instructor had done this many times every single day for years.  When he asked if anyone of us wanted to do it first, I raised my hand but Vins (my blogging partner, the other Poor Traveler) beat me to it. I was thinking, the longer I wait, the longer my brain gets consumed by thoughts of my extinction. “Travel Blogger falls to his death,” not a very good headline for the next day.''20m-tall Kangaroo Point Cliffs''The session began with a demo of how to properly wear the harness and making sure that every gear was safe and comfortable. Then, the actual abseiling demo. Stuart was a really cool guy. He was patient, laidback, and hilarious. He’s also a rock climbing and kayaking instructor at Riverlife, basically your all-around adventure guy. Riverlife promotes itself as a lifestyle and entertainment playground. Situated on the bank of Brisbane River and at the base of Kangaroo Point Cliffs, they provide a fantastic venue for many functions (especially weddings) and adventures. Aside from''rappelling''abseiling, they also offer kayaking, rock climbing, standup paddle boarding, and segway tours. They provide all the equipment needed for these activities. In the case of abseiling: harness, helmet, rope, and gloves.''First, a demo.''Good view, too!''Riverlife is often used as a wedding reception venue''Riverlife Brisbane''Vins, being physically fit and all, made abseiling look easy. Besides, the view from here was nothing short of spectacular. Just ahead of me was Brisbane River, gently rolling and tickling the private boats that danced with the waves. Brisbane’s cityscape forms a wall on the other side. All the apprehensions I had went with the cool wind.  Before I knew it, Vins was nowhere in sight. The only assurance that he’s still in one piece was our instructor’s constant yelling, as he looked over and watched his every step. “Lean back, lean back,” he calmly said. I was like, “Lean the eff back, Vins! Why is it so hard?” Of course I didn’t say that out loud.''Vins doing his thing. I have no pics because the cam is with me. FML.''After a quick recap of what to do and what not to do, I was ready to make my way down to the base. At this point, I’d be lying if I said I wasn’t a tiny bit scared. Of course, I was. But it was nothing I couldn’t overcome. When my whole being was completely dependent on the rope, the first thought that popped in my head was:''Man my tummy is big''. And that I was heavy.''Apparently, leaning back was easier said than done. (Sorry, Vins.) It was difficult to trust the rope. But I realized it was key to having a smooth glide down. The less I trusted the rope, the heavier I felt, and the less comfortable it got for my arms. Almost halfway down the slope, when I reached a groove steady enough to stand on, I took a deep breath and decided to do it right this time.''Trust the rope. Legs apart. Push yourself from the wall. You’re not gonna die. No headline tomorrow.''I finished the second half twice faster than the first. Trust goes a long way.''When I hit the ground (physically unscathed and emotionally steady, of course), I could not believe I did it. Granted, Kangaroo Point is only 20 meters tall, but it was still a bit nerve-racking. I sat on the ground and took photos of everyone else.''Overall, it was an excellent experience that I will never, ever forget. Would I do it again? Absolutely. In fact, a return to Brisbane later this year is in order, and I can’t wait to try everything else Riverlife has to offer.''Riverlife Brisbane''Address:  Naval Stores, Lower River Terrace, Kangaroo Point QLD 4169, Australia''Email: info@riverlife.com.au''Phone: +61 73891 5766''How to get to Riverlife Brisbane''. Coming from the Central Business District, you may walk over the Goodwill Bridge and then turn left. Just follow the river and you’ll find Riverlife to your right.''Coming from''Brisbane City YHA'', Brisbane City Backpackers or Chill Backpackers, I recommend the long but scenic route. You will need to walk down Upper Roma St., turn right onto Grey St., walk over William Jolly Bridge until South Bank Parklands. Just walk along the river through the park and you will finally get to Riverlife. If you follow the river, you won’t get lost. Don’t worry, it’s a very scenic walk and you’ll get to see many interesting sites including Lagoon South Bank, Wheel of Brisbane, Nepalese Peace Pagoda, and Queensland Maritime Museum.''You may also reach it by bus. Hop into any Brisbane City Council bus to the South Bank Busway Station. From here, you will be taking a 2km walk along the river.''Where to stay'': Brisbane City YHA Hostel offers clean and affordable accommodations in Brisbane.''Check availability or book now''.''*cover image courtesy of Riverlife''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''7 Most Fun and Free Things to Do in Sydney, Australia''Australian Outback: Uluru Camel Tour at Sunrise''5 Simple Ways to Help Protect Whales''10 FREE Things to Do in Brisbane, Australia''5 Rooftop Bars with Cheap Eats in Brisbane''Brisbane City YHA: Where to Stay in Brisbane, Australia''By the time I emerged from the train station, I was almost completely spent. Brisbane is the sixth and final stop in our trip across Queensland and the Northern Territory. Albeit rewarding, it had been an exhausting journey. A good rest would be very welcome. Thankfully, we would be staying at Brisbane YHA.''As YHA’s flagship branch in Queensland, we expected only great things from this hostel and we weren’t disappointed. When we made it through its gates, we were greeted by a spacious common area and a adequately-staffed reception. After checking in, we were told to make it to the next building through the backdoor, and to our surprise, we were greeted by a 5-story building. Judging from the hostel’s facade, I wouldn’t have known that this place was huge.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Rooms and Rates''Amenities and Service''Location''Samut Songkhram is located southwest of Bangkok, Thailand. It is the smallest province by land area but big in agricultural crops and marine life, thanks to its location just by the mouth of the Mae Klong river. You could tell just how fresh their seafood is when you start sampling what they have to offer in one of their floating markets. “The traditional Thai way of life is very alive here,” our tour guide Tipie proudly shared.''Here are the 4 destinations that we had the pleasure of visiting during our time in Samut Songkhram.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Amphawa Floating Market''2. Dine at the famous Baan Thong Boran Restaurant & Music''3. King Rama II Memorial Park''4. Baan Don Kai Dee Benjarong Porcelain Village''When I quit my full-time corporate job a couple of months ago, I thought I could finally have the time to update this blog on a regular basis. But I was wrong. Love happened.''Pag-ibig''happened.''All You Need is Pag-ibig''is a Star Cinema entry to the Metro Manila Film Festival (MMFF) this year. When I was first invited by Director Antoinette Jadaone to co-write this, the concept was so distant from it has become. To be honest, I declined initially. I just didn’t know where to get the time to do it. But it is hard to say no to somebody like Direk Tonet who, as Kris Aquino put it, has the ability to make stories feel like “it happens to all of us and yet she does it a cinematic way.”''And just like her previous films, this movie uses a key Philippine destination as a setting to the story. That Thing Called Tadhana captured the sunrise at Kiltepan in Sagada; You’re My Boss showcased the romantic charm of Batanes. (Related:''10 Batanes Destinations Featured in “You’re My Boss”'')''All You Need is Pag-ibig harnesses the beauty of a few spectacular sites in Coron, Palawan, to help develop the love stories of Anya and Dino (Kim Chiu and Xian Lim) and Love and Dom (Kris Aquino and Derek Ramsay). Because the movie isn’t showing yet and I don’t want to spoil it, this will just be a simple list. I will update this next week and identify which specific sequences were filmed here.''Here are the filming locations.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Club Paradise Resort (Dimakya Island)''2. Kayangan Lake''3. Siete Pecados''4. Isla Walang Lang-aw''After working hard all year, and looking forward to your much deserved break, nothing beats cruise holidays. Island hopping between Caribbean islands such as Aruba, Antigua and the archipelago of British Virgin Islands sounds like a luxury few can afford. However, you’d be wrong!''The surprisingly affordable trip of a lifetime is perfect for families, romantic couples, or simply for those looking for something a little different from their holidays. And it’s the simplicity of a cruise holiday that attracts many, into the bargain. After boarding your cruise liner, unpack once, and relax as you set sail to your first destination. The liner acts as your hotel for the entire trip, so you don’t need to hop on and off, unpacking your belongings at each stop on your itinerary. Additionally, with many packages, the entire trip is all-inclusive. Food, drink entertainment and accommodation are all often part of the deal, leaving you to sit back, and relax, knowing you don’t need to spend extra.''For others, it’s the multiple destinations on an itinerary which attracts them to a holiday on the open sea. If you always longed to travel the world, a cruise holiday is the perfect way to see many countries quickly and in style. The Caribbean''has a diverse range of islands''to choose from, each offering something more exciting and astounding than the next.''Marvel at Aruba’s history and culture, with historic architecture and landmarks dating back to the Conquistadors. The capital of the island, Oranjestad, has an archaeological museum which is particularly engaging, with exhibits dating from 4000 BC.''If it’s a heaven-on-earth experience you’re after, the British Virgin Islands are for you. Miles of palm-fringed beaches, powdery white sand and cocktails await you on this archipelago.''Meanwhile, Antigua provides you with the best of both worlds, making it a backpacker’s dream. The island is infused with Creole culture, and boasts the most wonderful beaches. What more and you ask for?''If you’ve never experienced what it’s like to set sail on a holiday of a lifetime, you really owe it to yourself to give it a try. Many of us who try are hooked for life. You never know until you try, so take a deep breath and embark on a Caribbean cruise adventure you’ll never forget.''Images by''D-Stanley''and''kansasphoto'', used under Creative Commons license''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Picking from the Pack of Mediterranean Cruise Operators''Budget Holiday Options in Majorca''JustFly Reviews: 5 Excellent Ways to Survive a Road Trip''Airphil Express’ Fly and Sail AdvenTour Package (Rates and Itinerary) | Singapore – Kuala Lumpur Cruise''Virgin Island, Bohol: Sand-Bending, No Trespassing''Corregidor: 5 Reasons to Stay Overnight (Other than Ghost-Hunting)''Tokyo is one of those destinations I didn’t expect I would fall in love with. While I had a few courses on Japanese history and Japanese cinema back in college, there was never a point that I stopped and dreamt of going to Japan. But two years ago, when I was there, in the middle of the action-packed Tokyo, I kicked myself in the butt for not paying attention to much of its culture. It was during that trip that I finally appreciated much of what makes a stay in the land of the rising sun always something to remember — its heavenly cuisine, organized chaos, and warm hospitality.''I loved it so much I’m returning to Tokyo next week. And I can’t wait!''So what is it like to roam the streets of Tokyo? Traveler Jacob Laukaitis created the video below to give you a sneak peek into an ordinary touring day in the Japanese capital. He walked 100 kilometers in three days during his last visit. The vid will take you from his capsule hotel to the shines and temples to the stores and supermarkets — all at eye-level, which makes you feel like you’re really there.''“It was tiring but absolutely amazing,” says Jacob. “Tokyo is definitely one of my favorite cities in the world.”''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''Get Inspired: Exploring Chile (Video)''JAPAN MULTI-CITY TOUR: How to Plan a Budget Trip''Get Inspired: 6 Stunning Destinations Near Washington, DC (Video)''Top 10 Best and Worst Travel Moments of 2016''Lake Kawaguchi: Under the Spell of Mt. Fuji, Japan''They say that the people who live in Vanuatu, a small country located east of Australia, are the happiest in the world. It receives quite a lot of tourists especially from nearby countries despite the fact that it is inhabited by tribal people dressed in tree-bark clothing and grass skirts. Perhaps this is the very thing that makes the country more interesting for travelers.''To travel to Vanuatu, you will have to travel by air either to its capital, Port Vila, or to Luganville. Airlines that fly to the country include Air Vanuatu, Qantas, Aiscalin, Pacific Blue and Flysolomons. However, the biggest airline with the most number of''flights to Vanuatu''is Air Vanuatu.''Air Vanuatu has played a major role in the tourism industry of the country in the last two decades. It is the flag carrier of Vanuatu with its headquarters located at the Bauerfield International Airport in Port Vila. The airline was established in 1981 shortly after Vanuatu became an independent country.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Destinations''In-Flight Entertainment''Traveling with Children''Regular Travelers''Business Class''Do you remember your crush from High School? That girl who would sit next to you and walk away without saying a word? That guy who would text you a random greeting and then ignore your replies? That date who would tell you the sweetest things one moment and then make you feel unworthy the next? Batanes is that crush. She’s hard-to-get, a tease, and definitely a heartbreaker.''It takes more than drive to get to Batanes. She’s distant and has one hell of a temper. You’ll be facing the biggest storms if your timing is not right. But when you finally get to know her, she’s incredibly easy to fall in love with and hard to let go.''Here are 12 magnificent sites waiting for you in Batanes.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Valugan Boulder Beach''2. Vayang Rolling Hills''3. Racuh a Payaman (aka Marlboro Country)''4. Chamantad-Tinyan Viewpoint''5. Tayid Lighthouse (Mahatao)''6. Naidi Hills (Basco Lighthouse)''7. Morong Beach / Nakabuang Beach''8. Chavayan Village''9. Itbayat''10. Imnajbu Point: Alapad Pass and Rock Formation''11. Honesty Coffee Shop''12. Homoron Blue Lagoon and White Beach''It’s that time of the year again. The holidays are upon us, and if you’re a traveler living away from home, you know that this season is also when we tend to get a bit more emotional. And who could blame us? It’s when families and friends gather to enjoy the festivities and each other’s company. And we wish we were with them.''The hardest part of travel has nothing to do with the destination or the getting there. It’s leaving the people we love as we begin the journey. Sure, it’s always wonderful to build new friendships along the way, but we must never forget that there are people back home who continue to hold us dear despite the distance. Travel is a fantastic experience, but it can never be at the expense of the relationships we have with those we leave behind.''Often, travel isn’t easy. Living in another country isn’t always a walk in the park. Sometimes, time isn’t our friend. Sometimes, money is the problem. Sometimes, we simply forget. Here are some ways to keep in touch with them even when we’re far from home.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Never lose the connection.''2. Let them know they are on your mind.''3. Don’t forget special dates.''4. Send a postcard.''5. Get them something from your trip.''I honestly thought I was going to die.''When I reached the top, I dropped my backpack unconsciously and mustered all the energy I had left to catch my breath. I was vomiting air, and my chest was starting to tighten. Ten minutes and ten gulps of water later, I began feeling alright. That quick climb kept me grounded both figuratively and literally. I remained seated on the rocky ground, wondering how it came down to this.''I loved hiking. I loved it because I could do it well. I’m never the strongest person in the group, but I used to be so nimble and swift. Whenever we would trek to a mountaintop, I would always be the first or second to reach the destination. I could climb trees effortlessly. I could slide down slopes unscathed. And I could run fast. Before this, the last time I trekked for hours was at Mt. Melibingoy (Mt. Parker) in South Cotabato in 2013.''What a difference two years make. Since that climb, I got myself a full-time office job again, gained pounds (lost count), quit regular jogging, and restarted chain smoking. And it all led to this:  me, knees shaking, wheezing like a dog in labor, but too embarrassed and stubborn to quit.''And why would I? Just in between gasps, I could see just how stunning the place was. And if it’s any indication, then I was in for a bombardment of gorgeousness. Assuming, of course, that I make it alive.''View from the top of the cliff.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Three Trails''Rim Walk''I must admit. The only reason I was in Hualien was the marble paradise to the north: Taroko Gorge. Hualien being the gateway to this incredible national park was the only thing I knew about the city prior to this trip. But Hualien was such a pleasant surprise. And it seems like I’m not the only one captivated by it. Many consider Hualien one of the most delightful cities in all of Taiwan.''Sandwiched by the Pacific Ocean and the Central Mountain Range, Hualien harbors fantastic landscapes. Its natural beauty is undeniable. Much of my time in this charming city was spent just feasting my eyes on impressive scenery while strolling — Hualien is such a walkable city — and just taking in as much fresh air as I could. Despite its city status, it is quiet, not daunting. Quirky dessert shops and cafes bookend its blocks. Small diners flank its windswept streets. The best part: cost. Hualien’s low cost of living makes it one of those places I would seriously consider moving to for good.''If you ever find yourself in this wonderful city, here are some things you could enjoy for free.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Get cultured at Pine Garden.''2. Take a relaxing stroll around Nanbin Park.''3. Enjoy the view at Martyrs’ Shrine.''3. Check out stone art and ethnic dance at Stone Art Avenue.''5. Pig out at Ziqiang Night Market.''It only took two steps for me to slip and hurt (and almost break) an ankle. Considering how much time it took for me to find this place, I was absolutely determined to push through with the climb. Never mind that I was limping in pain — my clumsy ass be damned — but this was my last evening in Taiwan. Nothing was going to stop me from making it a memorable one.''It was my second time in Taipei. Just three months before this, I had an itinerary that the next tourist would follow, including hopping into the fastest elevator ride of my life to the dizzying observatory perched atop''Taipei 101''. While I had an educational time at the world’s second tallest building, I failed to find any wonderful view of the city. Sure, the view from the top was great, but I felt cold, distant, and intimidated. Strangely, looking down was more scary than entertaining. Getting up close and personal with Taipei 101 was a moment for keeps, but when it comes to breathtaking scenery, I was certain somewhere out there hides something better.''A quick google search for the best view in Taipei led me to the base of the Elephant Mountain. Also called  Xiangshan (象山) and Nangang District Hiking Trail, Elephant Mountain is situated next to the Xinyi Shopping District. It wasn’t difficult to find. Visitors coming from Taipei 101 could reach it after a 15-20-minute leisurely stroll. There are also plenty of signs along the way. But because we’re desperately dumb and geographically challenged, it took me over an hour.''We had more than my share of getting lost. You know how people always say, “When in doubt, follow the crowd?” Well, we did just that. But apparently, the crowd was not bound for Elephant Mountain. We also didn’t realize that the entrance to the trail was tucked in a park. (Of course, it was!) And when we finally found it, we didn’t realize we were already looking at the start of the trail. We probably looked awfully confused when a woman approached us and asked where we were going. Thank heavens for the lovely Taipei locals.''They say that the best time to trek here is late afternoon, allowing the hiker to reach the top and appreciate the view during the day, at sundown, and at nightfall. The sun was still shining bright when we left Taipei 101 but it was already dark when we found the staired trail. Two steps into it, I slipped and almost broke an ankle.''This view better be worth it'', I muttered in between gasps of exhaustion and pain. Thankfully, there were a lot of resting points along the way. Benches can be found throughout the trail, and lookout points dot the path.''That’s me, limping my way to the top.''I was expecting to be climbing with a horde of tourists, but I was pleasantly surprised to be alone. A few times, a jogger passed me by, but I was practically on my own. The stairs were narrow, and despite the lamp posts lighting the way, they were a bit dim. But nothing dangerous. Around 20 minutes later, we found ourselves in between giant vandalized boulders that mark the best viewpoint. Two photographers were seated comfortably, taking their best shots. When they were done, I planned on getting onto a rock to take a photo, but my aching foot made it impossible.''Still, despite the throbbing pain and a series of unfortunate events that came before this, it was a moment that I still clearly remember for a good reason. It was the best view in the city. And it was fuckin’ worth it.''View from Elephant Mountain''How to get to Elephant Mountain:''From MRT Xiangshan station (象山)'', take Exit 2 and walk along the park. When you hit the end of the road, turn left and continue until you find the start of the trail. Look for a staircase with an arc overhead.''From Taipei 101'', walk along Xinyi Road (信義路) until you reach the MRT Xiangshan Station. From there, follow the directions above.''Where to Stay:''Taipei Hotels''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Taipei 101: Reaching New Heights in Taiwan''Tianmen Mountain Cable Car, China: The Most Scenic Ride of My Life''SAMPLE TAIWAN ITINERARIES (4-5 Days)''TAIWAN ON A BUDGET: Taipei Travel Guide & Itinerary''TAIPEI: Top 10 Hotels Under $50''The Changing of the Guards at the Martyrs’ Shrine, Taipei, Taiwan''Darkness has already set in when we arrived at Dalongdong Baoan Temple, a Taiwanese folk religion temple. The site was built from 1805 to 1830 by the clans of Tong’an District who later moved to Taipei, which gives it its name Baoan, meaning “to protect those of Tong’an.” The temple was included in the UNESCO Asia-Pacific Heritage Awards for Culture Heritage Conservation.''During its construction and early days, Baoan Temple was funded by four clans: the Wangs (who donated the land), the Chens, the Changs, and the Tsais. They are also credited for the creation of what was known then as “44 Kans” (or 44 shops), which became the center of the Dalongdong community at the time.''Baoan Temple''Baoan Temple''Baoan Temple''Baoan Temple''Baoan Temple''Baoan Temple enshrines Baosheng Dadi, god of medicine in Taoism and Chinese folk religion and a saint of the Song Dynasty. It is actually the biggest temple dedicated to the deity in Taiwan. It features a three-hall layout, traditional of Chinese temples: the Main Hall, the Rear Hall, and the Sanchuan Dian (triple gate front hall, the mains structure). On the sides lie the Bell Tower and the East/West Wing.''“Baoan Temple’s architectural style also reflects early settlers’ ancestral backgrounds,” the site’s official website shares. “For instance, the rooftop adopts the traditional Sanchuan (triple gate) wooden structure; the roof ridge belongs to the southern Fujian style; the floor and wall surface are covered with wide, thin red bricks and tiles…. The temple structure also displays delicate architectural work of arts, such as woodcarvings, stone carvings, colored drawings, clay sculptures, and chien-nien (cut and glue) figurines.”''Dalongdong Baoan Temple''Address: No.61, Hami St., Taipei City, Taiwan''Contact Number: +886 2 2595 1676''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''The Changing of the Guards at the Martyrs’ Shrine, Taipei, Taiwan''8 Marble-ous Scenic Spots in Taroko Gorge, Taiwan''Snapshot: Entrenched Meander at Taroko Gorge, Taiwan''Martyrs’ Shrine: Karenkō Shrine in Hualien, Taiwan''10 FREE Things to Do in Taipei''TAIWAN ON A BUDGET: Taipei Travel Guide & Itinerary''Being a full-time employee in Manila is no joke. Every single morning, stress (in the form of horrendous traffic) greets you even before you step into the office. Then you spend at least nine hours of your day working your butt off. You end the day enduring another hour or two stuck in a sea of cars. When you get home, you just collapse into your bed because you’re too tired to do anything else. The next day, you repeat the same routine all over again. No wonder we have an undying love for weekends.''But you know what we love more? Long weekends. When a non-working holiday falls just around a weekend, we know it means more time to relax, pamper ourselves, and do the things that we love. One of these: travel.''The best thing about Metro Manila is that no matter how stressful it can be, it is surrounded by countless wonderful provinces. Previously, we wrote about''15 cheap but awesome destinations near Manila''. The list covers places that can be reached through a 5-hour drive from the capital, perfect for a regular weekend getaway.''This time, we’re expanding the coverage. Long weekend means more time, and more time means more options. We asked Filipino travel bloggers for recommendations on places that are great for a 3-day getaway, and here are their top picks. (Not in any particular order.)''1. Batangas Road Trip''My personal pick is Batangas. I’m biased, of course, because I was born and raised in the Land of the Valiant. But there’s so much more to Batangas than its proximity to Manila. It is a blessed land. It cradles a wide array of diverse landscapes — pristine beaches, a scenic lake, spectacular diving sites, breathtaking rivers, fertile farm lands, enchanting mountains, and a volcano. These places have also nurtured communities from the pre-Spanish settlements to the rise of the province’s many urban centers in its long history. Thus, it is no surprise that Batangas has a rich culture and heritage, and has become home to some of the country’s most significant national heroes whose roles and legacy cannot be stressed enough.''Batangas is love.''Here are some suggested itineraries:''Batangas Heritage Tour''Day 1 – Tanauan, Taal Volcano (Talisay)''Day 2 – Anilao (Day Tour of Sombrero Island and Tingloy)''Day 3 – Taal Heritage Town and Calatagan''And if you have more time, you may drop by Tagaytay too! For the full itinerary, take a look at:''Budget Travel Guide to Batangas''Where to Stay:''Batangas Hotels''2. Baler, Aurora''“Baler has flourished as one of the top surfing spots in the Philippines,” Gael Hilotin of The Pinay Solo Backpacker describes the small beach town. “This once sleepy municipality is now a popular tourist destination dappled with resorts, cafes and surf shops that have never stopped expanding. But Baler is not all about the endless surf of Sabang Beach.''Aurora''Explore Baler and discover its unspoiled waterfalls, ruggedly enchanting azure beaches, gorgeous cliffs that drop straight into ceaseless waves and age-old historic edifices.”''More information here:''Baler Travel Guide''Where to Stay:''Baler Hotels''3. Pangasinan''Photo by Micaela Rodriguez''For Senyorita Micaela Rodriguez, the answer is definitely Pangasinan. Her beloved hometown has a lot to offer to tired and weary Manileno souls. And yes, who could resist the Hundred Islands?''Mica’s suggested long weekend itinerary is as follows:''Day 1 – Dagupan, Calasiao, Lingayen''Day 2 – Alaminos''Day 3 – Bolinao''Day 4 – Back to Manila''For a more detailed version, check out:''Alaminos-Bolinao Itinerary''Where to Stay:''Pangasinan Hotels''4. Puerto Galera, Oriental Mindoro''One of the islands of Puerto Galera''Solitary Wanderer Aleah made a classic choice, Puerto Galera. “From white sand beaches and mountains, great views above ground and underwater, there are so many things you can do in Puerto Galera that you’ll find yourself not wanting to leave after your vacation is up!” And it’s just 3-4 hours away.''If you have only 3 days and 2 nights, Aleah suggests this itinerary.''Day 1 – Town tour, Tamaraw Falls''Day 2 – Swimming, snorkeling, and other water sports''Day 3 – Trekking to Aninuan Falls, souvenir shopping''For a more detailed one, check this out:''What to Do in Puerto Galera (A 3D/2N Itinerary)''Where to Stay:''Puerto Galera Hotels''5. San Antonio, Zambales''Nagsasa Cove''Zambales has a lot to offer. Subic remains a good choice for families. Magalawa Island is starting to get noticed. Potipot has always been an open secret. But for Ada Wilkinson of Travel in Boots, “If you’re a student or a young-at-heart working individual living around the busy capital, having a very affordable island hopping trip in San Antonio, Zambales, should be on top of the list.”''Many tourists visiting San Antonio have only one thing in mind when they come: Anawangin Cove, a beach blanketed with ash from Mt. Pinatubo and covered in tall agoho trees (that resemble pine trees). But Nagsasa has become a popular alternative. Nagsasa is bigger and has a much picturesque landscape, albeit a bit farther. Both have ashen beaches and a well-worn trail to a viewpoint that offers a fantastic panoramic view of the coves.''Ada prepared this travel guide to help you plan your trip:''Nagsasa and Anawangin Travel Guide''Where to Stay:''Zambales Hotels''6. Calaguas and Mercedes Islands, Camarines Norte''A post shared by @yoshke & @vinscarlos (@thepoortraveler)''on''Mar 10, 2017 at 3:18am PST''Peppering the northern coast of Bicol are the virgin, white-fringed islands of Calaguas and Mercedes. Angel Juarez, Lakwatsero himself, has been an ambassador for these islands. “(They are) a merely two hour boat ride from the mainland. It boasts powdery white sand beaches, crystal-clear waters, and unspoiled natural resources, a place where  you can truly relax while enjoying the beauty and serenity of the place.”''Sample Calaguas-Mercedes Itinerary:''Day 0 – Departure from Manila''Day 1 – Explore Calaguas Islands''Day 2 – Explore Mercedes Islands''Day 3 – Departure''For the full itinerary, visit:''Calaguas Island Travel Guide''7. Laguna Loop''A post shared by @yoshke & @vinscarlos (@thepoortraveler)''on''Sep 2, 2016 at 9:45am PDT''Ron Cruz of Flip’n Travels and Edgar Alan Zeta Yap of Eazy Traveler agree that the best long weekend getaway from Manila is the Laguna Loop, which passes through the towns surrounding Laguna de Bay. “The trail is the cultural center of the colonial era as it has the largest preserved tradition and architecture from the Spanish occupation outside the capital. Start the trip from Angono Rizal and stopping town after town across Baras and Tanay. Cross the provincial border to Siniloan and enjoy the more traditional towns of Pakil, Paete and end the adventure in Pagsanjan.”''More of Ron’s weekend trip suggestions here:''5 Easy Weekend Destinations Outside Manila''When in Pagsanjan, Edgar recommends that you shoot the rapids through Pagsanjan River Gorge National Park to see the famous Pagsanjan Falls, which is already in the municipality of Cavinti. More about that here:''Pagsanjan Falls''Where to Stay:''Laguna Hotels''8. La Union''Surfing in La Union. Photo by Owen Ballesteros''Nikka Corsino of Two2Travel grew up in La Union and was surprised by the sudden public interest in her province. “We have to credit San Juan for a lot of things,” notes Nikka. “The mounting interest in La Union in recent years, most likely among the economically powerful young-adult demographic, is due to San Juan’s surfing.” But as she discovers, La Union isn’t all about the waves and tides.''Two2Travel has come up with a list of things to do in their hometown:''La Union Travel Guide''Where to Stay:''La Union Hotels''9. Baguio City''Strawberries! A Baguio favorite.''When it comes to quick escapes, Baguio never goes out of style. There’s always something going on in the City of Pines, be it a new restaurant, a new tourist attraction, or just some good old Panagbenga realness. For Owen Ballesteros of Two2Travel, here are some recos that won’t break the bank. “Head to the Panagbenga Park along Loakan Road. Tam-Awan Village and BenCab Museum are also great options for those who want their dose of art. The Baguio Cinematheque, meanwhile, offers indie film screenings at P50.”''More about Baguio here:''Baguio on a Budget''Where to Stay:''Baguio Hotels''10. Sagada, Mountain Province''Sunrise at Kiltepan''Ferdz Decena of Ironwulf has a special place in his heart for the Cordilleras. Sagada and Bontoc, in particular, are two places he had visited many times. “You’ll never get tired of it as there are more to do and discover…. Just lie down on the grass by the church and read a good book. Watch the glorious sunrise on a cool windy morning at Kiltepan or the scenic sunset while having a picnic at Lake Danum.”''While Sagada today is most famous for Sumaguing Caves and Bomod-ok Falls, Ferdz has prepared a more offbeat weekend itinerary:''Day 1 – Transit to Sagada''Day 2 – Rock Inn and Lake Danum''Day 3 – Pongas Falls''Day 4 – Downtown Sagada''More about this here:''Sagada Leisure Escape''11. Kalinga''Inked by the last traditional tattoo artist of Kalinga. Photo by Lakwatserong Tsinelas''If you could choose just one destination for a long weekend getaway, Mark Julius Estur of Lakwatserong Tsinelas insists that you make it Kalinga. And start in Tinglayan, a municipality where highlanders and prolific rice terraces builders and farmers dwell. Mark’s suggested itinerary involves seeing the fantastic Bugnay Terraces, hiking to Loccong Village, and getting inked by Whang-od, the last traditional Kalinga mambabatok (tattoo artist) in Buscalan.''More about that here:''Tinglayan Villages of Kalinga''12. Ilocos''Bangui Windmills''Vins Carlos of The Poor Traveler thinks he’s saving the best for last: Ilocos Sur and Ilocos Norte. The Ilocos Region is home to the most amazing tourist destinations in the country. “I was pleasantly surprised that even up to now, our trip across Ilocandia remains one of my best trips in the Philippines. Ilocos is pure love.”''Day 0 – Transit (10-12 hours by bus)''Day 1 – Paoay Church, La Paz Sand Dunes, Malacanan of the North''Day 2 – Cape Bojeador Lighthouse, Bangui Windmills, Pagudpud''Day 3 – Vigan''For a more detailed itinerary, give this page a look:''Ilocos Itinerary''Where to Stay:''Ilocos Hotels''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''8 Unusual Cemeteries in the Philippines''7 PLACES TO VISIT NEAR MANILA Under P1000''BEACHES NEAR MANILA: 10 Uncrowded Weekend Getaways''10 Exciting Things to Do in SAN ANTONIO, ZAMBALES''Ilocos Weekend Trip: Summary, Itinerary and Budget''La Trinidad Strawberry Farm: Heart-shaped Madness in Benguet, Philippines''Our mini-bus pulled over on the side of a viewpoint, and we hopped out of the vehicle carrying a camera in one hand and a bottle of beer in the other. Running parallel to the parking lot was a lane of fastidiously arranged tables, champagne glasses and all. Waiters were on a watch, checking if everything was as it should be. Such a beautiful setup.''If only they were ours.''Those tables most likely belonged to a well-off group on a luxury tour. We were not a well-off group, and this was not a luxury tour. All we had were bottles of beer and cider, and a permanent round table. But none of it mattered. There was no room for envy in a heart already filled with awe. Everything was set. We had a good spot, our time-lapse camera was rolling, and the light was beginning to dwindle. Right before us was Australia’s most iconic symbol: Uluru.''“I can’t wait for it to glow.” Our new friend Rachel couldn’t contain her excitement; her eyes glued to the giant rock.''It’s not every day that it does, warned Nick, our ever-reliable-but-sometimes-buzzkill tour guide. Still, everyone hoped that it would that evening. Our shadows painfully, slowly grew longer as the sun started its descent behind us. Venus, Mars, and Jupiter made their appearance as more and more stars showed up almost one by one. The blue skies were no more. The horizon exuded a golden radiance that painted the scene honey and purple.''And then, it glowed.''Uluru glows at sunset''Up close with the glowing Uluru''Our day was made. Our three-day roadtrip from Alice Springs was worth it. I could go home right then and I’d be happy.''But it was great that I didn’t. Apparently, Uluru is much more than just a visual spectacle. Much more compelling is its history, which isn’t always glowing.''Our mini-bus at dusk.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'What’s in a Rock?''Going Up or Going Around?''Editor’s Note'': Changes in travel plans are sometimes inevitable. And it comes with a price. We have experienced wasting money on unused hotel reservations that could not be refunded. Apparently, there is a way to still get it back but in another form. This contributed post by Itai Varochik explains how Roomer Travel actually makes the situation beneficial to both the original booker and those looking for a good place to stay. It’s a unique and interesting business model, and we thought we could help spread the word.''—-''I saved up for a year to go see Rome. I’m a history buff, and it had always been a dream of mine. I couldn’t afford the usual expenses, so I made a plan: finding the best bargains by going during the off-season.''Big mistake. I got to see everything I wanted, but Rome in December is miserable – at least for someone who hates cold wet weather as much as I do. During the two weeks I was there, it did not stop raining, putting a literal damper on my dream trip.''It was highly frustrating, especially because I’d had to wait so long to get there. And although it was time to start saving up for the next big trip, I had the constant feeling that it might not be worth it.''If I hadn’t found a way to travel cheap, I’d probably still be stuck with regrets.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Bargain hotel rooms made the difference''Cancelled trips create opportunities''Your perfect hotel room is paid-for and empty''Roomer’s marketplace for recycled reservations''Logistics and stress free''My next trip comes cheap''They stood in the middle of the deck and spoke, “Today, you’re gonna be part of the crew. Sweet?”''The announcement triggered a strange mixture of excitement and nervousness. Excitement because I had never boarded a tall ship before, and it is always a delight to open myself to new wonderful things. Nervousness because, er, I had never boarded a tall ship before, and the idea of working on one was a little too intimidating.''But the members of the legit crew had a way of making everything, no matter how mundane, sound fun and interesting. They shared what a knot is or why the right side of the vessel is called “starboard” as though it was standup comedy. They explained how to control the sails in a totally laidback fashion, reminiscent of Finding Nemo’s Crush, the cool turtle.''“You might just see turtles around one of the islands we’re visiting today,” they announced.''Every single one of them was always smiling and approachable, fostering a light and friendly atmosphere that made the trip much less like an arranged tour and more like a family trip.''Sail the sun!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Derwent Hunter''Bali Hai Reef''Langford Island Reef''They found me at the common area, playing bingo. Yes, bingo.''“We’ve been waiting for you downstairs,” my new friends said. “We thought you were in your room.”''Alas I was not. I was in the company of fun-loving backpackers from around the world, each of us meticulously arranging our piles of tiny pebbles that would be my markers on the two cards that bore random numbers. The next round was just about to start. Friday nights are Bingo nights at SPIN El Nido.''Hostels are some of my favorite things about traveling. Sure, I sometimes choose to splurge and sashay my way into a hotel room, or be more immersive and bond with locals at a homestay, but hostels would always be my top choice, especially when traveling alone. It is this delightful atmosphere of community that got me hooked. Nothing beats meeting like-minded people and discovering destinations together for the first time.''If a random stranger asks for recommendations on the best places in the Philippines, El Nido (if not the entire Palawan province) would make it to the top five. El Nido has tons of natural wonders and a dash of nightlife. Given my constant thirst for anything alcoholic — yep, it’s true, just ask my humongous tummy — it is something that is always a consideration for me. But before this trip, none of the rooms I tried had given me any outstanding experience. They were all just alright, not much to remember. That is why SPIN was such a surprise.''Friday Night is Bingo Night'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Rooms and Rates''Interior Design and Amenities''Location''Staff and Service''When I woke up, I thought I was still dreaming. The images that flashed before my eyes were both familiar and strange. Familiar, because these were things that filled my days growing up in the Philippine countryside: banana farms, cane fields, and other verdant seas. Strange, because I didn’t expect to see them here, in Australia.''When I think about Australia, I think about crimson deserts, vibrant reefs, and glowing cityscapes. None of the Aussie postcards I had bragged about the greener pastures. A stupid misconception, given that Australia is a continent on its own, and thus harbors a wide array of landscapes.''My destination: Airlie Beach. A small town along the eastern coast of Queensland, Airlie Beach is a top beach destination in Australia, best known as the gateway to the Whitsunday Islands and a jump off point to the Great Barrier Reef. Coming from the city of Cairns, north of the state, it took us around 10 hours to reach the famed beach.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'To Fly or Not to Fly''Long Bus Rides''Just off the western coast of Africa lies the arrow-shaped archipelago of Cape Verde, which features a mixture of craggy peaks, serene beaches, and cultural towns like Mindelo, which is filled with restaurants, bars, and cafés. Whether you’re headed here to escape the winter or are just after some island fun, there is''plenty to do and discover''in Cape Verde. Here are a few things that you won’t want to miss-out on.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Mount Fogo''2. Santo Antão''3. Boa Vista''4. Mindelo''5. Cidade Velha''Things don’t always go as planned.''It’s something that every seasoned traveler knows very well. It is this mantra that this blog is built upon. On our first trip together, our boatman did not show up, leaving us stranded at a deserted wharf and forcing us to walk through an unfamiliar forest. On our next trip, our boat crashed onto a rock islet and we floated aimlessly for almost an hour. [ More about the origin of this blog''here''. ]''If there’s one thing that gets us by, it is this distinct ability to always look on the bright side. To us, getting lost is an opportunity to discover something on our own or a chance for an adventure worth sharing in conversations over beer when it’s all over.''Sometimes, however, the universe has a way of keeping you from having fun. Sometimes, the silver lining they keep talking about is a lightning that will shoot you down. Sometimes, the light at the end of the tunnel is the headlights of a train about to crush you. Sometimes, shit just happens. You just need to avoid it or be prepared when it does.''Here’s a list of the biggest travel buzzkills and how they can be prevented from ruining the perfect trip.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Flight Delays''2. Immigration Problems''3. Too Much Hype''4. Confused Head, Grumpy Tummy''5. Body Pains''6. Accidents and Injuries''7. Dreadful Weather''8. Closing Time''9. Scams''10. Bad Company''Where I’m from, when you say traveling to China, it means touring one of these five cities: Hong Kong, Beijing, Shanghai, Macau and Guangzhou. Outside the travel circles and blogging communities, only a few have heard of other Chinese destinations. Everything else can already be considered “off-the-beaten-path.” But if there’s one thing that my journey from Guilin to Zhangjiajie has taught me, it’s that this vast, vast country has a gazillion surprises tucked in its provinces.''We asked travel and food enthusiast Wai Zhou, co-founder of''Eating Adventures Food Tours'', for other marvelous places in China that every explorer must experience. She has traveled extensively throughout the country with a particular interest in Yunnan, Guangdong and Xinjiang provinces. Here are her recommendations, words and photos by her.''I’d always imagined myself touring the Li River at sunrise. In my head was a picture of me, rafting through the mist that hugged the cliffs that rose from the banks while a cold, purplish blue light covered the scene. That picture, for the longest time, had been framed and nailed to the walls of my mind. If I would ever find myself in Guilin, that scene would have to happen. River. Cliffs. Dawn. Perfection. It had to happen.''But I am not a morning person. Absolutely not a morning person.''So when I was asked what time I wanted to see the river, I foolishly and nonchalantly picked a twisted number that rhymes with hate. “Eight o’clock, it is,” said the confused hotel receptionist, who looked at me judgingly. “I thought you said the earlier the better?”''I did say that. But that was before I had tried getting swallowed by their beds. After almost a full day of being on my feet on the train to Guilin from Zhangjiajie, I wanted to marry the first mattress I’d see and spend the rest of my life in its soft, comfortable embrace. I was intent on making sure that the aching temple of my soul would have the rest it deserved.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Yangdi Village''Li River''Xingping Village''Yangshuo''That night was especially cold in Osaka. It was my first Christmas Eve away from home; I had always celebrated the occasion with family. That night, however, there won’t be any noche buena or wine or reunions for me.''I picked up my luggage at the hotel and made my way to Umeda Sky Building where I would catch the overnight Willer bus to Tokyo. I would be welcoming Christmas on the road. Merry Christmas to me indeed.''I enjoy planning trips, but I refuse to be overly meticulous about it. What greeted me at the Umeda Sky Building is one of the reasons why. I didn’t know that it hosts one of the city’s biggest winter events — the German Christmas Market. I was pleasantly surprised that I felt my insides turn liquid. In my stomach were not butterflies but fairies, determined to shoo away the holiday blues that had overtaken me. For a split second, I believed in magic and all the crazy, juvenile delusions that the season brings.''German Night Market at Umeda Sky Building''The German Christmas Market is set up beneath the skywalk that connects the two pillars of Umeda Sky Building. It was something I did not expect, given that Japan isn’t a Christian nation and Christmas is not that big here. At the center of it all is a giant, brightly-lit Christmas tree, said to be one of the tallest in the world, which has become tourists’ favorite backdrop for selfies. Leading to it are two lanes of candy houses and hüttes (huts) offering a wide array of goodies, from pastries to sausages! A merry-go-round, tucked in one corner, is a kid-magnet, while beer stations attract droves of thirsty grownups.''German Huttes''Umeda Sky Building''Even without the market, the place has always been an important landmark and a tourist destination in its own right. The Umeda Sky Building, also known as the New Umeda City, is composed of two 173-m skyscrapers that are connected by a Floating Garden Observatory, enabling an unmatched view of Osaka (JPY 700 entrance fee).''The German market was small and, to be honest, nothing grand or spectacular, but it was enough to brighten up a rather bleak Christmas Eve. On a cold night like this, any warmth, even when they’re coming from a sea of Christmas lights, was good enough for me.''How to get to Umeda Sky Building'': Make your way to Osaka or Umeda Station. From here, the building can be reached after a 10- to 15-minute walk.''Observatory Admission Fee'': JPY 700.''German Market Admission Fee'': FREE''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Dotonbori: Sensory Overload in Osaka, Japan''10 Food Delights to Try in Japan''Snapshot: The Glico Man of Dotonbori – Osaka, Japan''Osaka Castle Park, Japan: Toyotomi’s Dream''Tempozan Ferris Wheel: Sunny Surprises in Osaka, Japan''Hotel Chuo Oasis: Where to Stay in Osaka, Japan''I looked at the town’s location on the map, and I was instantly intrigued. I had never been this far from the shore: Alice Springs is tucked 1200 km from the nearest ocean. And it appears to be almost at the very heart, the dead center of the continent.''Roger, the hostel manager, whipped out a street map this time and scribbled all over it. “Follow the river,” he said with a smile. “Turn left when you reach the corner, and you’ll see the hill.” He was recommending places to visit while we waited for the check-in time.''We trod in the direction of the river but found in its stead a wide groove on the ground, flanked by thirsty trees. The Todd River reminded me of my college love life: dry, wanting, and — to a certain extent — non-existent. It’s there, but the exposed riverbed doesn’t give any semblance of activity. As I walked along the river, I began to wonder after whom this river was named. The answer to that, of course, is Sir Charles Todd, a telegraph pioneer and Postmaster-General of South Australia from 1870–1901. And then my silly self wondered why.''Silliness aside, this river may be ephemeral, but it is significant in the history and culture of this part of Central Australia. When the Europeans started building a settlement here in 1871, they thought the river was a permanent waterhole, only to find out later that it is dry 95% of the year. (So no, they didn’t name it after Mr. Todd because he was dry in any way.) When the river flows, the sediment-loaded water comes from the MacDonnell Ranges through the center of Alice Springs down into Lake Eyre in South Australia.''I hit the intersection and turned left to find the Anzac Hill, rising not too far away. A metal arch announced the name of the staired trail that climbs up a carpeted but rocky slope to the top, where two flags danced with the wind gracefully: the national flag of Australia and the flag of the Northern Territory. It was an easy ascent, but the harsh high-noon sun made it a tiny bit more strenuous. I claimed one of the benches surrounding the site and caught my breath, and then went through the markers one by one.''ANZAC is an acronym for the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps, and this monument was originally built in honor of the men and women who made the biggest sacrifice in World War I. Later on, it was later expanded to pay tribute to everyone who has served Australia in the great wars that she has participated in. The monument was designed by Rev. Harry Griffiths and was unveiled by Dudley Adamson, the first postmaster of Alice Springs. Every year on April 25, a remembrance service is held on-site.''Easy climb to the top.''The flags of Australia and Northern Territory waving proudly''Anzac Hill is also a fantastic lookout, allowing breathtaking panoramic views of the town: from the flat townscape made of malls and stores to the arresting escarpments that stand proudly in the distance. Around the site are a couple of markers narrating a brief history of the town. It is a small settlement, something that becomes apparent when seen from atop Anzac Hill. But with over 28,000 inhabitants, this little town is actually the third largest in the territory.''View of the town center from atop Anzac Hill.''View from ANZAC Hill Lookout''To the Aborigines, Alice Springs is known as Mparntwe. Way before Europeans arrived, it is an important place to the Aboriginal Aranda (Arrernte) people, who have been calling it home for more than 30,000 years. It was John McDouall Stuart who first led an expedition through this part of the continent, establishing a south-north route from Adelaide to Darwin.''The town got its English name from Lady Alice Todd, wife of Sir Charles Todd, ten years later, when Britain constructed a radio repeater station in the area. In 1887, alluvial gold was discovered near the area, attracting people to settle in Alice Springs. When World War II broke, the town became an important staging base for the Australian military. It also became the temporary home for the military personnel when Japan air-bombed Darwin. Many of the town’s infrastructures were built during the war. In the 1960s, the government established here a joint defense monitoring base with the United States. Today, Alice Springs is more like a tourist hub, being a major settlement closest to many of the Outback’s most popular tourist destinations including the King’s Canyon and Uluru.''Where to stay'': Alice Springs YHA Hostel offers affordable accommodations right at the heart of the town center. Kangaroo Dundee Tours and Outback Tours (to Uluru) are also available.''Book here:''Alice Springs YHA Hostel''.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Alice Springs YHA Hostel: Where to Stay in Alice Springs, Australia''Kings Canyon Rim Walk, Australia''The Rock Tour: Camping Trip from Alice Springs to Uluru, Australia''ALICE SPRINGS & ULURU ON A BUDGET: Budget Travel Guide''Sunset Walk with the Kangaroo Dundee: Alice Springs, Australia''Freshies, Salties, and Birdies: Mary River Wetlands Tour, Kakadu National Park, Australia''I usually travel alone.''There are a lot of reasons why I choose to be on my own when I’m hitting the road, but it all boils down to one thing: total freedom. I don’t have to wait for anyone. I don’t need to consider anyone else’s taste or feelings. I don’t get forced to be in group photos, which tend to be sort of mandatory when I’m with friends.''But there are times when traveling with familiar souls is unavoidable. It’s not easy planning trips for a group. It’s difficult to find the best deals on accommodations and airfare. It’s difficult to create an itinerary that would fit everyone’s interests. It’s difficult to bring them all together. Yes, planning a group tour is difficult. And flakers make it a lot worse.''Oh yes, what could be more horrible than last minute cancellations? Whenever I plan trips with friends, there’s always one or more backing out, leaving the rest of the group with more problems than expected.''Here’s what you need to understand with “group traveling.” I wish I could say that you’re too adorable we can’t go without you. Maybe you are. But that’s not the point. Since you already said “yes,” someone in the group might have already paid for airline tickets or accommodations in advance and it will be a shame to leave them unused.''So this post is for people who are planning trips or other activities with their friends. Hope this helps. Here are the top 5 signs that your friends are flaking on you according to''PhilippineBeaches.org''fans.''Flakers are desirable only when they come in this form. Much more useful.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'5. Details keep on changing.''4. Uncertainty strikes.''3. Commitment vanishes.''2. Conditioning starts.''1. No response is “NO” response.''I owe the origin of this blog to one word: embarrassment.''Many easily assume that the “poor” in''The Poor Traveler''refers to financial handicap, but it isn’t true. This blog was born after a series of face-meets-palm events that my blogging partner and I have encountered in the first few days of traveling together. Many are a product of just being noobs, failing to plan well before the journey. On our first trip, we found ourselves stranded for hours in a deserted, unfamiliar wharf. We also noticed that it would always rain whenever we would go on a trip. [ More about this blog’s history''here''. ]''But there are moments that are so embarrassing, you just can’t help but laugh it off. Others are concerning safety, they’re not funny at all.''Not too long ago, we asked our fans at''PhilippineBeaches.org''Facebook page for their most embarrassing experiences while on a trip and we received hundreds of responses. Some of them are so hilarious I just have to feature them on this blog. Here are seven of them.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'7. Internal Issues''6. Seatmate problems''5. Lost in Translation\nFrom the film Lost in Translation\nThere are words that may be used in both your and their languages but they do not share the same meaning. There are countless of them. In Cebuano alone, “libang,” “libog” and “langgam” have very different meanings from their Tagalog counterparts.\nIt’s also not advisable to assume that a person comes from a certain place just because he or she looks like it, as Danah here narrated.\nDanah Mae: When i was in Dubai for vacation I thought the cashier was Filipino so I talked in Tagalog, and boom she was not! She was Thai.\nIt pays to learn a few words or phrases in the local language. It makes navigating a lot easier and it also shows goodwill. (Locals love it and tourists make an effort to speak their language.) It also minimizes untoward incidents!\n4. Unmindful of Surroundings''3. Wardrobe Malfunction''2. Breaking the Rules''1. Flirting with Danger''As human beings, we have a very important responsibility towards the other creatures with whom we share the planet, especially those that face the threat of extinction.''Among the most remarkable animal groups that live in our waters are the whales. These aquatic mammals are some of the largest and the most widespread, inhabiting all oceans. Humpback whales, for example, can be found from Japan and United States down to Australia. However, some species are targets for being kept in captivity to perform tricks in theme parks, and some are being hunted for meat. A number have been declared Critically Endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).''There’s a lot that we can do to help protect whales and other marine wildlife. Here are a few of them.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Keep an eye on your carbon footprint.''2. Use fewer plastic-made products.''3: Support organizations working to protect the ocean.''4. Travel responsibly.''5: Influence change in your community.''Every now and then, you find yourself in a place that even after many years later, you would look back and still couldn’t believe yourself when you say, “Damn, I was there?”''To me, other than the screening of M. Night Shyamalan’s The Happening — I can’t still believe I paid for''that''— that place is the city of Zhangjiajie in Hunan Province, China. But for Zhangjiajie, I mean that in the best possible way.''There are just so many things unbelievable and surreal about Zhangjiajie that it has inspired countless fantastic tales. Take for example the towering quartz-sandstone pillars of Wulingyuan. It doesn’t take much imagination to see how these columns have served as inspiration for the floating mountains of the Hollywood blockbuster AVATAR. The sea of clouds rolling in between the mountains majestically paints a picture of a world alien but absolutely breathtaking. It’s one of those sights that leaves an imprint on the heart of the beholder. It’s the kind of experience that can change your life.''How I ended up in Zhangjiajie was a twist of fate. I was supposed to spend all the time my visa allowed in Guilin. But while I was planning the trip, I stumbled upon a viral post about places that are hard to believe exist on earth. The mountains of Wulingyuan made it to that list, and I completely forced it into my itinerary. Here’s a summary of my unforgettable sojourn in Zhangjiajie.''Image courtesy of james-camerons-avatar.wikia.com'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get to Zhangjiajie''How to Get to Wulingyuan''Where to Stay in Zhangjiajie or Wulingyuan''When to Visit''Places to Visit''Sample Itinerary''Budget Breakdown''Zhangjiajie was not part of our plan.''I was supposed to exhaust all 14 days that my visa allowed me entirely in Guilin and Yangshuo. But when I stumbled upon a photo of the Tianzi Mountains while planning for this trip, I knew that I had to squeeze it into my already solid itinerary.''But there were a few problems:''1. Zhangjiajie is a bit too far from Guilin, my entry point in China.''2. There are no direct flights from Guilin to Zhangjiajie, and making a connection can be expensive.''3. There are no direct trains from Guilin to Zhangjiajie.''When I landed in Guilin that day, I was keen on taking the bus to Zhangjiajie, but for the life of me, I couldn’t find where the buses where. I found a bus terminal (same street as the train station), but there were no buses to Zhangjiajie when we asked. We were told that there were buses to the remote city at the train station. Off we went, but still couldn’t find it. The language barrier wasn’t helping, either.''We decided to take the train to Zhangjiajie instead, connecting in either Liuzhou or Changsha. Here’s how.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Train from Guilin to Liuzhou or Changsha City, and then to Zhangjiajie.''2. Minibus from Zhangjiajie City to Wulingyuan''Important notes:''One thing I’ve always wanted to do but never had a chance to is a video project, something to document my travels but done in a compelling, cohesive, and creative fashion. The reason is simple: we are in the age of video content. It’s one of the most effective ways to widen reach, engage people, and make an impact.''Other travelers have done it successfully. Some showcased their mastery of capturing the sheer beauty of the places they set foot on through their cameras. Some pushed themselves to their limits like traveling across a vast country on foot! Others were able to charm their way into convincing the people they meet along the way to get involved in their stunt.''I initially planned to provide brief descriptions for every video, but while I was writing them, I realized introductions are quite unnecessary. These videos speak for themselves.''Here are eight of those videos that continue to astonish me with every watch, and I hope they inspire you, too.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Where the Hell is Matt?''2. The Longest Way: Walk Through China''3. 3-Year Epic Selfie''4. Move, Eat, Learn''5. Hitchhiking Stop Motion''6. High Five the World''7. Time is Nothing: Around the World Time Lapse''8. Global Dance Party''Which one is your favorite?''Since we left the port, I never moved from my seat because if I did, I would throw up everything I had for breakfast in one forceful blow. Oh wait, I didn’t have breakfast that morning, so I’d have probably puked my soul out. Assuming, of course, that I have a soul.''Cliche as it sounds, but it wasn’t the boat. It was me.''We landed in Cairns from Sydney at around midnight, and it wasn’t until 3am that sleep was finally able to give my restless mind a visit. By 6am, despite the heavy resistance of my eyelids, I was already up. It was our first day in Cairns and the boat would leave at 8am. We just wanted ample lead time just in case we struggle to find the port. Struggling to find our destination isn’t really new to us; it’s more like the rule than the exception.''Defying expectations, we found the port and the boat almost immediately — HA! Suck it, Murphy’s Law! — only to be told that we had to check in at the terminal building on the other end of the jetty. Of course. Why the hell didn’t we think of that? And at that moment, we considered changing this blog’s name from “Poor” to “Absolutely Stupid Traveler.” But it was totally fine. We were on our way to seeing a part of the Great Barrier Reef for the first time, and nothing — you hear me, Murphy’s Law? — nothing was going to make that sunshiny day less bright.''The next thing I knew, I was in the toilet, vomiting all my pride out.''Inside the Cairns Reef Terminal''Just in time for the Cairns sunrise''The 25m Passions of Paradise''The lack of food and sleep had finally taken a toll on me. I had never experienced sea sickness before, and having my first time on the way to the Great Barrier Reef was unfortunate, to say the least. The monster waves that splashed through the window into my face were taunting me. As I wallowed in self-pity and envy, the staff was doing a scuba diving demonstration for the tourists gathered around the bar.''“This can’t be,” I thought. “I have to turn the tides.”'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Paradise Reef''Michaelmas Cay''As soon as we made it past the signboard welcoming us to Alice Springs, I chuckled a little. There was nothing funny about the signboard or the town. It was just that prior to planning this trip, the only time I had heard of Alice Springs was when I saw the Australian road trip movie “Priscilla, Queen of the Desert.”''I know.''What? It’s a pretty solid film.''As the shuttle sped closer to the town proper, the more I realized just how little I knew about Australia in general. To be fair, Oz doesn’t have much in common with the country I am from (other than World War II, in which we fought on the same side). But other than that and our love for Nicole Kidman, Hugh Jackman and the Hemsworth Brothers, there’s probably nothing else. I was on my fourth Kylie Minogue track when the vehicle stopped and the driver announced that this was where we should split.''The shuttle dropped us off by the road parallel to the obviously thirsty Todd River. Once again, we stood by the street in a foreign land, worried that it might take us long before we could find the hostel that would host us for the day. A minute later, it dawned on us just how silly that thought was for two reasons: Alice Springs is small, and we were standing right next to the YHA Hostel.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Location''Rooms and Rates''Amenities and Service''It was early morning, and the June wind carried with it a biting cold that I was not prepared for and the aroma of hot coffee from a dozen other tourists who stood next to me. We were waiting for our guide to teach us how to ride one of the camels that formed two quiet trains. Their humps painted a silhouette of a distant mountain range just before dawn.''When I think about Australian wildlife, I usually think about the many dangerous animals threatening my very existence.''Camels were not one of them.''Many times, it’s a saltwater crocodile chowing me down one limb at a time, an eastern brown snake sending me to tabloid headlines with one fatal bite, or a kangaroo disemboweling me with a sharp kick. But camels, no. Before this Outback adventure, camels won’t be the first animal to come to my mind. Scratch that, not even one of the first ten. Not because I didn’t think they were dangerous. It was mostly because up until I was up close and personal with one, I didn’t know there were camels in Australia. Shocking.''But there I was in the middle of the Outback, seeing a camel in the flesh and riding it; its wheat-colored humps between my legs. (Why does it sound so sleazy?) My camel’s name was Buddy. And like an ideal travel buddy, he was friendly, cooperative, and didn’t have any offensive odor. Buddy is just one of the nearly one million camels in the Outback. And this large and still growing population makes the camel a dangerous species in the wild.''Waiting for the sun to shine'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Uluru Camel Tours''The First Camels in Australia''Back into the Wild''When it was my turn to speak, the Kangaroo Dundee threw me a curious look as though something about what I had to say was remotely interesting. Our group gathered around him, each having their turn at sharing who we are, like a small support group in need of guidance and direction. Now that I think about it, we kind of were.''There were a father and a son from Darwin, an old couple from England, and friends from Melbourne. “How about you, boys?” he asked. “Where are you from?”''The Philippines, I said. Shocking, apparently.''“I’ve never had anyone from the Philippines here at the sanctuary. You’re the very first ones,” he shared excitedly.''“I doubt that,” I replied with a sheepish smile. “But if it’s true, it’s our honor.”''I meant it when I said it. But I didn’t realize I would mean it much more by the time the visit was over.''Chris “Brolga”  Barnes started as a tour guide.''A kangaroo freely hopping around the sanctuary'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Kangaroo Dundee''Walk in the Park''Meet Roger''When we look out the window and think about beautiful places, our minds tend to dash across continents and over seas that we tend to overlook what lies right in our front lawn. The search for wonder doesn’t necessarily need to take you far, far away.''To me, the American state of Virginia falls right under the category of “across continents and over seas.” But not for DC-based filmmaker Ian Anthony Reid, one of the creative minds behind a video called Virginia Sky.''“How often do we miss the beauty that surrounds us?” he asks. “Perhaps beauty isn’t something merely to be experienced by those who travel. Perhaps, beauty surrounds us, no matter where we live.”''Reid and his team explored the DC backyard, the countryside of the northern part of Virginia, and captured the serene but extraordinary charm of six sites, all within an hour and a half from the US capital: The Potomac River, the Shenandoah River, Harpers Ferry, the Blueridge Mountains, Paris (VA), and Berryville (VA).''“In such wild and pristine scenery it was hard to remember that we were just minutes away from an international city like Washington, DC,” he adds.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Get Inspired: Exploring Chile (Video)''Get Inspired: 100km Walk Around Tokyo, Japan (Video)''9 FREE Things to Do in Los Angeles''Quit Your 9-5 to Live and Work (David Getman)''12 New Year Quotes and Greetings for Travelers''10 Philippine Travel Blogs You Should Read and Follow''We arrived a quarter to six. In a few minutes, the hostel would open, but instead of calling the staff to accommodate us, we chose to just stay outside and wait for the right time. That July morning was cooler than we expected, and we didn’t mind killing time by watching passersby, some evidently had a drink (or seemed like it). Darwin just before dawn was quiet.''The first stop in our six-city tour across the Northern Territory and Queensland, Darwin would give us our initial impression of the Australian continent.''Right on the dot, one of the staff opened the door and welcomed us. “G’day,” she said. If it was any indication, we had nothing to worry about. Aussies would prove to be friendly, and their work ethic, reliably on point.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Room and Rates''Location''Amenities and Service''It didn’t take very long for it to dawn on me: Darwin is expensive. Well, Australia in general is expensive, but being the first stop, Darwin shocked me.''Imagine how big my eyes got and how low my jaw dropped when I got hold of my first bottle of soda at a convenience store. Four dollars a bottle is quadruple the price I am used to. As a frugal guy who spent most of his life in Southeast Asia (where almost everything is cheaper than in almost anywhere else in the world), in my early days in Oz, I bled every time I wanted to eat. But you know what they say, stop converting, otherwise you’ll spoil the fun.''Despite the high price of almost everything in Darwin, she had come to snatch my fickle, cheap heart. While we initially treated her as our jumpoff point to Kakadu and Litchfield national parks, we slowly discovered her many simple spots. She’s unassuming, but she has a lot to offer. Yes, she’s a bit high-maintenance: some dates are hardly within the limits of financial capacity. But on some days, the bill was on her. Here are some of the places that she treated me to at no to little cost.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Mindil Beach Sunset''2. Mindil Sunset Market''3. George Brown Darwin Botanic Gardens''4. Fannie Bay Gaol''5. Adelaide River War Cemetery''6. Bicentennial Park''7. City Walk''8. World War II Tunnels''9. Museum and Art Gallery of the Northern Territory''10. Deckchair Cinema''I spotted a stranger walking in my direction. His smile was shining, and his eyes were fixed on me as he leisurely trod through the crowd. If there was one thing I did not expect in Darwin, it is how friendly the people are. Any local we crossed paths with would greet us a joyous “G’day.” But I did not have this realization at the time; it was only my second night in Australia.''So when this middle-age man glued his eyes on me as he walked, I just looked at him with utmost curiosity. In my head, I was rummaging for any reason why this stranger would look at me. I was a fool.''When the man passed by me, he tapped my shoulder — his smile was gone — and said, “It’s a beautiful evening.''Smile, mate.''” I blame my resting bitch face.''But he was right.''I was in the middle of the Mindil Sunset Market, something I did not know about ten minutes prior. I just hopped out of our tour bus from Litchfield National Park, and our guide shared that along Mindil Beach rises a night market every Thursday and Sunday. It was Sunday.''Swimming is highly discouraged from October to May, but box serious incidents of jellyfish stings are recorded all months of the year.''Many choose to simply stay dry.''Wakeboarding at Mindil Beach, Darwin''Mindil is one of the beaches closest to the city’s central business district. Although there were a handful of wakeboarders making a splash at the time, most people chose to just enjoy the view from the shore. And with good reason. A board stands by the entrance to the beach, warning about the risk of box jellyfish stings. Taking a dip is highly discouraged from October to May, although serious incidents are recorded year-round.''But swimming isn’t the be-all and end-all of beaches. For many, relaxing on the supple sand is sufficient for a fantastic time. A group of friends were playing volleyball. Others dotted the beach, sharing conversations while facing the sea, as though they were awaiting a grand, majestic event to happen. Actually, they really were. They were waiting for the sun to take a plunge, and when it did it painted the skies golden. It was as though time stopped. Walking halted. Conversations faded away. Every single soul on the beach was mesmerized.''Mindil Beach faces west, allowing a fantastic view of the sunset.''A golden moment for a father and son.''Darwin’s heavenly show.''The honey-colored sunset became the backdrop for more than 60 craft stalls and food kiosks that rose along the Maria Liveris Drive, the street parallel to the shore. Every Thursday and Sunday of the dry season (May-October), the Mindil Sunset Market takes shape offering a smorgasbord of gastronomic delights to tourists and locals alike. Darwin is a multicultural city, which makes the selection here interestingly diverse. A walk from one end to the other gave me a taste of Japanese-style oysters, Thai chicken satay, a Greek wrap, and a cup of grape slushie. And that list barely covers everything I had tried that delicious evening.''The choices at the Mindil Sunset Market are endless! Pizza, burgers, seafood, Asian, Western, name it.''These oysters were a bestseller here at the Mindil Sunset Market!''A man staging a fiery show for kids and kids-at-heart alike.''Shortly after taking more shots of the stalls, a man emerged from the crowd, stared, and smiled as he walked toward me. Darwin proved to be a delightful surprise, contrary to whatever doom my face was indicative of. “It’s a beautiful evening,” he said. “Smile, mate.”''“I know, sir,” I whispered. “And I will.”''Mindil Beach Sunset Market''Maria Liveris Drive, Darwin, Australia''Opening Hours: 4-9pm (Thursday/Sunday, May-October)''Website:''www.mindil.com.au''Where to stay'': Darwin is the closest major city.''Darwin YHA Hostel''offers affordable accommodations right at the heart of the city center and with fast internet connection. Day tours are also available. Visit their official website or book now at:''www.yha.com.au''.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''8 Popular Stops in Litchfield National Park, Australia: A Day Tour Itinerary''4 Highlights of our Kakadu National Park Day Tour, Australia''Freshies, Salties, and Birdies: Mary River Wetlands Tour, Kakadu National Park, Australia''Ubirr Rock Art Walk in Kakadu National Park, Australia''DARWIN ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''10 FREE or Cheap Things to Do in Darwin, Australia''The boat approached a nook along the Mary River, parting the sea of lotus lilies along the way. Our driver and guide Reuben moored the boat and rose from his seat. “It’s been a wonderful afternoon; thank you for spending it with me,” he said before revealing a bottle of champagne.''It wasn’t just the afternoon that had been wonderful to us. From that first step into the AAT Kings bus down to that jump out of it at the end of the day, every single moment we had on that tour was nothing but pleasant. Kakadu had been nothing but accommodating and cooperative. She gave us most of what we visited her for: a peek at her cultural past and a closer look at her biodiversity.''Our journey began in Darwin, 171 kilometers northwest of Kakadu. Darwin is the closest major city to the national park, but it took us more than three hours to get there. Spanning over 20,000 sq. km of forests, wetlands, and savannas, it is the largest national park in Australia, about half the size of Switzerland and nearly the size of Slovenia. Because of its ecological and cultural value, the UNESCO listed it a World Heritage Site in 1981.''Here are the four highlights of our day tour around Kakadu.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Ubirr Rock Art Site''2. Nadab Lookout''3. Bowali Visitor Center''4. Mary River Cruise''From neighborhood playgrounds to awe-inspiring, sprawling state parks, the 50 states have plenty of places for us to explore outdoors.''With this much variety, it might be a bit overwhelming to plan your next adventure in the wilderness. You might also be nervous about calculating just how much it’ll cost to get to — and enjoy — the destination you’ve chosen. Fear not! We’ve found five of the best state parks that dot our great nation (not in any particular order), and we promise that they won’t break your budget.''Most state parks have minimal entrance fees, if they charge fees at all. Furthermore, you can partake in many free outdoor activities, saving your budget for food, lodging and travel. As for the latter, you can find plenty of low-cost, high-excitement ways to traverse the parks we’ve uncovered, too. So, read on to find the one, two, or ten parks that spark your intrigue.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. T.H. Stone Memorial St. Joseph Peninsula State Park''2. Chugach State Park''3. Slide Rock State Park''4. Falls Creek State Park''5. Yellowstone State Park''There was a lot to be nervous about during the cruise.''For starters, we would be cruising down the Mary River, one of the eight Top End rivers and is known for having the world’s highest concentration of saltwater crocodiles. “There are two major species of crocs here in Kakadu: Saltwater crocodiles or salties, and freshwater crocodiles or freshies,” shares our guide Ray. “There are plenty of both in the wild.”''“How can you tell the difference?” someone from our group asked.''“Well, if it sees you and starts moving away from you, that’s a freshie. If it runs toward you, that’s a saltie.”''Our very knowledgeable guide Reuben!''A freshwater crocodile or “freshie.” See the narrow snout?''That’s one way to put it, although not very comforting. Freshwater crocodiles are shy around humans. While there are incidents of nasty bites, they don’t usually see people as prey. Salties on the other hand are highly territorial and frighteningly aggressive. They know they are faster and stronger than you, and you are probably on his menu. But there are other ways of telling which is which: freshies have longer and narrower snouts, and smaller heads; salties have uneven jawlines and powerful snouts. Good news is, salties’ attacks on humans are very rare. Australia records only one to two incidents a year.''When we reached the jump off point, our driver-guide Ray turned us over to our boatman-guide Reuben, who gave us a warm welcome. Reuben looked like he had been doing this tour for years. I could tell from how dearly he talked about every species here (even salties) and how he confidently answered every curious question thrown at him. He knew every nook and cranny of this part of the river, the name of every plant and tree rising from the banks, and every bird swooshing overhead. He even had a name for a few of them.''Just a minute into the tour, Reuben already pointed at a female saltwater crocodile hiding behind a lush sea of lotus lilies. He plucked a dry lotus flower and broke it apart. “Its seeds are a delicacy,” he gave us one each. “Some people say it tastes like almond.” It did taste like almond.''Two freshwater crocodiles later, we moved on to birds, which appeared to be showing off at the time. I had never seen that many species of our avian friends in one place before. An Australian darter spread its wings, a couple of Jesus birds walked on water, and egrets just kept flying around, while a wedge-tailed eagle soared above us.''An Australian darter hunting.''An Australian Darter displaying his wings.''I’m not sure if this is a Great Egret or an Intermediate Egret.''The Comb-crested Jacana is known by many names. Some call it Lotusbird for it is often seen walking on lotus leaves. Some call it Lilytrotter, for it is often seen hopping from one lily to another. But my favorite is probably Jesus Bird, for it appears to walk on water.''Radjah shelducks are usually in pairs, forming long-term bonds.''Some blue birds whose name skipped my mind. Help, anyone?''Farther downstream we found a massive saltie resting on the shore. It was by far the biggest crocodile I had seen in the wild ever. Reuben carefully maneuvered our boat to get closer to the giant reptile without disturbing it. It was too big it could probably topple our boat down, or I might just be too paranoid.''Whoa there, saltie! You’re huge!''Our boat parting a sea of lotus lilies.''Ten minutes later, as we approached the last few moments of the cruise, Reuben moored the boat, parting the bed of lotus lilies along the way. “It’s been a wonderful afternoon; thank you for spending it with me,” he said before revealing a bottle of champagne. Reuben raised his cup.''I was still nervous as hell. An image of that enormous croc jumping and biting my head off kept popping in my head, but my mind could never deny how enjoyable this tour had been. I raised my cup, smiled, and look at the canopy. Somewhere behind the trees and the overground bush, the sun was making its initial descent. “Cheers.”''Where to stay'': Darwin is the closest major city.''Darwin YHA Hostel''offers affordable accommodations right at the heart of the city center and with fast internet connection. Day tours are also available.''Check rates and availability here''Where to book tours'': I was booked with AAT Kings, a leading tour operator in Australia and New Zealand. Check out their guided tours at:''www.aatkings.com''.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''4 Highlights of our Kakadu National Park Day Tour, Australia''8 Popular Stops in Litchfield National Park, Australia: A Day Tour Itinerary''Ubirr Rock Art Walk in Kakadu National Park, Australia''Mindil Beach Sunset Market in Darwin, Australia''DARWIN ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Anzac Hill, Todd River, and a Brief History of Alice Springs, Australia''Our tour guide Ray called everyone to gather around a particular stick figure of a man with barbed spears and a dilly bag above a signage that says, “A Lesson in Good Behavior.”''The image is that of Mabuyu, a hunter. “He was dragging his catch on a string after a day of fishing,” Ray narrated, “when someone cut it and took the fish. He followed the culprit and waited until they have had their meal, hoping that there would still be a few fish left and that they would share them with him. There was none. That night, as the thieves slept inside a cave, he blocked it with a huge rock, trapping everyone inside it.”''Mabuyu, a hunter whose catch for the day was stolen from him.''The story of Mabuyu and its lessons are painted on the rocks of Ubirr.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Ubirr Rock Art''Nadab Lookout''We arrived in the middle of the night.''Our flight from Sydney landed in Cairns just minutes shy of midnight. A short cab ride later, we found ourselves at the gate of the hostel that would host us for the night. Even before we could find the door bell, a guest ushered us in. “I’m not part of the staff,” he said. “Someone will be here in a second.”''And in a second, right on cue, someone was there.''“Welcome, welcome,” he said, leading us to the reception. Within just a few minutes, he checked us in and explained that he would be orienting us on what to see around the city in the morning. “For now, you should rest.”''By then, I already had an idea on what to expect from a YHA Hostel. It was our fourth YHA accommodations here in Australia and our third time to check in outside of the regular working hours. And YHA had never failed us so far. (I had a few experiences with YHA in other countries too, and all of them were pleasant.) But this YHA won Best Hostel in the 2014 Queensland Tourism Awards, which set the bar for me a bit higher.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Rooms and Rates''Location''Amenities and Service''On that bus, I was the only one below 40.''As I made my way to my seat, I was greeted with cheery hello’s by a bus-ful of middle aged to senior tourists, all ready to explore the wilderness. It was not my usual travel company, but it was a welcome addition to my growing list of first times here in Australia. The bus, or''coach''as locals call it, was bound for Litchfield National Park, 100 km southwest of Darwin, roughly an hour-and-a-half drive.''Traveling with people not my age was a breath of fresh air. As the youngest of the bunch, everyone seemed to be very protective of me. (“''Watch your step, dear.''“) And everyone was amused by the littlest things. (“''That’s a long stick, honey.''“) She was referring to the monopod. It was an enjoyable ride, needless to say.''Our Driver Guide for the day was Warren, armed with a great personality and an even greater sense of humor. How he was able to turn what could have been a snoozefest-ish drive into a humorous but highly informative journey was astonishing. He did have a lot of help from nature, though. Along the way we spotted a dingo wandering by the roadside and a wallaby trying to outrun the''bus''coach. But that’s not everything this park has to offer.''Our tour organizer was AAT Kings (Aussie Adventures)''Established in 1986, Litchfield National Park was named after Frederick Henry Litchfield, a member of the Finnis Expedition a pioneering exploration of the Northern Territory. The 1500-sq. km sprawling land is covered in bush, woodlands, and monsoon forests, that have nurtured a wide array of wildlife including the agile wallaby, northern brushtail possum, flying foxes, the dingo, and the vulnerable ghost bat. The land is scribbled with rocky rivers that are punctuated by thundering waterfalls. It will take days to explore much of the park, but here’s what is in store for you should you take one of those popular day tours. (We booked ours with''ATTKings''!)'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Batchelor Town''2. Cathedral Termite Mounds''3. Magnetic Termite Mounds''4. Florence Falls''5. Buley Rockhole''6. Litchfield Cafe''7. Tolmer Falls''8. Wangi Falls''It was so beautiful, I couldn’t breathe. And I mean it literally.''Our vehicle breezed through the forested slope of the crater rim, and I was reminded of how beautiful things are earned. I remember how I reached the last crater lake I set foot on: hours of trek, tens of scratches all over my limbs, a little bit of blood, and a million swearwords thrown into the air. But this is not like the last time. The road was paved, the ride short, and I comfortably seated like a boss. Not that I’m complaining.''Still, beauty is better appreciated when you move mountains to witness it. A trophy looks shinier when you make it past hurdles before hitting the finish line. We reached the entrance to the site in a matter of minutes.''This is it, easy.''No climbing, no sweat, no human suffering. (Human suffering talaga?!!?)''There won’t be any hurdle this time'', I thought.''Just when I was just about to strut my way to the shore, I found the hurdles in the form of a nasty stench. Yes, the stench. It had been a long time since I had come face to face with a volcano, and I had forgotten their repugnant reek that reminded me of''a friend''a thousand rotten eggs. The tour organizers distributed facial masks, and I was first to grab one as I climbed down the stairs leading to the crater lake.''On the way to Kawah Putih. That’s Aleah of Solitary Wanderer.''Comfy and excited!''One of the two craters of Mt. Patuha, Kawah Putih is situated just 50 kilometers south of Bandung, near a little town called Ciwidey. Its name literally means White Crater, a salute to the color of its lake, which curiously radiates a turquoise hue. From afar, it appears like a giant puddle of milk — thanks to its turbidity — which makes a visit to the site quite a surreal experience.''“The lake is said to have been first documented in 1837 by Dr Franz Wilhelm Junghuhn, a German botanist,”''Indonesia’s official tourism site''narrates. “At the time, there were various local stories about the history of the area. Birds were said to avoid flying near the region and some were even found dead after flying above the lake…. These stories prompted Dr Junghuhn to investigate, and so discovered Kawah Putih. He concluded that the birds flying over the Crater Lake died due to its high concentration of sulfur.”''Turquoise crater lake of Kawah Putih''Kawah Putih''Time to remove the mask for an emo second.''Sulfur. That suffocating thing that makes every stay at Kawah Putih short-lived. It was early morning and there were dozens of tourists flocking at various vantage points by the lakeshore, but almost all of them had a mask on. The stench was powerful, but we seemed to not mind. The site was just too irresistible, we had to capture every angle of it.''Selfie here, group pic there. Hey look, that looks like a good viewpoint! The closer to the water, the better.''The wide, barren area by the shore is where most tourists stay. It has plenty of space for excited souls to move around in, but a paved walkway leads to a less crowded nook. I followed the path and found myself having a closer look at a small sandbar that emerges from the steam that rises from the milky surface. A few snaps and I headed back to where the rest of the gang was.''Rachel, Dawn and Steph, bloggers from different parts of Asia.''That’s me. Hello.''Other than sightseeing, there’s not much to do at Kawah Putih. You can’t fish, you can’t swim, and you can’t even dip a toe in it. But its visual allure is enough for me, to be honest. They say that during the Dutch era, a sulfur power plant — Zwavel Ontginning Kawah Putih — was built at the site. It no longer stands, but remnants of it existence are still visible.''In many ways, Kawah Putih is like your typical ex-lover. It’s remote but still accessible if you choose to make an effort. It is such a joy to look at, but you just can’t stay with him any longer. It looks dormant — and it is — but you just can’t be too sure. He still has that almost irresistible appeal, but you can’t dive in lest you be burnt again. If you taste its water, it probably is extra bitter. And of course, there’s just some air around him that stinks.''But hey, it’s pretty. Still darn sexy. And many times, it still leaves you breathless.''Kawah Putih'', Ciwidey, West Java''Entrance Fee: IDR 30,000 (USD2) for foreigners, IDR 15,000 for locals''Where to stay''.''Patuha Resort Kawah Putih''offers spacious cabin-type rooms just a couple of kilometers from the White Crater.''Check rates and availability here''How to get there'': By public transport, from Leuwi Panjang Bus Terminal, take the Ciwidey bus (IDR 6000) and then an angkot (minibus) to the entrance to Kawah Putih (IDR 7500). You may also choose to just rent a motorbike (IDR 50,000 per day).''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Kawah Ijen, Indonesia: 10 Things You Need to Know Before the Climb''Taal Volcano Crater: Trek to the Fiery Guts of Batangas, Philippines''Asian African Carnival 2015 in Bandung, Indonesia''Lake Kawaguchi: Under the Spell of Mt. Fuji, Japan''GILI ISLANDS ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Lake Holon and Mt. Melibingoy (Mt. Parker) in South Cotabato, Philippines''At one point during our walk, I thought I’d be stuck there. Flooding the historic Asia Afrika Boulevard, the crowd was too thick, and I struggled to squeeze myself into whatever little gap I could find to make it through to the next block.''Thankfully, I was not alone. Alfi, an Educator at SMK Telkom Bandung, patiently waited for me on the other side. Alfi is one of the thousands of souls who offered help to make the Asian African Conference a success. It is Bandung’s biggest event, one that locals and tourists alike had been anticipating for years.''It was not just an ordinary day for Bandung. On 19 April 1955, world leaders from Asian and African countries who had just gained independence from colonial rule gathered in the city and agreed to work hand in hand. Sixty years later, this momentous event was commemorated over several days, peaking on April 24th when costumes painted the city streets with the colors of the participating countries. Saying that the event is huge doesn’t do justice to the magnitude of the celebration. It was one of the biggest crowds I have seen in my life, if not the biggest.''A streetful of people!''Which is why I was a little bit out of my comfort zone. As a traveler who constantly seeks some peace and quiet, I was more nervous than excited as I made my first few steps into the crowd. I have always felt alone in the crowd and uneasy being in the middle of a sea of humanity. Children were perched on the fences and the shoulders of their fathers while waving flags of Indonesia and other nations. Grownups watched in awe as groups of performers punctuated the streets and filled the air with popular tunes. Everyone sang along. Everyone flashed their widest smiles. Everyone. Including myself, to my surprise.''When I reached Alfi, he happily led me deeper into the swarm. On one side of the road was a military group armed with brass instruments and a lungful of music. On the other was a group of volunteers, all clad in red, taking a much-deserved rest. Alfi shared tidbits of information along the way. “This used to be the only mall in Bandung during the Dutch era,” he pointed out as we made it past a heritage building. Moments later, he brought my gaze to the minarets piercing the blue skies. The mosque, he said, is fronted by a park covered in grass that bore a symbol of the city, which at the time was blocked by families and friends just enjoying the festive atmosphere. They were just some of the 500,000 people the local government was expecting to join the celebration.''60th Asian African Conference Commemoration in Bangung, Indonesia''About to take off!''Bandung Conference volunteers''A military band playing Indonesia’s most popular songs.''Waving national flags.''I had lost the other bloggers who were with me on this tour. They had their own guides and went on their own way. I found our rendezvous point in the form of a double-decker bus parked right next to the stage. I hopped on and joined the rest of the gang, who had been stealing shots of the crowd. The bus had provided an excellent vantage point. My newfound friends introduced me to their respective local guides, each eager to share that wonderful moment with overly excited tourists, snapping a hundred shots per second.''Our guide, Alfi, was generous enough to show us around. With me and Gael of The Pinay Solo Backpacker in tow, he negotiated his way through the crowd. When we got away from the people, he ushered us around motorcycle mazes, bringing us closer to the elaborately costumed parade participants and allowing us to sample some of the metro’s ubiquitous street food delights. A pack of steamed peanuts and a cup of durian ice cream later, we were back in the company of our blogger friends.''The double decker bus that we took over that afternoon.''In good company! Bloggers from different parts of Asia.''Asia Africa Parade participants in vibrant, elaborate costumes.''A local participating in the street parade.''Alas we reached the Media Center, where the tour began and where it would end. Alfi, Gael, and I exchanged goodbyes and with it were contact numbers and promises that should we find ourselves in his city again or he in ours, we would not fail to remember. So much to experience, so little time, but every single second of it was embedded perfectly on my memory like a swift love affair with a city you just met. It was fleeting but unforgettable.''Bandung Mayor Ridwan Kamil said that he intended the carnival to be “a benchmark for other large and mega events in the city,” one that could be comparable to the Carnivale in Rio de Janeiro or the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade. While I haven’t been to either, I reckon it would be hard to top all the smiles, shouts, and sheer warmth of everyone I met along the way. I’ve always felt alone in the crowd, but not in this one.''How to get to Bandung, Indonesia.''From Manila, you can fly with''Philippine Airlines''to Jakarta.''Where to stay.''For those with extra budget, you may choose to stay at:''The Trans Luxury Hotel''Address: Gatot Subroto 289, Bandung''Ibis Hotel Trans Studio Bandung''Address: Jl. Jendral Gatot Subroto No. 289, Bandung, Jawa Barat 40273, Indonesia''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Kawah Putih: Breathless in Bandung, Indonesia''Singapore River Nightwalk: The Afterglow of the Chinese New Year''Sagada Bonfire Fest in Mountain Province, Philippines''Kawah Ijen, Indonesia: 10 Things You Need to Know Before the Climb''How We Enjoyed Pahiyas Festival for Only P1000''Makassar, Indonesia: 5 Places to Visit in 3 Days''Scotland is one of those unique places that offers a great place to get drunk, and an even better place to go on a walk. This beautiful countryside is home to beautiful, crumbling ruins, amazing geological phenomena, and some of the best micro-brews money can buy. Spend a week here, and you’re likely to go home with some larger than life stories, and maybe some extra hair on your chest from that last pilsner.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. You’re broke.''2. You’ve worn holes in your shoes.''3. You’ve got a wicked tan.''4. You’ve got one hell of a hangover.''5. You’ve become a history buff.''6. You’re spiritual.''One of the terrific things about Dubai is the sheer variety. This is especially the case when it comes to places to eat, and if you’re a fan of Asian cooking styles then Dubai certainly won’t disappoint. Thai, Chinese and Japanese cuisine lovers will all be in their element. Here are just a few Asian-inspired restaurants you’ll want to try out while you’re in Dubai.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Cargo Restaurant Dubai''2. Blue Jade''3. Asia Asia''4. Wox''5. Blue Elephant''“We’re on the wrong boat,” he shouted in utter exuberance as he turned his gaze back to the nearby junk. The other boat was having a party, complete with loud electronic dance music that reverberated onto the walls of ours. Kid — his name was Kid — posed as though he was ready to jump into the water and swim to the “party boat”, as what he called it. The only thing that stopped him was the humongous jellyfish that Matt caught earlier that night. “There might be plenty of them where it came from,” Matt warned.''“I’m right where I want to be,” I said joshingly as I climbed the stairs in search of a little quiet. This was exactly how I imagined my day would end — lying comfortably on the top deck of the boat, with a drink in one hand and a Neil Gaiman book in the other under the velvet skies. Starless — stars have become as elusive as peace of mind these days — but the emptiness was oddly therapeutic.''Halong Bay Junk Boat at night.''I shared the boat with a dozen other tourists from all around the world: three couples from the US, Australia, and Portugal; two friends from Switzerland; a small family from New Zealand, and three other solo backpackers from Canada, Spain, and England. Kid, the Canadian, was the liveliest of them all. It’s funny how only after a day of touring, we felt like one big happy family, like brothers and sisters. Or not, given that Kid and one of the Swiss women had been dancing flirtatiously in one corner.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'From Hanoi to Halong Bay''The Junk and the Bay''Sung Sot Cave (Surprise Grotto)''Ti Top Beach''Floating Market''Ireland is spoilt for choice when it comes to castles and for visitors and locals alike, it can be hard to decipher which are worth a visit. Our infographic reveals the very top''castles in Ireland''and provides you with all the information you may need if you’re planning a visit. Each castle in Ireland has something unique to offer, whether it be its history or architecture, and we highlight these important key features in our infographic too.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''JustFly Reviews: 5 Excellent Ways to Survive a Road Trip''The Emperor’s New Year Greeting: Imperial Palace, Tokyo, Japan''Corregidor: 5 Reasons to Stay Overnight (Other than Ghost-Hunting)''8 Ways to Save While Traveling In India''Culion Museum and Archives, Palawan: Remnants and Descendants''Tongtian Avenue: One of China’s Most Dangerous Roads''Because ’tis the season to be generous, The Poor Traveler has partnered with Skechers Philippines so we could give away a pair from their very comfortable GoWalk2 line!''We’re confident that you’ll love these walking shoes as we have tried them ourselves and used them in our travels and even just everyday strolls. Lightweight, they are made of a four-way stretchable material and features a uniquely angled outsole that matches the natural walking gait to make every step comfortable and every walk enjoyable.''Joining is easy! Just do any of the following:''Like Skechers Philippines on Facebook,''Follow @skechersph on Twitter,''Follow @skechersph on Instagram, or''Answer this question:''To what dream destination will you be wearing your Skechers GoWalk2?''Use the hashtag #SkechersGoWalk and tag @thepoortraveler.''Each tweet is equal to one entry. You can tweet as many entries as you want for more chances of winning.''We will randomly pick one winner of the following:''1 pair of Skechers GoWalk2 of their choice + freebies (shirt and umbrella)''a Rafflecopter giveaway''Here are some of the items from the Skechers GoWalk2 line! Any of these could be yours!''We will announce the winner on December 19, 2014. Contest is open to Philippine residents only.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''JustFly Reviews: 5 Excellent Ways to Survive a Road Trip''First Time in Full Color: My Sharp 100th Anniversary Moment''Airphil Express’ Fly and Sail AdvenTour Package (Rates and Itinerary) | Singapore – Kuala Lumpur Cruise''6 Tips to Enjoy a Leisurely Walk in Manila''8 Must-See Castles in Ireland''How to Help Fund Your Travels''The city of Sydney in Australia is the capital of New South Wales and surrounds one of the world’s largest natural harbors. It was one of the first places that the British settled when, in they founded a penal colony there. Today it has a population of just fewer than 5 million, of which approximately one third were born in a country other than Australia, and is always listed among the top cities in the world for tourism.''In 2013, the city received almost half of all the foreign tourists to Australia, which played a major role in helping the city make its $337.45 billion for the year, a figure that is more than some countries make, including Hong Kong, Singapore and Denmark. Although the city makes so much money from tourism, there are still a lot of free, fun things visitors can enjoy whilst they are there. Here is a list of 7 of perhaps the most popular free and fun things to do when visiting the city.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Experience Circular Quay.''2. Visit the Government House and the Royal Botanic Gardens.''3. Enjoy the Old World Charm of The Rocks.''4. Go Underground to Paddington Reservoir Garden.''5. Walk Across Harbour Bridge.''6. Be One of the ‘In Crowd’ at Darling Harbour.''7. Hit Bondi Beach.''Walking is that one thing I have never given up. Whenever I travel, I always make it a point to take the long, scenic route on foot, especially that walking is the only form of exercise I get these days. Even when I’m not traveling, walking has been my therapy. Manila may not be the most walkable city on the planet, but there are a lot of things to see, find, and discover.''If you’re Manila-bound, here are tips for an enjoyable bounce around the city!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Strut a pair of comfortable shoes.''2. Wear light, breathable clothes''3. Stay out of the sun around noon.''4. Protect your skin with sunscreen.''5. Be mindful of your gadgets and other valuables.''6. Be on the lookout for good finds.''We almost skipped it, and it would’ve been a mistake.''Stupid as it sounds, what to wear is one thing that I usually do not pay attention to\xa0when planning for a trip. I would check the weather, directions, admission fees, but not\xa0the dress code. So basic but often gets overlooked by me. This flaw became obvious when I visited the Grand Palace.''The sign by the entrance was clear as day. No shorts. And that’s exactly what we were wearing that afternoon. A guy by the gate was renting out pants, but my thinning wallet was adamant in saying no. I proposed to my friends that we skip it and continue the temple-hopping another day, when we are better dressed; they agreed in a heartbeat. As we walked away to the pier, I felt my feet get heavier in every step. A nagging thought screamed that there might not be a next time. I halted, asked my friends to head back with me, and checked if there was a workaround somewhere. The pants vendor by the gate was forceful in stopping me from entering — “Shorts not allowed. You have to buy!” — but I waltzed into the site anyway. Good call. Visitors can actually borrow pants! A 200-baht deposit is required, but it is refundable. In no time, we were lining up for a wardrobe change.''The Grand Palace is vast. It is not a singular building but a complex of structures, pavilions, and courtyards. But its size appear nothing to the sheer volume of the crowd. The growing chaos they bring make it easy to forget that the Grand Palace is Thailand’s most sacred site. There are no empty spaces. Tourists are everywhere. Cameras flash every few minutes or so. Every nook is a selfie opportunity. It’s hard to resist capturing the grandeur of the place. Every wall is ornate, every corner intricate.''Phra Thinang Chakri Maha Prasat, the palace’s central court, combines traditional Thai with 19th century European architectures.''Statues of yaksha, giants in Thai mythology, guard the temple.''Images of garuda (mythical bird-like creatures) wrap Phra Ubosot, the temple’s main building. Each garuda holds a naga, a snake deity.''Prasat Phra Thep Bidon (The Royal Pantheon) was originally built in 1855 to house the Emerald Buddha but was later dropped because it was too small for such an honor.''Statues of demons lifting the chedi at the Temple of the Emerald Buddha''A miniature model of Angkor Wat can be found behind a chedi at the Temple of the Emerald Buddha.''More than anything in Bangkok, it is testament to the dedication and craftsmanship of the Thai people. I had to stop many times to wonder how long it took them to complete its construction.''The site was built in 1782. For around 150 years, it was the official residence of the King. (However,\xa0the current king, Bhumibol Adulyadej, stays at Chitralada Palace.)\xa0The Temple of the Emerald Buddha is one of the many quarters of the palace. Other notable structures inside are the Phra Maha Monthien Buildings, the Chakri Maha Prasat Buildings, and the Phra Maha Prasat Buildings. There are plenty of signs so just follow them.''Related Post:''Bangkok Travel Guide & Itinerary''We had a lengthy stroll around the Grand Palace for only a couple of hours. It felt even shorter because there was so much to see from the gold stupas to the yaksha statues to the Emerald Buddha. There’s even a miniature model of Angkor Wat on display. Despite the limited time and unlimited influx of people, it sure was one of the highlights of that day.''The Grand Palace''Na Phra Lan Road, Old City (Rattanakosin Island),''Bangkok, Thailand''Operating Hours'': 8:30am-03:30pm''Admission Fee'': 500 THB''Deposit for pants'': 200 THB''Dress Code''. The rule is to have your shoulders, knees, and heels covered. The following are not allowed:''Shorts, short skirts, mini-skirts, tight fitting trousers,''Torn trousers/pants''Sando, vests, sleeveless shirts''See-through shirts''Sandals''How to get there'':\xa0Board the SkyTrain (Silom Line) to S6 Saphan Taksin Station, take Exit 2. Take the Chao Phraya Express Boat to Ta Chang Pier (No.9).''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''6 Popular Attractions in Bangkok: A DIY Boat + Walking Tour''Siriraj Medical Museum: Freaky Forensics and Deathly Displays in Bangkok''Goddess Tuptim Shrine: The Hundred Phalluses of Bangkok''10 Free or Cheap Things to Do in Bangkok, Thailand''In Photos: Thailand Tourism Festival 2016''Wat Arun: The Temple of Dawn in Bangkok, Thailand''It wasn’t just my first night in Paris. It was my first night outside Asia. And I swore to celebrate it with the best view of the French capital.''A quick consultation with my best friend, Google, gave me a few suggestions: the Basilica of Sacré-Cœur, the rooftop of Centre Pompidou, and the top of the Eiffel Tower itself. The most compelling was Tour Montparnasse 56, “the city’s one and only skyscraper.” The best view of Paris, the reviews promised.\xa0(If you’re coming from the UK, you can fly to Paris via''Flybe''. They also have code-share agreements with Air France and KLM.)''After an afternoon of leaving footprints along Champs-Élysées, off to Montparnasse I went. A quick walk led me to the base of the 689-foot\xa0giant. The tower itself looked rather modern, terribly out of place amid structures that appeared they had stood there for centuries. A personnel at the door ushered me to its fastest elevator, the one that ferries passengers straight to the 56th floor. In only 38 seconds, I reached the viewing deck. There were not many tourists, a stark contrast to the long lines at the Eiffel.''I was there too early. I had planned on catching the Parisian sunset here so I ensured I would be here at around six in the evening. I forgot one thing: In this part of the world at this time of the year, the sun doesn’t set until around 8:30pm. I had more than two hours to spare.''Waiting is not a problem at Tour Montparnasse. The viewing deck boasts an unobstructed 360-degree view of the city. There is no shortage of spectacular scenery. To the south sprawls the Montparnasse Cemetery, and to the west stand the Eiffel Tower, the\xa0Church of Saint-Sulpice, and the Cathedrale Saint-Louis des Invalides. Binoculars offer a closer look, and the indoor cafe provide refreshments to exhausted visitors (for a fee, of course).''Binoculars are available for those who covet a closer look.''View of Montparnasse Cemetery from the tower''Cathedrale Saint-Louis des Invalides''Church of Saint-Sulpice''When the sun began teasing to dive, I scurried to the stairs to access the outdoor roof deck where only a few tourists lingered. I found a spot and witnessed the heavenly show. Clouds bared their darker linings as the light began to dwindle. The sun, finally taking some rest, became a perfect backdrop to the mighty Eiffel Tower. It was a glorious picture, so glorious it commanded the already thick crowd to whip out their phones and cameras and capture #ThatWonderfulMoment.''But the lights coming from the gadgets were no match to what happened next. When the evening welcomed its first top of the hour, the Eiffel Tower showed off some shimmer, forcing the admiring souls beside me to endure raising their phones a little bit longer. Much like the sunset just minutes before, the light show was a fleeting experience, something you have to take in in a matter of minutes.''View of the sunset from the Montparnasse 56''The Eiffel Tower at sunset and nightfall.''Tourists watching the sunset.''Capture #ThatWonderfulMoment!''Eiffel Tower at Night''Those who failed to grab the first run folded themselves on the floor, still facing Europe’s most famous landmark. The sparks would be back again after an hour; they waited.\xa0Friends made a toast, and lovers shared a kiss — almost everyone had a glass of champagne in one hand. The frugal and eager halves of me wrestled, but austerity won in the end with just one look at what was inside my wallet. Next time, maybe.''Tour Montparnasse 56''33 Avenue du Maine, 75015 Paris''Admission Fee'':''Adults (21+), 14.5 EUR''Youths/Students (16-20), 11.50 EUR''Children (7-15), 9 EUR''Operating Hours'':''April 1 – September 30''Daily, 9:30am-11:30pm''October 1 – March 31''Sundays-Thursdays 9:30am-10:30pm''Fridays-Saturdays 9:30am-11:00pm''How to get to Montparnasse Tower'': Take the Montparnasse – Bienvenüe Station (Lines 4, 6, 12, and 13) and then follow the signs to Tour Montparnasse.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''8 Tourist Attractions from Champs-Élysées to The Louvre: A Paris Walking Tour''First Time in Paris: 6 Tips to Remember''7 Unusual Attractions in Paris''Père Lachaise Cemetery: A Spirited Walk in Paris''From London to Paris – The Inexpensive Way''PARIS ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''With a paper plate of''chocolate-banana''chocolat banane''waffle in one hand, I surveyed the park for a vacant seat and found one punctuating a grove of manicured trees.''Sweet'', I whispered as I pulled a chair and settled. The scene was just as cliché as I imagined, but, heck, I was loving it. I was enjoying waffles in one corner of the Tuileries Garden and listening to Lana del Rey while keeping my eyes on that pointy metal structure that poked the Parisian sky — the Eiffel Tower.''View of the Eiffel Tower from one edge of the Tuileries Garden''But the world-famous landmark would have to wait at that point. It was my first day in Paris, and the tower was not yet part of the plan. That afternoon was reserved for Champs-Élysées, ending here at the Tuileries Garden. Just in front of me was Place de la Concorde, Paris’s largest public square. The place is peaceful now. Over 200 years ago, however, it was the site of one of the most important events in French history. This was where King Louis XVI and Queen Marie Antoinette were executed by guillotine. Today, the only commotion that occurs here is that of tourists finding a good spot for a quick rest after hours of sightseeing.''My walk began at the other end of Champs-Élysées, a 1.9-km long boulevard that connects Place de la Concorde and Place Charles de Gaulle. A stroll along the famed avenue introduces many of the city’s most popular tourist spots. Here are some of them.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Arc de Triomphe''2. Champs-Élysées''3. Fashion Stores''4. Grand Palais''5. Jardins des Champs-Élysées''6. Place de la Concorde''7. Tuileries Garden''8. The Louvre''Paris is renowned as the City of Love. If you have been there before, you’re certainly familiar with its magnetic appeal. This is why you’ll find yourself traveling there time and again. Next time, however, do not take the same path when touring the city as part of your all inclusive holidays. Take a different path instead and''uncover some of the best kept secrets''in the City of Light.''These are some alternative spots to visit:'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Hotel de Sens''2. Musee de Carnavalet''3. Par des Buttes Chaumont''4. La Pagode''5. Cimetiere de Montmartre''6. Paris Chinatown''7. Restaurant L’Estaminet''I was given a small sack to put my shoes in as I was approaching the door. Despite the big crowd outside, I was delightfully surprised to see the hall almost empty. Too bad it lasted for only a minute as others flooded in immediately.''Wat Pho is famed for the enormous reclining Buddha that it shelters. The 15m high and 43m long image rests inside a well-decorated hall. While I was expecting the image to be big, I was shocked to stand before a\xa0massive, massive figure. Its highly ornate feet alone are 3m tall and 4.5 m long. (Can you picture that?) The statue itself is covered and surrounded with Buddhist and Thai symbols.''The gigantic reclining Buddha''One hundred and eight bronze bowls are lined up against the wall in the area behind the statue, towards the exit. These bowls symbolize the 108 auspicious characters of Buddha. Guests circumambulating the image may choose to drop a coin on every bowl for good fortune. These donations also go to the maintenance funds of the temple.''Related Post:''Bangkok Travel Guide & Itinerary''Crowds gathered and roamed around outside.\xa0Wat Pho is one of the largest temples in Bangkok (if not the largest) but despite its size, I couldn’t take a photo of anything at eye-level without people in the shot. It may be big but people are well scattered around because the place has countless of points of interest in its every nook and corner. The wat is home to over 1000 images of Buddha, 91 chedis (stupas), 4 viharas (halls), and a central shrine (bot). Guarding the site are stone walls with 16 gates, “manned” by statues of Chinese giants.''For good fortune and maintenance of the wat''A close look at the wall art of the hall and the feet of the statue''The hall’s interiors''Locals worshipping before the statue''Just some of the thousand images of Buddha in Wat Pho''Highly ornate stupas within the temple complex''Wat Pho''Opening hours: 8:00am-5:00pm''Entrance fee: THB 100''How to get there'': Board the SkyTrain (Silom Line) to S6 Saphan Taksin Station, take Exit 2. Hop onto a Chao Phraya River Express boat to Tha Thien pier (N8) and then walk up the perpendicular road to Wat Pho.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''6 Popular Attractions in Bangkok: A DIY Boat + Walking Tour''10 Free or Cheap Things to Do in Bangkok, Thailand''Wat Arun: The Temple of Dawn in Bangkok, Thailand''Bangkok, Thailand: The Grand Palace and the Temple of the Emerald Buddha''The Sampran Riverside Way of Life in Nakhon Pathom, Thailand''4 Things to Do in Samut Songkhram, Thailand''Two years ago, I was already halfway when I decided against climbing all the way to the top. The gloomy skies were starting to spit showers, and I was terrified that the floor would turn slippery any moment. The stairs of Wat Arun were rather narrow. I was as clingy to the hand railings as I was to my ex. But that’s for another story.''When I returned to Bangkok this year, I paid this temple another visit, only so I could finally reach the top level of the site’s main spire.''Located on the west bank of Chao Phraya, Wat Arun Ratcha Wararam Ratchaworamahawihan is dedicated to the second reign of the Chakkri Dynasty. Known to locals as Wat Chaeng or Temple of Dawn, it is believed that King Taksin, after escaping Ayutthaya which was attacked by the Burmese, reached the place just before sunrise. He then made the place the chief temple. It once housed the precious Emerald Buddha and the Phra Bang (another important image) which were moved from the Lao city of Vientiane.''Statue of King Rama beside the prang of Wat Arun''You cannot miss Wat Arun if you’re on the boat.''A yaksha and the 70m spire of Wat Arun''One of the statues around Wat Arun''Climbing to the top of the main spire requires a lot of energy.''View of the Grand Palace from the top of the spire of Wat Arun''Wat Arun''Opening hours: 8:00am-6:30pm''Entrance fee: THB 50''How to get there'': Board the SkyTrain (Silom Line) to S6 Saphan Taksin Station, take Exit 2. Hop onto a Chao Phraya River Express boat to Tha Thien pier (N8) and then cross the river on a smaller boat.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''6 Popular Attractions in Bangkok: A DIY Boat + Walking Tour''Bangkok, Thailand: The Grand Palace and the Temple of the Emerald Buddha''Wat Pho: The Temple of the Reclining Buddha in Bangkok, Thailand''10 Free or Cheap Things to Do in Bangkok, Thailand''12 Asian Destinations for First-time Solo Backpackers''BANGKOK ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide''They were in Manila for business. Saritha was from Bahrain and Scott from the United States. How I ended up in their company was the result of a friend’s''blackmail''spirited persuasion. My friend Grace wanted to show them around as it was their first time in Manila. With Scott serving in the military in the past, Corregidor was an easy pick. But Grace thought that me tagging along would make the trip more insightful. Silly her, it was my first time in Corregidor, too!''The tranvia is the most common form of transportation in Corregidor. Look, there’s Scott and Saritha!''I have lived in Manila for almost a decade now, but I had never left footprints on Corregidor Island. It was one of those plans that I often overlooked because of proximity. (I always had an excuse along the lines of I-can-visit-it-anytime-anyway.) It just won’t happen. But with a friend constantly bugging me, it finally did.''Corregidor was officially called Fort Mills during the American era but was also commonly referred to as “The Rock” for its terrain and fortifications, and “Gibraltar of the East” for its resemblance to Mediterranean Sea’s peninsular fortress. Strategically located at the mouth of Manila Bay, it is the biggest of the heavily fortified islands that make up the harbor defenses of the capital.''Corregidor Island and its position in Manila Bay. Alright, I’ll say it. It looks like a sperm cell.''Caballo Island, one of the smaller islands in the Corregidor group. It used to harbor Fort Hughes. It is situated off the tip of Corregidor’s tail.''It played a pivotal role during the Pacific War, with its fall signaling Japanese victory and the start of their occupation of the Philippines (1942-45). We all know how horrible that turned out to be.''The most popular option (but not exactly the most budget-friendly) of exploring Corregidor is the day tour offered by''Sun Cruises''.''Tourists snapping away at the Middleside Barracks''The Tour Package already includes ferry transfers, guide fees, buffet lunch, and the actual tour of the island. The tour lasts 9 hours (including the transfers) and usually starts at 7am at the docks at CCP Complex, Manila. The jetty is near Folk Arts Theater and Coconut Palace.''Cost: PhP2250 (weekdays) and PhP2449 (weekends and holidays).''Steep if you ask me, but it was worth it somehow. The tour ran smoothly and was very organized.''If you’ve always wanted to visit Corregidor but have no idea what to expect, let me give you a virtual tour of the island. Here are 10 stops that form the day tour.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Battery Way''Battery Hearn''Mile-Long Barracks''Pacific War Memorial''Corregidor Lighthouse''Battery Geary''Battery Crocket''MacArthur Statue''Japanese Garden of Peace''Filipino Heroes Memorial''Malinta Tunnel''Corregidor Hotel''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Battery Way''The four guns at Battery Way.''Your first stop is most likely Battery Way. It was named after 2nd Lieutenant Henry Way of the 4th US Artillery. This gun emplacement was built from 1904 to 1914. Four 12-inch mortars, capable of hurling from 45-70 degrees, sit in the middle of the site. It is one of the only two mortar batteries in Corregidor.''Battery Hearn''The biggest gun on the island is at Battery Hearn''If my memory serves me right, the gun at Battery Hearn is the largest on the island. “At firing elevation between 15 and 25 degrees, the gun could cover the full 360-degree field,” brags the site marker. “On May 6, 1942, the gun and carriage were disabled by the crew before surrendering, but the Japanese had American POW’s place the battery back in service.” Today the gun bobs beside a crater, left when the US dropped a bomb here in January 1945.''Mile-Long Barracks''The Mile Long Barracks measures only a third of a mile. But since it has three levels, it pretty much spans a mile. Almost.''The more damaged end of the barracks.''The skeletal ruins of the Topside Barracks have become the most iconic landmark of the island. It used to house the quarters of American officers and enlisted personnel. The structure is also called Mile-Long Barracks even though it spans only 1520 feet, less than a third of a mile. According to our guide, however, if you walk from end to end on all three stories of the building, you will be covering almost a mile.''Pacific War Memorial''A statue of an American and a Filipino with the ruins of Cine Corregidor and the Philippine flag in the background.''Perched on the island’s highest point is the Pacific War Memorial Complex. It harbors a museum, a circular altar under a memorial dome, and the Eternal Flame of Freedom Monument, all built in honor of Filipino and American soldiers who served during World War II. The site was completed in 1968 to the tune of USD 3 Million.''Also part of the complex are Cine Corregidor, the island’s movie house, and a small park behind the flame monument, which allows a fantastic view of the island’s tail end.''By the entrance to the Pacific War Memorial Museum.''The back of Cine Corregidor building.''The Dome at the Pacific War Memorial which covers a circular altar.''The oculus of the Pacific War Memorial Dome, which allows sunlight through to the circular altar underneath.''View of the tail end from the Pacific War Memorial''The Monument of the Eternal Flame of Freedom represents undying liberty. It was designed by sculptor Aristides Dimetrios.''Corregidor Lighthouse''The Corregidor Lighthouse is one of the oldest structures on the island.''First lit in 1853, it is one of the oldest structures on the island. The Siege of Corregidor left it damaged, but it was reconstructed in the 1950s. Souvenir shops and small stars flank the walkway leading to the main tower.''Battery Geary''Battery Geary''Completed in 1911, this gun emplacement was named after Capt. Woodbridge Geary of the 13th US Infantry. According to''CorregidorIsland.com'', “The eight 12-inch mortars of this battery were considered the most effective anti-personnel weapon in Corregidor. The battery had two mortar pits with 3 magazines and its standard crew consisted of 4 men per mortar.”''Battery Crocket''The disappearing gun at Battery Crocket''Battery Crocket is one of the six emplacements with disappearing guns on the island. These 12-inch guns were said to have 360-degree traverse (other sources say only 220-degree coverage) and required no smaller than a 30-man crew to properly function.''MacArthur Statue''Statue of Gen. Douglas MacArthur''One of the most prominent figures during the war, General Douglas MacArthur was stationed in Corregidor and used it as Allied Headquarters until March 11, 1942. A statue in honor of him stands by the Lorcha Dock, MacArthur’s departure point for Australia. Many think this was where he uttered the unforgettable line, “I shall return.” Truth is, he actually said it when he was already in Adelaide, Australia.''Japanese Garden of Peace''A memorial to the Japanese soldiers who fought in Corregidor during the war and a prayer area to their kin, the Japanese Garden of Peace cradles a Shinto Shrine and a 10-ft tall stone statue of Buddha, which faces the direction of Japan.''A fertility Buddha faces the direction of Japan.''View of the tail end of Corregidor Island from the Japanese Garden of Peace.''Filipino Heroes Memorial''Filipino Heroes Memorial.''Also on the tail end of the island is the Filipino Heroes Memorial, a 6000-square meter site designed by Francisco Mañosa. The main attractions here are the 14 Manual Casas-sculpted murals that depict the battles of Filipinos.''Malinta Tunnel''At the end of the tunnel, there are more tourists.''“The name Malinta came from the word ‘linta,’ meaning leech,” our tour guide explained. “When they were digging through the mountain to build the tunnel, they found a lot of these blood sucking worms along the way.”''Malinta Tunnel took 10 years to complete (1922-1932), an effort that proved useful during the war as it became the last stronghold of the military operations before the Japanese occupation. An elaborate network of tunnels run through the mountain, sheltering many of the soldiers during the war.''Today, its main tunnel is the theater for the Lights and Sound show, an audio-visual presentation created by National Artist Lamberto Avellana. The show narrates the key events of the battle in Corregidor. (Additional P200 fee applies.)''The Lights and Sounds show happens at the main tunnel of Malinta.''To be honest, the show was a bit underwhelming. For some reason, I was expecting a more dynamic, more interactive presentation, but it was segmented, outdated, and a bit dragging. (I returned to Corregidor months later and they said the Lights and Sounds show had been unavailable for weeks because of technical problems. I’m not sure if it’s operational again.)''Corregidor Hotel''Corregidor Hotel. This is where you’ll have your lunch.''The lunch stop. Lunch was served at the La Playa Restaurant at Corregidor Hotel. The food was not bad, but not great either. There are three to four choices of dishes, paella, and some fruits for dessert (watermelons on the two occasions I was there). The hotel is situated along South Beach, but the break was too short for a swim. Or any beach-activity for that matter.''For overnight stays, visit:''Corregidor Overnight Tour''Corregidor Day Tour by Sun Cruises''Esplanade Seaside Terminal, Mall of Asia (MOA) Complex, Pasay City''Telephone No.: (632) 834-6857 to 58, (632) 831-8140''Email: corregidortours@suncruises.com.ph''Website: www.corregidorphilippines.com''Inclusions'': Day tour, boat transfers, buffet lunch''Cost'': PhP2350 (weekdays) and PhP2549 (weekends and holidays)''How to get there:''Take LRT 1 or MRT to EDSA-Taft. Ride a jeepney multicab bound for SM Mall of Asia. Alight at One Esplanade.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Corregidor: 5 Reasons to Stay Overnight (Other than Ghost-Hunting)''BEACHES NEAR MANILA: 10 Uncrowded Weekend Getaways''Tacloban-Marabut Trip: Summary, Itinerary and Budget – Philippines''10 FREE or Cheap Things to Do in Darwin, Australia''Leyte Landing Memorial: MacArthur Park in Palo, Leyte, Philippines''Top 12 Guest Houses and B&Bs in Tagaytay''Try as I could, I was not able to stop gaping as the scene unfolded before me. My eyes seemed to be playing a trick, revealing the floating Hallelujah Mountains of Pandora. Except, this was not a movie scene. And none of this was fictional. Granted, the peaks were not really floating, but it took very little imagination to see how these cinematic pillars inspired the creators of Avatar, the highest-grossing film of all time.''They look like fingers (or claws) of a stone giant!''The gigantic columns towered above a tapestry of greens and cut through a thin sheet of mist. The weather was gloomy that afternoon; the grey clouds hovered overhead, threatening to piss on our eventful visit. None of it mattered. When you stand this high\xa0and with the magical cliffs at eye level, there was no point looking up. Unless there was an ikran (dragon) charging to attack.''The first time I saw the James Cameron blockbuster, I was not aware that the fantastic landscape was based on a real place. I knew about the''Tianzi Mountains'', which was why I wanted to be in this corner of China in the first place. But up until I was planning the trip, I had no idea that there were other incredible sites in the area. But the more pieces I put together, the more I realized that I was actually preparing for a long, arduous journey to a fantasy world:''Pandora''Zhangjiajie National Forest Park.''Crumpling the lands\xa0north of the city center of Zhangjiajie in Hunan Province,''They say I should look forward to the journey from Batan Island to Sabtang. They say it is unforgettable. The waters between Batan and Sabtang Islands have a reputation of being rough, turbulent, frightening. This is where the currents of the vast West Philippine Sea (South China Sea) and the even bigger Pacific Ocean clash. Sabtang is accessible via a 30-minute ride aboard the faluwa, the bigger traditional Ivatan boat. Like the tataya, the Ivatan dory, they do not have outriggers (''katig''), either. They say every ride is quite an experience.''I slept through it. Dang it! Blame the weather.''Sabtang Lighthouse''I arrived at Ivana Port as early as 6:30am. The balmy morning turned drizzly in an instant. From the port I could already see the dark clouds hovering over Sabtang Island. When we landed at the San Vicente Port in Sabtang, drizzly turned rainy. But the trip must go on.''I was greeted by our guide, driving a unique tricycle. In Sabtang, their version of the trusty tricycle has a cogon-roofed sidecar. Our first stop was the Tourism Office, where we registered and paid the P200 (USD 5) Environmental Fee. One can easily complain it is a steep rate, but considering that none of the attractions on the island collect entrance fees and that Sabtang will wrap and smother you with all kinds of beauty, I believe it is more than fair.''The faluwa that ferries passengers from Ivana to Sabtang, and the cogon-roofed tricycle.''Tourists are encouraged to spend at least one night on the island for a fuller experience, but day tours are a good option for those who don’t have time on their side. However, given that the last trip back to Batanes is at 1pm, day trippers will find themselves staying shorter at each stop and haunted by the threat of missing the last boat.''We waited for the rain to subside a little, and when it did it was on! Here are the highlights of the tour.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Savidug Village''2. Chamantad-Tinyan Viewpoint''3. Chavayan Village''4. Morong Beach / Nakabuang Beach''5. Sabtang Lighthouse''6. San Vicente Ferrer Church''There’s a lot to be envied about lighthouses. They exude a kind of charm and enigma just by standing still. They command attention without even trying. And they always have the best view.''There’s even more to be envied about those that stand proud in the hills of Batanes. They are relatively new and well-maintained. They are never lonely, sought by rabid tourists, and photographed by those who wish to immortalize their moments with them. And as sentinels of the northernmost province, they face no existential dilemmas for no one can deny their importance.''Today, Batanes has three lighthouses and they are similar in many ways. All three are part of a project spearheaded by Rep. Abad in the early 2000’s. These modern structures were erected not only to guide seafarers across the perilous waters of the Pacific Ocean and West Philippine Sea (South China Sea), but also as tourist attractions. All three are open to visitors, providing the most spectacular vistas.''They are all capped with a red-painted concrete lantern room with narrow storm panes. They also use rubble masonry in the construction of the main tower.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Basco Lighthouse''2. Tayid Lighthouse (Mahatao)''3. Sabtang Lighthouse''If the Philippines were a big''dysfunctional''family and each province were a person, you’ll find Batanes to be the oddest in the group. At that big family reunion, she’s that one kid not joining the party or the ruckus or whatever the hell is happening at the main table. Manila and her sisters may be flaunting another promotion, Davao remains cool and makes sure things are in order, Palawan effortlessly draws attention for her natural beauty, but Batanes remains unbothered. She stands by the window, probably talking to herself again.''Batanes is the one everyone is so curious about and intrigued by, but is just too elusive. When you do find her and sit down with her, she tells you strange tales about unbelievable things. “What do you mean crabs that can open coconuts? What do you mean ‘a store with no staff’? What the hell is zero crime rate?” Yet even when you don’t totally buy her''absurd''stories, you still can’t get enough of them because she’s quite a charmer.''But when you join her, you’ll see that her wanderings are not a flight of fancy.''Beautiful Batanes''Batanes is the smallest province in the Philippines, with only six municipalities and three inhabited islands. It is also the northernmost, even closer to Taiwan than mainland Luzon. But it is its location that shaped almost everything about it. Caught in between the restless West Philippine Sea and the Pacific Ocean, the birthplace and incubator of the biggest storms on the planet, the people of Batanes have learned to adapt to the harsh environment. Oddly, these hostile conditions have turned out to breed the gentlest, most hospitable but enduring cultures in the Philippines.''Here are some of the things you might find curious and refreshing in Beautiful Batanes.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. It is windy. Like, really.''2. Tataya and Faluwa''3. Liveng, Batanes Hedgerows''4. Vakul and Talugong for a Cooler Head''5. The Traditional Houses''6. Boulders, Boulders Everywhere!''7. Coconut crabs''8. Flying Fish''9. Itbayat, the Island with No Beach''10. Dios Mamajes, Vatanes Batanes''Either the wind wanted me naked or it just hated that shade of pink on me. The latter, if the wind were friends with the band of alpha male tourists that stood just a couple of yards from me. My pink polo stood out in a sea of greens, prompting them to quip “confirmed” when they thought I could not hear them. It must have been their first time to see another man in pink. Poor souls.''But whatever. In a place as beautiful as this, nothing and no one could ruin my mood. From afar, a pink dot — me, the pink dot — dashed across the grass-covered waves that peaked and sank softly across the rugged seaside landscape. Locals call this''Racuh a Payaman''. Tourists have another name for it: Marlboro Country.''The view here was nothing short of spectacular. I could clearly see Tayid Lighthouse, crested on an opposite hill, competing for attention. But even a lighthouse as bright as Tayid pales in comparison to the grand and gracious manner the virid cliffs plummet to Diura Beach, where they meet the overzealous waves in a splashy embrace. In the middle of all the action is a rocky pinnacle, a pointed islet, that breaks the waves in half.''That pink blob right there is me. Teehee.''The Tayid Lighthouse and Diura Beach as seen from Marlboro Country''Tayid Lighthouse stands proudly amid the rolling hills of Mahatao''A cone-shaped islet catches the attention of tourists admiring the view.''I could touch the sky!''Photographers setting up their stuff.''Narrow foot trails snake around the crumpled land, ushering visitors to other corners and viewpoints. The angle changes but none of them any less stellar than the previous. And what is Marlboro country without''horses''cows? If they’re not grazing, they are resting comfortably in one of the shallow holes on one of the slopes.''Of all the stops on the Batan Island South Tour, this is probably where I stayed the longest. Getting from the jump off point to the popular viewing area alone demanded a lot of time (and energy). Photographers perched on a hill with their tripods waited for their money shots unfold, while others held their jaws in place, lest they fall and roll down to a small pocket of sand below.''How to get to Marlboro Country'': From the Basco Airport or Basco Town Proper, you may reach Honesty Coffee Shop by tricycle (P200-P220, 30-40 minutes). You may also rent a tricycle for a''SOUTH BATAN TOUR'', which makes a stop at Marlboro Country (P1500, good for 2 pax).''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''In Pictures: Vayang Rolling Hills, Batanes, Philippines''South Batan Tour: 12 Must-Visit Spots in Batanes''The 3 Lighthouses of Batanes: Basco, Tayid, and Sabtang''Valugan Boulder Beach, Batanes: The Ferocious and the Pacific''North Batan Tour: 10 Incredible Places in Basco, Batanes''Tukon Chapel: A Promise Fulfilled in Basco, Batanes''The Other Poor Travelers''is a series on this blog where we feature other backpackers who inspire us not just with their ability to travel on a budget but also the tales and lessons they pick up along the way and share with the world. It’s an honor to have Jamie Bowlby-Whiting of A Great Big Scary World as our first featured traveler. Here’s his encouraging story.''As a child I was scared of dinosaurs. I was also scared of germs. And the dark. And cannibals, spiders, dirt, being alone, being in crowds… pretty much anything and everything. But it isn’t fun being scared. It feels like you are falling, never going to hit the ground. It’s the feeling you get when you trip, but it goes on and on and on and on so that you start to feel constantly unwell. Nobody, NOBODY, wants to feel like that.''As a child, I was scared of everything – this is my family dog''As I got older, I started to realise how these fears were affecting me adversely and inhibiting my very enjoyment of life itself. I tried to stop my fears, but you can’t just stop being scared: our minds don’t work like that. Instead, I concentrated on accepting my fears and learning to deal with them. ‘There probably isn’t a dinosaur outside my bedroom door, so I’ll open it slowly and double check, then leave my room.’ ‘Touching the grass without gloves probably won’t make me sick, so I will wash my hands later..’ And so on.''I recently came up with an analogy for fear. I call it the little pink ghost analogy. It goes like this:''“Fear is a little pink ghost that has the ability to change into any form more terrifying than your worst nightmares could even dream up. He can cripple you, taking everything. When he is around, you are falling constantly, a bottomless journey of no end. You have three choices of how you can deal with this little pink ghost. Firstly, you can run and you can hide. He will always be chasing you, he will always be looking for you. One day he will find you. Secondly, you can punch him in the face. Fear roars at you, you roar right back. It is a simple matter of who roars loudest. And lastly, you can embrace him and you can hold his hand. You walk with fear and you accept him for the little pink ghost that he is, always knowing that he is there, but keeping him in your sight.” [Excerpt from''The Boy Who Was Afraid of the World'']''I choose now to keep fear in my sight – to hold his hand. Yet as I get older, fears change and new ones appear. ‘What will I do with my life?’ ‘What happens if I run out of money?’ In 2012, I was working as a teacher and not enjoying my job or the place where I was living. Against everything that my mind and body implored me to do, I decided to quit my job, leave my apartment, and start hitchhiking around Europe. By my calculation, I figured out that I had enough money to travel for at least a month, maybe two if I was careful.''When I started, I nearly quit within five minutes because I was so nervous. Fortunately a car stopped very quickly and gave me a ride. On the first night, I was left on the outskirts of Brussels at four into the morning and had to rock myself to sleep in the garden of an abandoned building. By morning, I was exhausted, but unharmed. This made me realize that I didn’t need to be afraid of sleeping outside anymore – how likely is it that someone terrible would find me and do bad things? Not very.''Best Room with a View in Paris''Hitchhiking in Italy''Over the following months, my journey continued. EVERYONE offered me nothing but kindness. Strangers took me into their homes, people who picked me up on the side of the road offered me good conversation and refreshments: suddenly the world had become a wonderful place full of opportunity. After three months I hadn’t paid once for accommodation, I had learnt about foraging and skipping (reclaiming sealed food from supermarket bins), and made friends that will last a lifetime. Before I knew it, I had been on the road for several months without finishing my funds. There were days when I travelled far, ate well, and slept comfortably without spending a single penny (on a later trip across Europe – mainly Italy – I spent an average of €2.36 per day for 9 days while gorging myself on delicious food and visiting both beaches and mountains). I now feel that my eyes have been opened.''Notice the Black and White Sign Above My Head''3 Hitchhikers in one small van in Turkey''Several months into this journey, I met someone who was like I had once been – they were dependent upon money and stability and did not trust in strangers. Somehow talking to me persuaded them to give up their job, their home, their whole life, and hitchhike as I was. Despite their initial fears and similar lack of funds, they claim (to this day and beyond) that deciding to give it all up was (and is) the best decision they have ever made.''It took a long time coming, but all of these experiences have taught me one thing: You need neither money nor bravery to travel the world. All you need is a little bit of desire and then to put one foot in front of the other. Everything else will fall into place. The mantra I live by today is this (regardless of how scared you are or how much money you have): Everything will be OK. Everything is always OK. Until it’s not.''Get out there, have your adventure, and learn to love life. You won’t regret it.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Quit Your 9-5 to Live and Work (David Getman)''Get Inspired: 8 Viral Videos that Will Inspire You to Travel''My 3 Most Ridiculous Moments While Backpacking RTW''12 Female Travel Blogs for the Empowered Filipina''12 New Year Quotes and Greetings for Travelers''Melaka River Cruise, Malaysia: Through Lights and Colors''Just a month before we arrived, a Hungarian wingsuit flier''crashed to his death''when he hit a cliffside here at Tianmen Mountain National Forest Park. But that did not stop us from paying a visit to this scenic area in Zhangjiajie, China. And it shouldn’t. After all, we won’t be jumping from the sky.''We were not alone. With us were many other tourists, mostly domestic. The queues were long and everyone was excited to enjoy both the natural wonders and the man-made structures built at the site. Tianmen Mountain is incredible, to say the least. The scenery alone would make me not forgive myself if I left Zhangjiajie without spending a few hours in the company of these famous peaks. Daredevils, I imagine, are easily drawn, too. Aside from the usual relaxing spots, the site boasts a number of thrilling attractions that not only offer breathtaking views but also gives your adrenal glands a little squeeze. Here are six of them.''The steepest part of the ride reaches 38 degrees!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Tianmen Shan Cable Car''2. Glass Skywalk''3. Tianmen Temple''4. Heaven-Linking Avenue: Tongtian Highway''5. Gateway to Heaven: Tianmen Cave''6. Zhangjiajie Sunset''Of the many beach destinations near Manila, the town of San Antonio, Zambales, probably has the most fascinating character.''“We used to own a piece of beachfront property in one of the coves many decades ago,” our boatman Randy shared as our boat zoomed past the waves. “My parents sold them for a piece of land in Pundaquit.” There was a bit of regret in his voice. Regret might not be the right word for it as the Tagalog term''panghihinayang''best captures the feeling. They didn’t know the place would be transformed dramatically into a profitable tourist destination.''Since the cataclysmic eruption of nearby Mt. Pinatubo in 1991, the rocky coastline of San Antonio has undergone a metamorphosis. It is now blanketed with thick volcanic ash that created white beaches, something many tourists are wildly attracted to. Agoho trees, a type of casuarina, have grown inland, fostering an irresistible charm. When Anawangin caught the attention of the first tourists who “rediscovered” the beach a decade ago, the municipality of San Antonio was never the same again. Tourism has become a major livelihood option.''Many visitors gracing the town with their presence have only one thing in mind when they come: Anawangin Cove. But there are many other attractions in the area. Here are 10 things you can do in San Antonio.''The coastline of San Antonio is patched with beaches covered in volcanic ash from Mt. Pinatubo'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Beach-hop!''2. Trek to the beaches!''3. Sample pinoy kakanin at San Antonio Market.''4. Camp out!''5. Take a dip at Nagsasa Falls.''6. Watch the stars.''7. Climb to the top of Capones Lighthouse.''8. Go fishing!''9. Catch the sunset.''10. Admire the town’s cultural heritage at Casa San Miguel.''When I hopped into the gondola to go down to the city center of Zhangjiajie, I was thinking of only one thing — the train to Liuzhou.''I stayed way too long at Tianmen Mountain National Park. I did not notice the time pass. Blame the countless incredible sights at Tianmen. I probably spent much of the time picking my lower jaw up off the floor. Earlier that morning, I was thrilled with the idea of a 28-minute cable car ride. But pressed for time going back down, I just wanted it to be over quick. Twenty eight minutes is too long for a guy who is paranoid that he would miss the last train of the day.''All that changed with one westward head turn. The sunset had begun.''Tianmen Mountain Sunset View''The sun plunges into Tianmen Mountain…''The city of Zhangjiajie during sunset''Definitely one of the most memorable sunsets I have seen.''Tian Men Shan Cable Car''Tian Men Mountain National Park,''Zhangjiajie, Hunan Province, China''Admission Fee'': CNY 258 (inclusive of cable car rides)''Opening Hours'': 8am-6pm (4pm last admission)''How to get to Tianmen Mountain'': The nearest aerial gateway is Zhangjiajie Airport, but visitors from the Philippines may fly via Kuala Lumpur (AirAsia) to Wuhan or Guilin. From Wuhan, take a 9-hour train ride to Zhangjiajie City. From Guilin, board an overnight train to Liuzhou or Changsha then another to Zhangjiajie (total travel time is around 18 hours excluding layovers). From Zhangjiajie Train Terminal, the Tianmen Mountain cable car station can be reached on foot (around 10-15-minute walk).''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Tianmen Mountain Cable Car, China: The Most Scenic Ride of My Life''6 Incredible Attractions in Tianmen Mountain, Zhangjiajie, China''The Scariest Stroll: Walking on Glass at Tianmen Mountain, China''Tongtian Avenue: One of China’s Most Dangerous Roads''Gateway to Heaven: Tianmen Cave in Zhangjiajie, China''Avatar Floating Mountains: Finding Pandora in Zhangjiajie, China''By the time I reached the site, I had no more energy.''All that was left of me was a powerful urge to eat anything that crosses my path. The giant rocky cave towering above me, the very reason I was in Tianmen Mountain in the first place, appeared to me as a gargantuan donut. Thankfully, there were food stalls lining one edge of the tourist area. Otherwise, I would have eaten the cave too. I followed the scent of what smelled like fried eggs and''longganisa''(native Filipino sausages). Of course, there was no longganisa. But the Chinese version tasted very much like it. With six pieces of buns (siopao), they made up my first meal of the day. It was already past three in the afternoon.''Sausage and buns! These mini-sausages taste almost exactly like longganisa hamonado. To my delight!''Tianmen Cave is often referred to as Gateway to Heaven''After the quickest meal of my life, I finally had the chance to take a look at Tianmen Cave. The centerpiece of the Tianmen Mountain National Park, it is a natural hole that cuts through one side of the peak. At 1520 meters above sea level, it is the highest natural arch in the world, earning its nickname “Gateway to Heaven.”''The cave alone is 131.5 meters tall, 57 meters wide, and 60 meters deep. But it wasn’t always like this. It used to be an ordinary cave. At the time, the site was called Songliang Mountain until Year 263, when one face of the cliff collapsed and created a door-like opening. The name was then changed to Tianmen, meaning sacred. Today, this gateway has become one of the most iconic structures in Hunan Province.''The hole is accessible via a 999-step staircase that climbs straight to the base of the hole. Nine is one lucky number in many Chinese cultures. The road that leads to this place is Tongtian Avenue, a dangerously winding path that turns 99 times. In 1999, a stunt exhibition was staged, allowing planes to fly through the cave. It was a momentous event that was witnessed by 800 million people via a live telecast.''Tianmen Cave (Gateway to Heaven) as seen from the base of the mountain!''A waterfall cascades just next to the 999-step stairway to Tianmen Cave.''Me and the giant hole. Haha.''View of the Big Gate Road from the end point, the Tianmen Cave''As I sat there, staring at the arch, I began wondering whether it would be a good idea to still climb to the lofty viewdeck. It would have been another scenic climb: Not only are the stairs set just next to a gentle waterfall, they also face the city of Zhangjiajie, cradled at the foot of a mountain range. But the first sign of sunset loomed overhead. Tip of the cliff bathed in orange light, reminding me of the time. The choice was quite obvious now. I needed to catch the 6:30pm train to Liuzhou.''Reluctantly, I grabbed my bag and headed to the bus terminal and made my way back to the city. Had I had more time, I would have stayed a lot longer. It was a shame that I saved Tianmen Mountain for last.''Tian Men Shan Cable Car''Tian Men Mountain National Park,''Zhangjiajie, Hunan Province, China''Admission Fee'': CNY 258 (inclusive of cable car rides)''Opening Hours'': 8am-6pm (4pm last admission)''How to get to Tianmen Mountain'': The nearest aerial gateway is Zhangjiajie Airport, but visitors from the Philippines may fly via Kuala Lumpur (AirAsia) to Wuhan or Guilin. From Wuhan, take a 9-hour train ride to Zhangjiajie City. From Guilin, board an overnight train to Liuzhou or Changsha then another to Zhangjiajie (total travel time is around 18 hours excluding layovers). From Zhangjiajie Train Terminal, the Tianmen Mountain cable car station can be reached on foot (around 10-15-minute walk).''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''6 Incredible Attractions in Tianmen Mountain, Zhangjiajie, China''Tongtian Avenue: One of China’s Most Dangerous Roads''Tianmen Mountain Cable Car, China: The Most Scenic Ride of My Life''In Pictures: Sunset in Zhangjiajie, China''The Scariest Stroll: Walking on Glass at Tianmen Mountain, China''Avatar Floating Mountains: Finding Pandora in Zhangjiajie, China''I was so ready for Hitachi Seaside Park. But it looked like Hitachi Seaside Park was not ready for me.''I’m not really a flower kinda guy. Heck, the only flowers I could correctly identify are roses, tulips, and sunflowers. And''sampaguita''. (I can totally identify sampaguita!) But it was the middle of spring. Flowers in spring. Cliche, I know. Forgive me, but as someone who was enjoying the season for the very first time in my life, I won’t go back to tropical reality without a taste of floral bliss. From Tokyo, I traveled 90 minutes northeast to Hitachi Seaside Park. (Ninety minutes, I know, but I swear I’m not a flower kinda guy! LOL.)''A sea of bouquets!''The 190-hectare Hitachi Seaside Park is carpeted with flowering plants, taking turns in painting colors to the otherwise boringly virid landscape: nemophila, rose, and zinnia in summer; cosmos and kochia in autumn; narcissuses, tulips, and azaleas in spring. It was spring alright, but the past winter was having separation anxiety. It seemed like the blossoms were afraid of the leftover cold and waiting for the sunshines of May. That and my timing was just a little off. Most of these flowers bloom in late-April. I was there a couple of weeks too early.''Fortunately, while tulips were a no-show, daffodils and other narcissuses were there to brighten up my gloomy, rainy day. The opening of this part of the park, the Suisen Garden, marks the beginning of spring. Over one million narcissuses of about 600 species fill the gaps between pinewoods that filter the rays of the sun.''The Suisen Garden is one of the must-visit areas at the park during early spring.''The Suisen Fantasy Garden boasts daffodils and other narcissuses.''Daffodils are the stars of early spring here at Hitachi Seaside Park. Until the baby blue eyes blossom.''Despite the gloomy weather, a walk around the park can brighten up one’s day!''Had I visited in mid-April, just when the final days of the narcissuses near, the tulips would have been up. There are over 270,000 stocks of 170 varieties of tulips in''Tamago no Mori''Flower Garden, just south of the Suisen Garden. Before the month ends, the nemophila (baby blue eyes) takes over, 4.5 million of them flooding the 3.5-hectare Miharashi Hills with an ocean of light blue petals, complimenting the Pacific blues next to it. When autumn comes, late September to mid-October, Miharashi Hills transforms into fiery balls of crimson kochia (rusty molly) flowers.''In late April to mid-May, the hills of Mirahashi will be blanketed with nemophila flowers (baby blue eyes). They were just starting to bud during my visit.''Dark pink petals, but I believe these are also cherry blossoms.''Aside from the flowers, visitors may enjoy other attractions including the Giant Ferris Wheel and an amusement center.''The Flower Ring, a giant Ferris wheel, has become the park’s most recognizable icon.''Facing the Pacific! The Hitachi Seaside Park lies on the Ibaraki coast, facing the world’s biggest ocean.''A family walking their cute akita dog.''Aside from the gardens, the site also harbors several restaurants, a disk golf area, and a BMX course. But the most dominant structure is the Flower Ring, a giant Ferris Wheel that has become an icon for the park. The height reaches 100 meters, offering an unforgettable view of the vibrant landscape.''How to get to Hitachi Seaside Park'': From Tokyo/Ueno, travel by train to Katsuta Station (2270 JPY, 70-80 minutes). Take the Ibarakikotsu Bus to Hitachi Seaside Park (15-20 minutes).''Address'': 605-4 Onuma-aza, Mawatari,''Hitachinaka-city, Ibaraki-prf, 312-0012, Japan''Contact Number'': 029 265 9001''Website'':''www.hitachikaihin.go.jp''Admission Fee'': 500 JPY''Operating Days'':''Every day within the following periods:''March 26-May 31, July 21-August 31, October 1-31''The rest of the year, the park is closed on Tuesdays.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''10 Photos of Cherry Blossoms in Japan''ARASHIYAMA, KYOTO: A DIY Walking Tour''Tempozan Ferris Wheel: Sunny Surprises in Osaka, Japan''Gion District: The Birthplace of Kabuki and Geisha in Kyoto, Japan''Osaka Castle Park, Japan: Toyotomi’s Dream''Toei Movie Studio Park, Kyoto: A Japanese Pop Culture Immersion''I was expecting to be sick to the stomach at some point during the ride, but the stellar view of Tianmen Mountain’s jagged landscape was too much of a beautiful distraction. I barely felt the sharp turns.''Tongtian Avenue''earns its fancy nicknames —''Big Gate Road'',''Avenue Toward Heaven'',''Heaven-Linking Avenue''— for it takes visitors to the “Gateway to Heaven”, a natural cave crowning one side of the Tianmen Mountain. Meandering along dangerous cliffsides, the 11-kilometer serpentine road makes 99 sharp turns! Yes, 99 freaking curves!''The Big Gate Road leads to Tianmen Cave aka Gateway to Heaven, hence the nickname''The number 9, like 8, is considered lucky in many Chinese cultures. Being the highest single digit, it symbolizes completeness and eternity. It is said that 99 is an even luckier number. Back in the 1400s, the number 99 is''reserved for the Forbidden City''.''The construction of the road took eight years to complete: 1998 to 2006. Today, aside from being a gateway, it is also an attraction in its own right, one of many that draw tourists to the Tianmen Mountain National Park.''The road as seen from Tianmen Mountain cable car!''The 11-km Big Gate Road has 99 sharp twists and turns like these!''View of the Big Gate Road from the end point, the Tianmen Cave''My journey began at the middle station of the''Tianmen Mountain Cable Car''. The Cave was my last stop in Zhangjiajie as I was scheduled to leave the city for Guilin later that day. Pressed for time, I considered backing out upon seeing the long queue but decided to push through with it when I realized how quickly it flowed. The park has buses that tackle the mind-blowingly perilous twists and turns. It was a scary ride but the fear was overpowered by the abundance of beauty that surrounded me.''The avenue leads to the base of the cave at 1300 meters above sea level: a dizzying approach to dizzying heights. Along with Guoliang Tunnel Road, it is regarded by many as one of the most dangerous roads in China.''Tongtian Avenue (Big Gate Road)''Tian Men Mountain National Park,''Zhangjiajie, Hunan Province, China''Admission Fee'': CNY 258 (inclusive of cable car rides)''Opening Hours'': 8am-6pm (4pm last admission)''How to get to Tianmen Mountain'': Zhangjiajie has its own airport so flying is the fastest way to reach the city. If you’re coming from Southeast Asia, you may fly via Kuala Lumpur (AirAsia) to Wuhan or Guilin. From Wuhan, Zhangjiajie City can be reached by a 9-hour train ride. From Guilin, you may board an overnight train to Liuzhou or Changsha City, then another train to Zhangjiajie (total travel time is around 18 hours excluding layovers). From Zhangjiajie Train Terminal, the Tianmen Mountain cable car station can be reached on foot (around 10-15-minute walk).''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''The Scariest Stroll: Walking on Glass at Tianmen Mountain, China''6 Incredible Attractions in Tianmen Mountain, Zhangjiajie, China''Gateway to Heaven: Tianmen Cave in Zhangjiajie, China''Tianmen Mountain Cable Car, China: The Most Scenic Ride of My Life''In Pictures: Sunset in Zhangjiajie, China''Avatar Floating Mountains: Finding Pandora in Zhangjiajie, China''I have taken cable car rides only six times in my life (including the''Jewel Box''in Singapore and''Panorama Langkawi''in Malaysia), but the Tianmen Shan Cable Car\xa0is by far the most scenic and the most unforgettable.''Tianmen Shan Cable Car''ferries visitors from the city center of Zhangjiajie (Hunan Province) to the Air Garden, perched on the summit of\xa0Tianmen Mountain. Straddling a distance of 7,455 meters (7.45km), it is \xa0often touted by tourism publications in China as the “longest cable car ride in the world,” but in reality, it needs to be qualified as the “longest passenger cableway of high mountains.” It takes a total of 28 minutes to cover the entire distance.''The steepest part of the ride reaches 38 degrees!''One ride takes 28 minutes!''But its length isn’t the only thing that it has under its belt. Tianmen Mountain towers at\xa01279 meters above sea level, and the cableway’s steepest gradient is 38 degrees, just a tad less than Panorama Langkawi.''That’s not the best part, either! For 28 minutes, the ride bombarded me with spectacular views after spectacular views of one of the most beautiful mountain in the world! Natural wonders and man-made attractions compose a stunning landscape, the kind that I previously thought existed in fairy tales. On the way to the top station, I had a good view of the Tianmen Cave, a massive natural cave that is often dubbed the “Gateway to Heaven”; the Heaven-Linking Avenue, a dangerous 11-km road that turns 99 times; the karst ridges of a mountain range that looks like the spine of a sleeping dragon; and one of the most gorgeous sunsets I had ever seen.''Meandering below the cable car is the Heaven-Linking Avenue, an 11-km road with 99 bends.''Tianmen Cave (Gateway to Heaven) as seen from the base of the mountain!''Tianmen Mountain Sunset View''Tian Men Shan Cable Car''Tian Men Mountain National Park,''Zhangjiajie, Hunan Province, China''Admission Fee'': CNY 258 (inclusive of cable car rides)''Opening Hours'': 8am-6pm (4pm last admission)''How to get to Tianmen Mountain'': The nearest aerial gateway is Zhangjiajie Airport, but visitors from the Philippines may fly via Kuala Lumpur (AirAsia) to Wuhan or Guilin. From Wuhan, take a 9-hour train ride to Zhangjiajie City. From Guilin, board an overnight train to Liuzhou or Changsha then another to Zhangjiajie (total travel time is around 18 hours excluding layovers). From Zhangjiajie Train Terminal, the Tianmen Mountain cable car station can be reached on foot (around 10-15-minute walk).''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''6 Incredible Attractions in Tianmen Mountain, Zhangjiajie, China''In Pictures: Sunset in Zhangjiajie, China''The Scariest Stroll: Walking on Glass at Tianmen Mountain, China''Tongtian Avenue: One of China’s Most Dangerous Roads''Gateway to Heaven: Tianmen Cave in Zhangjiajie, China''Avatar Floating Mountains: Finding Pandora in Zhangjiajie, China''I’d be lying if I said I wasn’t scared. It was the most terrified\xa0I had been in my life. Ever.''It was as though hell lived\xa0inside my stomach! Something about this walkway frightened\xa0me so much that I couldn’t push myself to make that first step. It wasn’t the dizzying heights per se. It wasn’t the idea that the floor was made of glass, either. I was just caught off-guard. \xa0I was not prepared for this.''The Tianmen Mountain Glass Walkway is perched on a mountaintop at 4700 feet above sea level!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Fear Got Real''Look Around, Don’t Look Down''Over the past decade, the sleepy town of San Antonio, Zambales, has been rattled by a sudden surge in tourism as more of its secluded coves become more known to the beach-chasing urbanites. Barangay Pundaquit in particular cashed in on this new opportunity. It has transformed fishing boats into passenger vessels, ferrying tourists to paradise. It has made resorts and guesthouses sprout along the streets as fast as lightning encourages mushrooms to flourish. And amid the scenic landscape and the overwhelming natural beauty of San Antonio, it is quite easy to walk past without a glance a side to the town that is equally fascinating — its cultural heritage.''Casa San Miguel aims to highlight just that. Since its completion in 1921, this family retreat house in a 15-hectare mango orchard has sheltered and nurtured generations of talent including acclaimed concert violinist Alfonso “Coke” Bolipata. In 1993, he established the Casa San Miguel Foundation, which aims to “integrate culture and community development” in Zambales. The group has initiated several programs and workshops to hone and showcase artistry of the locals.''Little children playing around a small fountain greeted me when I hopped out of the tricycle. It was almost midday but the trees, adorned with ripe mangoes, breathed cool winds. I walked around the chateau-style brick and wood house only to find the entrance closed. Right on cue, a staff member showed up, opened it, and welcomed me with a bright smile.''I bet this looks stunning at night.''Casa San Miguel Foundation was founded by renowned violinist Coke Bolipata''A fountain''Even the washroom signs look impressive.''The short staircase and the door led me to the Museum of Community Heritage, which features the rich heritage of Barangay San Miguel and the town of San Antonio as a whole. The museum offers a look into the long history of the town that has enriched its culture.''Some of the exhibits on display were the Ming Dynasty earthenware taken from shipwrecks in nearby villages of Pundaquit and Santa Cruz, photographs of local fisherman by Filipino veteran photojournalist Nico Sepe, and old photographs of Aetas taken by American anthropologist William Allen Reed. Also worth a look is the collection of traditional fishing equipment and other artifacts.''A photo exhibit''Inside Casa San Miguel''Casa San Miguel also houses a guest rooms (bed and breakfast), a restaurant, a pre-school, and a concert hall.''Casa San Miguel''Evangelista St., Brgy. San Miguel, San Antonio, Zambales''Contact No''.: +63 915 6220335''Email Address'': info@casasanmiguelph.com''Casa San Miguel Entrance Fee'': P125 (adult), P75 (kid)''How to get to Casa San Miguel'': From Manila, ride a Victory Liner bus to Iba, Zambales, and tell the driver to drop you off in front of San Antonio Public Market (P250, 3-4 hours). Take a tricycle to Casa San Miguel (P60 per 2 pax, or P30 per pax). If you’re in San Antonio for its beaches (Anawangin Cove, Nagsasa Cove), you may drop by on your way back to Manila.''EXPENSES''Bus Fare''(Manila-San Antonio): P250''Tricycle Fare''(San Antonio-San Miguel): P60 per 2 pax, or P30 per pax''Casa San Miguel Entrance Fee'': P125 (adult), P75 (kid)''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''10 Exciting Things to Do in SAN ANTONIO, ZAMBALES''Nagsasa Cove, Zambales: Rising from the Ashes''Silanguin Cove: Getting Hooked on Zambales''ANAWANGIN COVE ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itineraries''Culion Museum and Archives, Palawan: Remnants and Descendants''Miguel Malvar Museum, Batangas: Of Battles and Surrender''Of all the ashen coves patching the coastline of Zambales, Talisayin is the quietest. It’s like that one guy back in high school who sat at the very back of the class, not saying a word unless asked. Often overlooked because he wasn’t as popular as his seatmates.''Talisayin Cove is like that.''On many beach-hopping tours in this part of Zambales, boats just pass by it, barely earning a second look or a comment from tourists and guides alike. It is not as blessed as its neighbors. Although it cradles the same volcanic ash from Mt. Pinatubo and the same agoho trees, it doesn’t have the shallow creek of Anawangin or the small waterfall of Nagsasa. But one thing it can offer you is its silence.''During summer the shores of the other beaches are scarred by countless footprints, the spaces between trees are shaded with the bright colors of tents, and the air is filled with the cheers and yells of happy friends and families.''But Talisayin stays quiet.''First glimpse of Talisayin Cove''A father and son''A water pump in the middle of the woods, by the beach''How to get to Talisayin Cove'': From Manila, ride a Victory Liner bus to Iba, Zambales, and tell the driver to drop you off in front of San Antonio Public Market (P250, 3-4 hours). Take a tricycle to Pundaquit (P60 per 2 pax, or P30 per pax). In Pundaquit, rent a boat to Nagsasa Cove or Talisayin Cove. Boat rental costs P1500-P2000, good for up to 4pax.''EXPENSES'':''Bus Fare''(Manila-San Antonio): P250''Tricycle Fare''(San Antonio-Pundaquit): P60 per 2 pax, or P30 per pax''Boat tour'': P1500-P2000''Entrance Fee'': P50''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''10 Exciting Things to Do in SAN ANTONIO, ZAMBALES''Nagsasa Cove, Zambales: Rising from the Ashes''Silanguin Cove: Getting Hooked on Zambales''BEACHES NEAR MANILA: 10 Uncrowded Weekend Getaways''ANAWANGIN COVE & NAGSASA COVE: Budget Travel Guide''NAGSASA COVE ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''When my feet hit the ground, it was as though I had a taste of hell. The volcanic ash that filled the coast of Nagsasa baked in the unforgiving sun, and the heat was unbearable. As soon as I hopped out of the boat, I dashed into a hut, trying my silly best not to touch the ground, as though it was possible.''Nagsasa Cove bears many similarities to its more famous stepsister''Anawangin''. Anawangin’s popularity, however, is also her weakness. Anawangin can get too overcrowded especially during peak season. Nagsasa, although beginning to draw in more and more tourists each year, offers more moving and breathing space. It has all the good things Anawangin is famous for but retaining the more laidback atmosphere that has started to slip away from the other.''Like neighboring Anawangin and Talisayin, Nagsasa Cove was a typical rocky coast fronted landward by a rich rainforest that was home to small groups of Aetas. Until the first grain of ash fell.''View from the southern end''Nagsasa Cove is much more quiet than Anawangin''Nagsasa Cove is blanketed with volcanic ash from the belly of Mt. Pinatubo''Huts for beach goers!''On 12 June 1991, Mt. Pinatubo spewed tons of volcanic ash in a cataclysmic eruption and transformed the site into something completely unrecognizable. Over time, the wind (or maybe the birds) might have brought with it the seeds of agoho trees, a type of casuarina which thrives in seashores in remarkable speed. With their slender trunks and pin-like leaves, Agoho trees resemble conifers, which is why people often mistake them for pine trees. The surrounding landscape is not as fertile as it probably was before the eruption. Many of the nearby hills are bald, carpeted only with bushes that occasionally catch fire. One of them serves as a good point to catch fantastic views of the cove.''The smell of grilled pork belly filled the air, taunting my grumblings tummy. I had to get away for a moment and come back when lunch was ready. Under the high noon sun and despite the ground temperature, I walked to the northern end of the cove. Volcanic ash seems to absorb more heat than regular sand; it was almost impossible to walk on dry land barefoot. I dipped my feet in the shallow water and waded through. The cold splashes were such a relief!''Where the sea welcomes the creek''Nagsasa Cove as seen from the northern end of the beach''The small estuary that meandered out to the sea was my signal to climb back to the berm. Following it inland, I was led to a shallow, quiet creek that formed a horse-shoe shape. My bet is that this is where many choose to pitch tents for an overnight stay. It just looked like the most ideal spot for camping.''I headed back to the hut for lunch. It was the middle of February and I was the only tourist at the cove. But as Randy, our boatman, said in an excited tone, “''Summer is coming''.”''How to get to Nagsasa Cove'': From Manila, ride a Victory Liner bus to Iba, Zambales, and tell the driver to drop you off in front of San Antonio Public Market (P250, 3-4 hours). Take a tricycle to Pundaquit (P60 per 2 pax, or P30 per pax). In Pundaquit, rent a boat to Nagsasa Cove. Boat rental costs P1500-P2000, good for up to 4pax.''EXPENSES''Camping Fee'': P100 (includes use of cottage & restrooms)''Bus Fare''(Manila-San Antonio): P250''Tricycle Fare''(San Antonio-Pundaquit): P60 per 2 pax, or P30 per pax''Boat tour'': P1500-P2000''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''10 Exciting Things to Do in SAN ANTONIO, ZAMBALES''Silanguin Cove: Getting Hooked on Zambales''BEACHES NEAR MANILA: 10 Uncrowded Weekend Getaways''The Silence of Talisayen Cove, Zambales''Casa San Miguel: Museum of Community Heritage in San Antonio, Zambales''NAGSASA COVE ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''This post applies to Filipino travelers only. A minor is defined as being below 18 years of age.''It’s always fun traveling with kids. Seeing the look on their faces when they experience something for the first time is always priceless. I had traveled with kids in the family twice: First, to Hong Kong for their much awaited Disneyland visit, and second, to Tokyo, to visit a close relative.''The problem is, I am not their father, just an uncle, so I had to secure a travel clearance for them.''Traveling with minors who aren’t''your''children adds a step in the whole trip preparation. You will need a get a DSWD Travel Clearance before your trip. Failing to secure one will lead to being offloaded by the Immigration Officials at the airport. It is a necessary document that they need to protect children from crimes including child trafficking.''As of January 2014, this is what a DSWD Clearance looks like.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Who needs a DSWD Travel Clearance?''DSWD Clearance Requirements''Main Requirements''Possible Additional Requirements''How to get a DSWD Clearance''1. Complete the requirements.''2. Find the nearest DSWD Field Office.''3. Submit the requirements at the DSWD Field Office and wait for your clearance.''Frequently Asked Questions''When should I apply for a DSWD Clearance?''How long does it take to get a DSWD Clearance?''Does the minor have to be with me when I apply?''Should the parent be the one to apply?''I found an error in the Travel Clearance. What should I do?''How much should I pay for the DSWD Clearance?''I’m applying for a DSWD Clearance, a visa and a passport for the child. What should I work on first?''Where can I find more info about DSWD Travel Clearance?''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Who needs a DSWD Travel Clearance?''Not all minors traveling to a foreign country need a DSWD Clearance. It is only required for the following:''a minor traveling alone''a minor accompanied by a person other than his/her parents''If the minor is traveling with either parent, no need for one. If the minor is traveling with the legal guardian, no need for one (but you must have all documents to prove that you are indeed the legal guardian).''If you’re not the mother or father or legal guardian, you need a DSWD clearance for each minor you’re traveling with. If that’s not clear enough: Even if you are a brother, sister, aunt, uncle, grandmother, grandfather, or cousin of the minor, you need\xa0a clearance.''DSWD Clearance Requirements''Here are the documents needed for minors''traveling alone''and''traveling with a non-parent companion''.''Main Requirements''A duly accomplished application form.''You can download it''here''.''A photocopy of the minor’s birth certificate''A photocopy of the minor’s passport''(first and last page: bio page and emergency page). If the minor doesn’t have a passport yet, skip this.''A photocopy of the minor’s travel companion’s passport.''(Not applicable to minors traveling alone.)''2 colored passport size photos of the minor''taken within the past 6 months.''A photocopy of one of the following'', whichever is appropriate:''– If minor has both parents: the parents’ marriage certificate''– If minor is under a legal guardian: the Certificate of Legal Guardianship''– If minor is under a solo parent: solo parent identification card or certification from the Municipal DSWD Office; or if Muslim,\xa0Tallaq or Fasakh certification from any Muslim Barangay, the Shariah court or a religious leader''– If minor is illegitimate: a Certificate of No Marriage from the local civil registrar''– If one of the parents is deceased: death certificate''– If minor is an immigrant, visa petition approval.''– If minor is traveling for medical purposes, medical certificate''– If minor is studying abroad, acceptance letter from school abroad''– If minor is attending a conference, a certification from the organizers''Notarized Affidavit of Consent to Travel or Parental Permit''. Download a copy''here''.''Regarding the Affidavit of Consent to Travel/Parental Permit'': It’s something that a lot of our readers said that DSWD asked them to submit.''In my personal experience, however, they never asked for it''. I just provided a simple''written consent''from both parents. The consent I submitted indicated the following details.''Travel dates''Destination and origin''Minor’s passport number''Contact details of parents/legal guardian''Signature of the parents''In addition, if the minor is traveling with someone who isn’t his/her parent, it would be wise to include the details of the companion:''Name of the companion''Relationship of the companion to the minor''Companion’s passport number''Below is a sample Written Consent. This is what I used in applying for my niece and nephew, and it was accepted by DSWD. I didn’t have any problem. You may copy-paste it if you want. Just replace the highlighted data:''Letter of Consent PDF''Don’t forget to have it signed by the parent. Again, both parents need to have it.''HOWEVER, to be on the safe side, I recommend that you still secure an Affidavit of Consent to Travel for a couple of reasons. First, because a notarized affidavit can take the place of the simple written consent anytime. Meaning, if DSWD asks for a simple consent letter, they will accept the affidavit because it’s a more legal and binding document. On the other hand, if they require an affidavit and you don’t have it, the written consent may not suffice.''The second reason: because you might also need it when passing through Immigration. Normally, the DSWD Clearance is enough to let you through, but having that affidavit can be more convincing, if the officer has doubts.''Again, just to reiterate, in my experience, I have never been asked to provide a Affidavit of Consent to Travel. In all occasions, I submitted a simple signed written consent from both parents, and they were accepted every time. But some of our readers had a different experience. So to be on the safe side, just secure an affidavit.''Possible Additional Requirements''I have applied for my nephew and niece multiple times now, and the requirements somewhat change each time. It’s a bit frustrating, to be honest, because I couldn’t predict what other documents they would need from me.''DSWD may require additional documents aside from those listed above, so make sure you apply early and NOT too close to the travel dates so you have time to secure them.''Here are some other requirements that they''might''look for based on experience of some of our readers.''Roundtrip ticket of the minor and companion''. In my experience, sometimes they ask for it; sometimes, they don’t. If you’re already booked, best to bring a copy of the ticket. If your flights are not yet booked, it’s best to just call the office before your application to confirm.''Notarized Affidavit of Support of sponsor''(showing employment status and salary). Some sources say this is a requirement, and one of our readers was also asked to provide this. In my experience, I was never asked to submit this. Maybe it’s a new requirement, maybe they ask applicants depending on the situation. Call the office where you plan to submit to be 100% sure.''Latest ITR (income Tax return) of sponsor and/or parents''. I also always bring a copy of this, but they never asked to see it. Just bring it with you to be on the safe side.''Invitation Letter'', only if the purpose of travel is to visit a friend or relative, or the minor won’t be staying in a hotel.''Photocopy of ID of parents''.''That’s about it.''How to get a DSWD Clearance''Getting a DSWD clearance is easy. It might take a few hours, but it is not as complicated as you probably have been picturing in your head. Here’s how I got mine.''1. Complete the requirements.''See the list of requirements above.''2. Find the nearest DSWD Field Office.''Pay a visit to the DSWD Field Office that covers the permanent address of the minor. For example, my niece and nephew reside in Batangas. The Region IV-A (Calabarzon) Office is in Alabang. If the minor is based in Metro Manila, file for a clearance at the NCR Office in Sampaloc, Manila.''Office Hours: Monday-Friday 8am-5pm.''Below is the complete list of DSWD Field Offices. (As of April 2014):''3. Submit the requirements at the DSWD Field Office and wait for your clearance.''Here’s the step-by-step process that you will go through once you are at the DSWD office.\xa0The process below details my experience applying at the Alabang office, but according to the DSWD website, the process at all branches are almost the same.''Tell the Security Guard that you’re there for Travel Clearance. Ask for a Sequence Number.''Register in the logbook while waiting for your number to be called.''When your number is called, submit all the requirements to the Social Worker for the initial screening. He/she will check if the requirements are complete and authentic.''If all your documents are okay, the Social Worker will interview you and assess the application. He/she will ask\xa0a few questions about your relationship with the minor, the purpose of the trip, and why the parents can’t be with the minor, among others.''If the Social Worker is satisfied, your application will now be processed and the clearance will be prepared.''Pay processing fee:''– P300 for travel clearance with validity of 1 year''– P600\xa0for travel clearance with validity of 2 years''Return at the time of release. Ask any of the processing staff what time you can expect the clearance to be issued. At the Alabang office, it works this way:''Schedule of assessment and issuance of DSWD Travel Clearance''Don’t forget to\xa0check the clearance card before you leave the DSWD Office. Make sure the validity of the clearance and the name spellings are correct.''Reminder'': After assessment, DSWD may require additional documents aside from those listed above, so make sure you apply early and NOT too close to the travel dates so you have time to secure them.''Frequently Asked Questions''When should I apply for a DSWD Clearance?''If you think you have complete requirements, best practice is at least a month before the travel dates. This way, you would still have enough time to resend documents that you forget or to fix anything that goes wrong.''How long does it take to get a DSWD Clearance?''In most cases,''one day''. If you have all the requirements and you come early, you will get it on the same day that you applied. It takes only a few hours.''HOWEVER, if\xa0you arrive in the late afternoon (past 3pm), you will have to return the next day. You can still have it processed but you will get the clearance the next working day. At least, that’s how it is at the\xa0DSWD Field Office IV-A in Alabang. I applied here because the kids’ address are in Batangas.''Does the minor have to be with me when I apply?''No. Just make sure you have all the requirements.''Should the parent be the one to apply?''No. Although it would be best that the person who would apply knows the minor and the details of the trip really well and can spot any clerical error in the clearance. (Happened to me twice.)''I found an error in the Travel Clearance. What should I do?''Happened to me twice!''Simply tell the social worker or anyone in charge. They can correct it or replace it with a new one immediately.''How much should I pay for the DSWD Clearance?''Processing Fee'':''P300''for travel clearance with validity of 1 year''P600''for travel clearance with validity of 2 years''I’m applying for a DSWD Clearance, a visa and a passport for the child. What should I work on first?''The DSWD Clearance first. You can’t apply for a passport for a minor without the DSWD Clearance.''Then work on the passport because you can’t apply for a visa without the passport.''In summary: DSWD Clearance, then Passport, then Visa.''Where can I find more info about DSWD Travel Clearance?''Although we try to try to update this post regularly, it would still be best to visit the DSWD website or call their office to make sure that there are no changes to this list of requirements.''You may visit the official DSWD website,\xa0call the numbers indicated on the list of offices above, or tweet''@DSWDserves''.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''JustFly Reviews: 5 Excellent Ways to Survive a Road Trip''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''HOW TO AVOID GETTING OFFLOADED: Airport Immigration Requirements and Tips''AFFIDAVIT OF CONSENT AND SUPPORT (FREE SAMPLE)''JAPAN VISA: REQUIREMENTS & APPLICATION PROCESS FOR TOURISTS 2018''HOW TO APPLY FOR A SCHENGEN VISA & Other Frequently Asked Questions''My day was already made even before our boat hit the shore. We felt a slight tug from one of the fishing rods that stuck into the air like flag-less poles. Randy, our boatman for the day, rushed to the front and reeled in the morning’s first catch: a wahoo. “Tanguigue in Tagalog,” Harry, another companion, translated.''Our destination for that day was Silanguin Cove, the farthest of the newly “rediscovered” beaches in San Antonio, Zambales. While it bears many similarities with its neighbors, Silanguin is definitely the odd man out. While Nagsasa, Talisayin, and Anawangin are covered with volcanic ash, Silanguin is strewn with regular sand. It is not white-white. It’s not even beige. It is gray at best. But don’t judge the beach by its color. It has the most stunning backdrop. Reddish hills frame the cove, a stark contrast to their virid feet.''Randy, our boatman, reeling in a wahoo, our first catch!''Two dogs dashed toward our boat and greeted us with unwelcoming barks. “They belong to the other resort,” Randy said. “They’re still not that used to visitors.” It’s understandable. Anawangin may have more than its share of tourists, but Silanguin is still almost unheard of. If you want peace of mind, this might be the best San Antonio beach for you.''Even the waves here are much friendlier, much gentler than those that tickle its neighbors. The sand doesn’t get too hot under the sun, a problem I have with the ashes of Nagsasa and Anawangin. A few basic “resorts” line the coast. They offer basic accommodations (and use of restrooms) and paluto services for a fee. (Entrance is usually at PHP150.) Don’t expect modern amenities. Silanguin has been isolated from the rest of mainland Luzon by an expansive mountain range and sprawling forests.''Silanguin Cove is tucked in a cape in Zambales, separated from the rest of mainland Luzon by a mountain range''Silanguin’s Beach is strewn with gray sand, not volcanic ash.''View from Puerto Silanguin.''Silanguin Island''A hut for rent at Puerto Silanguin''A dog dashes toward us when we docked.''The southern ridge of the cove extends out to the sea and is jotted with a small, rocky island, which is also named after the area, Silanguin. The cove faces the controversial West Philippine Sea. A Philippine navy ship roams around the area during my visit. Its rich marine resources also offer a bounty for local fishermen. Lately fishing tours have taken form, with the boatmen also allowing guests to fish for leisure.''For boat tours'': Contact: Harry Balais of 7107 Islands Tours at + 639176274945''Where to stay'': Camping is the best way to experience the back-to-basics vibe of the place. If it’s not your thing, you may stay at one of the resorts. Puerto Silanguin has a two-room hut for P1500 per night. Entrance fee is P150.''How to get to Silanguin Cove'': The most popular way of reaching Silanguin is via Pundaquit, where boat tours to San Antonio’s many beaches are available. To get to Pundaquit, travel by bus (Victory Liner) to Iba and get off in front of San Antonio Market (P250-270). Ride a tricycle to Pundaquit (P30). Tours cost P2000 for a return trip to Silanguin and P2500 for a tour that also stops in Capones and Camara Islands. Travel time is around 1 hour.''Alternatively, you may also get to Silanguin from Subic Bay, but requires a longer travel time (2 hours).''LIST OF EXPENSES'':''Entrance Fee'': P150''Bus Fare''(Manila-San Antonio): P250''Tricycle Fare''(San Antonio-Pundaquit): P60 per 2 pax, or P30 per pax''Boat tour'': P2000-P2500''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''10 Exciting Things to Do in SAN ANTONIO, ZAMBALES''BEACHES NEAR MANILA: 10 Uncrowded Weekend Getaways''Nagsasa Cove, Zambales: Rising from the Ashes''The Silence of Talisayen Cove, Zambales''Anilao, Batangas: Above the Surface of an Underwater Eden''Casa San Miguel: Museum of Community Heritage in San Antonio, Zambales''The crowd flooded through the gates of the Palace in an extremely organized fashion. There was plenty of space left and right, but people stayed on one side of the road as the queues snaked around the grounds. They were long lines, but they flowed smoothly. The only time we stopped was when we reached the two-step security inspection zone, where officers meticulously frisked and searched the bags of the visitors. Once past it, we sashayed our way over the bridge across the moat toward the Imperial Palace.''The Imperial Palace has received more than its share of''criticism''. It’s a''tourist trap'', some claim. Maybe. But not when it’s the second of January.''The queue meanders across the site toward the palace.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Banzai!''The Imperial Palace''My dirty chucks looked awfully out of place on the carpeted floor of the suite. I removed them, threw my bag in a corner, and fell into the neatly fixed bed in the center of the room. I turned on the TV and tuned in to History Channel for a few minutes of geeking out before I headed back to the party in another suite.''In the next room were fellow travel bloggers, having a feast and sharing a night filled with videoke (karaoke) and endless conversations. Linden Suites Ortigas graciously hosted another pajama party for bloggers that night. I was one of them. It’s not often that I see people in the same line of work (if work is what you call what we do), so I took the opportunity to reconnect with them. While I walked in the hallway and basked in comfort as I sank in one of the couches, I could not think of a better venue for such a fun event.''My tired chucks.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Suites''Amenities''Location''The wind was both a friend and a bully.''The skies made its dominance felt by sending strong winds that whistled as they swept the landscape, making the grass and hedgerows bow down in submission.\xa0If I were in something looser, the northeast monsoon (amihan) would have probably taken me with it, too.''The place is called Vayang. The slopes of the rolling hills rise and dive gently, forming a crumpled terrain that is covered by grass, a food and rest sanctuary for cows, goats, and water buffalos. Embracing the splashes from the West Philippine Sea (South China Sea), Vayang Rolling Hills overlooks Chadpidan Beach, the boulder-filled western coast of Batan Island.''Farmers take their cattle to the rolling hills to let them graze.''Vayang Rolling Hills offers a great view of Chadpidan Boulder Beach.''Cows resting on the hillcrest.''The Rolling Hills faces the West Philippine Sea.''View of Basco Lighthouse in Naidi Hills from Vayang.''Vayang Rolling Hills is a favorite grazing spot for many animals including cows and goats.''A farmer leading his carabao (water buffalo) out of the site.''How to get there:''Vayang Rolling Hills can be reached by bike, motorcycle, or tricycle from Basco Airport or Basco Town Proper. A tricycle tour of Batan Island North (''P1000/trip'') makes a stop here.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Marlboro Country: Racuh a Payaman, Batanes''North Batan Tour: 10 Incredible Places in Basco, Batanes''The 3 Lighthouses of Batanes: Basco, Tayid, and Sabtang''Valugan Boulder Beach, Batanes: The Ferocious and the Pacific''12 Breathtaking Sites in Batanes, Philippines''South Batan Tour: 12 Must-Visit Spots in Batanes''It was too much beauty in one place.''Batanes is the smallest province in the Philippines by land area and population, but it is in no way little when it comes to pulchritude. This 10-piece archipelago has so much of spectacular sights to offer to lucky, lucky visitors. A tour in Batan Island alone has the ability to make you question whether everything you see is real. Batanes is dreamy, fantastic, surreal.''Of the three most popular tours in Batanes — North Batan, South Batan, and Sabtang — the first was the least overwhelming, we were told. When we were already exploring the northern half of the island, we were dumbfounded. We were so blown away that we couldn’t imagine how it could be prettier than this.''If South Batan is much more beautiful as others have claimed,''I thought,''then it must be a heck of a destination.''And it is. South Batan has some of the most breathtaking landscapes, whose maps are dotted with a number of historic sites! Here are some of them.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Chawa View Deck''2. Tayid Lighthouse''3. Racuh a Payaman (aka Marlboro Country)''4. Imnajbu Beach''5. Imnajbu Point: Alapad Pass and Rock Formation''6. Ruins at Sitio Songsong''7. Honesty Coffee Shop''8. House of Dakay and the Old Spanish Bridge''9. Homoron Blue Lagoon and White Beach''10. Diura Fishing Village''11. Mahatao Boat Shelter Port''12. San Carlos Borromeo Church''When they were still alive, his parents dreamed of a chapel to which they could just walk. The nearest church then was the Basco Cathedral, more formally known as the Santo Domingo de Guzman Cathedral, which was three kilometers away. They did not make it long enough to see the chapel, but their son, Batanes representative Florencio “Butch” Abad, was able to make that vision a reality.''The Abads are the most prominent and the most powerful family in Batanes. They held many political posts in the province for decades. Fundacion Pacita Batanes Nature Lodge, a high-end resort hotel nestled in a nearby hill, also belongs to the clan. It was they who spearheaded the project, but the community contributed a lot to the\xa0construction of the church that it also becomes a showcase of the building tradition and creative talent of the locals.''Tukon Church is also known as Mt. Carmel Chapel''Local craftsmen, masons and carpenters built the church, whose design\xa0is inspired by the traditional Ivatan stone houses (stacking and bonding boulders to make a wall). Architects\xa0Joven Ignacio and Tina Turralba helped complete the design.''Covering the ceiling are large images of the patron saints standing in front of the churches of the six municipalities of Batanes, painted by scholars of the Pacita Abad Center for the Arts. The stained glass windows and the hardwood pews are contributions from the Abads’ friends and family.''The walls are made of boulders, constructed in traditional Ivatan fashion.''Inside Tukon Chapel''Stained glass behind the chapel’s main crucifix''Ivatan artists painted images of the province’s patron saints on the ceiling.''The church was officially opened on 3 May 2008, in time for the wedding of Rep. Abad’s daughter Julia, who is also the \xa0Presidential Chief of Staff, married Englishman Andrew Parker.''Tukon Chapel sits humbly atop a foothill, an eye-catcher made of stone as though offered by the greenery to the restless skies. Tukon means “mountain” in the Ivatan language, an apt name as it covers generally rugged terrain that lies in the shadow of Mt. Iraya. From here, one can admire the mischievous waves of both the West Philippine Sea and the roaring Pacific.''How to get to Tukon Chapel'': From Basco Airport, Tukon Chapel is just a tricycle ride away. It is one of the stops of the North Batan Tour (P1000 per tricycle, good for 2pax). Our tricycle driver-slash-guide was Dale Veracruz, +63 929 341 0941.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''North Batan Tour: 10 Incredible Places in Basco, Batanes''Valugan Boulder Beach, Batanes: The Ferocious and the Pacific''Snapshot: View from PAGASA Radar Station, Batanes''Marlboro Country: Racuh a Payaman, Batanes''In Pictures: Vayang Rolling Hills, Batanes, Philippines''South Batan Tour: 12 Must-Visit Spots in Batanes''It’s a masterpiece created by the elements. In 400 AD, Mt. Iraya erupted and scattered andesite rocks around the northern half of Batan, which is now Basco, from the fiery guts of the earth. The mighty wind from the Pacific pushed the waves to lap the rough rocks, polishing it in the process. The result: a boulder beach that we now call Valugan.''Valugan means “east” in the Ivatan language. Boulders fill the jagged eastern edge of Batan Island like marbles recklessly dumped in a corner. The elements here are at war. The wind is whistling, the sea slapping the shore, and sharp cliffs breaking the tides. Yet, there is something so trance-inducing about the whole action. Like the ironically named ocean it faces,\xa0Valugan Beach is absolutely pacifying.''Monstrous waves at Valugan Beach''Tataya boats docked at Valugan Beach''Valugan Beach''My co-blogger Vins walking around''The southern end of Valugan Beach is strewn with smaller pebbles''Valugan Beach was the first stop on my first day in Batanes, an unforgettable welcome. I stood on one of the boulders and watched the fierce waves sweep the sea. Every now and then, a splash of water shot toward me, and I would immediately hide the camera under my shirt. The sun was just as harsh at that time as the tour started a little later than usual.''Going around the beach is difficult and a bit risky, but bordering the strip of boulders are much more sole-friendly carpets of grass. A trail southward leads to a bend with small pebbles, not boulders. The waves are also less violent in this part, albeit still not recommended for swimming.''How to get to Valugan Beach'': From Basco airport or your inn in the town proper, Valugan Beach can be reached by bike or tricycle. You may hire a tricycle to take you around North Batan, which includes Valugan Beach. Our guide and tricycle driver contact is Dale Veracruz, +63 929 341 0941. Rate:\xa0P1000, good for 2pax.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''North Batan Tour: 10 Incredible Places in Basco, Batanes''Tukon Chapel: A Promise Fulfilled in Basco, Batanes''In Pictures: Vayang Rolling Hills, Batanes, Philippines''Marlboro Country: Racuh a Payaman, Batanes''12 Breathtaking Sites in Batanes, Philippines''The 3 Lighthouses of Batanes: Basco, Tayid, and Sabtang''The most painful part of traveling to another country for me happens even before the trip begins. It’s that moment when you have to pay the PhP 1620 travel tax.\xa0I don’t mind paying taxes. It’s our obligation as responsible citizens. But it is painful. And it especially feels terrible when:''The travel tax is bigger than the actual airfare''. My one-way ticket to Taipei last year was P1,170.''You don’t know where it goes''. You don’t''see''where it goes.''You have to stand in line for a looooooong time TWICE just to settle it''. First, so the staff could write down your name on the receipt; second, for the actual payment at the cashier.''Last year alone, I traveled abroad from the Philippines six times. That’s PhP 9,720 in taxes (PhP 1,620 each time). Add the P550 terminal fee per trip: That’s around PhP 13,000. Thirteen effing thousand pesos from just one person.''On my last international trip, while waiting for boarding, I let it sink in. We don’t even have to use P13,000 as an example. A passenger traveling in economy pays P1620 each time. Think about what you could do with that money. To some, it might look like a small amount at first, but multiply that by the number of travelers and then by the number of times they travel — that’s A LOT OF MONEY.''Taking a cue from those Cornetto commercials, I began to wonder, “Hanggang saan ang mararating ng P1620 mo?”''Well, very far, apparently. While it cannot''buy you, your friends, or this airport,''that amount can pay for a number of simple things that can improve the airport experience a little bit''. Here are some of them.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. A chair.''2. An inflatable lounge sofa.''3. One-month wi-fi connection.''4. Over 80 bus rides from NAIA to EDSA''5. 16 taxi rides to MRT/LRT!''6. Parking for 5 Days''7. Dozens of city maps!''8. Salary of an extra employee''It’s a tourist’s biggest nightmare: not being allowed by Immigration Officials to board the plane. The trip ends even before it begins. Not only can it be humiliating, it also puts to waste everything invested on planning the trip: time, money, effort, emotions. And with the Bureau of Immigration putting in place stricter measures to combat human trafficking and prevent potential illegal aliens, they may need a little bit more convincing.''According to the Bureau of Immigration, every day''around 40 people are offloaded at NAIA Terminal 1''alone. Most of them had the intention of seeking employment in their destination country without proper papers.''It’s been a highly controversial issue these days with some questioning the constitutionality of the policy , as it goes against a Filipino citizen’s right to travel. Also, its vagueness makes it prone to abuse. But while we continue to discuss this in social media, the bureau has long been implementing this.''So, if you’re traveling to another country soon (especially if it’s your first time) and wish to breeze through the airport immigration process without incident, here are some things that could help:''Related:''First Time Abroad: Frequently Asked Questions''(FAQs)''___'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Immigration Requirements''Secondary Inspection''When Deemed Necessary''Freelancers''Travelers with NO Financial Capability''Automatic Second Inspection''Final Note: Summary''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Immigration Requirements''There are three things that you MUST present to the Immigration Officer before you are allowed to board:''Valid passport''Roundtrip ticket''Visa, if applicable''At the very least, you should have these three. Usually, these are all they will ask from you.''Usually.''Based on experience, however, they sometimes ask the following:''What company do you work for?''In other words, do you have a job?\xa0\xa0In my past 30-ish trips, I was almost always asked to show my company ID as proof.''Where will you be staying?''They sometimes ask to see a copy of your hotel reservation. If you’re staying at a friend’s, they sometimes dig deeper.''Secondary Inspection''When the officers deem necessary'', they will ask for more documents to prove you would be returning.''According to\xa0a memorandum entitled''Guidelines on Departure Formalities for International-Bound Passengers'', released by the Bureau of Immigration to their airport and seaport officers in 2012, the traveler will then be assessed based on the following. (Yes, criteria for judging. 😛 )''Age''Educational attainment''Financial capability to travel''The last item usually becomes the issue. According to the bureau (as told to a news agency), tourists who are more likely to be questioned are:''First-time tourists flying to a not-so-popular destination. (Uhm, hello backpackers. Haha)''Tourists with no steady source of income in the Philippines and no benefactors.''Financial capability is not a requirement'', according to the Bureau. “A\xa0person may only be asked to present further proof for his travel abroad if the person appears to have a reason different from what he has declared before an immigration official.”''Still,''THREE to FOUR of the 50 people who get offloaded actually had legitimate reasons but were still not allowed to leave''. Collateral damage, they say. What went wrong varies from person to person, but they have one thing in common: the Immigration Officers didn’t believe they should leave the country.''“A\xa0person may only be asked to present further proof for his travel abroad if the person appears to have a reason different from what he has declared before an immigration official.” -Bureau of Immigration via Interaksyon''When Deemed Necessary''Show me the moneeey! Char.''The key phrase in the previous section is''WHEN THE OFFICERS DEEM NECESSARY.''What does that mean? It means you’ll never know''for sure''whether you will be subjected to a secondary inspection or not. Your trip happening still highly depends on these gatekeepers.''To avoid getting offloaded, you need to be prepared with the right documents all the time''.''In case you are subjected to a secondary inspection — again, just in case — you need to prove you are coming back to the Philippines soon or that you have the means to financially support this trip. How are you going to do that? It would be best to always have the following with you when you travel, even if you have the truest intentions:''Company ID''A copy of your latest Income Tax Return (ITR)''Certificate of Employment (best if it indicates your salary and how long you have been with the company)''The above items should be sufficient to prove that you are still working here in the Philippines (which means you have something to return for) and that you can fund this trip. In some cases, the officers might ask for more proof.''Freelancers''If you’re a freelancer, you probably don’t have a company ID and no one to get a Certificate of Employment from. Here’s what you should have.''A copy of your Income Tax Return for the past year.''If you pay taxes yourself, you should have it. If the clients pay/paid for you, they usually give you a copy of it when they release the check. If not, ask if they could provide you a copy.''Certificate of Employment-type of document''. Ask your client(s) if you could give you a document certifying that you’re doing business with them. The address and telephone number of the client must be indicated. Best if it also includes the salary and how long you have been working with them.''Business Registration Certificate''. If you’re registered as a Sole Proprietor, a copy of this should also be very helpful.''I always have a copy of those three to be safe. On a recent trip, they were particularly more inquisitive. They asked where I would be staying, what I do for a living, what company I work for, how much money I have. I forgot my ID then but thankfully I had a Certificate of Employment from a client and answered their questions confidently. They let me through.''Here’s the format I followed when I asked my clients to provide some sort of certification that I was working for them. Make sure you have your client’s contact numbers. Best if this is printed on an official letterhead.''Sample Certificate Employment PDF''Travelers with NO Financial Capability''People who can’t financially support the trip themselves should have the following documents handy:''Authenticated affidavit of support\xa0indicating the relationship within the 4th civil degree of\xa0consanguinity or affinity, together with the supporting documents.''An affidavit of undertaking/ guaranty''Note that having the above papers do not guarantee getting through.''Automatic Second Inspection''Please note that if you belong to any of the following, you will be automatically subjected to a secondary inspection:''Travelers without financial capacity to travel escorted/accompanied by a\xa0foreigner who is not related;''Minor traveling alone or unaccompanied by either parent or legal guardian\xa0without the required travel clearance from the Department of Social\xa0Welfare and Development (DSWD)''Repatriated irregular workers, in which case, travel may not be allowed\xa0without the clearance from the IACAT (generate data);''Partners and spouses of foreign nationals intending to depart to meet\xa0and/or marry his/her fiance without the CFO Guidance and Counseling\xa0Certificate''Passengers traveling to countries with existing deployment bans, alert\xa0levels and travel advisories and those in possession of a visas to the said\xa0countries''Passengers who stayed abroad for more than one (1) year during a\xa0previous departure from the country as a tourist/temporary visitor,\xa0intending to depart for the second and/or subsequent time.''Final Note: Summary''All these lead us to three important points:''Have all the requirements'': Valid passport, roundtrip ticket, and visa (if applicable).''Bring a copy of documents that can prove you will travel as a tourist''(and that you will not be working or looking for a job there and/or that you can afford this trip): Company ID, ITR, Certificate of Employment (or Business Registration Certificate), hotel reservation (if applicable), the credit card you used to book the ticket (or a copy of it if it’s not yours).''Be honest, consistent, and confident''. If they ask questions, answer truthfully. Being honest makes you more confident because you know the details no matter how stressful it gets. Know your trip — you don’t need to have a printed itinerary but at least have a sort of plan in your head. Where will you stay? What sites will you visit? When will you return? The last thing you want is to appear like you’re lying even when you’re telling the truth.''Travelers found misrepresenting the purpose of their trip as\xa0tourist shall not be cleared for departure.''This post is based on a memorandum entitled''Guidelines on Departure Formalities for International-Bound Passengers'', released by the Bureau of Immigration to their airport and seaport officers in 2012.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''FIRST TIME ABROAD: Tips and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)''NAIA Terminal 3: What to Do Before an International Flight''HOW TO GET A DSWD TRAVEL CLEARANCE FOR MINORS''JustFly Reviews: 5 Excellent Ways to Survive a Road Trip''How to Book Safe Airport Transfers with KiwiTaxi''HOW TO APPLY FOR A SCHENGEN VISA & Other Frequently Asked Questions''I had to pinch myself as I threw another admiring gaze at Chadpidan Boulder Beach from the top of a hill. Even before we landed, there was an great sense of accomplishment in me just looking at the gorgeously wrinkled landscape of Batan Island.\xa0Batanes has always sat comfortably on top of my list of dream local destinations, and I was finally here. Batanes is surreal.''The 10-piece Batanes Group of Islands formed after colossal underwater volcanic activities millions of years ago. Batan Island was the first to take shape. The capital, Basco, is in the north, in the shadow of Mt. Iraya, an active stratovolcano which last erupted in 1454.''Batan Island is small and can be explored by bicycle, if you have the stamina. The hilly terrain can be quite a challenge. For most tourists who wish a more relaxed tour, the tricycle is a good option. Most tourist spots on the island are divided into two: North and South.''North Batan Tour covers\xa0the sites in the capital Basco, which takes the northernmost third of the map. Many who have been to Batanes consider it the least overwhelming of the arranged tours (by trike or van), but that may be because it\xa0is also the shortest. This makes it the ideal activity on the first day as it gives you a sneak peek of what’s to come. But to give you a sneak peek of what North Batan can offer, here are the places that make up the tour.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Valugan Boulder Beach''2. Nakamaya Burial Grounds''3. Dipnaysupuan Japanese Tunnel''4. Fundacion Pacita''5. PAGASA Weather Station – Basco''6. Tukon Church (Mt. Carmel Chapel)''7. Vayang Rolling Hills''8. Chadpidan Boulder Beach''9. Naidi Hills (Basco Lighthouse + Bunker Cafe)''10. Basco Town Proper''It’s a question that even I get asked all the time: Would it be safe/advisable/fun for a woman to travel to this place?''And as much as I try to give a sufficient answer to that, nothing I say could be as valuable as the words of some of the female travel bloggers that I have always looked up to. Travelers have different needs and face different problems on the road. It is something I have learned over and over again through the years.''Today is International Women’s Day. To celebrate the occasion, we’re paying tribute to 12 empowering Filipinas who have been inspiring men and women alike with their journeys, proving that, like everywhere else, the travel scene isn’t and shouldn’t be a man’s world. (In no particular order.)'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. The Pinay Solo Backpacker''2. Pinay Travel Junkie''3. Lakwatsera de Primera''4. Just Wandering''5. We Are Sole Sisters''6. The Philippine Travelogue''7. Words and Wanderlust''8. The Yellow Adventures''9. Wander If You Must''10. Travel Up''11. Jovial Wanderer''12. Senyorita''Once we were back in Bali, we were brought back to the reality of a giant protected reserve for tourists with infinite stretches of neatly packed boxes of shops with glass facades, mannequins looking out of them with their contemptuous looks. After days with heart shaped toilet buckets and dim hotel lights, I was fumbling with toilet papers and getting blinded with night lights. Flores and Sumba were still deep in my mind, refusing to make way for a new world.''At both the Indonesian islands of Flores and Sumba, we came across unique traditional villages. Houses, characteristic with their husky towering roofs, are central to their culture. The villages vary in their house designs and the elaborate rituals involved in building them. And the pattern of arrangement of the houses is also unique to each village clan. However, invariably, the bottom layers of these houses are for keeping the animals, on top of which are the living areas, above which the layers are used for storage of food, preserved from insects and moisture by the smoke from the firewood stoves placed underneath. Made of wood, bamboo, and dry grass, the houses last less than thirty years and are prone to fires. But the pull of tradition is too strong. Those who build modern houses are often excommunicated.''The Manggarai people in the eastern highlands of Flores divide their rice fields in a spider web pattern. The village head distributes land among the villagers in parcels of triangular patterns or Lodok, starting at the centre.''Traditional village of Wae Rebo in Flores''And only in Sumba and Flores, men’s fashion still gets some attention. The most expensive cloth (ikat) is given to the groom as a return gift for the bride-price. Only women are involved in ikat making, a skill that adds to her potential as a worthy bride. Making ikat is laborious; the weaver has to wait for weeks for that perfect berry to blossom in that faraway vine to get the colour her man must wear. Men are forbidden to be anywhere near the dye making process.''At Komodo and Rinca islands, we had seen Komodo Dragons begging tourists for food. There are many similarities between humans and Komodos. Their babies take nine months to come out. They also suffer from bad breath. And they are usually monogamous; almost a similarity with humans. But there are many stark differences too. There are four males for every female Komodo. And Komodo mothers can give birth asexually. Imagine the life of a Komodo male, who after overcoming all these struggles, ends up with a partner with bad breath.''At Flores, we had visited the colored lakes of Kelimutu. These three volcanic lakes change color rather whimsically. The local Lio people believe that the spirits of those who die at an old age go to reside at one of the azure lakes, of those who die young go to the one next to it, and of those who had been evil are condemned to the Coca Cola colored lake.''And how can I forget the excitement of the annual mock fight in Sumba? During the fight, called the Pasola, two teams drawn from different villages confront each other. Men dressed in traditional garb, riding horses, gallop towards opponents, throwing blunt wooden spears. The fights are usually stopped when blood spills for the first time, an event considered auspicious for the coming harvest.''Sumba is known as the Texas of Indonesia''The climax of our trip was on the day we attended a funeral in Sumba. Over two hundred people had been invited. We melted at their warm welcome. But we also witnessed the sacrifice of seven buffaloes and four pigs. The locals explained that the Sumbanese believe that blood spilled in front of the house of the deceased smoothens her passage to heaven with the slaughtered animals joining her in heaven.''Despite being largely Christians, the Sumbanese still widely practice rituals from their native religion, Marapu. And according to Marapu, death is the point of escape from the world of common insignificance to an elevated realm, a few steps closer to God. Accordingly ancestors are revered a lot more than the living. Funerals are therefore extremely important occasions in Sumbanese culture involving elaborate ceremonies. Such occasions are also opportunities to send a message about the sponsor’s social standing. It is common in Sumba to build a tomb for oneself or someone else in the family who was still alive, again for the reason of sending a social signal.''The Sumbanese spend great fortunes to build tombs and organize large feasts to commemorate both tomb-building and burials. The grander the tomb and the feasts, the stronger the message sent about the sponsor\x92s social standing.''The villages of Sumba have seen many battles, over slaves and land. As recently as 1998, there were bloody clashes between rival clans over the matter of disrespect shown to an important person. However, on more normal days, the Sumbanese are extremely dignified, polite, gentle and respectful. There are too many layers to a Sumbanese, a visible layer, shaped from poverty and harsh weather, a penchant for visual displays of violence, a history of bloody communal fights, stiff and rigid norms of society, codified for ages, draining lives without pause; and then there were the same faces that put down all their armoury, bravado and rigidity with the humblest of smiles, which they were ever ready to display, even if stained with a murky blood red, from the betel nut they chewed all day.''And even today, long after we came back to our home in Singapore, Mama Mena of Bajawa, a vegetable seller with a measly income, keeps messaging me asking about our health and telling us that all the ladies in her stretch of Pasar Bajawa (Market) were talking about us every day. And the Moustache Uncle of Waingapu, who sold chickens, messages us asking if we had already sent the pictures, getting anxious as the mail failed to show up at his address that just said, “John Kumis at Pasar Ayam, Waikabubak.”''Waikabubak, Waingapu, Waikelele, Waitabula, Waitabar; all those names with Wai that meant water; just like in other Polynesian languages like those used by native Hawaiian and Maori people; a remarkable connection from antiquity; so one town meant water that was boiling; another meant water that was blue; I was fast forgetting which was which.''Did the trip matter to me in any deeper way than any other holiday? Of course, there was the pleasure of not being reachable by my superiors in office, what with the erratic mobile connections in the remote places, but a lingering worry was that they were also not bothering to contact me; was I turning irrelevant? And then, I and Lobo figured out that we could tolerate each other just enough to get married. Besides these, it was invigorating to come up close with those traits of human nature that is usually suppressed in more petrified environments; the trust of strangers, the simplicity, and the fear of death. I was still floating on a pool of unfamiliar collection of myths, whether lakes full of dead souls, or Komodos that were actually siblings of humans, to create a fascinating world of tender stories standing softly on a cold base of otherwise rational explanations.''Nonetheless, I was struggling to find big metaphors for our trip. There was no event that I could think of as life-changing, the ones much loved by application forms of those elite business colleges. I flipped through the pictures we had taken, hoping for some clue, something to brag about in brief, without earning a confirmed reputation of opprobrium. Out of the thousands we had taken, warm and radiant, occasionally with a dazzle of blue, there was one, not brilliantly framed, where the parang was an inch away from the buffalo, well on its way to tear off its veins in the next millisecond. With its eyes closed, the buffalo seemed to be anticipating the blow. It was alive at the moment, but a blink of an eye away from irreversible death. I knew what happened after that. But it was what it was at that moment. That moment had excited me, just as Daniel had said that Sumbanese funerals were exciting. But that moment had passed, the buffalo had died. The stars that we saw in numbers we had not heard of before, even they would go through their own individual moments from where they will fall into an irreversible decay. The Komodos would give in one day too, slowly wiped out by some predator or ecological change or by a sudden strike by the meteor or crazy weapons. Even the lakes of Kelimutu, full of the spirits, good and bad, would disappear one day, swallowed in by tectonic forces or a sudden outward eruption. All along the roads we had taken, there was smell of death and rot, a flattened frog, long dry; a puppy that had been just run over, its mashed head a gooey red; a dead rat, thrown around by jumpy crows. In between all this transience, I was finding it tempting to be part of a myth, a realm where one can become an ancestor and stay as such for infinity, watching everything, feeling everything, remaining real, in memories and consciousness of everyone yet to be born, even if diluted in identity, but still not extinct till mankind itself became extinct.''Buffaloes play a critical role in Flores and Sumba societies. Buffaloes are gifted or sacrificed during key events in life: birth, wedding, and funeral. Buffalo horns are used to decorate houses to denote their status''But even being a part of this myth was under threat, from secular rationality, from collective wisdom of organized big religions, from the stigma attached by the media, and simple economics which made ancestor veneration seem too expensive for its value. I hoped this world might linger around just a bit longer, only for me, to feel a little more permanent. I was being selfish for I had moved on, and these people of Sumba and Flores would also move on. Who was I to ask them to not put a mall around the Kelimutu lakes or to not abandon their elaborate traditional homes for Bahaus brick blocks with French names? But for now, I just wanted to dream a little bit more, soaked in this wet, wild world, where strangers walked around me in silence, watchful that nothing disturbs me, from this magical peace.''How to reach Flores and Sumba:''In Flores, Labuan Bajo, Ende, and Maumere are the key ports of entry and exit. There are flights and ships from major towns in Indonesia to all these locations.''Waikabubak and Waingapu are the major towns of Sumba. To reach Waikabubak, the easy way is to fly from Bali to Tambaloka in Sumba and then take a two hour drive to Waikabubak. Another way to reach Sumba, richer in experience but poorer in terms of comfort is to take a ship from Pelni, the national Indonesian shipping company.''About the author'': Writer, traveler, and photographer; Shivaji Das is the author of Journeys with the caterpillar:''Travelling through the islands of Flores and Sumba, Indonesia''. He was born and brought up in the north-eastern province of Assam in India. He graduated from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi, subsequent to which he completed his post-graduation from the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Calcutta.''He is presently working as a management consultant in Singapore. Shivaji’s writings have been published in various magazines such as TIME, Asian Geographic, Venture Mag, Jakarta Post, Hack Writers, GoNOMAD, etc. He has also given talks on the culture of Flores and Sumba in Singapore, Morocco, China, Indonesia and Brazil. His photographs in collaboration with his wife, Yoland Yu, have been exhibited in the Darkroom Gallery, Vermont (USA), Kuala Lumpur International Photography Festival (Malaysia), the Arts House (Singapore), and the National Library (Singapore).''Besides travelling, Shivaji also takes an active interest in migrant issues and eradication of underage poverty and is associated with Singapore based organization Transient Workers Count Too (TWC2).''Follow him on'':''Official Website'',''YouTube'',''Twitter'',''Facebook'',''Google+''About the book'':''Elaborate funeral rites with sacrifices, volcanic lakes that change colour every few years, animist societies living in isolated villages, giant Komodo Dragons lurking behind kitchens.''“Journeys with the caterpillar” is a humble and humorous attempt to capture the dramatic simplicity of Nusa Tenggara Timur(NTT) in Indonesia, covering the islands of Flores, Komodo, Rinca and Sumba.''All royalties from this book are donated to Ayo Indonesia and Yayasan Harapan Sumba (YHS), two not-for-profits organizations in Flores and Sumba respectively. Get it on''Amazon''!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Makassar, Indonesia: 5 Places to Visit in 3 Days''GILI ISLANDS ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''How to Get to Gili Islands from Bali or Lombok Airport''YOGYAKARTA ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Kawah Putih: Breathless in Bandung, Indonesia''Asian African Carnival 2015 in Bandung, Indonesia''A more updated version of this article can be found here:''Masasa Travel Guide''Batangas used to keep so many secrets.''Matabungkay''(Lian) was a secluded paradise until two Germans “rediscovered” it in the 1950s, which put it on the tourist map. Laiya (San Juan) was also a hidden gem until Manila-based beach bums made its long stretch of white sand their go-to beach for weekend getaways.''Whatever other secrets Batangas holds will not stay that way for long. Its proximity to capital easily makes it an easy target for the beach-chasing crowd. This makes Masasa Beach a surprise, the kind that does not shock but pushes you to a joyful reverie.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Not So Distant Allure''Close But Cloistered''I feared that my island hopping plan had died, and the coffin loaded on boat right in front of me was not a good sign. (Seriously, there was a coffin.) It was three in the afternoon and I had been waiting for an hour for the boatman. Still no message from him. Another half hour and it would be too late for a tour, wasting all the time I spent getting here. When the coffin-carrying boat sailed, I knew I had to come up with a Plan B.''Had I been a diver, Plan B would have come easily. Anilao is a destination popular for the diving, not for its beaches. Unfortunately for me, I am no diver. Not yet, at least.''It was empty.''While Tubbataha Reef is widely considered the Philippines’ Diving Mecca, many regard Anilao as an Eden, the birthplace of scuba diving in the country. Much has been said about the natural treasure-trove it keeps beneath the waves, but its beaches are often overlooked.''Anilao is a quiet barangay on the northern coast of Mabini, a cape-municipality that separates Balayan Bay from Batangas Bay. Its shores are mostly rocky, but in between some of the promontories are small pockets of white and beige sand for the picky beach bum.''Beach near the port in Anilao''A beach resort in Anilao''I had not much time for the sun would be gone in a couple of hours. From the port I let my eyes scan the surrounding for a spot good enough for a quick laze and dip affair. To the north was a beige stretch that bends in the distance. I made my way through a residential area to get to the beach. The sand was not as fine as most white beaches I had stepped on, but it was good enough. It was a February weekend, off peak, and there weren’t that many tourists in the area.''A walk farther north along the so-called Seashore Trail took me to a narrow estuary that leads into a lush forest. I could not believe how virgin it looked despite its proximity to the port and national highway. The shore is freckled with rough rocks but near the berm is supple sand, much friendlier to the sole. A more cloistered beach near the “Colorful Rocks” lay at the end of the trail but I was afraid the dark would catch me on the way. I stayed under an old, dilapidated hut near the shore and waited for the sunset.''Anilao is in Mabini, Batangas''Burning bush''Rocky coast''Honey-colored Anilao sunset''It was an almost complete silence; I could not even hear the swashes stammer their name.\xa0The silhouette of the sharp cliffs sticking out into Balayan Bay grew darker by the minute. The horizon that moments ago was sweet and honey-colored revealed a fiery, fierce attitude. It may be nothing compared to the wonders the sea hides below the surface, but it was a beauty that anyone could never deny.''How to get to Anilao'': From Manila, take a bus to Batangas City (P150-P170). Travel time depends on whether the bus would take the CALABARZON Expressway (STAR Tollway) or not; 2 hours or shorter if it would, 3 hours if not. Get off at Batangas Grand Terminal, where you will find jeepneys bound for Anilao (P35, 45 minutes). From here, you may take a tricycle to your resort.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Malabrigo Beach: Stoned Solitude in Lobo, Batangas''15 CHEAP BUT AWESOME Destinations Near MANILA''12 MUST-VISIT BEACHES IN BATANGAS, PHILIPPINES''Anawangin Cove: Misadventures in Zambales, Philippines''Dampalitan Island: Overnight Camping in Padre Burgos, Quezon''Borawan Beach in Pagbilao, Quezon''The swarm of tourists was the first to catch my attention when I emerged from Shibuya Station. Curious (as usual), I swooshed to their direction and found a tail. And a tale, too.''It’s a story I have long been familiar with even before this trip to the Land of the Rising Sun. A statue of Hachiko, the faithful dog, sits comfortably in the middle of circular benches where many locals and tourists alike pass the time.''Faithful dog Hachiko''Like many of these people, Hachiko used to spend much of his time waiting right outside the station. He\xa0was a golden brown Akita dog (a large spitz breed common in Japan’s mountainous regions). One day in 1924, University of Tokyo professor Hidesaburo Ueno took notice of him and took him as a pet. Over a year, they developed a friendship and routine: at the end of each day, Hachiko would wait for the professor at the station and greet him just after work.''One day in May 1925, the professor did not show up.\xa0He had died after a cerebral hemorrhage.''For the next nine years, Hachiko continued to return to the same spot to wait for his friend, getting the attention of the passersby who grew curious of his presence. A journalist might have had more interest because Hachiko’s story was published on Asahi Shimbun, a morning paper, in October 1932. It touched the hearts of many commuters, some even bringing him food.''In April 1934, Hachiko was back at Shibuya Station. This time, a bronze statue, erected in celebration of his loyalty, was unveiled. Almost a year later, on 8 March 1935, Hachiko was found dead on a street nearby. He had terminal cancer. His statue remains standing on its west end, where he continues to wait and wait.''How to get to Shibuya Crossing'': Take the train to Shibuya Station and then use Hachiko Exit. Shibuya Crossing is that crowded intersection right in front of you when you come out of the station.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''SHIBUYA CROSSING: The World’s Busiest Intersection – Tokyo, Japan''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''Lake Kawaguchi: Under the Spell of Mt. Fuji, Japan''HOW TO GET FROM OSAKA TO TOKYO: The Cheapest Way''Top 10 Best and Worst Travel Moments of 2016''HOW TO GET TO DISNEYLAND from Tokyo Downtown or Airport''The lights turned green, and it was on!''The swarms that had built up on all sides of the intersection rushed across the street on cue. It’s a mad scramble, a perfect example of organized chaos. With a camera in one hand and a cup of coffee in the other, I had a good view of it in action from the second floor of a nearby Starbucks store. It has been dubbed''The''World’s Busiest Intersection'', although I’m not sure if there are actual numbers to back it up''Crossing Shibuya Intersection'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Organized Chaos''Hachiko''Shop and Dine District''I blame it on the weather. No, I blame my bed.''It was already past noon when I finally reached Lake Kawaguchiko Station. No thanks to the January cold; it just felt so damn good to stay in bed and forget about the outside world. But I was under the spell of a majestic beauty. She was calling.''I had quite a long list of places to visit in Kawaguchiko — including the northern shore of the lake to catch the mountain’s early morning \xa0— but I was late. Squeezing them into a half-day tour would be impossible. It’s winter; the lazy sun would be retiring earlier than usual, which gives me just a few hours of daylight.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'A World Heritage Site''Kachi Kachi Ropeway''Other Attractions''When the gods showered Batangas with fine sand, Malabrigo was probably stoned. But somehow it managed to catch tons of pebbles. And it’s not a consolation. Not at all.''A ten-minute tricycle ride across agricultural lands took me to a quiet seaside neighborhood. The driver pointed to the direction of the shore through someone’s backyard. “That’s the beach,” he said. “Keep left and you’ll find the lighthouse.”''Even from the road, I could already sense the scent of the ocean. Yes, even despite the strong smell of fried fish that floated in the air. The owners of the house were having breakfast, al fresco-style.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Stoned Solitude''Pebbly Pulchritude''Luminous Attitude''It only takes one quick look to see that Seoul is one giant shopping mall. Outside its grand palaces and hanok villages and in between cafes (and mind you, there are countless of them), fashion shops tempt passersby with its endless barrage of apparel, accessories, and souvenirs. While you can find them almost everywhere, tourists flock in many of the city’s most frequented shopping streets and districts. Here are eight of them.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Myeongdong''2. Dongdaemun Market''3. Namdaemun Market''4. Gwangjang Market''5. Itaewon''6. Insadong''7. Ewha Women’s University''8. Hongdae''It is difficult to find “Old Seoul” outside the city’s grand palaces and hanok villages. The South Korean capital is quite a metropolis — modern, industrialized, and pulsating with a vibe that is undeniably futuristic. Western influences have seeped through its many districts: English is becoming increasingly common, European-style cafes sprout in many corners, and global brands have found their place in the streets as well as in the consciousness of its younger population. Every now and then, you find something that takes you to its yesteryears. But nothing as strong as Gwangjang Market.''Gwangjang Market''There’s so much about Gwangjang Market that is disorienting but strangely refreshing. The place is a wormhole. From the outside, you won’t find any clue that housed in a plain-looking building is a piece of the city’s past, well-kept and thriving.\xa0Built in 1905, it is Seoul’s first traditional''daily''marketplace.''It may not be as famous as its counterparts in Dongdaemun and Namdaemun, but it has a few more charms to the more curious tourists. Gwangjang is a favorite among locals for stores selling silk and tailored hanbok. But among foreign visitors like me, its biggest draw is quite obvious — the food.''I wasn’t even hungry when I visited. But it changed as soon as I stepped into the market. Steam filled the air, a welcome change from the hostile winter. A smorgasbord of Korean signature dishes bombarded my senses, and the lunch I just had somewhere else seemed to have vanished magically.''The first to greet me were two lanes of kimchi variations. I did not even know it comes in as many types — cabbage, radish, to name a few. I followed the scent of something deep-fried and found several stalls of''bindaetteok'', a type of crispy pancake made from ground mung beans. Vegetables and some meat are added.''Kimchi Overload at Gwangjang Market''Bindaetteok (KRW 4000)''Bindaetteok reminds me so much of Osaka’s okonomiyaki. But instead of cabbage, they use mung beans.''First order of business:\xa0find an empty seat. And at 7pm, it was no easy task. The set up here is simple. You pick a stall, take a seat, and place an order. The vendor then prepares your meal, and you wait as you feast your eyes on the dishes and ingredients in front of you. For many tourists, since many stalls serve the same dishes, it’s just a matter of which has ample vacant space.''Bibimbap''is one of the most popular. Literally means “mixed rice,” it is served in a bowl and is topped with''namul''(seasoned veggies) and''gochujang''(chili pepper paste).''Mayak kimbap''is also as ubiquitous. Kimbap (or gimbap) is rice and other ingredients rolled in dried laver seaweed, a descendant of the Japanese maki (futomaki). Mayak means “drugs” in Korean. Who’s idea it is to name such a delicious dish after drugs, I don’t know. But it’s not hard to see why, it’s addictively good.''Japchae''(chapchae), dangmyeon stir-fried in sesame oil, \xa0and''tteokboki'',''chewy rice cakes in sweet and spicy sauce,\xa0are\xa0also present in most kiosks.''Find a seat, place an order, and take photos of your food. Hahaha. Pay after you finish your meal.''Bibimbap ingredients occupy most of the space. A serving costs KRW 3000.''Mayak Kimbap (KRW 3000)''Japchae or chapchae''More kimchi?''The calls of friendly hawkers grew louder as I walked deeper into the site. The offerings also got more bizarre. Pig’s ears and feet (which are a favorite of mine even here in the Philippines) became a more dominant sight. But what really caught my attention was those big, ugly, worm-like sausages.''Sundae''(or soondae)''It is not difficult to forget that Baguio is high up in the mountains.''When I think of the City of Pines, what comes to mind is an image of, well, pine trees. Pine trees rising from red needle-covered slopes. Pine trees that sometimes hide behind sheets of fog in the early morning. Pine trees first, way before a picture of a mall standing atop a hill or blocks of apartment buildings dominating the landscape.\xa0Development is unrelenting. It seems that each step it takes toward a more commercialized future turns its rustic atmosphere into a thing of the past.''Camp John Hay, however, still fosters that atmosphere. While much has changed around the camp over the years, it still paints a picture of how many of us imagine or recall its cool, down-to-earth vibe.''Established on\xa0October 25, 1903 , it has undergone major changes over its 100-year history. But I’ll spare you the lengthy''history lesson''. The short of it is this:\xa0Formerly an R&R (rest and recreation) station exclusively for the US Armed Forces in the Philippines, the camp was named after Pres. Theodore Roosevelt’s Secretary of State John Milton Hay. It was bombed by attacking Japanese forces during World War II, and fell back in the hands of the Americans in 1945. Almost half a century later, it was turned over to the Philippine government, which transformed the site into a tourist attraction.''A visit to Baguio City is never complete without a stop at Camp John Hay. The place has everything everyone loves about the city — recreation and a respite from the heavy jolt of urban living. Here are 7 activities in Camp John Hay that you might find refreshing.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Dare to Try Treetop Adventure Rides.''2. Trek!''3. \xa0Enjoy an hour or two at the Butterfly Sanctuary.''4. Visit the Bell House.''5. Ditch bad habits at the Cemetery of Negativism.''6. Pig out!''7. Picnic!''Korean drama series''Winter Sonata''can take credit for much of the boom in Namiseom Island’s tourism. The series filmed many of its iconic scenes in this half-moon-shaped island.''Before the series, tourists were mostly domestic and Japanese. But since 2002, when the romantic drama became a huge it across the continent, the island has seen a significant increase in visitors from the Philippines, Malaysia, and other Southeast Asian countries.''A statue of the drama’s main characters stand on one end of the famous metasoquoia lane. Opposite the couple is a small gallery featuring screengrabs from the most memorable scenes of the Korean TV hit.''How to get to Nami Island'': The easiest way is via a shuttle bus. Advance reservation is required. Call +82 (0) 2 753 1247 to reserve a seat. Once they confirmed, show up on the day of travel at Tapgol Park in Insadong, where the bus is waiting. The same bus will take you back to Seoul later that afternoon.''Rate: KRW 23,000 (inclusive of roundtrip bus transfers, roundtrip ferry fare, and entrance fee).''View Larger Map''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Gwangjang Market: Frugal Food-Lover’s Paradise in Seoul''8 Shopping Places in SEOUL, South Korea''Trick Eye Museum in Seoul''HOW TO APPLY for a SOUTH KOREA VISA in MANILA 2018''NAMI ISLAND ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itineraries 2017''BORYEONG MUD FESTIVAL: Budget Travel Guide & Itinerary''It’s Day 6 of my Tokyo trip, and it’s been one of my best trips this year. It’s winter and the temperature plays between six and zero degrees, but the cold does not stop me from spending most of my time outside. Tokyo is a big city, and it has a lot to offer to explorers — century-old shrines, shopping centers, and a truckload of gastronomic delights.''In the next few days, I will be setting foot on the surrounding areas of Kamakura and Odaiba. But I am most excited about getting up close and personal with Mt. Fuji. There are only two ski resorts on its slopes, and I will be enjoying one of them next week. It will be my first time to see and touch real snow. I know it’s shallow and all, but this is what I am most excited about coming here in winter.''I have now experienced Japan in the summer and winter, but I am not done yet. Third time’s a charm, they say. And the third time better be in spring! There’s only one reason for it — CHERRY BLOSSOMS!''Here comes the best part.''Brother Philippines, your most reliable brand for printers, is treating a lucky winner to a TRIP FOR 2 TO TOKYO to experience the magical Cherry Blossoms season! All you need to do is tell us why you want and deserve to go to Japan in 10 words.''Given how *expensive* flights and everything else in Tokyo can be, this is truly a heck of a giveaway!''Joining is easy. Here’s how:''1. Visit the official promo page —''www.brother10fortokyo.com''— and click the “LIKE US AND ENTER” button. You must like the Brother page.''2. Take 10 photos using the built in photo booth or upload 10 photos explaining in 10 words why you deserve to win a trip to Tokyo, Japan from Brother International.\xa0You may only use 10 words, one word printed in one sheet of paper.''3. Make sure that a\xa02013-issue Brother Monolaser Printer of any model must be clearly visible in at least 5 photos.''4. Fill out the registration form on the website to complete the process!''5. Ask your friends to vote for your entry!''It’s that easy! Be as CREATIVE and IMAGINATIVE as you can! You can submit up to 3 entries!''One winner will be picked based on creativity and relevance to the theme (85%) and online votes (15%). The winner fly to Tokyo with a friend and stay for 4 days and 3 nights!''For the full mechanics, visit their''Facebook page''.''Need more inspiration? Here is a''sample''that can jumpstart the flowing of those creative juices!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''TOKYO IN WINTER: 7 Awesome Things to Do in and around the City''PROMO ALERT! Win 1 Million Wyndham Reward Points (66 Free Nights)!''ARASHIYAMA, KYOTO: A DIY Walking Tour''SAPPORO ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary 2017''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''Lake Kawaguchi: Under the Spell of Mt. Fuji, Japan''China was one country I had always tried to dodge in the past few years. There was just so much negativity going on between China and the Philippines — the dragging territorial disputes, the execution of Filipino drug traffickers, and a few unsavory stories from friends who were detained upon arrival for a random inspection. Not to mention that they had one of the most demanding list of visa requirements among our Asian neighbors. All these things, in a way, made me a bit hesitant to book a ticket.''But this vast, vast country cradles many of the places in my Must-Visit-Before-I-Die list: the Great Wall, the Tianzi Mountains in Zhangjiajie, \xa0the Li River in Guilin, the Rainbow Mountains in Danxia, and Tibet. Flying to China was bound to happen sooner or later. Sooner, it turned out, so I had to get myself a Chinese visa earlier this year.''Thankfully, Chinese visa processes seem to have loosened up a bit over the years. For starters, they no longer require SSS Contribution proof and NBI Clearance.''Here’s how you can get a Tourist Visa from the Chinese Embassy in Manila.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Complete the basic requirements.''2. Prove that you can afford this trip.''3. Submit all the documents to the Chinese Embassy.''This is a visa guide for tourists planning to apply in Manila. If it’s more convenient, you can also apply in Cebu. Here’s the process:''How to Apply for Korean Visa in Cebu''. Last updated: February 2018.''South Korea is a dream destination to many Filipinos. Thanks to the advent of K-Pop, the rise of koreanovelas, and the flourishing of the Korean diaspora in the Philippines.''I have made good friends with a number of Koreans over the years: classmates, workmates, bosses. And all of them have brought with them great tales about their homeland, putting South Korea on my travel map. But it wasn’t until this month that I was finally able to make this trip a reality.''Visa applications can be intimidating to many, especially first-timers. While you may hire a travel agency to do this, I strongly advise you against it because you can easily do it yourself. The truth is, it is a very simple process. Getting a Korean visa is easy, fast, and FREE.''Here’s a quick step-by-step guide on how to acquire a tourist visa from the Korean Embassy on your own.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'List of Korean Visa Requirements''For Employees''For Self-Employed''For Housewives''For Students''Important Notes''How to Apply for a Korean Visa''1. Complete all the requirements.''2. Submit the documents to the Korean Embassy.''3. Claim your visa on the scheduled date of release.''Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)''How early can I apply for a South Korea Visa?''How long would I be allowed to stay in Korea?''Do I need to book flights and hotels before applying?''Do I need a travel agency for this?''My employer said they can’t provide the company alphalist because it’s confidential. What can I do?''What is the Visa Issuance Confirmation in the Section 2 of the Application Form?''If my application is denied, can I apply again?''What does a South Korea visa look like?''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''List of Korean Visa Requirements''Below are the basic requirements.''Duly accomplished application form''.''Download here''. You can also find it below.''1 passport size colored photo''Passport''(must still be valid for at least 6 months)''Photocopy of the passport Bio page''(Page 2)''Photocopy of all your OECD Visas (If You Have Them)''. Only if you have them. If you don’t, skip this part. If you have visas to any member country of the\xa0\xa0Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), you will need to submit''the ORIGINAL copy and a photocopy''of all of them. (Past Korean visas are not counted.) To see all the OECD member countries, visit''this website''.''If invited by a Korean'': an Invitation letter and a copy of the inviter’s passport. (Ignore if not applicable.)''Korea Visa Application Form''.''In addition, you will need to prove that you can support the trip. Here are the additional documents you need to secure according to your employment status.''For Employees''Certificate of Employment''. Must be original; and must have the address of the employer, the landline number and email address of employer’s HR department,  applicant’s position, date hired, and compensation. Mobile number is not allowed.''Original Personal Bank Certificate''. Must include account type, current balance, account opening date, ADB.''Original or certified true copy of bank statements/passbook''covering the last 3 months.''ITR''(Income Tax Return, Form 2316) and Company Alphalist (Form 1604 CF with BIR received stamp). Highlight your name on the Alphalist.''Copy of PRC Card or IBP Card (If applicable only)''For Self-Employed''Photocopy of Business registration form''from DTI or SEC''Photocopy of Business permit or Mayor’s permit''Photocopy of ITR (Income Tax Return) or Form 2316''with corresponding payment receipt from BIR authorized bank''Original Personal Bank Certificate''. Must include account type, current balance, account opening date, ADB.''Original or certified true copy of bank statements/passbook''covering the last 3 months.''Copy of PRC Card or IBP Card''(If applicable only)''For Housewives''Your own or your husband’s original Bank Certificate''. Must include account type, current balance, account opening date, ADB.''Your own or your husband’s Bank Statement''. Original or certified true copy of bank statements/passbook for the last 3 months.''If husband is employed''– Husband’s Original Certificate of Employment. Must be original; and must have the address of the employer, the landline number and email address of employer’s HR department,  applicant’s position, date hired, and compensation. Mobile number is not allowed.''– Copy of ITR (Income Tax Return) or Form 2316 Copy AND Company Alphalist (Form 1604 CF with BIR received stamp). Highlight your name on the list.''If husband is self-employed''– Copy of husband’s Business Registration from SEC or DTI''– Copy of husband’s Business Permit or Mayor’s Permit(Copy)''– Photocopy of husband’s ITR (Income Tax Return) or Form 2316 with corresponding payment receipt from BIR authorized bank''Photocopy of NSO Marriage Certificate''For Students''Original School Certificate''Photocopy of School ID''Photocopy of NSO Birth Certificate of applicant''If parents are employed''– Parents’ Original Certificate of Employment. Must be original; and must have the address of the employer, the landline number and email address of employer’s HR department,  applicant’s position, date hired, and compensation. Mobile number is not allowed.''– Copy of ITR (Income Tax Return) or Form 2316 Copy AND Company Alphalist (Form 1604 CF with BIR received stamp). Highlight your name on the list.''If parents are self-employed''– Copy of parents’ Business Registration from SEC or DTI''– Copy of parents’ Business Permit or Mayor’s Permit(Copy)''– Photocopy of parents’ ITR (Income Tax Return) or Form 2316 with corresponding payment receipt from BIR authorized bank''Parents’ Original Bank Certificate''. Must include account type, current balance, account opening date, ADB.''Parents’ Bank Statement''. Original or certified true copy of bank statements/passbook for the last 3 months.''Copy of parents’ marriage certificate''.''Important Notes''UPDATE REGARDING THE ITR!''(March 2018): The embassy has announced that''starting 26 March 2018, first-time travelers who have NOT traveled as tourists to any OECD country within the last 5 years''MUST submit the following:''–''For Employees'', ITR with BIR Received or BIR Certified True Copy Stamp, and Copy of Alphalist with BIR Received Stamp (Form 1604 CF). You must highlight your name on the alphalist''–''For Self-Employed'', BIR Form with Corresponding Payment Receipt from a BIR-authorized bank.''Frequent travelers who have been to OECD member countries within the past 5 years are also exempted from submitting ITR. I’m not sure how many OECD visas it takes to qualify as a frequent traveler.''If you’re a freelancer, read:''Korea Visa FAQs''The guards at Gyeongbokgung Palace gate''How to Apply for a Korean Visa''1. Complete all the requirements.''Make sure you have gathered all the requirements listed above.''The list follows a certain order. The basic requirements first, then photocopy of OECD visas, then the financial/employment documents, and lastly the invitation letter or cover letter if you have it.''You will also be given the list when you enter the embassy, so you can rearrange the docs on the spot.''2. Submit the documents to the Korean Embassy.''Now that you have all the required documents, it’s time for a visit to the embassy. You just need to go to the embassy or consulate, get a number, and wait several minutes.''Here are their addresses:''KOREAN EMBASSY IN MANILA''122 Upper McKinley Road, McKinley Town Center, Fort Bonifacio, Taguig city 1634, Philippines''Email Address: ph04@mofa.go.kr''Contact No.: (63-2) 856-9210 visa local no. 270, 500''At the Embassy in Manila, this is how the process goes:''Register and leave an ID at the guard’s station before entering the consular center.''Once inside, get a number from the personnel stationed by the door. He will check if you have all the docs. If he’s satisfied, he will give you a number.''Wait for your number to be called. Note that there are separate windows for those with and without past OECD visas.''Once called, the staff will double check the requirements and ask you questions. After that, they will give you a slip of paper with the DATE OF RELEASE in it.''Smile. You’re done.''IMPORTANT''!\xa0Schedule of application in Manila: Monday-Friday 08:30am-11am only''However, come as early as you can. When there are too many applicants, the embassy stops accepting applications earlier than usual.''Visa Fees:''FREE''for stays shorter than 59''P1350 for 60-90-day stays''Processing time'':''3 working days – for those applying in Manila with OECD tourist visas within the past 5 years.''5 working days – for those applying in Manila without OECD visas''3. Claim your visa on the scheduled date of release.''Return to the embassy on the date indicated in the form given to you.''Releasing of visa schedule: Monday-Friday 1:30pm-4pm''Before leaving the counter, double check that your name, passport number, and other details are CORRECT to avoid troubles in the future.''Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)''How early can I apply for a South Korea Visa?''You can enter Korea at any time within the next 3 months (90 days) of the issue date. So if your visa is issued on July 1, you can enter anytime before October 1.''So that means, you can apply as early as 3 months (90 days) before your departure date.''How long would I be allowed to stay in Korea?''59 days'', if you’re granted a regular tourist visa.''You can apply for a longer stay but you must be able to justify that.''Do I need to book flights and hotels before applying?''No. They’re not required. I’ve tried submitting these before, but they removed it from the pile.''Do I need a travel agency for this?''The Korean Embassy is set to implement a new application system that would require applicants to course their application through any of their accredited travel agencies. However, that is not in place yet.''For now, you can still work on the application yourself. It’s easy, fast, and free. However, if for whatever reason this isn’t a practical option — you live in the province, you just can’t spare a working day for this — by all means, find a travel agency. Just remember that they will charge you a service fee.''The travel agency we usually work with is''Gazelle Travel and Tours'', a DOT-accredited firm. They actually became our go-to agency for Schengen visa requirements, but they offer Korean visa assistance too for P700. Again, our experience with them is for flight reservation for Schengen visa. We haven’t tried their Korean visa service. We’re just sharing that they have that service too. Anyway, if you’re interested, email them at''travelbookings@1gazelle.com''.''My employer said they can’t provide the company alphalist because it’s confidential. What can I do?''Thankfully, one of the members of our Facebook community, Ms. Caye Sadie, got in touch with the Korean Embassy to ask that same question, and here’s their reply.''If the applicant can’t submit the company alpha list (Form 1604 CF with BIR stamp), they can submit an explanation letter. However, it will be subject to approval of the Officer-in-Charge.''But feel free to call the Korean Embassy to confirm. Here are the numbers:''Manila'': (63-2) 856-9210 visa local no. 270, 500''Cebu'': (63-32) 231-1516(-9)''What is the Visa Issuance Confirmation in the Section 2 of the Application Form?''The Section 2 of the application form calls for details of Visa Issuance Confirmation. This section is only for those with a document called “Confirmation of Visa Issuance.” Many people think it refers to previous Korean visas; NO, IT DOESN’T. The “Visa Issuance Confirmation” is a completely different document, usually issued in Korea.''If my application is denied, can I apply again?''Yes, but only after 6 months.''What does a South Korea visa look like?''Like this:''Good luck! Enjoy South Korea!''If you have more questions, we answered more frequently asked questions here:''Korea Visa FAQs''For more information about Korean visa applications, contact or visit the official website of the Korean Embassy in Manila.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Snapshot: Winter Sonata in NAMI ISLAND, SOUTH KOREA''Gwangjang Market: Frugal Food-Lover’s Paradise in Seoul''8 Shopping Places in SEOUL, South Korea''Trick Eye Museum in Seoul''KOREA VISA FOR FILIPINOS: Requirements & Frequently Asked Questions''Chinese Visa: How to Apply and Get One Successfully (Updated: 2016)''The birds have made his farm their permanent address.''It was an avian explosion. Rey Malana, a former seaman, owned a 1.3 hectare patch of riverside peppercorn farm in Tacurong City. One morning in 1996, he spotted four egrets perched on a tree inside his property. The birds flew away later that day only to return with a few more winged companions. The cycle repeated every morning over five years, with other species coming in. And right before Malana’s eyes, their numbers skyrocketed to 20,000. Before he knew it, his black peppercorn farm could no longer function. The birds had taken over the farm.''But Malana, a nature-lover, did not have any intention of shooing them away.''Baras Bird Sanctuary is an eco-tourism destination in Tacurong City''Baras Bird Sanctuary used to be a black peppercorn farm''There are seven species of birds here, which include the Black Crown Night Heron, the Great Egret, and the Intermediate Egret. These migratory birds are no stranger to Tacurong; they usually pass by in certain months. Why the birds chose to stay in his humble farm, however, is still a mystery to many. Their previous habitat might have been destroyed. They might have found it a more strategic location, given its proximity to their hunting grounds — Lake Sebu, Lake Buluan, and Liguasan Marsh, where food remains abundant. “What matters is that they’re here,” Malana said at a briefing, “and so we need to protect them.”''Protect from what, you ask? “Because of their numbers, intensive hunting activities became a problem,” Malana said in a video feature about the sanctuary. There have been reports of bird poaching in the area. “My life is threatened protecting these birds.”''Mr. Rey Malana owns the farm that was dominated by the birds''This is a screencap from a video about the sanctuary (you can watch it below). See the white dots on top of the trees? They’re all birds.''He enlisted the help of the local government. In August 2002, the city government of Tacurong declared his land an eco-tourism destination officially known as Baras Bird Sanctuary.''If you’ve never been to any bird sanctuary before, chances are you would be a little freaked out by the sheer number of our soaring friends here. At any given spot, dozens can be spotted — perched on trees or flying overhead. Cute and all, but they’re pretty big birds too. At one point, I wondered,''until how many is considered healthy''?''When does it become too many?''Is 1.3 hectares big enough for all of them?''Chirps and screeches add to the hum of the adjacent stream. White feathers carpet the ground, float in the air, or get trapped in spiderwebs. Peppercorn vines are absent now, but nests adorn the top branches of the kakawate trees. Every now and then, monitor lizards make an appearance. It is also not unusual to see helpless hatchlings at the foot of a tree. Or eggs lying on the ground. But it is important to not touch anything and let nature take its course. Experts come every now and then to check for''bird flu''and other issues that may arise.''I wasn’t able to get any good shot of the birds. Boo. Dammit.''The lightness of being… a feather. #IpilitLang''A dead bird and an egg on the ground''Nests perched on the trees''To minimize impact, tours are heavily regulated. Only 10-15 persons are allowed per batch, and each one is required to undergo briefing. Visitors are also prohibited from wandering off the trail, talking loudly, or picking up anything inside the site.''The best time to visit is two hours before sundown, when the night herons and other nocturnal birds are leaving the place to hunt, and the others are coming home from a day of work. It is the period where one could observe all the birds actively flying around, tending their young, breeding.''By the looks of it, these birds are here to stay. And as what Malana said, there’s nothing left to do but to protect them.''Baras Beach Sanctuary''Tacurong City, Sultan Kudarat, Philippines''Advanced booking is required. Contact City ENRO Office at (064) 384 1824''View Larger Map''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Birdwatching at University of Eastern Philippines: Laoang, Northern Samar''Lake Holon and Mt. Melibingoy (Mt. Parker) in South Cotabato, Philippines''First Taste of Marang Fruit – South Cotabato, Philippines''Oriental Riverside Residence Guest House: Where to Stay in Malacca, Malaysia''Philippine Tarsier Conservation Area in Loboc, Bohol''Manos Greek Taverna: Where to Eat in Tagaytay City, Philippines''Blindly I followed a trail that climbed the Sibao Mountain in Taroko Gorge, one of the most popular national parks in Taiwan. Concealed behind a park, it is one of the less frequently trodden walking trails in the region. There was no one else taking the leaf-carpeted path, and I did not know what to expect.''Armed with a hand-drawn map that Fong, the owner of my hostel, gave me, I followed the arrows and found myself tackling a difficult slope. Rocky stairs opened the trail only to fade and completely disappear as I gained altitude. Before I knew it, I was climbing the heck toward a “spot” that Fong claimed ‘the best view in Taroko.’''I passed through a bamboo forest and dangerous hillsides. And just when I was starting to think I was lost and seriously considering heading back, I spotted a barely noticeable marker.''This is probably what Fong was talking about'', I thought. I stood before a narrow gap between the canopy and peeked at what was below — an entrenched meander.''Some rivers meander; they follow a winding path across a landscape. They get reshaped over time due to erosion and deposition. But when the land suddenly rises, most of the time due to tectonic uplifts, some rivers are trapped in a fixed path and could no longer change course. This is called “entrenched meander”, and that’s what happened here in Tianxiang. From where I stood, I could see the meandering river snaking its way in between steep marble cliffs.''More info about this place and how to get there:''Taroko Gorge''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''8 Marble-ous Scenic Spots in Taroko Gorge, Taiwan''Martyrs’ Shrine: Karenkō Shrine in Hualien, Taiwan''The Changing of the Guards at the Martyrs’ Shrine, Taipei, Taiwan''In Pictures: Dalongdong Baoan Temple at Night in Taipei, Taiwan''5 FREE or Almost Free Things to Do in Hualien City, Taiwan''SAMPLE TAIWAN ITINERARIES (4-5 Days)''The site owes its name to the Pacific. And to one tribesman.''A long time ago, when a native Truku tribesman came out of a gorge and saw the blue splendor of the world’s biggest ocean, he admiringly shouted, “Taroko!” It means “magnificent and beautiful.”''What he did not know then was that his word would be the name of this complicated marble maze. Taroko Gorge, as it is presently called, is a treacherous territory, crumpled with deep ravines and steep crags. But\xa0like the ocean that rumbles next to it, it too is magnificent and beautiful in its own right.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Taroko National Park''1. Changchun Shrine (Eternal Spring Shrine)''2. Shakadang Trail''3. Jiuqudong (Tunnel of Nine Turns)''4. Yanzikou Trail (Swallow Grotto)''5. Lushui Trail''6. Tianxiang''7. Xiangde Temple''8. Qingshui Cliff''If I ever wondered how hot a motorcycle’s muffler could get after 15 minutes of non-stop driving, I got the painful answer as soon as I reached Long Beach. Out of utter excitement, I carelessly got off the vehicle with my right leg touching the searing muffler. It was excruciating, to say the least. I let out a shriek, the same shriek I make when I open my wallet at the end of each month. And for a moment there, I was in hell.''But only for a moment.''The pain was nothing compared to the pure, anesthetic bliss delivered in big doses by the sand sparkling under the equally scorching summer sun.''Touted by local tourism officials as the “longest white beach in the Philippines,” the''Long Beach''of San Vicente straddles 14 kilometers of undeveloped shoreline, more than three times longer than Boracay’s White Beach. But the stretch isn’t uninterrupted.\xa0Rocky cliffs jut out into the sea, breaking what could have been a continuous expanse of sugary paradise into six shorter coves.''The motorcycle is the most convenient mode of beach-hopping. At the Tourism Office in Poblacion, we hired one of the drivers waiting for tourists and sealed a half-day two-wheel tour. My friend''Brenna''and I held on tight and prepared to be whipped by the fresh, cold wind and gorgeous views along the way. There was no one else. We made three stops from New Agutaya to Alimangoan, and found ourselves the only people there. And our we-own-this-place fantasies kicked in once again.''Long Beach, San Vicente, Palawan''Talisay trees provide shade to beach bums''Alimanguan Beach''Long Beach spans the coast of Barangays New Agutaya, San Isidro, and Alimangoan. All the while, we had the beach to ourselves. According to the tourism office, in 2012 the municipality of San Vicente (including Brgy. Port Barton) had only 8,500 visitors, half of which were from Europe. That’s a tiny fraction compared to El Nido or Boracay. To be honest, a part of me refuses to blog about this place; I wish that the place be kept this way forever.''There are no full-blown resorts here, only undisturbed fishing villages that are far from crowded. Not for long, if you ask local officials.''Over 50 investors have already bought properties along the beach''in anticipation of the completion of the town’s airport. All the more reason to scratch it off your bucket list sooner.''How to get to Long Beach, San Vicente'': From Puerto Princesa Airport, ride a tricycle to San Jose Terminal and take the 3-4 hour bus ride to San Vicente. From the town proper, take a motorcycle tour of the beaches for P350. You might also want to extend the trip to''Irawan Beach'', which raises the fee to P500 per ride. The motorcycle can accommodate up to 2 passengers, cheaper if you’re with a companion.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Uncovering Irawan Beach: San Vicente, Palawan, Philippines''The 7 Commandos Beach and the 7 Lost Soldiers: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''Sunset Walk in El Nido, Palawan''Snapshot: Waking Up to Paradise in PORT BARTON, PALAWAN''Talisay Beach: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''The Secret Beach of Matinloc Island: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''There was no one else.''The Hualien clouds blessed my visit with gentle showers that afternoon, but I still made my way on foot to the shrine. The Northern Palace architecture of the buildings radiated through the bleak atmosphere, a great sight. Even better that the view from here. Martyr’s Shrine, as it is called now, is perched high on a small hill at Meiluen Shan Park, but not high enough to enable excellent views of the city.''That afternoon, I was alone. No other tourist shared the place with me.''A century ago, this was the site of\xa0Karenkō Shrine (花蓮港神社), a Shinto structure built on August 19, 1915. It used to enshrine\xa0Prince Yoshihisa and the Three Kami Deities of Cultivation (開拓三神): Sukunahikona no Mikoto (少彦名命), Ōnamuchi no Mikoto (大己貴命), and (Ōkunitama no Mikoto (大国魂命).''After the Second World War,\xa0Karenkō Shrine was converted as a tribute to some of the country’s heroes. It was demolished in 1981 and in its place the current structure was erected.''Today, however, most locals come here not to worship but enjoy a fantastic mountain view of the city.''How to get Martyrs’ Shrine'': From Taipei, take the train to Hualien City. From the train station, you can either hail a cab or walk (it’s quite a walk, though) to the shrine.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''8 Marble-ous Scenic Spots in Taroko Gorge, Taiwan''Snapshot: Entrenched Meander at Taroko Gorge, Taiwan''The Changing of the Guards at the Martyrs’ Shrine, Taipei, Taiwan''In Pictures: Dalongdong Baoan Temple at Night in Taipei, Taiwan''5 FREE or Almost Free Things to Do in Hualien City, Taiwan''6 Destinations to Visit in Taiwan Other Than Taipei''He called himself the Son of Heaven.\xa0The man was Xiang Dakun, chieftain of the Tujia ethnic group who, in 1353, launched an uprising against the ruling dynasty. At the base of the Green Rock Mountain, he established a state and proclaimed himself Tianzi, meaning Son of Heaven. To his followers, he was\xa0Emperor Xiang.''But in the vastness of China, there was room for only one Emperor.''In 1385, Emperor\xa0Zhu Yuanzhang (also known as the Hongwu Emperor) of the Ming Dynasty commanded Zhuzhen, the Prince of Chu, to lead 10,000 soldiers to attack the ancient tribe. The combat went on for 40 days, which ended with the defeat of Xiang Dakun. He was killed in battle in Shentang Bay at the base of the mountain, which would later be named after him — Tianzi, the Son of Heaven.''Legend has it that after the fall of Xiang Dakun and his army, a woman in love with him searched through the mountains for him. After strewing flowers from a cliff, she turned into stone.\xa0Shen Bing Ju Hui, one of the more photographed sights in the area, appears as a platoon of soldiers standing in formation. Here at the Tianzi Mountain Nature Reserve, every curious sight has a story to tell to an equally curious beholder.''Shen Bing Ju Hui.''The pillars stand proud like a troop of soldiers who all turned to stone at once.''Tianzi Mountain in mid-autumn'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Crafted by the Gods''All that Heaven Allows''A Robin Hood Tale''There was no more refreshing way of ending my half-day walk around the Arashiyama District than with a bowl of something cold and sweet. In the Philippines, I always end a tour with a tall glass of halo-halo. Here in Kyoto, Japan, the halo-halo is unheard of, and in its stead is a big bowl of kakigori.''Kakigori. Regarded as the ancestor of the Philippines’ halo-halo, which came as a bit of a shock to me. For some reason, I assumed that we got the idea of shaved ice with toppings from Malaysia’s''ais kacang''(which is also very popular in Singapore), or the other way around. Turned out that it is the Japanese who should take credit for our love for this frozen delight.''An''Inquirer''feature explains a part of its history. “Filipinos got their first taste of ice that was imported from the United States in the mid-19th century,” the article shares. “Ice ships carrying the blocks of Wenham Lake Ice sailed from America to India and Australia with a stopover in the Philippines. We could not have had halo-halo before the introduction of ice in the mid-1800s and the introduction, by the Japanese, of beans in syrup before World War II….''“Halo-halo and its Asian cousins (Malaysia’s''ais kacang'', Vietnam’s''cha  ba  mau'', and Thailand’s''nam keng sai'') trace only one common root: the Japanese  kakigori  that goes back a thousand years. Japanese nobles in the Heian period used to enjoy ice even in the summer because it was harvested in the winter and stored in special imperial ice caves.”''Pictured above is matcha (green tea) flavor, by the way.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''10 Food Delights to Try in Japan''Donguri Okonomiyaki Dining: Where to Eat in Kyoto, Japan''Snapshot: Lovers in Arashiyama Bamboo Forest – Kyoto, Japan''Toei Movie Studio Park, Kyoto: A Japanese Pop Culture Immersion''ARASHIYAMA, KYOTO: A DIY Walking Tour''Gion District: The Birthplace of Kabuki and Geisha in Kyoto, Japan''The cost of living in other major cities may be much lower, but Macau is definitely one of the most budget-friendly urban destinations in this part of Asia. While accommodations here are more on the steep side of the spectrum, \xa0transportation isn’t a problem at all; thanks to the many free shuttle/bus services that major hotels and casinos provide. This resort city is also very walkable. Plenty of helpful multi-lingual signs make getting around a walk in the park.''But it doesn’t stop there. Macau boasts a number of key historic attractions that do not entail much damage to our very fragile pockets. Heck, many of these must-visit places can be enjoyed by its spoiled tourists for FREE. Here are ten of them.''The Dancing Fountain of Wynn Hotel'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Senado Square''Ruins of St. Paul’s''A-Ma Temple''Guia Fortress''Hotels and Casinos''Camoes Square''Jardim de Lou Lim Ioc''Macau Wine Museum''Macau Museum''Macau Fisherman’s Wharf''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Senado Square''Senado Square is a giant outdoor museum. It is the centerpiece of the extensive Historic Center of Macau, a''UNESCO World Heritage Site''. “Macau represents an outstanding example of an architectural ensemble that illustrates the development of the encounter between the Western and Chinese civilizations over some four and half centuries,” UNESCO explains the site’s inscription on the list. “Leal Senado Square is the main public square of the town with the Leal Senado Building, a two-storeyed neoclassical structure.”''Senado Square''Brisk walking on the wave-patterned mosaic floor around the site is virtually impossible, for you would be compelled to stop to gawk at the fine architecture of the surrounding buildings.''More about it here:''Senado Square Walk''How to get there:''Take Bus No.\xa03, 3A, 4, 8A, 10, 10A, 11, 18, 19, 21A, 26A or 33.\xa0You may also board a free shuttle bus to Metropole Hotel then walk from there.''Ruins of St. Paul’s''Probably the most famost landmark in Macau, the Ruins of St. Paul’s (Ruinas de Sao Paulo) attracts droves of tourists all year round. It is also part of the city’s Historic Center. “Company of Jesus Square has the Ruins of St Paul’s, which represent the remaining front elevation of the Church of Mater Dei and Na Tcha Temple,” UNESCO describes the site.''Built in the 16th century, the site was actually a complex of a church and an academic institution. The church itself was constructed later in the 17th century. Today, only the facade remains the only structure standing after being battered by a typhoon and three fires.''The Iconic Ruins of St. Paul’s''Also worth your time is the Museum of Sacred Art and Crypt at the bottom of the ruins. It presents religious artifacts including Sino-Portuguese crucifixes.''More about the site here'':''Ruins of St. Paul’s''How to get there'': Board\xa0Bus No. 10, 10A, 11, 21A, 2, 3, 3A, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8A, 26A, 33, 17, 18, 8A or 26''A-Ma Temple''Built in 1488 under the Ming Dynasty, the A-Ma Temple is the oldest in Macau. It was erected in honor of A-Ma, the goddess of the sea. Legend has it that the goddess helps seafarers and guides them during their journey, especially during a storm.\xa0Located at Largo do Pagode da Barra\xa0in the southeastern tip of the peninsula, it is a bit isolated, making it a tiny isle of silence in the bustling, ravaging ocean that is the city center.''A-Ma Temple''More about it here:''A-Ma Temple''How to get there'': Take Bus No. 6, 8, 9 or 28B''Opening Hours'': 7am-6pm''Guia Fortress''Standing proud at the tallest peak of the Macau Peninsula, Guia fortress provides beautiful panoramic views of the metropolis, nearby islands, and even mainland China. The 15-meter-tall lighthouse takes most of the attention as the most arresting structure that tourists can see even from a great distance. Beside it is the Chapel of Our Lady of Guia that houses valuable paintings. The lighthouse and the chapel were built in 1865 and 1622 respectively. The Guia Cable Car is a popular means of reaching the site (Fare: MOP 3), but walking is a great alternative for the physically fit and''extremely''budget-conscious.''How to get there'': Take Bus 2, 17, or 25 \xa0and alight at Flora Garden stop''Opening hours'': 9am-5.30pm''Hotels and Casinos''No, you won’t be spending the night here. The city’s luxury hotels provide not just five-star accommodations but also a wide range of attractions.\xa0Macau is home to the biggest hotels in the world, even dwarfing their counterparts in Las Vegas. Explore the interiors of the Venetian,\xa0the world’s sixth largest building and Asia’s largestm, which houses the\xa0biggest casino in the world according to''Businessweek''.''The Venetian''Head over to the Wynn Resort Hotel and see how light and water work together to create an entertaining show. The Dancing Fountain plays every 15 minutes from 7pm to 12midnight, and does not do the same number twice in one night. Inside the hotel is the Tree of Prosperity, which is also worth a look.''How to get there'': From the airport or ferry terminal, you may take any shuttle or bus of these hotels for FREE.''More details here'':''4 Must-See Hotel Attractions in Macau''Camoes Square''Macau’s oldest park, the Camoes Square was named after legendary Portuguese poet Luis de Camoes. It is also the largest, covering an area of 20,000 square meters. Three separate areas comprise the square: the Camoes Garden, where the poet composed many of his sonnets; the Casa Garden, a\xa0parkette built in 1770 in front of the residence of Portuguese merchant Manuel Pereira and is now an art gallery; and the Protestant Cemetery, the final resting place of some prominent figures including Robert Morrison (the first Protestant missionary in China) and\xa0Anders Ljungstedt (Sweden’s first consul general in China).''Camoes Garden''More about Macau’s relaxing parks here:''5 Must-Visit Gardens in Macau''How to get there'': Take Bus 8A, 17, or 26''Opening Hours'': Daily, 6am-10pm''Jardim de Lou Lim Ioc''Constructed in 1906, Jardim de Lou Lim Ioc used to be a residential garden of Lou Kan, a local merchant, until it was donated to the Macau government. Today, it is a public park that has become a sanctuary to tourists and locals looking for some peace and quiet. Victorian and traditional Chinese structures stand in between ponds that are carpeted by lotuses all over.''Winding walkway over a pond at Lou Lim Ioc Garden''Lou Lim Loc Garden''More about it here:''Lou Lim Ioc Garden''Address'': 10\xa0Estrada de Adolfo Loureiro, Macau. Board Bus 12 or 16''Opening Hours'': Daily 6am-9pm''Macau Wine Museum''On a mission to provide information about and insights into the art of wine-making, the Wine Museum takes visitors through the process through images, videos, and maps. Learn the history of wine and be familiar with the tools used in the production of this highly prized alcoholic beverage. The 1400-square-meter site is composed of a Historical section, a Museum and Exhibitions area, and a Wine Cellar.''Address'':\xa0Rua Luis Gonzaga Gomes''Opening Hours'': Wednesday-Monday, 10am-8pm.''Macau Museum''The Museum of Macau isn’t as eye-catching as its neighbor, the iconic Ruins of St. Paul’s, but it lodges significant artifacts narrating the history of Macau as a small settlement, as a Portuguese colony, and now as one of two Administrative Regions of China.''Its content isn’t the only thing worth admiring here. The location itself is of historical significance. The museum is set inside Mount Fortress (Fortaleza do Monte), Macau’s most important defense. Seated regally atop Mount Hill, the fortress affords gorgeous panoramic vistas of the city in all directions.''Macau Museum at Mount Fortress''Entrance fee is waived every 15th of the month (MOP15 the rest of the month).''Opening Hours'': Tuesday-Sunday, 10am-5:30pm''Official Website'':''www.macaumuseum.gov.mo''Macau Fisherman’s Wharf''A first of its kind, Macau Fisherman’s Wharf is the only cultural-oriented theme park in the city. Covering an area of 111,500 square meters, it is divided into three sections: Dynasty Wharf, East Meets West, and Legend Wharf. It is a theme park, yes, but it is also a shopping and dining destination, perfect for families and''barkadas.''How to get there'':\xa0Take bus no. 1A, 3 ,3A, 8, 10, 10A, 10B, 17, 28A, 28B, 28BX, 28C, or 32''Open 24 hours''View Larger Map''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''5 Relaxing Parks and Gardens to Visit in MACAU''Snapshot: Sweet Surrender at Mount Fortress, Macau''A-Ma Temple: Tracing the Roots of Macau''Feast and Facades: A Walk from Senado Square to Ruins of St. Paul Cathedral, Macau''4 Must-See Hotel Attractions in Macau''MACAU ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''Theme parks like Disneyland and Ocean Park may probably be the biggest crowd-drawers in Hong Kong, but this futuristic city has a few freebies in store for those traveling on a very tight budget. If you ever find your funds dwindling way before your trip’s expiration date, here are seven suggestions that won’t burn a hole in your pocket.''Hong Kong Island’s stellar skyline'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Watch the Symphony of Lights at Avenue of Stars.''2. Meet the Big Buddha in Lantau Island.''3. Enjoy Hong Kong nightlife in Mong Kok.''4. Learn the basics of feng shui in Mong Kok.''5. Have a tea-rrific time at the Flagstaff House Museum of\xa0Tea Ware.''6. Master the art of Kung Fu at Kowloon Park.''7. Balance your body’s yin and yang through Tai Chi at Sculpture Court.''Relaxing isn’t really the first word that comes to mind when you look at the usual pictures of Macau. At night, the lights and colors of its busy casinos and hotels form a kaleidoscopic, almost psychedelic cityscape that induces an unexpected adrenaline rush. Even its historical core — Senado Square and the Ruins of St. Paul — can be quite wearing as droves of tourists scramble around its blocks. If the doctor orders immediate detoxifying, Macau probably won’t be in his prescription.''Amidst Macau’s excitant chaos, however, are parks and gardens that are often overlooked. The city map is shaded with many of these pockets of peace, but many just walk past them. Here are five of the sedative nooks and crannies of Macau that can give you a much-needed dose of peace and quiet.''Curved roof of one of the gazebos at Jardim de Lou Lim Ioc'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Fortaleza do Monte (Mount Fortress)''Camoes Garden and Grotto''Casa Garden''Protestant Cemetery and Morrison Chapel''Jardim de Lou Lim Ioc''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Fortaleza do Monte (Mount Fortress)''Fortaleza do Monte now houses the Macau Museum, but its “rooftop” park deserves a separate nod. Constructed from 1671-1626 under the orders of the Jesuits, it was the most important defense structure in Macau. Much of the structure was preserved including the cannons that line the parapets of the fortress. Perched atop Mount Hill, the fortress overlooks the city in all directions and provides a magnificent 360-degree view of the peninsula. Not to be missed if you’re planning on paying the museum a visit.''The fort now houses the Macau Museum''Sweet sunset''Cannons line up by the parapets of the fortress''Address'': No. 112 Praceta do Museu de Macau''Opening hours'': Daily 6am-7pm''Camoes Garden and Grotto''The Camoes Garden is Macau’s oldest park. It is also the largest, spanning an area of\xa020,000 square meters.''Built as the residence of a Portuguese merchant, it was turned over to the government after his death. The park was named after Luis de Camoes, a Portuguese poet who was exiled to Macau for two years. This was where he would come and compose his poetry, including the epic Os Lusiadas (Soul of Portugal). Macau considers him a significant historical and literary figure that June 10, the day he passed away, was declared Portugal Day.\xa0In one corner of the park is a bronze bust of Camoes, installed in 1886.''How to get there'': Take Bus 8A, 17, or 26''Opening Hours'': Daily, 6am-10pm''A fountain with a bronze sculpture symbolizing the centuries’ old friendship between Portugal and China.''Bust of Portuguese poet Luis de Camoes''Sonnet to Macau''Casa Garden''Just beside the Camoes Grotto is the Casa Garden, also part of the Historical Core of Macau. The house at the center of the parkette was built in 1770 as the residence of Portuguese merchant Manuel Pereira. He then rented it out to the British East India Company, which designated the place to house their Chairman. Today it is now the Macau branch of the Oriental Foundation and has been transformed into an art gallery. (There was an exhibit showcasing the various Asian masks when we visited. Free entrance, too.)''Casa Garden''A statue inside Casa Garden. (Manuel Pereira? Not sure.)''An old water fountain on the wall surrounding the garden''Opening hours:''Daily,\xa09:30 a.m. – 6 p.m. (Gallery is closed on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays).''Protestant Cemetery and Morrison Chapel''Also within the vicinity of Camoes Garden is the Morrison Chapel. Built in 1821, the chapel was named after Robert Morrison, “the first Protestant missionary in China and author of the first Chinese-English dictionary, as well as the first translation of the Bible to Chinese.” Working for the British East India Company, he convinced the company to buy the land and appropriate it as a burial ground when his wife died. It had since became the resting place of many prominent figures of his time including Anders Ljungstedt, Sweden’s first consul general in China, and Robert Morrison himself.''Protestant Cemetery''Morrison Chapel''How to get there'': Take Bus 8A, 17, or 26''Opening hours'': Daily, 9am-5:30pm''Jardim de Lou Lim Ioc''Lotus-covered ponds reflect the lovely traditional and Victorian architecture of the surrounding structures that dot the Lou Lim Ioc Garden. A winding concrete walkway snakes over one of them, a good pondering spot for visitors. Many locals spend their mornings and late afternoons at the garden, which seems to be immune to the noise that rushes around outside. It was mid-February when I visited and the cold weather had withered the lotus flowers, but their bowing remains\xa0fostered a serene and very romantic atmosphere.''A stone walkway over a lotus-covered pond''A pond at the garden and the entrance''Built in 1906, it was originally a residential garden owned by Lou Kau, a local merchant. In 1974, it was handed over to the government of Macau, which converted it into a public park.''How to get there'': Located at 10\xa0Estrada de Adolfo Loureiro, Macau. Board Bus 12 or 16''Opening Hours'': Daily 6am-9pm''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''10 FREE Things to Do in MACAU''Snapshot: Sweet Surrender at Mount Fortress, Macau''A-Ma Temple: Tracing the Roots of Macau''Feast and Facades: A Walk from Senado Square to Ruins of St. Paul Cathedral, Macau''4 Must-See Hotel Attractions in Macau''MACAU: The Ruins of St. Paul’s and the Three Fires''We landed on Part Barton the day before and found the resort I booked on the far end of the cove. On the way there, I passed a wooden bridge straddling a creek that seemed to fade even before it could touch the sea. Fronting the resort was a highly uneven terrain.''The next morning, as soon as I emerged from my room, I was greeted by a gorgeous view. The tides had reclaimed much of the beachfront. Its valleys were flooded again, leaving only its tallest ridge that had turned into a long, white sandbar. The boat that I previously thought was recklessly abandoned was now flirting with the gentle waves.''Hello, Port Barton. Good morning to you, too.''How to get to Port Barton'': Fly to Puerto Princesa, take a tricycle to San Jose Terminal, and board a bus to Port Barton. (Port Barton is a barangay in San Vicente, Palawan. But it is too far from the municipality’s town proper that it requires a separate trip. Buses and vans bound for “San Vicente” will not pass through Port Barton.)''View Larger Map''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''The Twin Beaches of Nacpan and Calitang: El Nido, Palawan''Long Beach, San Vicente, Palawan: The Longest White Beach in the Philippines''El Nido, Palawan: Making Friends at Payong-Payong Beach''The Secret Beach of Matinloc Island: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''The Secret Lagoon of Miniloc Island: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''Talisay Beach: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''On the way to Koronadal City, we made a brief stop at the DOLE Kalsangi Club House in Polomolok, South Cotabato. After a “pine” lunch (composed of Pinoy dishes with pineapples), we had a chance to explore some parts of the vast plantation that carpets the plain at the base of Mt. Matutum.''The town’s progress had been dragging its feet until December 1963 when Dole Philippines was inaugurated and became its largest industrial firm. According to my bestfriend Wikipedia, “As of 2004, the area planted to pineapple is 15,507.872 hectares with an average production volume of 31.94 metric tons per hectare. This industry, which is situated at Barangay Cannery Site, generates about 6,000 jobs at present.”''Polomolok is said to be the richest municipality in South Cotabato (and one of the richest in Mindanao), with DOLE Philippines being the biggest taxpayer.''Dole Pineapple Plantation''Polomolok, South Cotabato''View Larger Map''Special thanks to Red of Local Governance Support Program for Local Economic Development (LGSP-LED) and''Louie''of Allah Valley Landscape Development Alliance (AVLDA) for making this trip possible.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''First Taste of Marang Fruit – South Cotabato, Philippines''7 FALLS ZIPLINE, LAKE SEBU: 60-Second Bliss in South Cotabato''Lake Holon and Mt. Melibingoy (Mt. Parker) in South Cotabato, Philippines''Snapshot: Waking Up to Paradise in PORT BARTON, PALAWAN''Orange Picking at Rock Farm, Sagada (Updated Rates: 2016)''BOH Tea Plantation: My Cup of Tea in Cameron Highlands, Malaysia''It was the midweek of an off-peak season. Usually, times like this, I would expect to have the beach all to myself. But this was not an ordinary beach. This was Boracay. And in Boracay, even a slow day is roaring.''Boracay has always been the flagship beach destination of the Philippines. It has topped many lists of the greatest beaches in the world, compiled by international travel magazines. All this lovin’ from local and foreign press and backpackers has been drawing swarms and swarms of tourists. What used to be an unspoiled sleepy village transformed into an overdeveloped party island.\xa0Even upscale hotels and restaurants have found their way to the island, attracting luxury travelers. Yet, it remains friendly to the budget-conscious.''How to Get to Boracay''Located off the northwestern coast of Aklan, Boracay Island is very accessible to the beach-going public. If you’re coming from Manila, flying is the best option. All major airlines fly to either of them.''Two airports serve Boracay-bound passengers. Each airport has pros and cons.''Caticlan Airport and Kalibo Airport''Kalibo''is farther, requiring around 2 hours of travel time, but fares are much cheaper.''Caticlan''is closer, 15 minutes away, but fares are way more expensive.''Whatever you choose, you need to make your way to the Caticlan Jetty Port. Here’s a brief step-by-step guide:''From Kalibo Airport, take the bus or van to Caticlan Jetty Port. Fare: P200.''If you’re a big group, you may also consider arranging a private van transfer that will wait for you at the airport. I have tried this pre-arranged setup before when I was part of a group of 10. Cost was P3800 roundtrip (P1900 one-way, or P180 per person per way).''Upon arrival at the jetty port, proceed to the booths near the entrance to the building and settle the Terminal Fee (P100), Environmental Fee (P75), and Ferry Fare (P25).''Inside the port building, register, proceed to the Passenger Waiting Area, and wait for boarding announcement.''Board the boat or ferry to the island.''You will dock at either Cagban or Tambisaan Port. Either way, there are tricycles waiting here that can take you to your hotel. If your hotel is in the White Beach Area, cost is P100 per ride.''If you’re coming from Caticlan airport, you can take a tricycle to the port. You can also walk; it should take around 10 minutes.''For more detailed instructions, check out this post:''How to get to Boracay from Kalibo or Caticlan''Or check out this video by Adam John of''Boracay TV''!''Where to Stay in Boracay''Check Rates Here''While Boracay has some of the most expensive hotels in the country, you will also find the other end of the spectrum here. Hostels and guesthouses are not the obvious choice to the common tourist. But if you’re not choosy and you’re willing to let go of the aircon and other amenities, you’ll be surprised by the number of options awaiting indiscriminate travelers.''Hostels''. Fan rooms can be booked for around P500 during off-peak. A bed in a dorm costs as low as P300 per night.''Traveloka''is a good place to start looking for affordable hostels.''I stayed once at''Frendz Resort''at Station 1 for P500 per night (Dorm room), and it was a pretty pleasant experience. Not beachfront but close enough. Just a bed and a fan, but the backpacker vibe made up for it. I always like places where I could meet other travelers and make friends.''Budget Hotels and Guesthouses''.\xa0If hostels aren’t your thing, budget hotels and guesthouses are also a good choice.''Traveloka''have a rich selection of hotels.''I had a pleasure of staying at''Dakong Amihan Home'', and I had a wonderful time. Rates are P1,750 per room (off-peak, good for 2 pax). Again, not beachfront but close to many key attractions in the island. Read my full review here –>''Dakong Amihan''Where to Eat in Boracay''Most beachfront restaurants are very costly. Even the P300-buffets along White Beach sound good, but they taste disappointing. There are mid-range restos farther from the beach that may be worth a try. But if you’re really concerned about the prices, your best bet are the''turo-turo''carinderias along the main road and inner alleys. P60 should already buy you a decent rice meal.''One popular food place is''D’Talipapa'', where you can shop for fresh ingredients (seafood!) and have one of the surrounding eateries prepare them the way you like it for a fee. This is ideal for groups!''If the place you are staying in allows you to cook or prepare food yourself, pay a visit to''Talipapa Bukid''at Station 3 for the ingredients!''Photo by Two2Travel.com''More food options here –>''Where to Eat Happy in Boracay: 11 Restaurants to Try''What to Do in Boracay''Like I always say, the one thing that I love about Boracay and what I think makes it so popular is the diversity of activities. Boracay will keep you busy, and there’s no running out of things to do. It has something for everyone.''Below are the attractions you might want to consider. I have written a separate entry with more information about these activities, including''how to book''and''how much to spend''–>''15 Things to Do in Boracay''Island hopping''Paraw sailing''Mermaid Swimming''Standup Paddling and Skimboarding''Parasailing and Windsurfing''Flyfish and Banana boat''Zorbing and Ziplining''ATV Ride''Biking''Sunset watching''Partying''Food tripping!''Sample Boracay Itinerary''Fine, fine sand.''Here’s a sample Boracay long-weekend (3D2N) itinerary. Note that this assumes that you will be taking an early morning flight to Kalibo and a late afternoon flight back.''Day 1: ARRIVAL, WHITE BEACH''07:30 am – Check-in NAIA Terminal 3''08:40 am – ETD NAIA Terminal 3 – Kalibo''09:30 am – ETA\xa0Kalibo International Airport''10:00 am – Board bus to Caticlan Jetty Port''12:00 pm – Arrival at Caticlan (Grab quick lunch)''01:00 pm – Board boat/ferry to Boracay''01:40 pm – Check-in at Hotel, freshen up''03:00 pm – Explore White Beach and Diniwid Beach, Willy’s Rock''05:30 pm – Watch Sunset, Dinner''Day 2: ISLAND-HOPPING''07:00 am – Island Hopping + Lunch''01:00 pm – Swimming again, or rest.''03:00 pm – Flyfish''04:30 pm – Parasailing''06:00 pm – Freshen up''07:00 pm – Dinner''09:00 pm – Party party, dance dance, tugs tugs''Day 3: PASALUBONG SHOPPING, DEPARTURE''06:00 am – Wake up call''07:00 am – Breakfast''08:20 am – Buy Pasalubong at D’Talipapa or D’Mall''11:20 am – Check out''12:00 pm – Board ferry back to Caticlan''12:40 pm – Board bus to Kalibo''02:40 pm – Arrive at Kalibo, quick lunch''03:50 pm – Check in at airport''05:00 pm – ETD Kalibo Airport''06:10 pm – ETA Manila – NAIA 3''Just make the necessary adjustments to fit your plans, flight schedule, and activity preferences.''Budget Breakdown''If you’re curious how much would you be spending if you follow the itinerary above, the breakdown below can shed a little light. This computation is based on one person staying at a fan room at a hostel and joining other travelers (to form a pair or a group) for the activities. Airfare, airport fees, pasalubong, and partying expenses are not included.''P400 – Van fare from Kalibo airport to Caticlan and back (P200/way)''P100 – Caticlan Jetty terminal fee''P20 – Tambisaan terminal fee''P75 – Environmental fee''P50 – Ferry roundtrip fare (P25/way)''P200 – Total tricycle fare''P1000 – Frendz Hostel Dorm Bed (P500/night, 2 nights)''P1000 – Parasailing (Diamond Watersports)''P600 – Flyfish (Diamond Watersports)''P500 – Island hopping''P200 – Some random miscellaneous incidentals\xa0whatever''P1250 – Total food Budget''P5,395 – TOTAL''As always, there are ways to even make this much lower. If you’re not interested in parasailing or flyfish riding, you can replace them with much cheaper alternatives. That’s already minus P1600. If you are part of a big group, you can still bring the cost of food down.''It is also important to note that things are much cheaper during off-peak season (June-October). The summer months may bring you more fun, but the cost of almost everything grows with the crowd.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Boracay: Top 5 Recommended Hostels 2017''HOW TO GET TO BORACAY FROM KALIBO AIRPORT''15 Exciting Things to Do in BORACAY, Philippines''Amihan Home (Bed & Breakfast): Where to Stay in Boracay, Philippines''PUERTO PRINCESA, PALAWAN: Budget Travel Guide''BOHOL: Budget Travel Guide''This visa guide is for those applying for a JAPAN TOURIST VISA, meaning you will be staying in a hotel and you’re not visiting anyone in Japan. If you’re traveling to visit a friend or relative in Japan, we have a separate post for that. Read:''Japan Visa Requirements for Visiting Friends or Relatives''Geographically Japan isn’t too far from the Philippines, and a good number of airlines fly to its major cities from Manila. Most Filipinos, however, feel that this amazing East Asian country is far more distant than it actually is. One reason is the visa requirement.''Visas are always a major hurdle for many Filipino travelers. One look at the list of requirements and some already feel intimidated by it. Who can blame them? I felt exactly the same. This feeling had kept me from booking flights to Tokyo or Osaka, even during a PISO SALE and I spotted several promo fares. But the call of Japan was too much for me to ignore that I finally snagged one of them last year and hoped that I could make it through the visa process I dreaded.''To my surprise, it wasn’t bad. Not bad at all.''Getting a Japanese visa is actually quite easy. Here’s a quick step-by-step chronicling of how I got mine.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Japan Visa Requirements''Without Guarantor''With Guarantor''How to Apply for a Japanese Visa''Frequently Asked Questions (with Answers)''I was issued a Japan visa before. I just want to renew. What’s the process?''How to apply for a multiple-entry visa? What are the requirements?''Do I need a travel agency to apply?''Do I need to book flights and hotel before applying?''How long does it take to process the application?''How long is the validity of the visa?''How much money should I have in the bank to get approved?''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Japan Visa Requirements''Here’s a checklist of the documents you need to secure before you begin your application. Pay attention to the notes and links that I added. They are very useful in helping you prepare. Note that documents that need to be printed out (e.g. application form, itinerary) must be done on an A4-size paper.''Philippine passport.''Must have a signature and at least 2 blank pages. Broken passports are not accepted. Must have at least 6-month validity.''A duly accomplished visa application form.''Don’t leave any blank. Just put N/A if not applicable. You may\xa0download it from''here''.''ID picture.''4.5cm x 4.5 cm. Write your name and birthdate on the back side. Paste it on the application form.''Birth certificate from PSA.''Must be issued within the past one year from PSA Main Office or Serbilis Outlet Center (Nationwide). If the birth certificate is marked LATE REGISTRATION, you must also submit Baptismal certificate, School Record (Form 137), and School Yearbook (if applicable). The address of the church or school must be indicated in the documents.''Marriage certificate from NSO''. Only if you’re married. If not, ignore this one. Must be issued within the past one year from PSA Main Office or Serbilis Outlet Center (Nationwide).''Daily schedule''. Your itinerary in Japan. It doesn’t have to be complicated. Download the format''here''. Here’s what mine looked like:''Sample Japan Itinerary''Without Guarantor''If you will shoulder part or all of your travel expenses, you must provide the following:''Income tax return''(ITR Form 2316). They need a clear photocopy of it.''Bank certificate.''Must be issued within the past 3 months. I’m not sure if they require a receipt, but I submitted the receipt too. To be safe, when you get your bank certificate, ask for a receipt too. There’s no telling how big a fund is “enough” to get approved, but (in case you’re wondering) my account had only a bit north of P100,000. I planned on staying for a week. I didn’t encounter any problem.''My life was at the mercy of a single rope.''As the wind blew me away from the boat, I was briefly taken to my juvenile years, when all I did all weekend was run across a cleared field and fly a kite. But this time was different. This time, I was the kite.''It happened so fast. One moment I was seated at the back of the boat; the next, I was high up in the air. I barely remember what happened in between. One of the boatman securely strapped me to a harness attached to the parachute and explained the do’s and don’ts while at it. “You’ll be up there for 15 minutes,” he said. “If you want to go down before the time is up for whatever reason, just do this.” He raised an arm and drew imaginary circles with his elbow.''Not gonna happen'', I thought. Fifteen minutes is a short time, a very short time if you’re having a blast.''He unspooled the rope, and the wind snatched us and carried us skyward. Slowly the boat got smaller and more quiet while I tried my darnedest to not show any emotion. There was something terrifying about the whole thing. Exciting, definitely, but there was a tiny bit of fear in knowing that all that was keeping me safe was this thin line. All of me was on this line. Tragedy was very unlikely, but there was no one there with me to blow away images of this rope snapping. Chicken was what I was, a flying chicken.''Up, up and away!''Back to reality''It took me a couple more minutes to pull myself together and start looking around. There I was, dozens of meters up in the air, staring down at one of the most beautiful islands in the world. Unfortunately, we were too far from the shore to have a good look, and it was too early for the sunset. It was a great view of Bulabog Beach nonetheless.''The boat continued to drag the kite — me, the kite — across the sea. The longer I stayed in that altitude, the more comfortable I got. Nerves had abandoned my body, leaving only a sense of achievement. It might not be such an accomplishment to some people, but it was a big deal for someone like me (read: coward). I was soaring like a bird, like a plane… and right on cue I looked up and\xa0realized that the chute displayed a Superman logo. Hell, yeah!''The feeling of invincibility began to grow in me when I noticed the boat grow bigger with it. One of the boatmen wound the rope around the spool and I was pulled back to reality. My 15 minutes was up.''How to book parasailing in Boracay'': Visit the office of Diamond Watersports at Station 1 (just beside Milky’s Dive Center), or contact\xa0+63 36 288 6621 or +63 36 288 6681.''Rates'': The normal rates during high season are P2500 for a solo ride, and P2000 per person for groups of 2-3. This can go significantly lower during off-peak season. I got mine for only P1000. It can still go lower, depending on your haggling skills.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''15 Exciting Things to Do in BORACAY, Philippines''10 Things that Make Boracay Special: Aklan, Philippines''Amihan Home (Bed & Breakfast): Where to Stay in Boracay, Philippines''HOW TO GET TO BORACAY FROM KALIBO AIRPORT''BORACAY: Budget Travel Guide''Boracay: Top 5 Recommended Hostels 2017''If I ever doubted the popularity of Boracay (which I didn’t), it quickly evaporated as soon as I walked along White Beach. It was midweek of an off-peak season, yet this side of the island was packed to the edge. Never mind the temperamental weather. Never mind the gloomy, un-postcard-friendly skies. Beach-goers swarmed around the shore like worker bees attracted to some sort of tropical pheromones. The culprit, Queen B.''Boracay is on a roll. It has been for decades now. In 2010 alone, Boracay registered almost 780,000 tourist arrivals. That’s three years ago! A lot has happened since. Airlines have added dozens of new flights in and out of Kalibo International Airport, the nearest major gateway other than Caticlan. Outside the country, several international travel authorities have hailed Boracay as one of the best beaches in the world. Undoubtedly, Boracay remains one of the most popular beach destinations in the country.''Boracay has been criticized for overcrowdedness and hypercommercialism. Many other beach destinations have been discovered and made more accessible, each catering to their own niche: Malapascua for chasing sharks, Coron for seeking wrecks, Calaguas for camping retreats, CamSur for extreme sports. But Boracay… Boracay has something for everyone.''If Queen Boracay has been calling and you think it’s time to take heed, here are 15 of the activities awaiting you in her white-girdled, sparkling lair.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Island Hopping''2. Scuba diving''3. Parasailing''4. Paraw sailing''5. Standup Paddling''6. Fly Fish''7. Cliff Diving''8. Zorb and Zipline''9. ATV Ride''10. Mermaid Swimming''11. Beach Sports''12. Food Trip''13. Sunset Watching''14. Massage!''15. Firedancers, clubs, parteeeeeeeh!''Cemeteries are not exactly the type of destinations that tourists write on their bucket list, and it’s not hard to see why. It is that one place we most associate with death. After all, this is where the departed are laid to rest.''Most of us only find ourselves here when we pay respects to a loved one who has left us for good. Or when it’s All Souls’ Day, the time that we honor their memory. Otherwise, many do not see a reason compelling enough to push us out of our way to visit a graveyard. And truth be told, aside from the creeps they give, most cemeteries look alike.''But there are exceptions. Here are eight unusual burial grounds that are worth braving.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Calvary Hill (Mission Compound Cemetery), Sagada, Mountain Province''2.\xa0Hanging Coffins, Sagada, Mountain Province''3. Bud Bongao Tombs, Tawi-tawi''4. Sunken Cemetery, Camiguin''5. Nagcarlan Underground Cemetery, Laguna''6. Libingan ng mga Bayani, Taguig''7. Manila American Cemetery and Memorial, Taguig''8. Camp John Hay’s Lost Cemetery of Negativism, Baguio City''If you’re after the fine, white sand of the country’s poster beach but hates its crowdedness, Bantayan Island is a perfect alternative. Located off the northern tip of Cebu, it may not be as accessible, but every minute of that three-hour bus ride from Cebu City (and another hour on the ferry) is worth it. It’s laid-back, quiet, and absolutely beautiful.''More about this destination here'':''Bantayan Island, Cebu''More about Cebu here'':''Places to Visit in Cebu''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''The Drenched Humor of BANTAYAN ISLAND, CEBU''Cao-oy, Olango Island: Seafood and Stilts in Cebu, Philippines''Cebu Taoist Temple, Philippines: A Date with Dragons''History of the Santo Nino Church in Cebu City, Philippines''Magellan’s Cross in Cebu City, Philippines''A No-Regrets Half-Day in Cebu City, Philippines''She emerged from the kitchen bearing a freshly baked cake. The moment she heard that one of our companions was celebrating her birthday that day, she made a chocolate cake at no charge. It was one of the many ways that the people running the place showed just how warm Boracay hospitality could get.''The place is Dakong Amihan, a Spanish colonial-style guesthouse that offers affordable bed-and-breakfast accommodations in the island.''Ms. Grace Brodard'', the owner of this lovely home, made sure that our stay was comfortable and our needs met.''How I found out about this place was through a friend. I desperately rummaged through the corners of the world wide web for ideal accommodations for families, but came empty-handed. Resorts were too expensive, and hostels were inappropriate for a family composed mostly of middle-aged women. You see, this trip was a treat to my family. I had been traveling alone and with friends for a long time, but I had never hit a beach outside our hometown with my kin. I was on the verge of giving up and slashing my throat when a blogger friend, Nikka of''Two2Travel'', came to the rescue just in time. This was one of her recommendations.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Location''Rooms and Rates''Breakfast and Service''Aside from the stunning landscape, one thing that is going for Boracay is its accessibility.\xa0This tropical paradise may be in one distant nook in the Visayas, but it is relatively easy to reach. No long hours of land travel, no bumpy roads, and no uncomfortable rides. Thanks to the increasingly organized system of transportation both in Kalibo and Caticlan.''The past few years have also seen several additional flights especially via Kalibo. Some airlines now offer direct flights from China, Korea and Singapore, bypassing Manila. They paved more ways for more tourists to easily set foot on one of the best island destinations in the world.''At Caticlan Jetty Port''If you’re planning on making a splash in Boracay, here’s a step-by-step guide!''Travel from Kalibo Airport to Caticlan Jetty Port''. Travel time: 2.5 hours. You have four options:''–''By bus''. Book at any of the packages offered at the arrival area of the airport. It usually includes a bus ride to Caticlan Jetty and a ferry ticket. It usually costs around P300 per person.''–''By van''. Vans will take you to Caticlan in a shorter time. Sometimes, they can do it in an hour and 15 minutes. Fare is P200 per person.''–''Via Kalibo Town Proper''. You may take a tricycle to take you to Ceres Bus Station, and from there take the bus to Caticlan. Air-conditioned bus: P107; Ordinary bus: P87.''–''By a pre-arranged van''. If you are a big group, you might want to consider renting an entire van. I was able to do this once when I was in a party of 10. The rate was P3800 for roundtrip. That’s P1900, one-way, or P190 per person. A bit cheaper and less hassle too because the driver will be picking you up at the airport. He will also be waiting for you at the Jetty on your way back to Kalibo from Boracay.''My contact is JP Oliveros of''www.oliverosplacekalibo.com'': Mobile number 0998-5680149, Landline number (036) 268-3293.''Get a ticket.''Once at the jetty port, look for the ticket booths. It is outside the building, just beside the entrance. Queue up and pay for the following:''– Ferry Fare: P25''– Environmental Fee: P75''– Terminal Fee: P100''After paying, go inside the building, and register on their logbook''. This is used to monitor the number of tourists visiting Boracay.''Proceed to the Passenger Waiting Area''.\xa0Wait for the boarding announcement.\xa0Board the ferry when it’s time.''You will be taken to Cagban Port or Tambisaan port''. Either way, you will find tricycles waiting for passengers in the area. They can take you to your hotel or resort in White Beach for P100-P150 per ride.''ENJOY BORACAY!''For driving directions, this map is your guide!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''BORACAY: Budget Travel Guide''Boracay: Top 5 Recommended Hostels 2017''15 Exciting Things to Do in BORACAY, Philippines''Amihan Home (Bed & Breakfast): Where to Stay in Boracay, Philippines''Parasailing in Boracay: 15 Minutes of Fear and Fancy''How to Get to Sapporo from Tokyo or Osaka''Travel like a local, they say.\xa0But if you’re going to do that in Manila, brace yourself. You’re in for quite a ride.''Taking public transportation within Metro Manila is unpredictable, to say the least. For first-timers, commuting around Manila requires a great deal of planning. \xa0You have ample of options — MRT, LRT, cab, bus, jeepney, tricycle — but none of them guarantee a hassle-free journey. Manila has so much to offer to tourists, but the problem is getting from one destination to another. The simple truth is, like many third world cities, Manila is congested, polluted, and highly disorganized. Except for outbound buses, none of these options work around a fixed, reliable schedule. Traffic has been the biggest problem. And the rain can make matters much worse.''Take a deep breath, hold your valuables tight, and prepare your soul to be squeezed out of your body! This is commuting, Manila-style.''Rush hour + rain = Hellish traffic. Photo by Robx Bautista of The Travelling Dork'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'General Tips''By MRT/LRT''By Bus''By Taxi''By Jeepney''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''General Tips''Here are some things you have to remember before you start exploring.''Rush hours''. If your route uses a major thoroughfare like EDSA, commuting during rush hours is not a good idea. These hours are from 7am-10am and 5pm-8pm, when students and workers go to work and school and come home. No, not even the MRT can save you from this. All train cars are so packed, it feels like Manila is about to go after another world record. As a rule of thumb, either be an early bird or go out at around noon. Lunch time is usually a great time to take public transportation. The sun may be a little too much, but there really isn’t much traffic within this period.''Rains and floods''. Manila is soaked in floodwater at least once a year, and it’s frustrating how this is still not addressed appropriately up to now. But all rants aside, citizens have learned to live with it. (Sucks, I know! Ugh, ranting again.) Here’s the bottomline, if it’s been raining heavily all day, chances are that the traffic has built up. Ergo, not a great time to hit the road. Of course, there are exceptions. But to be on the safe (and dry) side, wait it out.''Pickpockets.''It is also during the rush hours when evildoers are in their game. The crowdedness and discomfort might distract you from watching your valuables that you won’t have them when you exit the vehicle. Keep your phone or wallets in your front pockets.''If these crazy hours catch you on the road, I suggest that you let it pass. There’s a lot to do in Manila, anyway. Go malling, watch a movie, or kill time at a cafe until the main roads stop being a massive parking lot.''If you’re used to''UBER''and''GRAB'', you’ll be delighted that it’s pretty popular in Manila too. It’s reliable and cheaper than in other countries most of the time.''By MRT/LRT''There are a few train lines that straddle the metropolis including LRT1, LRT 2, and MRT 3. These lines are interconnected, which should make things easier in theory. But they are not really “fully” in synergy. For example, MRT-Taft and LRT-EDSA stations are linked, but one must still exit the MRT station and purchase a separate ticket to board the LRT. This requires another queuing, which can take much time.''The MRT-3 (Metro Railway Transit System, aka Blue Line) spans the length of EDSA, the major artery of the capital. Why take the MRT? It’s fast, and it connects many of the key attractions in five cities: Pasay, Makati, Mandaluyong, San Juan, and Quezon City.''For starters, the shopping malls. A ride from one end of the MRT to the other will give you a tour of the metro’s most popular malls — all fifteen of them (the last time I counted): from the Metropoint Mall beside Taft Station to Trinoma just next to North Avenue Station. In Makati alone, the poster city of commercialism in the country, lies a cluster of malls: Greenbelt, Glorietta, Landmark, and SM Makati. Anyone who has been there will tell you that it has everything — from a simple quirky store selling simple quirky stuff to high-end branded boutiques selling high-end branded stuff.''The Light Railway Transit 1 runs through four cities: Pasay, Manila, Quezon City, and Caloocan. Manila takes the greater fraction of the line. If you wish to visit the top historical and cultural attractions, LRT1 is your line.''Single Journey vs Stored Value Tickets''. If you’re gonna take the MRT/LRT just once or twice, a Single Journey ticket is enough. Otherwise, the Stored Value ticket (PhP100) is a wise, wise, wise choice. Not only do you get little discounts and a bonus ride, you also bypass the long queues.''Exact Fare Lanes''. Every station has an Exact Fare Lane, which moves much faster than the other queues.''Inspection''. All stations have wizarding guards, who will inspect your bags before boarding. Wizarding because many of these guards usually just poke your bag with a wand, and voila, you’re bomb-free! If you have gift-wrapped items, you will be asked to open them.''Prohibited Items and Activities''. No eating, drinking, spitting, littering, and smoking within the paid area of every station. No bulky and long objects. No food and drinks in unsealed containers. No inflammable or poisonous products (paint, pesticides, etc.)''Platforms''. Most stations have their platforms on the outer edges of the station, with the railway running between them. At these stations, there are no ways to get to one side from the other. Say, if you mistakenly entered the northbound side and you really intend to go south, you will have to exit again and probably take a flight of stairs to get to the other side. Taft, Buendia, Boni, and Shaw stations are the exceptions.''First Car''. The first car of every train is exclusive to women, children, senior citizens, and people with disabilities. If you don’t belong to any of these groups, you just have to man up and brave the testosterone-powered cars.''Where to stay inside the train''. If your destination is just one or two stations away, stay near the door. Don’t walk right into the depths because you might not be able to get out on time. If your destination is the very last or second to the last station, please move farther inside. It’s actually much colder and comfortable there.''Queue up.''It’s only recently that MRT passengers have discovered the joys of falling in line when boarding the train. Let’s not break it now.''The cliche is right. It is not the destination. And a ride across Metro Manila is quite a journey. For instance, an MRT ride allows incredible panoramic views of many parts of the metro! But during rush hour, this is probably the least of your concerns.''By Bus''The city buses plying the major routes are divided into three types: A, B, C. The first two have alternate stops, while the last stops at every loading/unloading area. This Rappler infographic explains it succinctly. Click on the pic to enlarge.''Buses are probably the biggest problems of the major roads in the city.\xa0Trust me, I live and work along EDSA. Every single day of my life, I watch these buses break traffic rules and create jams while they’re at it. They are assigned their own stops, but many stop anywhere regardless. They are assigned their own lane, but they still invade the other lanes regardless. And they wait for passengers for, like, forever, as though waiting for Jesus Christ to come aboard and begin the Rapture.''Speaking of…''Preachers onboard!''Don’t freak out if during the bus ride, someone stands, reads a verse or two from the Bible, and tell you that you are a sinner. The moment they’re done, they will distribute empty envelopes where you can place your donations. Don’t worry, you’re not required to give. It’s become a common thing lately.''Food vendors''. Drivers and conductors usually allow food vendors to board and sell inside the bus. Usual products are fried peanuts, fresh fruits, fish crackers, quail eggs, donuts, and bottled drinks.''Safety''. Petty crimes and modus operandi inside buses are not unheard of. To be safe, take a seat near the driver, the door, or where most people sit. If you have valuables inside your bag or pockets, try your best not to fall asleep.''Aircon vs Ordinary Buses''. Ordinary buses are okay, but don’t complain if your white hankie turns black after you wipe your face with it. Hahaha.''Finding the right bus.''Buses in Manila are not numbered. The final destination and bus type (ABC) are displayed in front of the bus. But that’s not the only thing you should pay attention to. Mind the other labels — indicating\xa0a few other stops and routes. For example, Cubao Ibabaw will make a stop in Cubao, but Cubao Ilalim will skip it. When in doubt, ask. Filipinos are always happy to help.''Again, taking the bus during rush hour may not be the best idea in the world. Unless you are with someone you are willing to be stuck with for a couple of hours or so.''By Taxi''Ordinary cabs charge a flagdown rate of PhP40 and PhP3.50 per 300 meters. Airport cabs charge much more, at PhP70 flagdown and P4 per 300 meters.\xa0You know the cab is an airport cab if it’s yellow.''Here are some reputable taxi companies and their contact numbers:''Basic Taxi''(900-1447, 900-1448, 643-7777)''MGE Transport''(363-6096, 364-8260)''Sturdy Taxi''(330-3568, 361-1282)''EMP''(293-5930, 293-5931)''Dollar Taxi''(921-2383, 927-8718)''You can also hail a cab using the commuter app''GRAB''.''Cab fare is a lot higher than the jeepney, MRT, or bus fare. But there are cases when taking a cab cannot be helped or makes a bit more sense. For example, when you’re a group of three or more, you can simply split the cost.''By Jeepney''Jeepneys have become an icon of the Philippines. These colorful rides are best for short distances. It is cheap (PhP8 for the first 4 km) and fast, since many of them do not take major thoroughfares.''The jeepney is like a mini-bus. It plies a specific route and it can’t veer away from that. If your destination is not along the way, you’re gonna have to get off at the nearest spot, and make your way on foot or by tricycle (if available) to your exact destination.''Making it stop''. Say the word “para” if you want it to stop so you could alight.''Making payments''. Some jeepneys have conductors, who collect fares. But most of the time, you will need to pay directly to the driver. Because it is cheap, always pay in coins or small bills. Handing P500 for a P10 ride is rude and will probably irk the driver.''Paying it forward''. If you take the jeepney, you are expected to pass other passengers’ fares to the driver. There’s just no other way for those seated on the far end to send their money across. In the same way, if you’re the one seated farthest from the driver, you can pass the money to the next person and say, “Paki-abot po.” That person is expected to do the same until it reaches the driver.''Uncomfortable is definitely an understatement during rush hour, but it gives a pungent taste of what most locals need to go through on a daily basis. You will probably notice how many passengers are being serviced every day and wonder how much the government earns from all these fares and taxes.\xa0And if while traveling you find yourself thinking about why people endure this,\xa0why there can’t be more trains or have a more efficient system, when it will improve, why it hasn’t improved yet, or whether or not it will in the first place, then CONGRATULATIONS, you’re now one of us.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''5 Indoor Attractions Under P1500 in Metro Manila''BEACHES NEAR MANILA: 10 Uncrowded Weekend Getaways''MANILA ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''SUPERSTAR VIRGO: Cruise Guide for First-Timers (What to Expect)''7 Insightful Things to Do in Metro Manila, Philippines''Where to Stay in Manila: Top 10 Budget Hotels Below P2000 ($40)''Hot and spicy was that morning as its first hour was spent strolling in between lanes of spices and other produce. I was about to acquire a new skill, something I swore to do in every destination I set foot on. I learned to bike in Siem Reap, and to party (oh yes, that’s a skill) in Bangkok. In Chiang Mai, as soon as I had a bowl of tom yum goong from a humble street stall, I knew exactly what I wanted — to be the next Anthony Bourdain. Or at least, to learn how to cook some of my favorite Thai dishes!''Today’s challenge: Learn how to cook Thai-style!''Given that my love for Thai food is greater than the frak I give about half the people in my life, it just made perfect sense that I\xa0foray into Thai cuisine and sharpen my culinary abilities here, if I ever had any in me.''Learning how to cook isn’t that difficult in Chiang Mai. Since the city’s rise as a major tourist destination, several cooking “schools” have mushroomed, offering one-day crash courses to eager Thai master chef wannabes (like me)! One of them is the''Thai Farm Cooking School''.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Chiang Mai Market Tour''A Quick Farm Tour''Let the Cookin’ Begin!''A more updated version of this article can be found here:''Bangkok Travel Guide''Despite all the unrelenting developments in Macau, the A-ma Temple remains almost untouched.''The oldest temple in Macau, \xa0the A-Ma Temple was built in 1488 under the Ming Dynasty in honor of A-Ma (also called Mazu or Matsu), the goddess of the sea. It is believed that she helped fishermen and sailors to reach safety during a storm. Seafarers prayed to her to guide them during the journey.''The temple grounds are divided into six sections. The''Gate Pavilion''was the first to greet me and steal my attention. The granite gate is guarded by stone lions and crowned with a roof ridge (which looked like horns or a boat), where small animal statues sit.\xa0Passing through the gate, I climbed a concrete winding path on the slope of Barra Hill. Every now and then I stopped to admire the words painted on the boulders securely scattered around the site. It didn’t matter how intently I looked , I still failed to understand any of them for they were Chinese characters. I didn’t know it then, but these rocks tell poems and short tales. On top awaited the''Hall of Guanyin'', made entirely of bricks and topped with a flush gable.''The other structures include the''Hall of Benevolence'', built in 1488 with granite and bricks. Fronting it is the''Prayer Hall'', which took shape in 1605. Also known as the First Palace of the Holy Mountain, the Prayer Hall was constructed in honor of Tian Hou. And then there’s the''Zhengjiao Chanlin Pavilion'', the most arresting in terms of design and overall appearance. It cradles a shrine also dedicated to Tian Hou and a retreat house. It boasts an ornate facade gate featuring intricately carved wall sculptures. The last structure is the''Memorial Arch''that towers near the front edge of the site.''A-Ma Temple, Macau''The upturned roof of the gate pavilion''View of Largo do Pagode da Barra from A-Ma Temple''Poems written on the rocks''The Memorial Arch and a stone lion guarding the temple''Most visitors come here to light joss sticks and say a prayer''Prayer cards''Spiral joss sticks''I wandered around the dark red houses and squeezed my way into the growing crowd at the site. Most visitors had lit joss sticks in their hands and made stops at each pavilion to say a prayer. In one corner I stumbled upon spiral little things, which I could not figure out what exactly until someone lit one of it and the smell of incense floated in the air.''Before I left, I stood in the middle of Largo do Pagode da Barra for one last look at the temple. I stared at this ancient structure long enough to not remember how long. Its warm vibrance was an oddity in the cold grayness under the shadow of the Macau Tower sticking out in the background. Located in the southeastern tip of the peninsula, it is a bit isolated, making it a tiny isle of silence in the bustling, ravaging ocean that is the city center. The land took its name from here when the Portuguese first beached. Somehow this place remains to anchor the wildly ambitious city to the ground. And in this case, it is a good thing, a very good thing.''A-Ma Temple''Largo da Barra, Macau''Opening Hours: 7am-6pm''How to get there'': Take Bus No. 6, 8, 9 or 28B''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''5 Relaxing Parks and Gardens to Visit in MACAU''10 FREE Things to Do in MACAU''Snapshot: Sweet Surrender at Mount Fortress, Macau''Feast and Facades: A Walk from Senado Square to Ruins of St. Paul Cathedral, Macau''4 Must-See Hotel Attractions in Macau''MACAU ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''A more detailed, updated version of this article can be found here:''Osaka Travel Guide''Kyoto Travel Guide''It was the trip I was so afraid to take.''The notoriety of Japan as an expensive destination hovered over my head for the longest time. Even when airlines offered bargain deals for flights to Osaka, I was reluctant to book. Not only was I worried about the visa not being approved for I didn’t have enough in my bank, I was also dreading how much I would be spending in the days after stepping on Japanese soil.''Japan is expensive,''I always thought.''But someday, somehow, this trip has got to happen.''It finally did!\xa0And guess what? It wasn’t as tough on the pockets as I expected.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Understanding Osaka and Kyoto''Booking Flights to Osaka from Manila''Applying for a Japan Visa''When to Visit''Where to Stay in Osaka and Kyoto''Top Budget Hotels and Hostels in Osaka (Under $70)''Top Guest Houses in Kyoto (Under $70)''Getting Around Osaka and Kyoto''Pocket Wifi Rental''Local 4G SIM''Where to Buy Train Passes''Where to Eat in Osaka and Kyoto''Places to Visit in Osaka''Places to Visit in Kyoto''Day Tours''Kyoto Day Tour from Osaka''Nara Afternoon Tour from Osaka''Sample Itinerary''Breakdown of Expenses*''More Useful Tips''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Understanding Osaka and Kyoto''Osaka and Kyoto are prefectures in Kansai Region in south central part of Honshu Island. Other territories in the region include Nara and Kobe (which you might also want to visit if you have more time). Kansai is famous for its irresistible cuisine and rich history. Osaka is considered the culinary capital of Japan, boasting several signature dishes including okonomiyaki and takoyaki. Neighbor Kobe is widely known for the prized Kobe beef, cuts of meat of wagyu cattle. On the other hand, Kyoto has always been the cultural center of the archipelago. Impressively maintained and restored ancient temples and shrines dot its map.''Kansai enjoys a temperate climate with strong seasonal variations.''The best time to visit?''Early April for the cherry blossoms and mid to late November for the autumn foliage.\xa0I was here in June, and\xa0I was smothered with regret while walking around the parks. I was greeted with flowerless trees and green canopies.\xa0The region was still breathtaking during my visit, but it would have been extra-special during spring and fall.''Waiting for autumn to come''Booking Flights to Osaka from Manila''A lot of airlines fly from Manila to Kansai Airport. If you book way in advance, you’ll get the best deals from low-cost carriers''Cebu Pacific Air''and JetStar. Cebu Pacific flies to Osaka five times a week. Their lowest year-round fare is at P6399, which is a great deal already.''You can also wait for a SEAT SALE! For this trip, I booked a roundtrip Cebu Pacific ticket from their P20 SALE. The base fare per leg was only P20, but including all the taxes, I only paid PHP 5984 for the roundtrip ticket (PHP 2992 per way). That includes a prepaid baggage allowance of 20 Kg. Not bad. Not bad at all.''Applying for a Japan Visa''Getting a Japanese visa is easy. Application for a tourist visa must be done through a travel agency accredited by the Japanese Embassy. They no longer entertain direct applications so don’t sweat it. For a list of accredited agencies, visit''this page''.''Here are the documents you will need to submit to your chosen agency:''Philippine passport.''Still don’t have one? Apply online at the official''DFA Passport Appointment website''.''A duly accomplished visa application form.''You may download it from''here''.''ID picture''. 45mm x 45mm. If you visit a studio, just say you need it for Japanese visa and they know exactly what is required.''Birth certificate from NSO''.''Marriage Certificate''. Only if you’re married. Ignore if not.''Daily schedule''. A simple itinerary of what you plan to do in Japan. List down your activities and places to visit per day.''Income Tax Return''. Original and photocopy.''Bank Certificate''.''Visa processing fee.''A Japanese tourist visa is actually free. But agencies usually charge around PHP 1200.''Processing usually takes 3-5 days. Sometimes, 7 days. (I got my first visa in 5 days and my second in 2 days.) Length of stay is 15 days. More information about applying for a Japanese tourist visa right here:''Japan Visa Requirements''.''When to Visit''If budget is a concern, look away from peak season: late March to August, especially the following dates:''Golden Week (April 29 – May 5)''Obon Festival (August 13–15)''Cherry Blossoms Season (Late March-Early April)''These dates bring the biggest crowds.''Cherry blossoms in Kyoto''However, the temperate days of Spring (March-May) and autumn (October-November) are the best times to visit if you’re after fantastic views. During spring (specifically last week of March to first week of April), cherry blossoms adorn the otherwise plain green canopies.''Autumn (specifically mid- to late November) is ideal because the crowd begins to thin and the prices drop. It’s also interesting as the foliage turns fiery orange and red. Temperature is also pleasant and comfortable for sightseeing.''Where to Stay in Osaka and Kyoto''As in most highly developed cities, accommodations in Osaka and Kyoto are costly. But there are cheap options: couchsurfing, hostels, and capsule hotels. Honestly, I wanted to try one of those capsule hotels, but my buzzkill companion could not be swayed. He wanted a room more spacious than anything that would make him feel like a corpse. We ended up having a quiet but pleasant stay at the following:''Hotel Chuo Oasis Osaka''Check Rates & Availability''Read our Full Review''The moment that sushi graced my palate, I knew I had been mistaken all this time.''I was known in my circle as the guy who hated Japanese food. Well, ‘hated’ would be quite a stretch. I was just not a fan. At lunch or dinnertime and a friend would suggest a Japanese restaurant, I’d be the first to run to the opposite direction (unless they’re treating me). I’d always found sushi weird-tasting and many other dishes too dry. If there was one thing I wasn’t looking forward to in my first trip to Japan, it was the food.''But that changed as soon as I had my first meal in Osaka.''Apparently, Japanese food in Japan is lightyears better than those I had tried in the Philippines. Duh?''My first authentic Japanese meal came in the form of a sushi set from''Endo Sushi'', a humble yet legendary gastronomic oasis in Osaka’s wholesale fish market area. They have been operating for over a century, perfecting the art that is sushi. The freshest ingredients and the delicate manner it was prepared produced the best dish that had ever gone through my lips. I could say that probably the most unforgettable — and enlightening — lunch I had. One bite and I died in an instant, only to be resurrected with a whole new appreciation for the Japanese cuisine.''Here are some of the dishes, snacks, desserts, and drinks that I tried.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Sushi''2. Okonomiyaki and Negiyaki''3. Fugu''4. Yakitori''5. Ramen''6. Takoyaki''7. Japanese Dango''8. Kakigori''9. Sake''10. Taiyaki''Bonus''It didn’t happen overnight. That’s for sure.''It’s not like I woke up one morning and just called it quits. Well, actually, it was''kind of''like that. I woke up one dreary morning, and as I was forcing myself to get up, I caught something painted on the ceiling — my future. Of course it wasn’t real. Of course I imagined it. But as I lay in my bed looking at the big white canvass above me, I began to realize that this was not the life I wanted to paint. I just could no longer beat my alarm clock and wait for it to ring just because I dreaded to wrap myself in another business attire and do the whole 8-5 routine.''It’s not that I hated my job. I loved it. It’s just that I didn’t want it to be the only thing I did. I loved traveling a little bit more. And since I couldn’t do both at the same time, I had to choose. That morning I chose to quit my job.''But not so fast. If I was going to do it, I would have to do it right.''I never planned to be a travel blogger. If my college self would see me now, he’d be like, “''What the hell are you doing with your life? There’s an effin’ career ladder in front of you, effin’ climb it!''”''My whole love affair with plane tickets and seat sales started in 2007. My grandfather passed away, and I had to fly to Puerto Princesa to attend his funeral. In the middle of mourning, I could not help but be blown away by the sheer natural beauty of the place. On my flight back to Manila, I promised myself that I would return, and this time enjoy it. A couple of years later, I was able to do just that.''I began going on weekend getaways more frequently. Work hard on weekdays, travel harder on weekends. I was happy to be trapped in that clockwork.\xa0The more places I set foot on for work, the more I was inspired to work harder, save bigger, and eventually go farther. But as my destinations became brighter, my corporate job appeared and felt bleaker. And it led to that morning in 2010 when I just found myself staring at the ceiling.''Some people — braver people — would just file their resignation right away. But I wasn’t one of ’em brave people. There was so much at stake, so it needed some careful planning. It took a long time, but the wait was worth it when I was finally ready.''Here’s the process that I went through to quit my job, presented through the questions I asked myself and what I did to address them.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Is traveling really what you want?''2. If you quit your job, how will you support yourself?''3. Are you willing to sacrifice?''4. Do you have a Plan B?''5. No question: Just do it!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''1. Is traveling''really''what you want?''Passion has become a buzz word since I hit mid-twenties. I always hear it in interviews, speeches, and even random conversations with friends.''Is this your passion?''What are you passionate about?''Funny enough, they were the first questions I asked myself. I needed to be sure if it was really the life that I would want to lead.''Is this what you want to do for the rest of your life?''For the rest of my life? Not sure about that. But travel was what I enjoyed immensely. It was definitely what I wanted then, and it is''still''what I want now. I knew that it was something I could do for a long, long time. It didn’t matter to me if it was something I could commit to for a lifetime. What mattered to me was this: I wasn’t happy then, and I needed something to change.''My point is — If you’re not happy, do something about it. If you need something to change, change something. Don’t wait for things to happen for you, make them.''Even if it takes time. Even if entails big changes. Don’t fear change. Change is life. You’ll never “live” life if you keep avoiding it.''2. If you quit your job, how will you support yourself?''Of course, you need to work, one way or another. You can’t just buy a plane ticket and beg for money when you’re there. (You could do that actually, but come on.) If your target destinations are those requiring visas, then you’re screwed if you’re unemployed. Thing is, there are so many opportunities out there. SO MANY. You just have to look.''What are your skills? Can you write? Can you take good pictures? Can you do graphics? Can you develop websites? Are you up for virtual assistant-kind of jobs? There are thousands of jobs online, and if you’re patient you can make it a steady source of income.''Why online? Because it is location-independent. You can work from anywhere, and you can start even before you quit your job. Try to do it in the evening or on the weekends, and see if you’re fine with that kind of set up. After all, that’s how it usually turns out on the road most of the time. You travel during the day and work at night, preferably with a bottle of beer in one hand. Haha.''There are other opportunities on the road. I have met a lot of travelers who teach English when they travel. Some work at farms in exchange of food and lodging.''SoloFlightEd''worked as a waiter at a resort in Malaysia for a couple of months to get by. What’s that old saying? Aaah,''if there’s a will, there’s a way.''Photo: Scratch Map Philippines. Available for P1350 at''Quirks''!''3. Are you willing to sacrifice?''Was I sure that this would turn out all shining, shimmering, splendid for me? Hell, no. If anything, I was quite sure I would have to give up a lot of things. Think about it. Trading a full-time career with travel is going to leave you with tectonic adjustments. Can you picture yourself surviving a lower-paying or inconsistent job?''You might be asking:''if I give up my job, how am I going to afford travel?''The answer, sacrifice. Many people think traveling is expensive.''Well, it is expensive. Relatively. But it is NOT as expensive as others say it is.''The biggest financial boulder is always the plane tickets. But even that is not that big of a problem anymore. SEAT SALES ARE REAL. Trust me. Almost all the tickets I use I get from seat sales. You just have to know how to do it. Here’s how —>''How to Book CHEAP Fares''.''Once you make it past the airports, it’s a lot easier. Hostels over hotels. Street food stalls over restaurants. Buses over planes. Backpacking over prearranged tours. You’ll be surprised how inexpensive it is to travel.''Still, it demands that you give up a part of your lifestyle. For example:''If you’re the type who needs to have a cup of Starbucks coffee each morning, you’ll see how much more you’re gonna save if you ditch the habit. And you will pick up many lessons like this along the way.''But money isn’t the only problem. Relationships will be affected. Are you prepared to spend a lot less time with your loved ones? Are THEY prepared, too? Are you supporting your family? Are you in a committed relationship? Make sure they understand.''4. Do you have a Plan B?''Let’s say, it doesn’t work out for you. What are you gonna do?''This is why you shouldn’t burn bridges. Close them, but not burn. In the off chance that travel isn’t for you, at least it is easy to reconnect with the life you abandoned, hopefully this time with a different perspective.''In my case, I made sure that before I quit, I was confident that it would be easy for me to find work even if I go freelance. I did my best to excel in my full-time job, enough to be noticed by potential clients. I made sure I had a powerful body of work, an impressive portfolio.''I hated working full time then, but I did not hate my job. I loved marketing. I loved what I was doing.''Travel is my greatest romance, but marketing is my first love.''I kept in touch with my marketing roots even on the road. And they are both very rewarding.''5. No question: Just do it!''If you think you’re ready, then what are you waiting for? If you’re in your mid-20s like me, what’s stopping you? You’re young, not many responsibilities, not much to lose. There is no better time.''Quit it, and book a ticket to somewhere awesome!''Again, this is how I did it. I do not intend that you follow this, but only to offer a peek at the process I had gone through. Other travelers did it differently. Many of them just jumped into it blindly. That’s great, you know, if you think it’s for you. It’s just that the semi-obsessive-compulsive in me just had to plan the whole thing. And that’s okay too.''At the end of the day, all travelers want the same thing — to fly. I wanted my spirit to soar but not by climbing an imaginary career ladder; I want a real mountain, a real summit, a real adventure around the world. Far beyond the pigeonhole that was my office. With a much wider view than from the top of that fuckin’ imaginary ladder.''Maybe one day I’ll be back. I sometimes miss my corporate life terribly, to be honest. Maybe. One day.''But for now, I think I’m staying outside, where I could wake up and see not a blank ceiling but wild clouds chasing the blues away. It’s always a great sight.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Start a Career as a Travel Blogger''Quit Your 9-5 to Live and Work (David Getman)''Budget Holiday Options in Majorca''5 Struggles of a ‘Third-World Traveler’''12 Female Travel Blogs for the Empowered Filipina''Top 15 Best & Worst Travel Moments of 2017''Hotel Chuo Oasis was my first choice when I was browsing online for affordable places to stay. Just by reading the reviews, I was already sold. It has a stellar 89% rating on Hostelworld, 83% on TripAdvisor, and 8.2/10 in Agoda. Although listed on Hostelworld, it is not a hostel but a hotel. A very affordable hotel, considering how expensive everything is in the mighty city of Osaka.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Rooms and Rates''Location''Service''Bang! I didn’t realize just how much of my early years had been taken over by the Japanese until I was standing in the middle of the movie park.''I may be a foreigner here, but everything around me looked and sounded mighty familiar. There’s a ninja statue clinging on to the wall in one corner, an anime robot in another, and two samurai warriors fighting in a make-believe Edo town. All that was missing was a hentai screening, and the characters of my puberty would have been complete. Tee-hee.''A samurai and a geisha. Photo from Toei Studio’s official website.''It didn’t start as energetic and lively as this. It was a glum morning. Not only was the sun missing, the rain was shoving its buzzkill self into Kyoto that day. Even before I could find the theme park, the clouds were already pissing on me every two minutes. It didn’t help that the destination was a bit difficult to find. There were no signs on the way, and it was in a residential maze.''After thirty minutes and ten run-for-cover stops, I finally spotted the inconspicuous entrance to the park. There was no queue. I sashayed my way into the park, no problem. Inside I found myself awfully alone in an old Japanese town set.''Where is everyone?''Having a place to yourself is nice if that place is a beach or a shop, but a theme park?''Where the EFF is everyone?''There was only this geisha\xa0flashing a vestal smile at me. Creepy.\xa0Seriously, girl; not now, not when I was starting to think I was in a ghost town.''Seriously, girl. Stop smiling at me like that.''Rainy day in the movies''That awkward moment when you think you’re alone in a theme park and a samurai passes by…''All of a sudden, a big crowd came flooding out of the theater behind me!''There’s everyone!''Apparently, they were all inside enjoying a ninja show.''Now this is the theme park I’m talking about! Let the fun begin!''The''Toei Kyoto Studio Park''(東映太秦映画村, Tōei Uzumasa Eigamura, or more simply''Movie Land'') is actually a film set that has been made open to the public. It is the only theme park in Japan where visitors can watch and observe actual filming of period dramas\xa0(jidaigeki films). More than 200 movies are shot here every year! But it is more than a movie set. It has already been transformed into an amusement park featuring an anime museum, a ninja maze, and a maddeningly effective haunted house, among others. Visitors may also choose to rent a full Edo period costume and dress up as a samurai or a geisha so they could explore the park in style!''Toei Kyoto Studio Park Map. Tap the pic above to enlarge'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Edo Town''Haunted House''Nakamuraza Theater''Ninja Mystery House''Toei Anime Museum''Super Hero Land''Even before six o’clock, I was already at the foot of the giant spinning wheel to catch the sunset. But I forgot one thing: I was in Japan. And in Japan, the summer sun sets much later, at around seven.''When it finally dawned on me, I painted a smile on my face. Just a few minutes earlier, I dashed from the train station to get here thinking I would be late for the heavenly show and worrying that I wouldn’t have enough time to explore the rest of the area. But look at that, I got an hour to spare. Sometimes the universe knows just how to surprise me.''The Osaka Bay Area harbors a cluster of districts lying on man-made waterfront islands and capes. At the mouth of the bay is the Tempozan Harbor Village, home to some of the most exciting and romantic attractions in the fast-developing city. On one end is the Osaka Aquarium, one of the world’s largest tanks, and on the other, the Universal Studios Japan. In between are several other attractions including the Tempozan Marketplace, a shopping mall; the Naniwa Food Theme Park, a series of Japanese food stalls; Mount Tempozan, a small park; and the imposing Tempozan Ferris Wheel, which was why I was in the area. The city’s domestic and international port facilities are also located in the area.''Since I was waiting for sundown, I opted to enter the mall to which the wheel is annexed — the Tempozan Marketplace. Taking advantage of the time to look for potential souvenir items, I checked many stores including those selling manga, traditional umbrellas, and apparel. Outside, a small crowd gathered around a guy doing a fire show. I sat on the ground and, along with everyone else there, pretended to be a kid. And without realizing it, the clock came close to hiting 7pm.''Heck, I haven’t even seen the food park yet,''I mumbled as I galloped back to the wheel.''When I reached the ticket counter, hooray! No queues! I was the only one!''Inside Tempozan Marketplace''Soon after, another group arrived, but I was already in front of the line. The staff asked me to wait and then I was ushered into my car, and to my surprise someone was waiting for me inside! Well, it wasn’t really someone. It was something, something I immediately recognized — STITCH! You know, from Lilo and Stitch. It’s an enormous stuffed toy sitting alone on the bench. The universe loves me!''My instant BFF waiting for me inside the gondola.''The Tempozan Ferris Wheel is enormous. Its diameter spans 100 meters, and its height measures 112.5. It holds 60 cars; each could accommodate up to eight passengers. Definitely not as big, as grand, or as technologically advanced as the Singapore Flyer or the London Eye, but it is still worth a ride.''A ride lasts 17 minutes, but it feels much shorter when you’re onboard. (You know what they say, good feelings don’t last. Or they just seem to not last.)\xa0But within those 17 minutes, I took every moment to take it all in. It was a feast for the eyes. The higher I got, the more I was bombarded with incredible sights. Facing the sea, I spotted the Akashi Straits Bridge; and about face, Mt. Rokko and downtown Osaka. My new BFF Stitch and I thoroughly enjoyed the panoramic view of the surrounding landscape and cityscape.''Osaka Aquarium see from the Ferris Wheel''Bridges all around''Osaka Bay Sunset.''Tempozan Ferris Wheel at night''Light up the sky!''But that’s not all. While we were at the very top of the wheel, it happened. The sun aimed for a dive, spewing golden rays that soaked the sea and the city below.''Stitch and I were the happiest human-stuffed alien couple in the world at that time. If only I could take him home.''Tempozan Ferris Wheel''〒552-0022 1-1-10 Kaigandori Minato-ku, Osaka City''Operating Hours: 10:00am to 09:30pm''Admission Fee: JPY 700''How to get to Tempozan Ferris Wheel:''Take the Osaka Loop Line of the MRT and alight at Bentencho Station. Transfer to Chuo Line and take the train bound for Cosmosquare. Get off at Osakako Station. From here, the Tempozan Ferris Wheel is just a five-minute walk away.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Dotonbori: Sensory Overload in Osaka, Japan''10 Food Delights to Try in Japan''Osaka Castle Park, Japan: Toyotomi’s Dream''Snapshot: The Glico Man of Dotonbori – Osaka, Japan''Hotel Chuo Oasis: Where to Stay in Osaka, Japan''Toei Movie Studio Park, Kyoto: A Japanese Pop Culture Immersion''A wind of optimism hugged me as I emerged from the train station, but it went away in an instant. I was at the center of Kyoto’s Geisha District and the birthplace of the Kabuki theater. But\xa0I had a hunch.\xa0I had this awful feeling that I won’t see what I came here for. Call it intuition. Call it lack of faith. I’d say I was managing my expectations. My track record with Lady Luck had not been shining, shimmering, and definitely not splendid at all. I doubted fate would be so kind to allow me to see any geisha even at this place.''Gion District is famous for two iconic forms of traditional Japanese entertainment — the kabuki and the geisha. They are what people from all over the world travel to Kyoto for. While they are very different from each other, their roots are intricately tangled. I was thankful that once in my life my soles touched the ground where these two art forms burgeoned and flourished.''Not a real geisha but an actress at Toei Movie Park'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Minamiza Theater''The Kabuki-Geisha Connection''The Modern Geisha at Hanami-Koji Street''Yasaka Shrine''Maruyama Park''There were four pictures hanging on a wall just outside Tenryuji Temple. Each frame showcased the visual character of the site per season — clad in the fiery colors of autumn, dressed in white snow in winter, adorned with the pink glow of cherry blossoms in spring, and, finally, drowned in a sea of verdancy in summer. Three of the four scenarios would have been such a first-time treat. I had never seen autumn leaves or snow or cherry blossoms. Unfortunately for me, it was midsummer.''The deciduous forest of the Arashiyama district was very lush and green — awfully green — during my visit.\xa0Green is great; I love green. But as a guy who hailed from a tropical island carpeted in evergreen rainforests, it was not really the color I was excited to bombard my eyes. The farther I walked into the place, the more I realized that it was a mistake booking June tickets to Japan.''What was I thinking? Was I even thinking when I booked it?''But kicking myself in the butt lasted for only a minute. Summer may not be the best time to be here, but the proverbial silver lining appeared amidst the greenery. There were fewer tourists, and the weather was pleasant, perfect for a long afternoon walk. That or I was just mastering the art of sweet lemoning. Tee-hee.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Togetsukyo Bridge''2. Horinji Temple''3. Tenryuji Temple''4. Nonomiya Shrine''5. Bamboo Forest''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''1. Togetsukyo Bridge''Straddling the Ōi River, the Togetsukyo Bridge is one of the most iconic pictures of Kyoto. In spring when cherry blossoms decorate the banks of the river, the bridge makes for a postcard-perfect subject. Built in 836 to provide better access to the nearby Horinji Temple, it has become an iconic structure, representing the Japanese’s clinginess to the past and simple way of life. Its name, which means “Moon Crossing,” was bestowed upon it by Emperor Kameyama. Since then, it has seen feudal wars, hosted samurai battles, and inspired some of the best haiku poems.''Hello, summer.''The summer walk begins!''Togetsukyo Bridge during summer''Boating is another popular activity in Arashiyama''Locals fishing at Oi River''2. Horinji Temple''Sitting atop a hill overlooking Togetsukyo Bridge is Horinji Temple. It is one of the five head Shingon Buddhist temples in the city of Kyoto. According to legend, Emperor Genmei ordered the monk Gyoki to build it in the year 713. It was known as Kadonoidera Temple at the time. In 829, it became the new home of an image of Boddhisatva Akasagarbha (Kokūzō Bosatsu) and was since called Horinji Temple.''Save for the caretaker, there was nobody else at the temple despite the crowds flocking around the other temples in the area. Such a shame because its high elevation allows fantastic views of the district and even Kyoto.''Part of the reason it is not as frequented could be that it is concealed behind the trees at the far end of the bridge. Even I had a difficult time finding it. I was on the verge of giving up when a lovely vendor pointed us to the right direction. The temple is accessible via a narrow staircase that starts beside a traditional pastry store at the end of the Togetsukyo.''The charming Horinji Temple''Horinji Temple belongs to the Shingon Buddhist faith''View of the city from Horinji Temple''These are food, not stones. I swear.''3. Tenryuji Temple''Regarded as the best among the Five Great Zen Temples of Kyoto, Tenryuji Temple has been declared by the Japanese government as a Special Place of Scenic Beauty \xa0and in 1994 was inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It was originally founded in 1339 by Shogun Ashikaga Takauji as a place to console the spirit of Emperor Go-Daigo. Zen master Muso Soseki was the founding priest. Today, it is a major tourist destination, alluring everyone with its Zen beauty and tradition.''An exquisite garden encloses this temple, which makes the walk getting here an event in itself. Once again, I imagined how it looked during spring or fall as I strolled around it. Next to an abbey hall is the Sogen Pond, which is frequented by many species of birds. A large heron made an appearance at the pond while I sat by the hall.''Tenryuji Temple and Sogen Pond''Look! An egret! (It’s an egret, right?)''The abbey hall beside the pond''Lotus flower blooming on a pond on the way to Tenryuji Temple''4. Nonomiya Shrine''Nonomiya Shrine means “Shrine in the Country.” A Shinto shrine, it was founded around 800 AD, but its location has changed through the years. It houses many images of gods, but the most notable are\xa0the god of marriage and the god of easy delivery. There used to be several nonomiya shrines, believed to be the temporary home of saios. In ancient Japan, a saio was an Imperial princess who was chosen to serve a god. This particular nonomiya sheltered a daughter of Emperor Saga in the late 8th century.''Nonomiya Shrine''5. Bamboo Forest''Right after the garden exit is the start of the breathtaking groves of green bamboos. (Green again! But no one’s complaining now!) These imposing grass stalks towered above a narrow walking trail that meanders through it.''Chlorophyll-colored dream''See how tall these bamboo trunks are?''Bamboo canopy''I had never seen any other place in Kyoto more picturesque and therapeutic than this! Bikers breezed through and lovers ambled sweetly under its thin canopy, enjoying a chlorophyll-colored dream. These bamboo trunks whispered gaieties that blew what was left of the summertime sadness that I carried in my heavy heart.''Arashiyama smothered me with a verdant pillow and I was ironically enjoying the way it took my breath away. Indeed, being here during summer had a silver lining, except it wasn’t silver at all. It was very, very green.''How to get to Arashiyama'': From Kyoto Station, take the JR Sagano Line (aka JR Sanin Line) to Saga-Arashiyama Station. Travel time: 15 minutes. Fare: JPY 230. From the Sagaarashiyama Station, the central Arashiyama area can be reached on foot in 5 minutes.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Snapshot: Lovers in Arashiyama Bamboo Forest – Kyoto, Japan''Toei Movie Studio Park, Kyoto: A Japanese Pop Culture Immersion''Gion District: The Birthplace of Kabuki and Geisha in Kyoto, Japan''10 Food Delights to Try in Japan''Kakigori: The Grandmama of Halo-halo''Donguri Okonomiyaki Dining: Where to Eat in Kyoto, Japan''Dining is a big part of travel. Food is an essential part of any destination. The same holds true for El Nido.''Although this humble town tucked in the northern tip of Palawan does not have a distinct, world-famous cuisine, a trip here is not complete without trying its many restaurants — something I failed to do during my first visit. My equally wanting wallet at the time could only spew enough money for bread for breakfast and street barbeque for dinner. Not complaining, but still.''Some random tourists having dinner in El Nido''This time around, back with a vengeance and a little bit more cash, I was more confident to sample\xa0what some of the most frequented restaurants here had to offer other than San Miguel Beer. As with many other beach destinations, seafood is the town specialty. And although at one point I felt like I was starting to grow scales and fins, I never felt awfully fed up with the ocean bounty. (After all, I had once dreamed of becoming a''mermaid''merman until Ursula and Jaws crushed that dream.) The wide variety of dishes that each establishment served made sure I would never reach the seafood quota I am allowed for this lifetime.''Here are six of the most popular restaurants in town that I was able to try. (Sorry for the horrible photos.)'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Squidos''2. The Alternative (Closed)''3. El Nido Corner''4. Bacuit Grill Bar and Restaurant''5. Habibi Restaurant and Shisha Cafe''6. Kape Pukka''Prior to this trip to South Cotabato, I was starting to think that marang didn’t like me. At all.''Marang before getting whacked open''Three times I had been to Davao City. Three times I bought a whole marang fruit. Three times I failed to have a taste of it. Like most of my romantic relationships, the marang spoiled even before I could dig into the juicy part. I had never tasted it for I would always take the fruit to Manila and wait for it to ripen. It would then sit on the dining table until it rot under my nose.''So I gave up on it, and buried the thought of it gracing my palate in the deepest recesses of my unconscious.''But when Red of''Local Governance Support Program for Local Economic Development''(LGSP-LED), the organization who graciously took us on a tour around South Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat, proposed to make a brief stop at a fruit stand along Maharlika Highway for a quick affair with this elusive tropical fruit, I was like, “HELL YEAH!”''The marang (Artocarpus odoratissimus) is a fruit tree native to Mindanao and some parts of Palawan and Borneo. Like the durian, it has this weird smell but less pungent. A cousin of the jackfruit, its soft and sweet flesh is wrapped in a thick and thorny exterior. Fruit stands along the roads in South Mindanao are usually packed with marang together with durian, pineapples, and bananas.''Fruit stands along Maharlika Highway in South Cotabato''Finally! Imma cry!''Red handed me a barbeque stick and invited me to pick up some of the white, pulpy arils with it. Quite an impossible task. In the end, I had to use my hands in plucking them. It is smooth and somewhat slimy like those of the guyabano. My olfactory powers did not detect any repelling scent. If anything, I actually liked the mild fragrance of it. But what I liked most was the taste. Its sweet, creamy goodness reminded me of a \xa0guyabano minus the sour taste and an oversized sugar-apple (atis) minus the grainy texture. To a certain extent, it tasted like overripe bananas.''Louie''of\xa0Allah Valley Landscape Development Alliance (AVLDA) pointed to the tallest tree on the other side. “That’s a marang tree,” he said. This one was generous, as even from afar I could spot countless fruits dangling from its sturdy branches.''Fruits are eaten by fools like me, but only God can make a Marang tree. Char.''I stared at the tall evergreen tree and took my time to digest two things: the\xa0pulpy flesh of the fruit I was munching on and the thought that I had finally got to taste it.''Marang loves me. Marang loves me very much.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Snapshot: One ‘Pine’ Day at DOLE PINEAPPLE PLANTATION – Polomolok, South Cotabato''Lake Holon and Mt. Melibingoy (Mt. Parker) in South Cotabato, Philippines''7 FALLS ZIPLINE, LAKE SEBU: 60-Second Bliss in South Cotabato''Yufuin Japanese Restaurant: Where to Eat in Angeles City, Pampanga''Orange Picking at Rock Farm, Sagada (Updated Rates: 2016)''Jonah’s Fruit Shake and Snack Bar: Where to Eat in Boracay, Philippines''We were in the mood to bask in the sun that morning. El Nido wasn’t.''It was sweet and sunny when we left our hotel. Despite the heavy rain the night before, we kept our optimism on the way to our destination.\xa0As I sat inside the van, I thought, “This is going to be a great day!”''All of a sudden, the vehicle stopped. It was bogged. The continuous raining the past days had turned the dirt road into chocolate marshmallows and now swallowed the tires of our van. We hopped out, removed our slippers, and walked several hundred meters barefoot to the beach. Still, nothing was going to spoil the day!''It’s a dirty business crossing this road.''The locals, even children, see the bright side!''“Keep calm and be positive,” I said to myself while I straddled the chocolate-flavored road. “As long as it doesn’t rain, this is going to be a great day!”''And just like that. Rain poured. Hard.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Swimming in the Rain at Nacpan Beach''Lunch at Kayla’s Cucina''Hiking for a Good View''It was my last night in Japan and I was sure I had more than enough money to carry me through a sit-down dinner (as opposed to the usual convenience store sushi takeouts). That evening I was certain I wanted to try okonomiyaki for the first time. It was a delicacy that I had long wanted to try since my plane landed in Japan, but my unreliable sense of direction could not bring me to an okonomiyaki place in Osaka. Finally in Kyoto, on the way back to the hostel, I spotted an unassuming restaurant tucked along Karasuma Street.''After a minute of waiting, my travel buddy and I were led by a waitress deeper into the restaurant where big tables were arranged neatly. Each table in the area had an iron griddle to keep the food warm. The crowd here was young that night — students and yuppies enjoying great food and greater conversations.''When the waitress realized we were not Japanese, she hurried to one corner and returned with an English menu. The menu was fantastic. Not only did it explain the dishes well, there were also instructions on how to prepare the okonomiyaki Kyoto-style.''Donguri''Osaka’s Okonomiyaki VS Kyoto’s Negiyaki''Okonomiyaki vs Betayaki vs Negiyaki''Okonomiyaki is a traditional Japanese savory pancake. It’s a portmanteau — okonomi, which means “what you like” because you can add any other ingredient you want; and yaki, which means “grilled” or “cooked.” Although the meat ingredient varies depending on who’s cooking and who’s eating, the base remains the same — wheat flour, eggs, and cabbage. The Kansai Region is said to be the birthplace okonomiyaki, and Osaka and Hiroshima became famous for these veggie pancakes.''Okonomiyaki: wheat flour, cabbage, and eggs (JPY 819)''The city of Kyoto, on the other hand, is known for two other varieties of okonomiyaki. Betayaki is much thinner but uses the same base ingredients. Negiyaki replaces cabbage with scallions (Japanese bunching onions, known in the vernacular as''kujo'').''Negiyaki — wheat flour, kujo onions, eggs — with shrimps and clams (JPY 735)''We would love to try all three, but with only two stomachs to accommodate them, we had to give up betayaki. The decision-making, however, did not stop there. Donguri serves several versions of these pancakes. There are beef, pork, seafood, and even vegetarian options. Since we were both okonomiyaki virgins (read: first-timers), we opted with the standard okonomiyaki. We went for the less boring option for our negiyaki — seafood.''When they were served, we were overwhelmed by its size. We didn’t realize that each serving would be big enough for two. The okonomiyaki had a thicker batter. Negiyaki was thinner but more loose. This made it harder to be cut by the spatula. The hot griddle kept “cooking” both pieces as we followed the instructional card on how to season and garnish them. We added sweet and spicy sauces and sprinkles a bit of dried seaweed.''Both were crunchy on the outside and soft on the inside. Both were very filling. Both tasted really, really good. The freshness of the vegetable ingredients stood out, complimented with the teriyaki-reminiscent sauce.\xa0The okonomiyaki looked more like pancake and the negiyaki more like thin crust pizza. \xa0They may not look alike, but they tasted strikingly similar.\xa0 Except for the shrimps and clams, I couldn’t even tell the difference.''Maybe it was just me. Maybe I was just drunk.''Sake vs Chu-hi''Well, I wasn’t drunk. But I was drinking in between bites of those pancakes. On my left hand side was a small glass of warm sake. And on my right, a cold mug of red chu-hi.''Sake (JPY525) vs Chu-hi (JPY399)''From the menu''The drink selection of Donguri is quite limited, which was a welcome ease. Since I had never before had a drop of sake, I was sold as soon as I spotted it on the drink list. But I knew that I had a love-hate relationship with strong drinks, so I had to have a safe back-up. Chu-hi looked irresistible on the menu. Chu-hi comes in a variety of flavors (fresh lime, green tea, etc) but the waitress recommended the red concoction.''As expected, the sake was too strong for me. Yeah, I’m lame like that. But the chu-hi was a winner. It tasted strong, too, to be honest, but it had this fruity taste that disguised its alcohol content. It reminded me of our very own cocktails-in-a-bottle (Tanduay Ice) except it had more kick and flavor, thanks to the port wine in the mixture. Chu-hi is said to have originated in Kyoto, and is the perfect match for okonomiyaki according to locals.''Sauteed cabbage and beef in spicy sauce (JPY 580)''By the end of the night, we were awfully full that we could not even touch the other dish we ordered, Beef and Cabbage. We had to wait it out and made room in our tummy before we finally dug in again, but we were not disappointed either. It was the perfect combination of spicy and sweet, veggie and meat.''Overall, it was the best meal we had in Kyoto. I have to admit, however, that part of the judgment was the freedom from worrying too much about the budget. Donguri is economical, but not compromising the service and the food — perfect for budget travelers who are out to have their own enjoyable authentic Japanese dining experience in Kyoto.''Donguri Okonomiyaki Dining''Karasuma Street, Kyoto''Phone Number: +81 75-353-1777''Website: kyoto-donguri.co.jp\u200e''Full menu''here''Opening Hours''Mondays to Saturdays: 05:00pm to 03:00am''Sundays and Holidays: 11:30am to 03:00am''How to get to Donguri Okonomiyaki Restaurant Karasuma'': From Kyoto Train Station, walk down the road perpendicular to the station. That’s Karasuma Dori. Walk straight and you’ll find it to your left before you reach Shijo Street.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''10 Food Delights to Try in Japan''Kakigori: The Grandmama of Halo-halo''Toei Movie Studio Park, Kyoto: A Japanese Pop Culture Immersion''Gion District: The Birthplace of Kabuki and Geisha in Kyoto, Japan''Snapshot: Lovers in Arashiyama Bamboo Forest – Kyoto, Japan''ARASHIYAMA, KYOTO: A DIY Walking Tour''There was urgency in his voice as our tour guide pressed us to hustle into the shrine grounds.\xa0It was past 4pm and the site would close in an hour. \xa0Like obedient kindergarten kids, we swooshed out of the bus and into the front gate.''The National Revolutionary Martyrs’ Shrine (or simply Martyrs’ Shrine) lies on Chingshan Mountain along the Keelung River. Built in 1969 in the Zhongshan District of Taipei, this memorial houses “spirit tablets” of around 390,000 individuals who lost their lives during the many wars that Taiwan fought including the Sino-Japanese War and the Chinese Civil War.''The Main Sanctuary of the Shrine''Spanning an area of 5000 sq meters, the site harbors many structures. The main sanctuary is said to have the same architecture as the Hall of Supreme Harmony at the Forbidden City in Beijing. The arcade of the building speak through paintings of tales about numerous battles. There are also a bell tower and a drum tower within the site, which play a role during important ceremonies.''Bloggers at the Martyrs’ Shrine''A pagoda next to the Main Sanctuary''The changing of the guards begins!''But it’s not the architecture nor the artifacts that most tourists come here for. Every hour, the straight-faced and almost immovable soldiers guarding the shrine change in a calculated, military fashion. Clad in blue uniforms, the guards march from the main sanctuary to the main gate with their bayoneted rifles and switch positions in complete synchronicity. The whole routine takes around 15 minutes, slow and perfect.''Tourists are allowed to take photos or videos of the changing of the guards, but they must stay away from the path.''The National Revolutionary Martyrs’ Shrine''139 Beian Road, Taipei, Taiwan''Opening Hours: 9am-5pm''Changing of the guards happens hourly and at 4:45pm''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Martyrs’ Shrine: Karenkō Shrine in Hualien, Taiwan''8 Marble-ous Scenic Spots in Taroko Gorge, Taiwan''Snapshot: Entrenched Meander at Taroko Gorge, Taiwan''In Pictures: Dalongdong Baoan Temple at Night in Taipei, Taiwan''Taipei 101: Reaching New Heights in Taiwan''National Palace Museum in Taipei, Taiwan''I watched my friend''Brenna''bury her soles in the supple ground as she waltzed her way to the end of the cove. She was not looking back, not even once. Her eyes were fixed to the glowing dunes that make up a mini-mountain range by the shore. Behind her, a trail of deep footprints.\xa0I shook my slippers off and followed her.''This place was exactly why I was back in Palawan. San Vicente, an unassuming municipality in Northern Palawan, is often overlooked for its more popular neighbors El Nido and Puerto Princesa. It is hardly accessible. Transportation options are limited, and the roads here are begging for attention. But those travelers fortunate and brave enough to endure the bumpy ride are greeted with miles of ivory white beaches that lace the western side of the town. One of these stunners is Irawan Beach.''It’s not that obvious in the pic but the sand here are like desert dunes''Say hello to my friend Brenna of PhilippineTravelogue.com''The rocky northern end of Irawan Beach''The tides overflow into a small estuary''Located in Barangay Sto. Nino, Irawan faces the violent West Philippine Sea. The sand here isn’t flat and compact. The waves and the winds mold it constantly to create soft but rugged dunes that roll inland smoothly. It’s a long stretch of sand bookmarked by rocky promontories. A small hill stands on its northern end, and at its foot snakes a small, stagnant estuary where the tides overflow to.''Brenna continued walking until she reached the giant boulders at the edge of the strip. She climbed the biggest one and stood on it for a better view. “Let’s climb to the top of that hill,” I suggested when I was finally able to catch up.''It was easy scaling the rocks on the hillside, but the same could not be said for the grassy part. It rained the night before, and the ground was muddy and slippery. Sweat dropped from my face as heavily as the rain did the previous night as I hiked to what was a good viewpoint — a tor. A giant boulder stuck out from the slope, which made for a perfect resting place. As soon as we caught our breaths, we faced the ocean and finally took time to admire the view of the landscape. Still obstructed — damn coconut trees — but good enough.''How to get to Irawan Beach'': From San Vicente town proper (Poblacion), motorcycles may be rented for a beach-hopping tour. You can make a few stops at different points of the Long Beach, and in Irawan Beach in Sto. Nino. Motorcycle tour costs P350 if you’re solo, or P250 per person if you’re a party of two.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Long Beach, San Vicente, Palawan: The Longest White Beach in the Philippines''Snapshot: Waking Up to Paradise in PORT BARTON, PALAWAN''The Twin Beaches of Nacpan and Calitang: El Nido, Palawan''The 7 Commandos Beach and the 7 Lost Soldiers: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''How to Get to El Nido from Puerto Princesa Airport, Palawan, Philippines''The Secret Beach of Matinloc Island: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''It was supposed to be a short walk. But it was impossible to not take the time.''My senses were overloaded upon crossing Avenida de Almeida Ribeiro. Distinct and impressive facades delighted my eyes. The clanking of the shoes on the mosaic ground was music to my ears. And the scent of pork chop buns that some tourists held while wandering around gave me more motivation to explore the area.''General Post Office Building next to Senado Square''I began my walk at the Senado Square (Largo de Senado), a 3,700-square meter public plaza at the Historic Center of Macau. It fronts the Leal Senado Building, the seat of the city government during the Portuguese rule. It is surrounded by other brilliantly designed buildings. At the center a statue of a Portuguese soldier named Mesquita used to stand, but it was destroyed and replaced with a small fountain when the Chinese took control of the city again.''Following the black and white stones that make up the wave-patterned mosaic ground, I made it past the imposing architecture and into the lanes of fashion boutiques and shops. It was mid-February, and although it wasn’t peak season the area was teeming with tourists traipsing and suddenly stopping for obligatory photos with the colorful display as backdrop. Even I could not resist it, snapping away as I dragged my feet around.''Leal Senado Building''Macau Holy House of Mercy''The fountain at the center of Senado Square''The wave-patterned mosaic floor of Senado Square''Tourists taking photos''The yellow-painted St. Domingo’s Church (St. Dominic’s Church) stood out and stole my attention for a moment. It was closed. (The other time I was here, I was able to enter and see its interiors. I wasn’t able to take photos though because there was a mass.)''St. Domingo’s Church: all bright and yellow''When I took another turn, I spotted the iconic Ruins of St. Paul Cathedral.\xa0I knew I was in the right direction. I thought it would just be a short walk from here, but distractions made this street their home. Everything here was magnetic. From the souvenir shops to food stalls, I was bombarded with a storeful of alley that was craving to have me craving more.''Took a wrong turn and found myself at Cathedral Square, built in 1576''Are these cherries?''Egg tarts and pork chop bun stores are all over the alley connecting Senado Square and St. Paul Ruins''Free taste, the signs read. I was not shy to try. I bought just enough to last the day. Too sweet for my taste.''One more year and my physique will be like this''Na Tcha Temple, just beside the Ruins''The''Ruins of St. Paul’s''was all that was left of what was once the biggest Catholic Church in Asia. The first church was constructed in the 1580s by local craftsmen and Japanese Christians, who was said to have fled persecution in Japan. Two big fires later, it burned down. A new Baroque-style church was completed in 1637 only to burn down again in 1835, leaving only its magnificent facade, which remains standing today.''How to get to Senado Square''The overnight sleeper train to Langkawi from the capital is set to leave at 9:20 pm and arrive at Arau Station, the stop closest Langkawi, at 8:00am. I’m sure there are other ways to do this but this is how I did it so this is what I’m sharing. So here it is — a detailed guide on how to reach Langkawi from Kuala Lumpur airport by overnight sleeper train.''First things first: It would be best to book in advance especially during peak season. If not, well, you can always take your chances at KL Sentral.''1. At the airport, take the bus to KL Sentral (RM8).''2. Take the''Senandung Langkawi train to Hat Yai, Thailand''. Arau Station is your stop, the third to the last stop. A second-class upper berth costs (RM34). Again, it leaves at 9:20 pm. If everything goes as expected, it will reach Arau Station at 8am the next day.''The train may be old but the interiors are pretty and neat. My bed was covered in fresh white sheet and there was no nasty smell inside. (The common restroom is another story though, but it is nothing that cannot be tolerated.)''Important! DO NOT OVERSLEEP. You might miss your stop!''Inside the overnight sleeper train to Langkawi''3. At the Arau Station, take a short cab ride (RM24) to Kuala Perlis.''4. Catch a ferry to Kuah Terminal on Langkawi Island. A ferry leaves Kuala Perlis for Langkawi every hour from 7:30 am to 7:00 pm. Here are the schedule and prices as of August 2013.''Courtesy of langkawi-online.com''Kuala Perlis Jetty''Our ferry!''Kuah Jetty (Kuah Ferry Terminal)''5. Exit Kuah Terminal and take a cab to your hotel. Cab ride costs RM 25.''Enjoy Langkawi!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Panorama Langkawi Cable Car, Malaysia: 6 Things to Expect''Thean Hou Temple in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Sights and Sounds of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''KL Tower and 1 Malaysia Cultural Village: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Batu Caves: All Things Tall in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''The Merdeka Square and the Sultan Abdul Samad Building, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''A trip to Hong Kong is never complete without a stop at the Avenue of Stars. That’s why it is no wonder this spot is packed with tourists day and night. Lying along the Tsim Sha Tsui promenade, it provides\xa0incredible views of the Hong Kong Island skyline and Victoria Harbor. More about the Avenue of Stars''here''.''The most impressive transportation system in Hong Kong is its expansive and interconnected MTR lines. Getting to any part of the city is much easier via the MTR. The same can be said about the Avenue of Stars, even though it still requires a little bit of a leisurely walk.''The legendary Bruce Lee!''To get to the Avenue of Stars, you need to make your way to the Tsim Sha Tsui MTR Station or East Tsim Sha Tsui Station (two separate stations), depending on your origin. East TST Station is much closer to your destination but these two stations are linked by a pedestrian subway, so it really isn’t an issue where you end up in.''If your hotel is in Tsim Sha Tsui area, lucky you. The promenade is just within walking distance.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'From Tsim Sha Tsui (TST) Station''From East Tsim Sha Tsui Station''The Victoria Peak is one of the most popular tourist attractions in Hong Kong. It allows breathtaking panoramic views of Victoria Harbor. More about Victoria Peak''here''.''The best way to get there? By the iconic and historic Peak Tram, of course. From the Lower Terminus located along Garden Road, getting to the Peak is easy. But getting to the terminal, that’s the confusing part.''Most budget hotels and guesthouses in Hong Kong are in Tsim Sha Tsui, an urban district in Kowloon. If your hotel is located here and you wish to get to the Victoria Peak, here’s a quick guide using the city’s expansive MTR system and the iconic Peak Tram.''1. Take the MTR to Central Station.''2. Once at Central Station, follow the signs to Exit J2. There are plenty of them so don’t worry about not finding it.''3. After emerging through Exit J2, you’ll see the Chater Garden. Turn right immediately after the exit and walk across the garden.''4. Scan the skyline and look for the Bank of China Tower. It’s easy to spot it; thanks to its unique architecture. Check out the day and night photos of the building below.''The Bank of China Tower''5. Keep an eye on the tower and walk towards it. You’ll know you’re on the right path when you find yourself crossing a street and seeing a flyover. Head directly to Garden Road.''If you have this view, you’re doing it right''Towards Garden Road''6. At one point along the street you’ll see a small alley to your right called Battery Path. You may take it to see the beautiful St. John’s Cathedral, a brief but worthy stopover. You can simply walk around it and you’ll be back along Garden Road. If you’re not interested in this church, just continue walking along Garden Road.''Take this if you want to pass by St. John Cathedral''St. John Cathedral''7. You’ll find the Garden Road Peak Tram Lower Terminus to your left.''Peak Tram Lower Terminus''8. Fall in line and you’ll eventually reach the ticket counter. Peak Tram and Sky Pass roundtrip ticket costs HKD 75 for adults and HKD 36 for kids. One way costs HKD 63 and HKD 29 for adults and children respectively.''9. Board the Peak Tram. Enjoy the ride.''The Peak Tram''10. Get to the top of the building to reach the Sky Terrace. Enjoy the view of Victoria Harbor from here!''That’s it! Hope this helps.''View from The Peak''Peak Tram''Opening Hours: 7am to 12mn''The Peak Tower''Monday-Friday: 10am – 11pm''Saturday, Sunday, Holidays: 8am – 11pm''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Victoria Peak: Surreal Perspectives from Hong Kong’s Highest''Hong Kong: How to Get to Avenue of Stars from Tsim Sha Tsui MTR Station on Foot''The Avenue of Stars: In the Mood for Love in Hong Kong''7 FREE Things to Do in HONG KONG''Mong Kok Night Market: Budget Shopping in Hong Kong''How to Get to Disneyland Hong Kong from Tsim Sha Tsui, and Other Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)''Most of my time stargazing that night was spent looking down.''They say that the best place to watch Hong Kong’s Symphony of Lights is the Avenue of Stars, running along the Tsim Sha Tsui Promenade along Victoria Harbour. This synchronized exterior lights and laser display features 44 of the city’s imposing buildings in both the Kowloon and Hong Kong sides of the harbor. Accompanied by music, this spectacular multimedia show happens every night for 10 minutes starting at 8pm.''Unfortunately, staying true to my name, I was a little too late. It was over by the time I got there. Poor me.''Nothing else was left to do but to go stargazing. Only this time, the stars are etched on the floor of the promenade. Much like the Hollywood Walk of Fame, the Avenue of Stars pays tribute to the outstanding members of the city’s prolific film industry. Scattered throughout the boardwalk are dozens of five-pointed stars that bear the names of the brightest movie professionals.''The Tsim Sha Tsui Waterfront Promenade was built in 1982 by the New World Group, but the Avenue of Stars was established on April 27, 2004. It was a HKD40 million project that was launched with much glitter, attended by the biggest names in the industry. Who gets to have their names embedded on these stars are chosen by the Hong Kong Film Awards Association Ltd.''The Avenue of Stars facing Victoria Harbor''A film reel, one of the many movie-related items at the promenade''To say that I was thrilled walking down the waterfront is a criminal understatement. I was ecstatic! Like a kid trying to catch a firefly, I followed the pin lights that marked the floor in search of the celebrities and movie stars that I could recognize. I remembered''a friend''of mine who took a picture of the names and hand prints of people involved in the Wong Kar Wai masterpiece''Chungking Express''and decided to do the same. Except my all-time favorite Asian film is''In The Mood for Love'', starring Tony Leung and Maggie Cheung.''Follow the lights!''The main stars of In The Mood for Love — Maggie Cheung and Tony Leung, and director Wong Kar Wai. (Bottom photo by Ayn Dimaya)''A scene from In The Mood for Love''Here are the other Asian superstars I spotted.''Jackie Chan, Chow Yun-Fat, Andy Lau''But their stars shone no brighter than the magnetic statue on the far end of the boardwalk. Bruce Lee, Hong Kong’s legendary film actor and martial artist, shows off his signature pose. It was around this statue that I found the biggest swarm of tourists, all of whom wanted to have a photo taken next to it.''The legendary Bruce Lee!''I looked up and tried to find a real star, but their sparkles were turned faint by the district’s majestic skyline. Stars may be on leave that night, but I was in stellar company.\xa0Travel may be my greatest passion, but film is my first love. And this place felt more romantic than it probably should.''How to get to the Avenue of Stars'': Take the train to East Tsim Sha Tsui MTR Station and use Exit J. From here, it is only a 3-minute walk. It should be on your left. If coming from Nathan Road near the Tsim Sha Tsui Station, you can walk through the pedestrian subway to EAST Tsim Sha Tsui Station. Just follow the signs that lead to Exit J and you’ll be fine.''More detailed directions here''.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''7 FREE Things to Do in HONG KONG''10 Kid-Friendly Places to Visit in Hong Kong''Victoria Peak: Surreal Perspectives from Hong Kong’s Highest''Hong Kong: How to Get to Avenue of Stars from Tsim Sha Tsui MTR Station on Foot''Hong Kong: How to Get to Victoria Peak from Tsim Sha Tsui by MTR''Mong Kok Night Market: Budget Shopping in Hong Kong''The ride in itself was quite an experience, but it wasn’t until I had a good look of Victoria Harbor that I knew I had done what I came to Hong Kong for.''My first trip to Hong Kong was almost perfect. I was able to cross out all the items on my must-visit list except one thing — Victoria Peak. So when an opportunity to return came knocking on my door, I knew exactly the first thing I would do.''The superstar is here: The Peak Tram''At 552m, Victoria Peak (or Mount Austin) is the highest point in Hong Kong Island. (Tai Mo Shan, at 957m, is far taller and is the highest in the entire territory.) Rising on the western end of the island, it offers the best and the most breathtaking views of the iconic Victoria Harbor, one of the world’s finest and busiest. No other place that is easily accessible can be a better vantage point for witnessing the vibrance and the energy of this Asian metropolis, especially at night. Its actual summit is closed to the public but the surrounding residential area and parks are what the moniker “The Peak” refers to today.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Peak Tram''The View from the Peak''If there were a contest among night markets in Asia and the main criteria were diversity and artfulness, Chiang Mai would have it in the bag. While Taipei’s Shilin boasts a smorgasbord of Taiwanese street food and Malacca’s Jonker Street teems with cute souvenir trinkets, Chiang Mai’s weekend markets have virtually everything. Everything!''Saturday Night Market''Armed with very little expectations, I was shocked to discover that they had almost all the foodage and the goodies that I usually craved.\xa0On one end was a sausage stall and on the other was a sushi kiosk. And in between were two wide-ranging lanes of delightful items — edible and otherwise — that made me let out an endless train of cheers!''Oh hey, fresh fruit shakes! Vintage notebooks! Look, hand-painted shoes! Ooooh, barbeque! Wow, fried quail eggs? Oh the man is playing a tune with, wait, are those wine glasses?''See? Everything. But what really got me were two things: the tasty food and the equally tasteful art.''A man playing lovely music with glasses'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Saturday Night Market''Sunday Night Market''Stone foxes stand guard at key points throughout the busy shrine as tourists come flooding in. These statues, although inanimate, appear as though they have been watching over the site. But more than sentinels, they are messengers, if Shintoism is to be believed. Foxes are often associated with Inari, a kami (spirit), who is the patron of rice, agriculture, fertility, commerce, and general prosperity. Most visitors, however, are not here for the foxes. The crowd almost always goes straight to thousands of vermilion torii gates that create an elaborate trail around the shrine.''A fox with a key, guarding the Shrine''Orange isn’t really my color, but there was a sudden explosion of joy inside me as soon as I spotted the first orange torii right after a row of souvenir shops. From here, my eyes wandered and searched for the thousand others, but they found the main gate, also shining in orange, towering across another giant torii.\xa0My eyes were relentless. If they had feet, they could have reached the sand dunes in Dubai or''tennis resorts Mexico''.''Hold your tater'', I whispered to myself.''You’ll see them soon enough''. A group of tourists gathering around a fountain stole their attention temporarily.''A torii and the Romon Gate, donated by Toyotomi Hideyoshi''Purification Fountain at Fushimi Inari Shrine''Fushimi Inari Shrine (伏見稲荷大社 or Fushimi Inari Taisha) is the most well-known and most important Shinto site that is dedicated to Inari in the city of Kyoto, Japan. While the thousand torii gates are the most picturesque parts of the site, they are but trails that connect the shrines and other places of worship. The shrine was built in 711 by one Hata-no-Irogu. According to legend, he was a powerful man, who one day shot an arrow at rice-cake target. To his surprise, the rice cake transformed into a swan and perched on a peak of the mountain. Rice began growing at the site, sustaining the community. A shrine was erected as a tribute to the god of rice, Inari. In 816, it was moved to its current location, at the base of the Inariyama hill.''The main tower and the main shrine, built in 1499, are the first to welcome visitors. Behind them are smaller torii gates. Known in the vernacular as''Senbon Torii''(literally “thousands of torii gates), they\xa0stand very close to one another, forming what two parallel lanes that lead to an inner shrine. Each gate was donated by an organization or individual, whose names you will find inscribed at the back. How many people flock here at any given day? I have no idea. What I know is, it is extremely difficult to have a picture taken at any point under the arches without having anyone else in the frame. Just when I thought the coast was clear and safe for a human-free picture, someone appeared from the other end of the orange tunnel and bombed the photo unintentionally. Or maybe it was just a bad time.''Start of the rows of thousand torii gates''Orange dominoes!''Deep in the orange maze''Orange tunnel: the thousand torii gates''But the domino-like arches aren’t the only things that captivate. The shrine buildings themselves are worth a thousand stares. Even the''Romon Gate''at the entrance is arresting, especially after learning that it was given by preeminent daimyo Toyotomi Hideyoshi in 1589. Those who have the time and energy are free to go farther into the mountain and explore. After a 40-minute trek, the''Yotsutsuji Intersection''treats visitors to a good view of the city. Double the time and the summit greets visitors, although most of them turn around before reaching it as the sights become repetitive and the number of gates dwindle.''A giant torii in front of Romon Gate''Fushimi Inari Shrine''The main shrine of Fushimi Inari''Another building at the Fushimi Inari site''Red lanterns at the orange shrine''Hello there, foxes.''After hours of walking around, I was back under the first torii I spotted. It had been an orange afternoon, a very orange afternoon. And I wasn’t complaining. Not at all. Not when you’re surrounded by a glowing magnificence that comes from somewhere far deeper than its color.''How to get to Fushimi Inari Shrine'': From Kyoto Station, take the JR Nara Line and alight at JR Inari Station. It is also accessible from Fushimi-Inari Station of the Keihan Main Line. The shrine is just a short, easy walk from either.''Claps of thunder resonated over the island as lightning flashes broke the growing darkness. Watching the heavenly spectacle,\xa0I stood at the beach contemplating whether to stay or head back to my room. It had been a while since I last swam in the rain, but the lightning was scaring the schnitzel out of me. Just a few moments ago, the sun was shining brightly and under it was me, lazing on the sand, pretending that I owned the entire beach. The Visayan skies are fickle. Weather changes fast, almost as fast as our stay in Bantayan Island.''Turquoise.''Bantayan Island is Cebu’s fastest rising beach destination. What used to be a sleepy fishing village years ago has been enjoying the fruits of tourism as tourists look for laid-back alternatives to Boracay. Bantayan has found its way to Cebu all inclusive travel packages but remains a favorite among backpackers for its sheer beauty and serene atmosphere. Located off the northern tip of Cebu, it is a three-hour bus ride and a one-hour ferry trip away from Cebu City. Its remoteness contribute to its almost undisturbed quietness. The island is divided into three municipalities: Bantayan, Madridejos, and Santa Fe.''I knew my affair with Bantayan would be short so I was determined to make it sweet and seize each moment. After a long boat ride from Malapascua, we arrived at Anika Resort in Santa Fe even before the check-in time. But we didn’t waste any second. While they were still prepping our room, we excitedly hit the beach! The best part, we had the beach all to ourselves.''Santa Fe’s wide bed of white sand''A red boat waltzing with the waves''Bantayan Island’s biggest asset is its\xa0white, white, white sand! It is so white that it can give Boracay a run for its tourist money. It is very fine but not too fine to smudge the crystal clear water, which, by the way, is also very shallow. Perfect for kids and non-swimmers (like me).''After a quick visit to the town proper to rummage for food and Kota Beach to tiptoe on its famous sandbar, I headed back to Anika Resort’s beachfront for relaxation and reflection.''Kota Beach’s sandbar during low tide''Anika Resort’s beachfront shade''Each\xa0second my toes dipped in it is a moment of therapy. And each footprint I left on its gently sloping bed was wiped off by the weakly rolling waves. I embraced the waves and sometimes fought it as if I were a little kid who had seen the sea for the first time. By lunch time I was lying under the shade by the shore, reading a book and enjoying a glass of mango shake. The sunlight fried. The waves shimmered. The wind danced. And I was in the middle of it all, just taking it all in. Life is a beach, after all.''And then, so suddenly it rained. The grey clouds hovered, sparking lightnings and drenching me with Bantayan Island’s weird sense of humor.''View Larger Map''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Snapshot: Bantayan Blues – Cebu, Philippines''Cao-oy, Olango Island: Seafood and Stilts in Cebu, Philippines''A No-Regrets Half-Day in Cebu City, Philippines''Cebu: Inside Fort San Pedro, The Oldest Fort in the Philippines''Cebu Taoist Temple, Philippines: A Date with Dragons''Magellan’s Cross in Cebu City, Philippines''Ask any first-timer in Osaka and he will tell you it’s true: The hardest part of being in Dotonbori is deciding where to eat.''It was true the first time I was here. And it was true the second time around. Six months after my Dotonbori debut, I found myself in its chaotic embrace again. This time, I was still as confused as before. Even when I thought I had a craving for something, it went away as fast as my first relationship that I could barely remember what it was.''There is something mighty hypnotic about Dotonbori. The incessant grumbling of the empty stomach I was carrying magically stopped as soon as I set foot on the famed street. Perhaps it was the blinding neon lights. Or the inviting calls of the hawkers. Or the overwhelming crowd. Or perhaps it was the potent combination of all those that makes a walk here mesmeric, that makes everything else fade away.''As I marched down the street, squeezing my way through the flux of tourists, nothing else mattered. It was just me and a relentless bombardment of lights, colors, and food. All the things I love.''Dotonbori, also called Dotombori, is the center of food culture in Osaka, Japan. You don’t need to look at the the numbers to see that it is one of the most visited tourist attractions in the city. It used to be a “pleasure district,” but the theaters and the geishas can no longer be found here.\xa0It is now most famous for the food and shopping.''Running parallel the Dotonbori Canal, it stretches from the Dotonbori Bridge to the Nipponbashi Bridge in the Namba ward. It is a single street flanked with shops and restaurants, whose facades are adorned with massive, electronic displays. The narrower alleys that stem from it are also packed with dining places and souvenir stores.''We were there for dinner. It was almost 9pm and the last meal we had was our breakfast at''Endo Sushi''on the other side of the city. But in Dotonbori, picking a place to eat at was a task next to impossible. There were just too many to choose from. As we ran circles on its stone-paved alleys, we could not decide whether to have ramen, Kobe beef, crabs, sushi, or okonomiyaki. The many billboards that brightly illuminated the area were not helping, either. They were so magnetic and distracting. Every time we thought we had made up our minds, our attention would be stolen by another picture-worthy signage and we would forget what we had agreed upon. Blame the hunger. Blame Dotonbori.''Heck, we even raided some apparel shops. Well, actually we just window shopped.''At one point, we gave up and decided to just have a serving of takoyaki in the mean time, finish walking the entire length of the street,''and then''decide where to eat.''Octopus bits at the core of every takoyaki ball''Takoyaki, almost done''Chicago Art Gallery on the way to Dotonbori from the train station''The legs have faces. These are the colonnade of Dotonbori Hotel''Bicycle parking in front of, oh gosh, I forgot the name of this building''It was an amusing walk. We were conscious not to turn our stroll into a scurry, which was not difficult to do because the many \xa0recognizable landmarks (almost characters) of the district made us stop in our tracks and snap away! We spotted two three iconic sights — the Kani Doraku crab, the Glico man, and the Asahi beer. By the end of the night, we finally had our dinner, which came in the form of a Kyushu Shoyu Ramen.''The famous motorized crab of Kani Doraku''The iconic Glico Man seen from Dotonbori Bridge''My Kyushu Shoyu Ramen, tastes like Lucky Me Pancit Canton, except better. I know it sounds stupid to compare it to instant noodles, but it really did taste like it. And the funny thing is, it’s not even a bad thing. Hahaha.''There’s something mighty hypnotic about Dotonbori. There’s just too much happening and it can be a little bit too overwhelming, disorienting, confusing. But that’s the charm of it. That’s what makes it irresistible. It floods and drowns your senses with too much colors, lights, scents, sound, and tastes that captivate and dazzle. Together they create a symphony of pleasure that make for an unforgettable dining and shopping experience that is, without a doubt, truly Japanese.''How to get to Dotonbori'': From any point along the JR Osaka Loop Line, take the train to Tennoji Station and transfer to a Midosuji Line. Alight at Namba Station. Dotonbori is just a 15-minute walk from here.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''10 Food Delights to Try in Japan''Snapshot: The Glico Man of Dotonbori – Osaka, Japan''Osaka Castle Park, Japan: Toyotomi’s Dream''Tempozan Ferris Wheel: Sunny Surprises in Osaka, Japan''Hotel Chuo Oasis: Where to Stay in Osaka, Japan''Donguri Okonomiyaki Dining: Where to Eat in Kyoto, Japan''“Remind me again why we’re doing this” were the only words that I managed to let out in between gasps as I turned around to face my fellow travel bloggers. They were battling their own breathlessness.''“We have no idea,” they answered with synchronized laughter while trying to scale another sharp slope.''With all that I had been through during the trek, a reminder would help me reclaim the focus that has slipped somewhere along the trail, perhaps during the moments I lost balance, slid down, and scratched all my limbs. There was a teensy part of me that wanted to back out. The part, however, was not only cowardly \xa0but also stupid for I had come a long way.''A long, long way.''We had spent almost four hours trekking under the fickle skies — sometimes threatening us with the looming rainclouds, other times frying us with the harshest sunlight. Not counting the full hour we were carried by a habal-habal on the bumpiest — no, bounciest — ride I had ever had a pleasure of surviving. The magnitude 8 trembling of my knees and the intensity 10 profanities I involuntarily cried would have been for nothing if I turned back. The only chicken this day was going to see was the one I had for breakfast that morning.''Tired but totally awed''Little wounds and scratches''Blogger sandwich! Fellow bloggers on a habal-habal ride before the trek''But I still needed a reminder. Even just a glimpse of our destination? Pretty please?''It wasn’t like we had not been pampered by the mountain the past hours. It had, actually. Along the way, we spotted some of the tallest trees, the smallest nepenthes (pitcher plants), and the sexiest clouds that I laid eyes on. After all, we were there for a reason.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Lake Holon and the Allah Valley''A Path Rarely Trodden''The Reclusive Calm of Lake Holon''Our cab stopped right in front of the hotel and a staff member opened the door for us. I have to say: since I had always preferred no-frills hostels over less budget-friendly hotels, I was not used to a service like this. But it was a welcome change, of course.''Azalea Residences''is a favorite among travel bloggers in the Philippines. Many of my friends in the blogging scene have made this their accommodations of choice, so I was desperately curious about where the popularity was coming from. So when I was invited to talk at the Baguio Blog Conference 2013 and learned that Azalea was the official residence of the organizers and speakers, I got a bit excited to finally see it for myself.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Location''Rooms and Rates''Other Amenities''Service''Endo Sushi ruined something for me.''The locals pointed us to Endo Sushi when asked for the best cheap sushi place. Still, there was a part of me that was strongly reluctant. At JPY 1,020, those who have tried it called it “dirt cheap,” and I just couldn’t get it. I refused to get it. I was aware that the cost of living in Japan was sky high, but JPY 1,020 for a serving of sushi was still too much for me.''“Heck, I don’t even like sushi,” I ranted to myself as I schlepped across a quiet neighborhood to the Osaka Wholesale Central Fish Market. Endo Sushi, the legendary sushi restaurant, stands just beside the market. But there I was, almost there, no turning back.''The waiter greeted us with the warmest smile and ushered us to our seats at the bar. Front row seats, I whispered to my companion. Right before us were the cooks preparing the sushi. On the table\xa0were two small porcelain bowls that cradled shoyu (soy sauce) and pickled ginger.\xa0The waiter set a cup of hot green tea and handed us the menu and a moist towelette.''As I took a sip, I had a good look at the place. Small and unassuming, Endo Sushi only has five tables and a bar. Very intimate. But what it lacks in space it makes up for its high fame and deep history. The place has been serving what many consider “Osaka’s best” for over a century. Yep, more than 100 years, and they’re here to stay. Far from the city’s many popular tourist spots, it is almost an attraction in itself with tourists going out of their way to have their own plateful.''Sweet shoyu and pickled ginger''The Chef at Endo Sushi''The menu has only a few choices. For sushi, you get to pick among four sets only and each set has five pieces. But if you want a little bit of surprise, you can ask for Omakaze, which means “chef’s selection.” This means you won’t know what you’re getting until it’s served. As for me, who never really had a good track record of being an adventurous eater, I stayed on the safe side and had a plate of non-tuna pieces. (It would turn out that one of them was actually a tuna roll, though.)''Our front row seats''Sushi Plate #3: Ebi (shrimp), Tamago (sweet omelet), Awabi (abalone), Tekka (tuna roll), and Tako (octopus)''I picked up the small wooden brush that was dipped in the shoyu and let a small amount drip on my sushi. The first to go into my already watered mouth was the Tako (octopus). And it happened just like that. One bite and I understood it all. Easily this was one of the best sushi that ever graced my palate.''When I took my second roll — not one of the best.''The''best.''Then my third — dang it! The best. Bar none.\xa0Hands down.''My satisfaction might have been too obvious because the chef smiled at me as I let the soft, soft rice melt in my mouth like ice cream. The texture of that sushi was nothing that I had tried in any Japanese restaurant in Manila. The rice was not plain; they had their own flavor. I could even dig in it without any topping.\xa0And I could tell just how fresh the ingredients were.''Clam Miso Soup (JPY 520)''We also ordered a bowl of clam miso soup to wash it down. Unlike the usual versions that I had tried, this one uses a combination of many types of miso and has clams, giving it a strong seafood flavor and aroma. It was good, but nowhere near as magical as the sushi.''As we walked out of the restaurant, I knew that this dining experience had ruined something for me. I don’t think I would ever have sushi that would come close to this. This was just near, uhm, perfect. I would certainly be comparing every sushi that would go in between my chopsticks with what Endo treated us to.''I still disagree that Endo Sushi is dirt cheap. With sushi that tasted that good at JPY 1,020, it was more like a steal.''How to get to Endo Sushi:''At the''JR Noda Station''of Osaka Loop Line, exit to your right and walk until the traffic lights. Turn left (cross the street) and turn onto the road between a green shop and a 24H parking space. Walk towards the end of that road then turn right. When you see a beige 3-story building to your left, turn left. Walk until you reach a flyover then turn left. You’ll now reach the fish market. Turn right and then left right past the market building. Make your way to the other side of the market and you’ll find a lane of restaurants. The one with a blue flag is Endo Sushi.''Endo Sushi''Opening Hours: 5:00AM – 2 PM only''Address: 1-1-86 Noda, Fukushima-ku, Osaka City''Contact No.: (06) 6469-7108''The excitement wavered eventually. After seven cities, travel fatigue caught up. I finally was not looking forward to chasing another waterfall, trekking to another summit, or sitting on another long ride. Even before\xa0I set foot in Hanoi, the eighth stop on my''banana pancake trail'', I had already convinced myself to not push through with the trip to Sapa and just stay in the city center. All I wanted \xa0was a time on my own without exhausting any more energy, which I was not sure where to get. All I wanted was to relax this time. The Vietnamese capital, however, appeared to be not the place for it at first glance.''Hanoi’s streets are probably the craziest I have seen. Motorists drive without any care in the world. Honking seem to be a national sport. In the six days that I stayed in Hanoi, I had seen four traffic accidents involving motorcycles. But I did not allow any of them to drive me away. I stayed and, to my surprise, a respite wasn’t difficult at all to find.\xa0I slowly explored the city. Taking my time, I dropped any itinerary and just trusted my feet to take me anywhere they wanted. This is how I spent my six days in Hanoi and where I recommend you to go should you find yourself in this lovely city.''The Huc Bridge'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. \xa0Meet Uncle Ho at Ho Chi Minh Mausoleum''2. Visit Ho Chi Minh Museum and One-Pillar Pagoda''3. Support Girl Power at the Vietnamese Women’s Museum''4. Watch the Thang Long Water Puppets''5. Admire the Architecture of Hanoi\xa0Opera House''6. The Lake of the Restored Sword: Hoan Kiem Lake''7. \xa0Walk Around West Lake''8. See the St. Joseph’s Cathedral''9. Shop at Dong Xuan Night Market''10. Food Trip at Old Quarters''They just didn’t take their time.''The local radio the driver was tuned in to had already played a dozen ballads, but the cab had barely inched forward. The traffic was glacial, and I was stuck in the middle of it all. While I struggled to keep my eye away from the running meter, I looked outside my window and got delightfully lost in the music. My fingers tapped to the slow beat of the Basil Valdez classic. Its sedating melody was sometimes interrupted by the unorthodox percussion coming from the outside — the gentle humming of the engine in the background and the brassy honks from the other vehicles on the road that seem to build up to a crescendo.''This is rush hour Manila. A Holywood actress once said in a magazine interview that she was “ghastly and weird.” An action film director once commented that she was “ugly and stinky.” A fictional character in a novel once baptized her “the gates of hell.” You may say that there’s truth to it, but they did not see enough. They did not stay long enough to see her good, charming side. Or maybe, they just did not take their time.''Rush Hour Manila''I moved to Manila from idyllic Batangas over ten years ago. In the first few weeks,\xa0being stranded in the awful traffic was one of those situations that almost pushed me to insanity. For a promdi like me, how the almost twelve million citizens find their way around this vast concrete labyrinth without getting lost in its fastness and complicatedness and craziness was a question that only time made me understand.''It is not difficult to dismiss Manila as an ideal destination. Most tourists use her as only a jump off point to the islands. And if they ever stay longer than a layover, they do not go beyond the comforts of the hotel and establishments nearby. Metro Manila is big and dense. Just when you have just started searching for anything worthy of a second look, you get lost in the crowd, choke in the pollution, or drown in her constant nagging. But those who make it past her sins are rewarded with an opportunity to appreciate her virtues. Here are a few suggestions on how to get close and personal with this criminally underrated city.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Go back in time at the Ayala Museum.''2. See Old Manila at Intramuros.''3. Pamper your tummy in Binondo.''4. Help in a coastal cleanup on Freedom Island.''5. Catch a show at the Cultural Center of the Philippines.''6. Walk around UP Diliman Area.''7. Watch the sunset at Manila Bay.''On the Chu River in Thanh Hóa Province lived a fisherman named Lê Thận. One night, Thận hauled up his fishing net. It felt heavy and Thận was filled with joy thinking he was going to have a big catch. Pulling the net to the boat side, though, Thận saw the “catch” to be nothing but an iron bar resembling a blunt knife without a handle. “Ah me,” Thận sighed, “the only catch for the whole night and it turns out to be this worthless piece of iron.” Thận threw it away.''An illustration of the Legend of the Returned Sword. Image courtesy of the official Vietnam government website''It is the start of the Legend of the Restored Sword Lake as told by the''official website of Vietnam''. It is a long story but the short of it is that the iron bar appeared to\xa0Thận in the following nights too and on the third evening, he picked it up and realized it was the blade of a sword.''It was the early 1400s and the Ming Chinese had taken over this part of Vietnam. To help with the rebellion,\xa0Thận joined the insurgent army led by\xa0Lê Lợi, who then found a shining sword hilt that matched the blade perfectly. With this sword,\xa0Lê Lợi emerged victorious and eventually became king. One day, while boating at the lake in the center of his capital, a giant tortoise swam towards him and bowed.''“Now that peace has been restored to the nation,” it said, “please return the sword to our God of Waters.\xa0Lê Lợi surrendered the sword but its radiance remained on the surface of the water. Since then, it was called Restored Sword Lake or, in Vietnamese,\xa0Hồ Hoàn Kiếm.''At the center of the historical district of Hanoi,\xa0Hoàn Kiếm Lake is impossible to miss and its calls impossible to refuse.\xa0Circling the lake is always a rewarding experience. It is surrounded by temples and historic monuments that is worth a look or two.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Ngoc Son Temple: Temple of the Jade Mountain''The Huc: Bridge of the Welcoming Sunshine''The Turtle Tower''Le Thai To Memorial and Temple''Women rule the world. That was how I saw the world before I first stepped out of our home. As a child, I was disoriented and quite shocked to learn in school about the struggles that women have faced over time. In our home, women make the rules. My mother was the breadwinner, and she always had the last say on anything. My dad would make decisions sometimes, but he would always need the approval of my mother. My sister was intimidating; she outperformed my brother in almost anything. They painted my very first picture of women, and it was a pretty powerful tandem.''Apparently, the same could not be said for all families. The female lot had endured many a pain — discrimination, on top of the heap. Still, women have proven time and time again that this world is theirs, too, and they are just as capable in doing the things that men could.''In Hanoi, the significance and accomplishments of the women of Vietnam are enshrined in a museum. The Vietnamese Women’s Museum was established by the government and the''Women’s Union of Vietnam''in 1987 to showcase artifacts and documents that highlight the contributions of women in culture, politics, and nation building.''Vietnamese Women’s Museum in Hanoi''It took me quite a long while to find the building. The streets of Hanoi can be a bit confusing especially to non-locals. I went out of the hotel thinking all I had to do was get to the area and find a building with a remarkable facade, but it dawned on me very early that most structures in the city are stunning.\xa0After an hour’s stroll around the city, I was greeted with a loud, sweet “Hello!” that came from the ticket booth. The woman had a wide smile on her face and had a very positive glow around her. Within the couple of minutes that I secured a ticket, we were able to talk about a lot of things.''Inside, over 25,000 objects spread across 1500 square meters and five stories, shedding more light on the history and culture of Vietnam. Unlike most museums that I had visited before, this one was more about presentation than actual artifacts. Larger than life photos dominated most of the rooms, complete with English captions for foreign visitors.\xa0There are three permanent exhibits: Women and Family, Women and Society, and Women’s Fashion. Each exhibit uses a different color and theme.''Women and Family''features their role in the family in various indigenous subcultures of Vietnam.''Women and Society''puts the spotlight on the many famous women and the\xa0parts they played in the country’s history and contemporary society. \xa0The top floor houses''Women’s Fashion'', a vibrant display of both traditional and modern clothing, textile, and jewelry. Special exhibits are also set up inside the museum.''Photo from the official website of Vietnamese Women’s Museum''Photo from the official website of Vietnamese Women’s Museum''Photo from the official website of Vietnamese Women’s Museum''Photo from the official website of Vietnamese Women’s Museum''I found myself alone inside. The only time I shared the room with other people was when I was at the Women and Society Exhibit, where two female travelers watched an old film playing in one corner. This part of the museum stole most of my time there and left the deepest imprint on my memory. It was filled with compelling stories about the\xa0personalities\xa0that made a mark during the wars against France and the US-backed South Vietnam. Girls as young as 14 made significant contributions during the war and the photos on display were nothing short of arresting.''After over an hour, I left the museum and said goodbye to the friendly lady at the ticket booth. “Very nice, right?” she asked confidently.''“Super,” I answered with a smile. I stood by the imposing gate and aimed my camera at the edifice. Its brightly colored windows stood out in the white facade. This building is not just a museum that enlightens, I thought as I looked through my viewfinder. It is an applause, a tribute to the mothers, sisters, and daughters of Vietnam. Something that we also need to have in Manila.''Vietnamese Women’s Museum''36 Ly Thuong Kiet Street, Hanoi''Telephone Number: +(84)438259937''Entrance Fee: VND 30,000''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Bus from Hell: Surviving the 24-Hour Ride from Luang Prabang to Hanoi''10 Free and Cheap Things to Do in HANOI, Vietnam''The Thang Long Water Puppet Show in Hanoi, Vietnam''Hoan Kiem Lake: The Legend of the Restored Sword of Hanoi, Vietnam''Crisologo Museum: Some History, Some Politics in Vigan, Ilocos Sur''SOUTHEAST ASIA: Sample Itineraries (5-7 Days)''“To the city center,” I said to the tuktuk driver when he asked me where I was going. The bus from Vang Vieng arrived in Luang Prabang much later than scheduled and I did not anticipate reaching the city at this time. It was already evening and my awkward social qualities made sure I didn’t make any friends during the 7-hour trip. So there I was in another foreign city, alone, and wandering in the dark.''“Where exactly?” the driver wanted an answer fast. My brows met as I started to rummage through my head for any place that I could go to. I had not even booked a hostel yet.\xa0\xa0Sure, I had read about the city before, but for some reason, my tired mind was failing me. Perhaps it was the hunger. Perhaps it was the exhaustion. The other passengers had started taking their seats inside the tuktuk and I needed to say something.''When the tuktuk driver, asked me again, I answered without thinking, “by the Mekong River.” It was one place I had wanted to see since I learned about it in High School. It was the one place that came to my mind at that point. Satisfied, he pointed to the empty space where I would be sitting on and drove to the city.''Counting boats!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Meet the Mekong''The Mekong Meets the Nam Khan''The Khan''“Do you know what people did in the old days when they had secrets they didn’t want to share?” Tak said to one of the android attendants of the train. “They’d climb a moutain, find a tree, carve a hole in it, whisper the secret into the hole and cover it up with mud.”''Tak is a character in 2046, a film by Wong Kar Wai. In that scene, he found himself wanting to share a deep secret and the attendant was to be his tree. It was a scene that played in my head repeatedly as I carefully walked on the broken platform and heard the music that twigs and pine needles made when they broke.''There are plenty of trees in the area but none of them triggered that memory of the film, one of my all-time favorites. What did the job were the tombstones that mark the hilly, chilly site. I was at the center of a cemetery, but this was quite different from all the others I had set foot on before. No, no secrets are buried here, but equally fascinating. There were no crosses on gravestones, only images of animals that looked like they came out of a kiddie cartoon show. No melancholic messages for mourning, only punny epitaphs that inspire smiles and laughter. No human bodies six feet under, only negativities — metaphorically, of course.\xa0Baguio City just got a little bit more insightful.''Adorning one slope of a hill at Camp John Hay, the Cemetery of Negativism (also known as the Lost Cemetery) is part of the camp’s Historical Core. Established by the base’s commanding general\xa0John Hightower in the early 1980s, it is a symbolic site for the burying of negativities — thoughts, emotions, attitude — or, as we usually call them collectively today, bad vibes.''“Negativism is man’s greatest self imposed infliction, his most limiting factor, his heaviest burden,” a marker by the entrance eloquently explains. “No more for here is buried the world’s negativism for all time. Those who rest here have died not in vain – but for you a stern reminder. As you leave this hill remember that the rest of your life. Be More Positive.” It sets the mood and manages the expectations for the visitors.''This old guy has some inspiring words. Read.''Letz Studyit''Why Dident I?''A walkway made of stone cuts through a red, pine needle-covered ground, allowing visitors to have a closer look at each of the inspirational and enlightening yet oddly hilarious gravestones. One bears the name “Kant B. Done,” said to be born on January 2, 1904 and died on January 1, 1904, a day before he was supposed to be born. On another marker was “Why Dident I,” above an unknown birth date and words, “Lived wondering why. Died for no reason.”''Amusement swallowed my heart as I made my way through the fog that loomed that rainy afternoon but it was easily overpowered by another — guilt. A strange mixture of joy and pain jolted my being upon seeing the most common excuses I uttered in an attempt to evade tasks and responsibilities. And that’s what makes this place effectual. It connects with the lucky souls that walk its grounds and plants a sense of positivity in them.''Be Positive'', ends the message on the entrance marker.''Inspiration I find in many places but not at a graveyard, at least not typically. But the Cemetery of Negativism gave me that and more. Travel, to me, is therapy. Most of us travel to have fun, sure. But a good number of us also travel for other reasons — to escape, to forget, to start anew. We go distances, take risks, dive into new experiences while carrying a load. Some whisper them away to trees. Some bury them in the ground. Others just let it drop — piece by piece — along the way. We all hope to find three things — fun, clarity, peace of mind. Oddly enough, I found all of them at the Cemetery of Negativism.''Letz Studyit''Why Dident I?''This old guy has some inspiring words. Read.''The Cemetery of Negativism at Camp John Hay, Baguio City''The Cemetery of Negativism''Camp John Hay Historical Core, Baguio City''Entrance Fee'': P60 per person (P30 for students and senior citizens)''How to get to the Cemetery of Negativism'': Ride a\xa0Baguio Plaza-Scout Barrio jeepney and tell the driver that you’re going to Camp John Hay. He will drop you off at a crossing, from which the site is within walking distance. A good alternative if you’re with a companion or two is taking the taxi. Cab rides in Baguio are cheap and it should cost you around P100 depending on where in the city you’ll be coming from.''Strawberries may be heart-shaped but these sweet little things are heartless. I walked cautiously in between the rows of strawberries, all the while being reminded of tragic love stories. They are sinful temptations dangling or lying on the ground, taunting you to pick them but at a certain cost. They urge you to come touch and pluck them\xa0from their frail branches even when you already have a basketful and you know it is all you can afford. And they deceive you by pretending to be berries — heck, they’re not even real fruits — and you buy anything they want to make you believe because, well, they are pretty.''Nevertheless, an affair with strawberries can be highly rewarding.''Simply, the place is called Strawberry Farm. Cradled in a plain in La Trinidad Valley in Benguet, it is located nearly 30 minutes away from Baguio City, which has become almost synonymous with strawberries.''We were warned by a local blogger that picking strawberries would be a dirty business at the time. It rained heavily the night before and the gaps between plots would have to be soaked and muddy. We considered his recommendation for a split second, but we still ended up spitting “Ah, f*ck it! We’re going!” We had been looking forward to it since our first step on the Baguio soil that weekend. I had been to this place a number of times before, but it has always excited me regardless of the circumstances.''Why go all the trouble of traveling along a non-scenic route to this farm and braving the mud when strawberries are sold at many spots in the city proper? The experience of having to pick the strawberries yourselves, of course. You grab a small basket, traipse in between plots, and spot ripe''fruits''along the way. You hold a fruit in your hand and you look at it as if you created it. They just taste better if you put an effort harvesting them.''Like all good things in the world, however, there’s a catch. Prices are double at P350 per kilo. Inexperienced pickers can cause a lot of wastage. Besides, many of them succumb to having a taste of these fruits even before they baskets get weighed. Just look at it this way: the additional fee is for the “experience” itself and not the actual products. After all,\xa0it’s not every day that we see strawberry plants — at least not in Manila — so experiences like this are more of refreshing opportunities than a hassle. It’s a perfect activity for kids!''A visit here isn’t complete without strawberry-picking! That’s what you come here for.''A farmer cultivating strawberry plants''Heart-shaped madness''Aside from strawberries, the other plots in the area are covered in vegetables — cabbage, lettuce and more — and a few in flowers, which are both abundant in Benguet. If we had the time, we would visit an actual flower farm farther in La Trinidad but we just didn’t have any more. Tragic!''Lettuce entertain you!''A few rows of flowers amidst plots of strawberries''Strawberry ice cream! Better than those we usually have here in the city!''Sundot-kulangot! A type of kalamay, which is a delicacy in Baguio and neighboring towns. Weird name, huh?''A lane of souvenir stores border one side of the farm. You’ll find anything strawberry here — strawberry wine, strawberry jam, strawberry crinkles. Roaming around the area are vendors of strawberry taho and strawberry ice cream. All that is missing is a boomblaster playing''Strawberry Fields Forever''and you’ll reach the limit of strawberry encounters you are allowed in a lifetime. And oh, there are also Baguio brooms and sweaters sold at most of the stores. Don’t worry, they’re not strawberry-flavored.''How to get to Strawberry Farm''A more updated version of this article can be found here:''Coron Travel Guide''The Boiling Frog popped up in my head as soon as I took the first step into the pool. My reflexes instantly pulled my leg out of the water. It wasn’t lukewarm; it was scalding. Playing within 39 and 40 degrees Celsius, scalding may be exaggerating it, but it was\xa0almost unbearable at first dip. Blame the\xa0the unusually cold wind even though it was a mid-summer night. Still, I trod on and tiptoed to the middle of the pool. The heat had turned into warmth, and I allowed it to envelop my body as it began to sweep all my troubles away.''Maquinit is one of the very few saltwater hot springs in the world. Located along the southern coast of Busuanga Island, it is one 30-minute tricycle ride away from the town proper of Coron along a rough, curvy road. It is said that the water gets heated by a volcano and springs up into the two-tiered circular pool. Its rough walls are built from stacks of rocks and its floors strewn with pebbles — not very friendly to the soles at first touch but adds a more natural feel, as if the surrounding mangrove forest and the adjacent beach are not enough.''Locals recommended that I enjoy the hot springs after an arduous trek to the summit of Mt. Tapyas, the second tallest peak in Coron. That’s exactly what we did and they were right. Whatever pain and fatigue I gathered on the way up and down the mountain were all drowned and washed away by the therapeutic water that flowed from the underground. It was easy to relax here. All I did was soak, look at the starry sky, feel the stones tickle my feet, and listen to the gentle flowing of the water.''One of the few saltwater hot springs in the world. Photo by Harry Balais.''Maquinit at night. They say it’s the best time to go here but you won’t have a view.''It took only a couple of minutes until the scorching became soothing. The dark had blanketed the place, making the stars twinkle much more mischievously. The moon was the king and it demanded attention. The dim lights that surrounded the pool painted faint pictures of the surrounding mangroves that stood to form a natural fence. They were great sights but after only minutes of floating in the middle of the giant tub, they went ignored. I chose to close my eyes and focus on two things: the hushing water that overpowered the wispy murmurs from the distance and the weak but playful current that was rocking me to sleep.''How to get to Maquinit Hot Springs'': From the town proper of Coron, take a tricycle to the resort. Fare is P300 per tricycle, round trip. The tricycle will be waiting for you and take you back to the town center.''Maquinit Hot Springs''Opening Hours: 6am-10pm''Entrance Fee: P150''Roundtrip Tricycle Service: P300''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Calauit Safari Park: A Piece of Africa in Palawan, Philippines''The Other Pamalican Island in Busuanga, Palawan, Philippines''Black Island, Busuanga: The New Shade of Paradise in Palawan, Philippines''Lusong Shipwreck and Coral Garden: Shallow Reverie in Coron, Palawan, Philippines''Culion, Palawan: To the ‘Island of No Return’ and Back''Sunrise at Culion Church and Fortress, Palawan''I was able to beat my alarm clock. At five in the morning, I woke up from a short and shallow slumber, opened my eyes, got up and out of the bed, and then the alarm clock went off. It was one of those rare mornings that I was able to score against it. That’s how excited I was to start the day.\xa0I grabbed my camera and made my way to the church to watch the sunrise that Culion is starting to be known for.''Culion Church''used to be a fortress. The first Agustinian missionaries arrived in the island in 1622 to establish a parish but the repeated moro raids pushed them to build a fortress as defense in 1740. Almost two centuries later, Culion was declared a leper colony and became home to Filipinos afflicted with the illness. In 1933, the Jesuits reconstructed the fort and transformed it into a place of worship, now known as''La Inmaculada Concepcion Church''.''What was left of the fort (aside from the parts converted into the church) is now a crumbling watchtower, crowning what used to be a bastion. This also serves as a lighthouse, guiding seafarers at night. The fort is perched on a promontory, facing the sea and allowing an unobstructed view of the east.''The pre-sunrise glow was already illuminating the dark sapphire skies but the rays have yet to make an appearance. From here, I was able to see the side walls and pillars of the structure. The 25m x 10m church was hewn from live corals but concrete was added in some parts. It is topped with crimson rounded roof supported by another pair of red-painted walls, accented with white arch windows.''Culion Church perched on a cliff''The crimson roofs of Culion Church and the naked belfry''Waiting for the sunrise''From the main road, a concrete staircase leads visitors to the two-tiered facade. The top layer boasts two arch windows with a niche that shelters an image of the Virgin Mary. Below it are three doorways with niches in between, housing images of saints. Its main door is flanked by bougainvillea trees that added a dash of hot pink to the structure, cold and grey. To its right is a wall-less belfry and to its left a beautiful Palawan cherry blossoms tree.''I thought I still had much time, so I went back to the room to wake up my friend Mica and drag her to Fort Culion. Just when I entered the room, it happened. The sun emerged from a lump of clouds and painted the skies pink and golden. Thank heavens our room, like the fortress, was facing east that I still had a great view of the morning’s first celestial showcase.''A Palawan cherry blossoms tree stands beautifully next to the church''Sunrise view from our window''How to get to Culion Church and Fort:''Day tours around Culion are available in Coron for around P1100 per pax. If you’re a big group, you may charter a boat to Culion at Lualhati Park for P3000 for 4pax or P3500 for 8pax. If you want it do-it-yourself style, you may ride the 1pm boat to Culion from Coron port for P180. Return boat is scheduled the next morning, which means you will need to stay overnight in the island as we did.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Culion Museum and Archives, Palawan: Remnants and Descendants''Culion, Palawan: To the ‘Island of No Return’ and Back''The Other Pamalican Island in Busuanga, Palawan, Philippines''Calauit Safari Park: A Piece of Africa in Palawan, Philippines''Maquinit Hot Springs: Tub Therapy in Coron, Palawan''Black Island, Busuanga: The New Shade of Paradise in Palawan, Philippines''What’s with men and asking for directions? How many times has this question been raised by friends traveling with me, I lost count. I can’t speak for all mankind but, in my case, just utter bashfulness and a dash of ego.''I used to think that I was just not wired to ask for directions. When I was starting to go places years ago, I was too shy to approach strangers for anything and relied only on myself to find my way around towns and cities — even if that meant wandering around unfamiliar blocks and dodgy alleys for hours. I thought I was always prepared anyway. But that’s the thing about traveling, you can never be prepared enough.''And that can’t be any truer in lands ruled by a different language.''Where to go, where to go? Maybe Buddha has the answer.''I remember how I spent my first few hours in Bangkok — getting lost. Knowing that my hostel was just a few blocks from the train station, I traveled on foot, confident that I would find it easily. I had been to other foreign cities before so I did not anticipate any problem. But there was one tiny hiccup, English isn’t that big in the streets of Bangkok. No one could help me find my hotel because, aside from the hotel being not well-known, we just could not understand one another.''Getting lost in translation is real. There’s fun and enlightenment in it, trust me. But if you have no time for unplanned veers and “unnecessary” lostness, then here are practical tips on getting from point A to B efficiently.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Grab a multi-language map.''2. Ask a local to write it down for you.''3. Download photos of places you want to visit.''4. Take photos of everything important.''5. Learn local greetings.''6. Just ask.''My bowl was brimming with hot tom kha gai but the brewing envy inside me bubbled over through my eyes as I threw wanting looks at the other bowls and plates on our table. We were a big group, celebrating the recent success of the 2nd Baguio Blog Conference, where I gave a short talk. The organizers treated the speakers to dinner at''Ketchup Food Community'', a foodie’s haven that I had not tried before.''A relatively new dining destination,''Ketchup Food Community''was established in March 2012. It is actually a cluster of five small restaurants, each offering a different cuisine, perfect for those who want to try a plateful of everything in one seating.''Canto''is a steakhouse famous for its lomo ribs;''Happy Tummy''serves Thai favorites;''Rumah Sate''boasts an Indonesian-Malaysian menu;''Green Pepper''offers Western sandwiches and pastas;''Rancho Norte''completes the list with their Filipino dishes.''The best part, you can order from any (or all) of them even without changing tables.''Happy Tummy''Green Pepper''Rumah Sate''In our case, we settled down at''Canto''. While most of us ordered a half slab of their famous lomo ribs, Mica (''Senyorita''), Nikka and Owen (''Two to Travel'') and I opted with having a variety and had our waitress make a quick run to the other restaurants by ordering something more Asian. Nikka and Owen fancied a bowl of laksa from Rumah Sate. Mica and I went Thai and had pad thai and tom kha gai. (Hey, rhyming!) The whole concept of order switching was refreshing especially upon learning that all dishes would appear on just one bill.''The laksa was first to be served and my eyes immediately turned green with envy. I am not a laksa kind of guy (as I have told a number of times in my Malaysia posts) but that soup looked rich and tasty. The head of the shrimps peeked above the surface, as if taunting me but I was too shy to ask Owen and Nikka for a spoonful. They looked extremely satisfied, though. Owen and Nikka, not the shrimps.''When the ribs followed right after, Mica and I looked at each other in an instant. Those were huge slabs! The plates traveled across the table and in front of me and I wanted to grab one and just beg whoever ordered it to switch it with my life and pride.''Canto’s Lomo Ribs (P190)''Laksa and Tom Kha gai''It took 15 more minutes before our Thai delights finally made an appearance at our table. Even before I had a taste of my tom kha gai, I knew I made a great choice as soon as I touched the warm bowl. It had been raining the entire day and in the chilly Baguio atmosphere, I need some warming up, which the soup successfully delivered. The soup was rich and milky (coconut milk?), loaded with a mixture of herbs and mushrooms. Its aroma allowed a sampling of how far in the gastronomic scale it would reach.''I dipped a spoon and finally had a taste, washing away all my infidelities — my longing for the other dishes. The sour broth that drowned the soft chicken bits tickled the palate. My only complaint was that it was not pungent (hot/spicy) enough, which I had come to expect in all tom yums and tom kha gais in the world. Still, in the Philippines, it was one of the best Thai soups that graced my tastebuds.''But the image of the ribs floating just inches from my face made a deep mark on my very malleable memory. The next day, Mica and I decided to go back to Ketchup for lunch. This time, I went for those lomo ribs!''Like the night before, the serving was humongous, especially considering the price (P190). Four ribs marinated and grilled to perfection, and scribbled with a zigzag of sweet (barbeque?) sauce sat pretty on my plate next to a scoop of mashed potato and a bunch of salad. The ribs were meaty and so tender, the flesh easily let go of the bones with a gentle fork poking. The sweetness of the sauce mixed well with the smoky taste of the meat — immaculate!''Canto’s lomo ribs half slab with mashed potato and salad (P190)''The mashed potato was nothing remarkable but the salad was something else. Topped with bits of watermelons, it has a sugary rough taste and texture that pushed this side dish to the dessert border. The lettuce looked bright and had that crisp that screamed freshness. I just wish the serving of both the carbs and the vegetables were larger, though.''The service was a bit slow on both occasions, but that might be because the place was packed. The servers were polite but they forgot that I ordered a glass of almond-lychee gulaman. Still, the food made up for whatever glitches in the service I encountered.''Ketchup is an al fresco dining destination. The garden setting reinforces the natural and breezy atmosphere that many popular restaurants in Baguio fosters. Out of the five restaurants, I only tried two — Happy Tummy and Canto — leaving something for the next visit. Now, if only I had stayed a little longer in Baguio.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Cafe by the Ruins: Where to Eat in Baguio City, Philippines''7 Things to Do at Camp John Hay, Baguio City''Azalea Hotels and Residences: Where to Stay in Baguio City, Philippines''La Trinidad Strawberry Farm: Heart-shaped Madness in Benguet, Philippines''The Bencab Museum: The Hottest Art Spot in Baguio City, Philippines''THAI FARM COOKING SCHOOL: Hot and Spicy Lessons in Chiang Mai''It almost always happens. Whenever I finish giving a talk or lecture about travel blogging (and blogging in general), I am almost always asked which other travel blogs I read and recommend.''Travel blogs come in various forms, shapes, and colors and each has its own purpose. Some promote destinations by providing useful information (travel guides), some showcase incredible images (photo blogs), others chronicle their memorable trips (travelogues). Like most online users, I too am a fan of other travel blogs that help me plan my next trip or inspire me to travel more and write more, or both.''Here are ten of my absolute favorites in no particular order. (This list does not include blogs of friends who are very close to me.)'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Eazy Traveler''2. Langyaw''3.\xa0Two2Travel''4. Flip ‘n Travels''5. The Transcendental Tourist''6.\xa0Yellow Adventures''7. Lakad Pilipinas''8. Ambot-ah''9. Travel Up''10. Lakwatsero''I can tell you a thousand reasons why I am not a diver, but they all boil down to one thing — fear. For a traveler who was born and raised in Batangas, a diving hotspot, I am unusually afraid of the dark and beautiful depths of the sea. Yes, it is the fear\xa0of deep water, of drowning, of death that has always kept me afloat, skimming only the surface of the water. For the longest time, I had been content with my snorkel and never had the thought of exchanging it for a diving gear entered my mind. Not until I got to Lusong.''The sun had already set. Only its faint afterglow illuminated the skies, but Lusong Island continued to radiate a beauty that was both thirsty and soaked. Summer had left the coastal trees bare and naked, its leaves — dried and helpless — succumbing to the selfish gravity. That time, their branches stretched into a heavy entanglement that crowned the island.''With a mask and snorkel on, we jumped out of the boat into the water to be greeted by what we expected to be a coral garden. Instead, we were welcomed by a coral forest, much like the lushness that grew above the surface. Off the white-coated shore, they flaunted a multitude of colors and a trove of life. Layers and layers of enormous table corals girdled the small peaks and valleys of the reef. Fish swam through them with much caution and precision.''That’s my friend Mica floating over the coral garden''“We need to go,” announced Harold, our boatman. I had only swam a few yards, and I was already bombarded by spectacular glimpses to the wet and wild world underneath. We hopped back up onto the boat and headed for a buoy nearby. Harold encouraged us to get back to the water immediately.''Just after making another splash, I spotted a curious silhouette slowly forming as I swam closer — a hull.''Aside from its natural beauty, Coron is famous for its several wreck diving spots; Lusong is one of them. Others may be far grander, far more wondrous, but it is the only one that sits along the trail of our island-hopping tour. And for someone who was to see a shipwreck for the first time, I was a happy snorkeler. This wreck in Lusong is of a World War II gunboat now heavily encrusted with corals.''I rippled across the water to the hull, and swam over it with my camera taking videos of what my memory could lose due to an explosion of interesting sights. Corals have grown on and covered the ship, serving as an artificial reef. It has become a home to the fish that finned around it.''Alas, Harold’s voice was heard.\xa0“We’re losing the light,” he said. It was time to go.''By the time we got out of the area, the dark has already enveloped the skies.\xa0\xa0It was a shame, really, but there was nothing we could do. We spent way too much time at Calauit Safari Park and Black Island that we had to hustle as soon as we made a stop here.''It may have been a very short encounter with a shipwreck, not enough for a romance with it, but it was enough to seed a feeling — a goal — in my mind. I want to learn how to dive. Maybe I should. Maybe I will.''How to get there'': From Coron town, boats are available that can take you on an island-hopping tour around Coron or Busuanga. You may also join a group tour.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Calauit Safari Park: A Piece of Africa in Palawan, Philippines''Maquinit Hot Springs: Tub Therapy in Coron, Palawan''The Other Pamalican Island in Busuanga, Palawan, Philippines''Black Island, Busuanga: The New Shade of Paradise in Palawan, Philippines''Honda Bay Island Hopping Tour: Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''CORON ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''My fingers flipped the pages straight to their list of house specialties. One look and I knew I would be having my most expensive lunch in years at this restaurant. The prices were intimidating, almost threatening, and I was just used to the affordable meals of Baguio City’s most reputable dining establishments.''Still, after a long tug-o-war between the frugal and the piggish sides of myself, I allowed the latter to take over the decision-making. Pinikpikan, bagnet, and strawberry shortcake, please.''The long wait allowed me and my friend Mica to take a look at our surroundings.''Cafe by the Ruins''is smack at the heart of the city but it still manages to create a forest-ish ambiance. The bamboo fences, wooden furniture, and unevenly paved floor work together to add a more rustic charm to the al fresco arrangement of the place. The artful pieces that adorn the corners and walls are a nice touch and, during our visit, was a good distraction from the otherwise unbearably long wait. Thank heavens for attentive waiters who continued to fill and refill our glasses with water, even without us asking.''My friend Mica reading her time away while waiting for our meals''First to be served was Baguio Bagnet, a popular delicacy in Ilocos. Cafe By the Ruins’ version is double fried, first in lard to soften and then fried again to a crisp. The pork belly we got was cooked perfectly. It was crispy and hard in the right places and soft on the inside. The reddish meat sat on top of a cup of red rice, which also came with tomato relish and Padas bagoong (which tasted like Bagoong Balayan). I’m not a fan of the combination, a bit too salty for my taste. I would have loved it more when dipped in vinegar instead, but that’s just me. The menu indicated that the dish should come with sinigang soup but we never had it. We didn’t complain anymore because the bowl of pinikpikan arrived immediately after.''Baguio Bagnet with Padas bagoong, tomato relish, and lime (P320)''Pinikpikan, a chicken soup used in rituals by natives (P320)''Pinikpikan is a chicken soup used in rituals in the Cordillera region. Cradled in a white bowl, the pinikpikan we had was good for two, although if you’re a bit intemperate, you could down it alone with little effort. The moment the bottom of the bowl touched the surface of our table, I was expecting for a soothing aroma smoking up into my nostrils but was let down. The menu said it had ginger (which has been criticized by many who claim it becomes unauthentic) but it was almost undetectable. The white broth with herbs was not tasty enough to make a good impression. The chicken and salted pork (etag) parts were small and so chewy that I had a really hard time grinding it in my braces-fenced teeth.''Thankfully, the strawberry shortcake saved the day. This is their signature piece and is not available year round. The presentation alone brought us back to life. Halved strawberries decorated the creamy outer layer that covers the two-tiered crispy cake inside. The creamy, sweet, and sour blended magnificently in that mound of goodness and inside my mouth. It was the most fulfilling dessert I had had in a long time.''The famous strawberry shortcake (Forgot the exact price, but around P200)''Cafe by the Ruins is a garden restaurant. Loved the setting.''Cafe by the Ruins is the most expensive restaurant I have tried in Baguio. The question is, is it worth it? The food was a hit-or-miss for me. I had pinikpikan far tastier than this but their bagnet and strawberry shortcake were easily the best that graced my palate. The service was slow but the staff’s attentiveness made up for it. A part of me felt it was overpriced because, well, it was a bit overpriced for my taste. I wouldn’t recommend it for solo travelers but it sure is an ideal romantic dining destination.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Ketchup Food Community: Where to Eat in Baguio City, Philippines''7 Things to Do at Camp John Hay, Baguio City''Inside Baguio’s Most Haunted: The Laperal White House''La Trinidad Strawberry Farm: Heart-shaped Madness in Benguet, Philippines''The Bencab Museum: The Hottest Art Spot in Baguio City, Philippines''Azalea Hotels and Residences: Where to Stay in Baguio City, Philippines''If I ever wondered what it would feel like to stay inside an oven, I would have had an idea on my first day in Coron, Palawan. Summer had just started but it already felt like we were in the inner layers of hell. Mind you, Coron is infinitely beautiful but the late March heat had turned the ground into frying pans and we were but seared meat. That’s why, looking back, I don’t understand why I chose to stay in a fan room that day. Ah, I know — budget.''We booked a room at''Tameta Pension House'', a not-so-well-known inn. Thing is, it lies just opposite the popular''Patrik and Tezz''Guesthouse, which was fully booked that time. The owner suggested that we stay at nearby Tameta instead. It was a good decision even though it did not feel like it within our first few hours of staying there.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Rooms and Rates''Common Areas''Staff and Service''Even before coming to life, my plan of circling the island on foot died when our boatman, Harold, told us we only had 15 minutes to spare. He was worried about the weather and the time. We were set to make one more stop before calling it a day, and the sun was already threatening to retire. Still, I hopped out of the boat with a smile on my face and let my feet make shallow marks on the white bed of sand that skimmed the island.''We were the only people in the island, save for the caretaker and his child, who were busy stacking sticks in one corner. Having an island all to myself is always a great feeling; I always daydream that I own a private island. Despite the boatman reminder, I decided to push through with my plan of walking around the island. I’d be fast, I thought. My friend Mica opted to stay in one nook of the beach for she was feeling a little dizzy from the island hopping. This was our third stop.''Pamalican Island''is a 50-hectare island located west of Busuanga (not to be confused with its exclusive luxury Amanpulo namesake in Cuyo). Lying along the route to Calauit from Coron, it is usually included in Calauit Safari tours. What makes Pamalican a beach bum’s prospective destination is its wide, wide sloping stretch of white sand that surrounds the island all over. The sand here is not as fine as those one finds in Panglao or Boracay, but a mixture of cream sugary grains, pebbles, and \xa0shells. The beach is also strewn with dry leaves and twigs because this virgin paradise remains blanketed by a thick forest and its shores are fringed with grass and shrubs. Not very far are several rocky islets that dot the crystal clear water tickling the beach. Most parts are sole-friendly but I found walking barefoot in a few other patches of the island more of a torture than a treat. But once I spotted a good place, I stuck with it and had a great time lazing and swimming around.''I had completed traipsing along one side of the island when it dawned on me that I would really not finish going full circle within the time given. With a heavy heart, I schlepped and dragged myself back to where the boat was docked, and joined Mica take a dip under the thick lumps of clouds that loomed overhead, threatening to drench our day with unwelcome showers.''How to get to Pamalican Island'': From Busuanga airport, travel by van/shuttle to Coron town. Here, you will find a number of travel agencies offering tours to Calauit; make sure it makes a stop at Pamalican. An alternative if you’re a big group is to charter a boat. The cost is P7500 for the entire boat, maximum of \xa04 pax. It will take you on an island-hopping tour from Coron to Calauit.''Entrance Fee: P100''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Calauit Safari Park: A Piece of Africa in Palawan, Philippines''Black Island, Busuanga: The New Shade of Paradise in Palawan, Philippines''Maquinit Hot Springs: Tub Therapy in Coron, Palawan''Lusong Shipwreck and Coral Garden: Shallow Reverie in Coron, Palawan, Philippines''Sunrise at Culion Church and Fortress, Palawan''Culion, Palawan: To the ‘Island of No Return’ and Back''Why do we keep chasing sunsets?''Is it the sight, the picture of the sun surrendering all his glory to the restraints of the liquid horizon? Is it the warmth, the feeling of the king’s last-born rays caressing our skin as he dives into the sea? Or is it the chase, those jading moments when you brave the way or beat the time just to catch his last few breaths?''She sat on one of the benches that dash the trail and told me she was giving up.''Mica'', a friend and a fellow travel blogger, was calling it quits and we were not even halfway the climb. Under normal circumstances, I would have tried harder to convince her to go on but these were no normal circumstances. We had been awake for almost 35 hours. Now that I think about it, I don’t even understand why we decided to climb Mt. Tapyas that day.''Over 700 steps to the top!''At 210 meters, Mt. Tapyas is the second tallest mountain and one of the most dominant land features around the town of Coron in Busuanga Island, Palawan. Towering over the''poblacion'', its trail is easily accessible on foot. San Agustin Street which turns into the slightly sloping Malvar Street leads the way to an elevated basketball court at the base.''The walk to the basketball court alone was already quite a test of endurance for me. The sight of the steep staircase rising from the court was not very encouraging, either. But with dwindling energy due to lack of sleep, we opted to make the climb as fast as we could. It was around six in the evening and the sun was already threatening to take that glorious dip. The time pressure was mounting and we pushed our legs and unreliable stamina to try to breeze through more than 700 concrete steps that lead to the summit. Sadly, every bench was a magnet and we were but paper clips drawn to it without resistance.''Summer burns''When Mica raised the white flag, I had no choice but to continue the arduous journey to the top. I schlepped uphill with one hand gripping on the cold, yellow metal bars that bound the trail and the other hand wiping the sweat that dripped almost incessantly from my forehead. Every here and there, I stopped to admire the view, a valid excuse from and euphemism for resting, a further affirmation that I took a wrong turn when I decided to smoke my first cigarette when I was 19. (I quit a long time ago but still.) Every single time I paused (which happened more often than necessary), I could not help but take notice of how this experience was different from the last time I was here.''This climb was my sophomore slump. The first time, in 2009, was much easier. I do not remember vomiting air at any point during the climb. It was right after noon (don’t do this around that time, it fries the skin) and, if my memory serves me right, the flat landings did not have covers above them yet. Yet, my first was the more pleasant experience maybe because sleep did not elude me the night before and because it just rained before the climb. I also recall that the grass was so green and lush that time (July), which was a stark contrast to the brown and brown slopes — devoured by grass fire — that greeted me just this summer.''That’s me. I’m not taking a shit. Ume-emo lang.''My picture of Mt. Tapyas in 2009. The green was saturated here in the photo.''View of the jagged Coron Island from Mt. Tapyas''When the top of the giant cross was poking the bottom side of my view, I knew that I was close to the summit. Each breath I took was more desperate and each step more determined. When I set foot on the viewing platform, I was just a gentle push away from collapsing but as I dragged myself to the edge, all the trouble was blown away. I finished the last drops of water in my bottle, stood still, closed my eyes, opened it again, and found the answer to my own question.''Why do we keep chasing sunsets? Because it’s just so fucking beautiful.''Mt. Tapyas sunset''How to get here'': From Busuanga Airport, you can take a shuttle to Coron town proper (PhP150). From here, the base of Mt. Tapyas is just a walk away. Just look for Malvar Street. Your landmark is the Iglesia ni Cristo church. There are plenty of big signs along the way. Or, you may just take a tricycle.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Black Island, Busuanga: The New Shade of Paradise in Palawan, Philippines''The Other Pamalican Island in Busuanga, Palawan, Philippines''Calauit Safari Park: A Piece of Africa in Palawan, Philippines''Culion, Palawan: To the ‘Island of No Return’ and Back''Sunrise at Culion Church and Fortress, Palawan''Maquinit Hot Springs: Tub Therapy in Coron, Palawan''All four of us stood by the door of the museum, waiting for the caretaker.''“If the whole island had been declared leprosy-free,” I couldn’t help but scratch the back of my head in confusion, “where are the former patients now?”''“Most of them have gone back to the outside world,” answered Kuya Toto, a local and one of our tour guides. “Some stayed.”''“But I don’t understand,” I expressed my inability to process information efficiently. “Who are living here now?”''“Some just moved here from other places. Toto is from Metro Manila but he decided to work here,” Jona replied with a smile. She, too, is a local, touring us around. “The others are descendants of the patients. I am a descendant.”\xa0There was long''aaaaaah''heard. It was me signifying that the information had been processed finally.''Culion Museum and Archives''Located inside the compound of the town’s hospital and sanitarium, the''Culion Museum and Archives''houses the most detailed and significant information about the establishment of the leprosarium in the island in 1906 up to the development of the cure, the multi-drug therapy, in the 1980s.''The history of Culion as a leper colony can be traced back to May 27, 1906, when Coast Guard cutters Polillo and Mindanao docked along the shore of Culion and carried 370 Hansenites (lepers) from Cebu. Most of them were brought here against their will. Some of them would later embrace a life of normalcy in this town, specifically designed for their betterment and the search for better treatments. Many of the devices, medicines, and even the mundane items that patients and health workers used are on display, providing a glimpse to the milestones and setbacks of Culion as a sanctuary for what many used to dub the “living dead.”''The museum building has two stories, both open to the public. The artifacts on the ground floor narrates the history of the island, describes the lifestyle of the patients, and explains the disease in great detail. Here are some of the most interesting items inside.''The first room inside the museum, chronicling the first days of Culion as a leper colony''A replica of the nursery. Babies were immediately separated from their leper parents, who could only see them through a glass window.''An actual photo of the nursery''Some of the first children-patients in Culion''A patient’s bed''In fear that the disease would spread through physical contact, Culion had their own currency to avoid that the “money” they would touch would reach the outside world.''Some of the laboratory items used by physicians and scientists''A map of Culion in the 1920s. The town is divided into two: one side was where the patients resided, and the other was where the health workers stayed. Gates (and their arcs still stand today) mark the borders.''The upper level highlights a memorial honoring the brave men and women — physicians, nurses, pharmacists, priests, pastors, and technicians — who “had answered the call of duty and had served the leprosy patients with utmost love, dedication, and care.”''Culion Memorial, honoring the health workers and spiritual leaders who devoted their time and dedication to the care of the patients''In many ways, Culion operated like an ordinary town. It had a plaza, recreation areas, and jails. Policing them were patients, too.''A 3D model of a leprosy patient''When we came full circle, a sign that the tour inside the museum had ended, I could not help but feel thankful for this opportunity. Within the best of my ability, I tried to understand leprosy and the life that sprung out here, although by force in the beginning. The most memorable part of the tour was when my friend Mica spotted a photo of his great grandfather, one of the major movers in the field of leprology, posted on the wall. His contributions to the quest for the cure was honored. It was the reason we made a trip to this unusually fascinating town.''Mica and her great grandfather, Dr. Jose Rodriguez''And right at that moment, I realized that all of us represent a certain sector of the modern society of Culion. There was my friend Mica, a descendant of a''doctor who helped find the cure to the illness'';\xa0\xa0Jona, a descendant of a leprosy patient who chose to stay;\xa0Kuya Toto, an outsider who moved to Culion recently to live there permanently; and then there was me, a tourist.''Well, I’m not a descendant of anyone relevant but I was there to learn about the island and its constant struggle through the decades. The days of the island being a leper colony are gone and a new era is coming — Culion as a tourist destination. And while thousands of islands in the country are blessed with natural beauty, Culion has a compelling story to tell. And it’s one that needs to be heard.''How to get here'': Fly to Busuanga and at the airport, take a van/shuttle to the town center of Coron (P150). At Coron Pier, catch the 1:30pm boat going to Culion (P180). There’s only one boat per day so don’t miss it. From Culion port, take a tricycle to the museum. Alternatively, you may join a Culion Tour, offered by hotels and tour operators in Coron (P1200 per person).''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Culion, Palawan: To the ‘Island of No Return’ and Back''Sunrise at Culion Church and Fortress, Palawan''Hotel Maya: Where to Stay in Culion, Palawan, Philippines''Calauit Safari Park: A Piece of Africa in Palawan, Philippines''Maquinit Hot Springs: Tub Therapy in Coron, Palawan''Casa San Miguel: Museum of Community Heritage in San Antonio, Zambales''She raised her left arm and led my eyes to the round-roofed church perched on a cliff by the shore. “Beside it,” My friend Mica said as-a-matter-of-fact-ly, “is where we will be staying.”''Before I could respond with “We’re staying''outside''the church?” complete with a half-joking half-violent look to match, my eyes caught the big bold letters that adorn the edge of the plateau — Hotel Maya.''Hotel Maya is perhaps the most well-known in the few lodges in Culion and it’s not difficult to see why. From the moment we set foot on the island, we were treated with utmost kindness and hospitality.''Location''. Isla Culion Hotel Maya stands next to the town church and fortress. Set on a cliff and facing east, it allows an unobstructed view of one of the most spectacular breaks of dawn I had seen. From the hotel, all the other major points of interest in town are very accessible. The Culion Museum and Archives is within a five-minute walk while the shore is just a few yards eastward. And since it rubs elbows with the church, often the center of the town, Hotel Maya is surrounded by stores, eateries, and other landmarks including the hospital and sanitarium, and the plaza.''Hotel Maya''View of the nearby bay from Hotel Maya''Accommodations and Rates''. Their cheapest is the P700 Single Room (fan only). Since we were a party of two, we initially wanted to take the Double Room (fan only) which was at P1,100 but when we were taken to a corner room for a quick view, we opted to take it instead. Adding to the large size of the room, the cool wind was just so refreshing as they pass through the wide windows. The view of the sea was also enough to seal the deal, especially when they told us we could watch the sunrise from the room.''Kabel Kabel Room, P1300''One of the common areas''Welcome drinks and flower necklaces''Staff and Service''. We felt the warmth of their welcome even before we hopped out of the boat. Kuya Toto, one of the staff, was waiting with us at the pier. He then led us to the tricycle that would take us to the hotel. He introduced us to Jona, who greeted us with a welcome drink and a flower necklace, a small but impactful gesture. Kuya Toto and Jona took really good care of us, attending to our every need and providing information whenever we had questions. They also guided us on a tour around the town.''My friend Mica had an agenda. Culion Island had always been on my I’m-not-dying-until-I-visit list but it was out of sheer curiosity and insatiable thirst for the unusual. Mica was here for a more''personal reason''. I am one to always take charge in building itineraries but for this trip, Mica took ever. Her motivation, which intrigued me since the beginning, drove her to meticulously plan this trip on her own. I took the backseat for this one and I’m glad I did. Blindly, I followed her when she decided that we stay overnight on the island instead of doing the usual day tour, and when she chose the place to stay. And everything turned out flawless.''Thank you, Hotel Maya!''Hotel Maya is excellent in every aspect that when the staff asked us to write something on their freedom wall, we could not think of anything other than gratitude.''How to get here'': From Busuanga Airport, ride a van to Coron Town Proper (P150). At the Coron pier, take the 1:30pm boat to Culion town (P180).''Note: This is not a paid post. We paid for our stay in full.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Tameta Pension House: Where to Stay in Coron, Palawan, Philippines''Culion Museum and Archives, Palawan: Remnants and Descendants''Culion, Palawan: To the ‘Island of No Return’ and Back''The Other Pamalican Island in Busuanga, Palawan, Philippines''Sunrise at Culion Church and Fortress, Palawan''Black Island, Busuanga: The New Shade of Paradise in Palawan, Philippines''It was a toss between Khao San Road and Silom, but my friend Bebs, who had been living in Bangkok for months already, already picked for the two of us. Khao San Road, the city’s backpacking hub, is the usual choice for travelers seeking budget accommodations. Bebs, however, favored Silom, Bangkok’s business district, for its location and the convenience of the train (Silom Line) that connects it to the rest of the metropolis. Many of the major tourist spots in Bangkok are accessible via the MRT or BTS; Khao San Road usually requires a cab ride.''Silom was built in 1851 as part of a dyke. Today, however, it is Bangkok’s major financial center, harboring some of the country’s biggest corporations. At night, the suits and ties make way for a vibrant nightlife that consists of clubs and lounges tucked in its sois, and night markets that spring up along its stemming lanes. ATMs, money changers, convenience stores, and a wide array of restaurants flank its streets.\xa0The notorious''Pat Pong''is just around the corner.''Silom became my home as part of my backpacking trip across the Southeast Asian peninsula. I was able to stay in three different budget hotels and hostels:''Nantra Silom Hotel'',''Sunflower Place'', and''Smile Society''.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Nantra Silom Hotel''The Sunflower Place''Smile Society''Every time somebody mentions Greek food, the memories of my college days come flooding my brain. In particular, those weekends when I had to travel from the university to Batangas to spend time with family. It’s not because I used to love this cuisine. The truth is, I had not had a spoonful of any Aegean dish until probably two years ago. It’s just that to get to our side of Batangas, we have to pass through the city of Tagaytay. Back then, whenever we did, \xa0my attention was usually captivated by a small white and blue restaurant along the highway. Since my freshman year in college, I spotted it every Saturday but never had I ever stopped and made an effort to try it.''Inside Manos Greek Taverna''We left my friend’s goat farm in Lian, Batangas just after sunset. An hour later, we were still on the road, sharing our favorite music and horror stories. By the time we entered Tagaytay, no one was speaking anything. We were starving yet we could not pick from the lanes of restaurants that flank the Tagaytay-Nasugbu highway. That’s when I brought up the idea of going Greek for the night.''Manos Greek Taverna moved from a tiny nook along \xa0the road to a more scenic location. Now with a twin hotel, it is perched on a cliff overlooking Taal Lake. Unfortunately, it was already evening so there was no view to admire. The temperature, however, was undoubtedly Tagaytay, a realization that was brought about by our unpreparedness. After all, we came from a beach trip and we did not really plan on stopping here.''Like the Hellenic flag, the interiors of the restaurant were dominated by white and a distinct shade of blue (somewhat cerulean but a shade darker, or maybe because it was night time). We picked a corner and flipped the pages of their blue menu bearing photos of the dishes and their Greek names.''After making an order, we were given a tall glass of water each, the start of our long wait for our food. I wasn’t keeping tabs of time but it felt like forever, perhaps because we were famished even before we arrived. Thank the Greek gods the weather was perfect and the chilly atmosphere was somewhat keeping us entertained.''When our food was served, it did not stay long enough on the plates. They were finished five minutes later. We were that hungry. That and because the food was great.''Chicken a la Corfu''(P260) is half chicken boiled in a soup of onion stalks and cinnamon cloves. The chicken was so tender (fantastic!). But the cinnamon, which I was not that big a fan of, was overpowering all the other ingredients. Overall, it was a great choice and it’s big enough for 2 pax.''Greek Shawarma''(P130). By default, they use lamb for this appetizer but beef, pork, and chicken versions are available. Like the usual gyros, it has tzatziki and onions and is wrapped in pita bread.''Souvlaki''(P160) pork cuts grilled on a skewer, served with tzatziki (yoghurt sauce), cabbage salad, and potato fries. The meat isn’t dry and overcooked and the dip complimented it well.''Macaronia me Kima''(P170). Pasta in fresh tomato sauce (with red wine, onions, and parmesan cheese). It tasted like your ordinary meat sauce spaghetti, to be honest.''Spanakopita''(P90), a sort of fried lumpia filled with spinach, onion leaves, and feta cheese.''Like I said, it was my first time to try Greek cuisine so I had no point of comparison and judged it according to my own taste. (Later I would try Cyma and would find it much, much more delightful than Manos, but much more expensive, too.) The service and the presentation have big rooms for improvement. Still, I left the place with a full tummy, a happy palate, and a newfound appreciation for Greek food.''How to get there'': You can take a bus bound for Tagaytay at EDSA-Taft in Pasay City. Disembark at Olivarez Plaza and take a tricycle to the restaurant.''View Larger Map''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Tagaytay: People’s Park in the Sky''Top 12 Guest Houses and B&Bs in Tagaytay''Ketchup Food Community: Where to Eat in Baguio City, Philippines''6 Popular Restaurants in El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''Bulalo: The Signature Soup of Batangas, Philippines''The Tamilok at Kinabuchs: Where to Eat in Puerto Princesa, Palawan''Whenever a foreigner asks me for recommendations, Bohol is always in my top three. The reason is simple: a wide array of extraordinary attractions.''Sure, other islands in the Philippines are worth recommending, too, but most boast one or two of the following — white beaches, incredible sites, diverse wildlife, interesting history. Bohol has them all. From wild encounters with dolphins to the incomparable views of the Chocolate Hills, Bohol is a province that is easy to promote. It doesn’t need much sales talk. And given that I’ve only explored the southern edge of the province and a few of its islands, I wonder just how much harder I would love Bohol when I point my compass northward.''Here’s some information I have gathered in the three times that I visited Bohol. Hope it could help you plan your trip to this one-of-a-kind tropical paradise!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get to Bohol''Places to Visit in Bohol''Bohol Tours''Getting Around Bohol''Sample 3D/2N Bohol Itinerary''Budget Breakdown''“Would you mind if we have street food for dinner?” My friend Bebs stopped on his tracks and turned 180 to face me. It sounded more like an invitation than a question.''“Are you kidding me?” was my response. “Of course not! I’m a sucker for street food!” And with that, we started our hunt for the food stall that would give me a plateful of the warmest Bangkok welcome. You see, it was my first night in Thailand and I had not eaten anything since my plane landed that afternoon.''Thailand probably has the most famous cuisine in Southeast Asia. From spicy soups like Tom Yum to sweet desserts like Mango Sticky Rice, Thailand’s popular dishes have made their way to dining tables across the globe. Needless to say, I was more than excited to finally have my first meal in the streets of Bangkok. In the five days and five nights that I stayed here, I had all my lunches and dinners on the sidewalks of the the culinary paradise that is Thailand. Here are some dishes that I have tried:''Chicken in sweet sauce. I don’t know what the sweet sauce really is but it tasted teriyaki-ish.''Dried fish sold at a stall near Wat Pho''Grilled chicken tail, gizzard, and legs sold in the streets of Silom''The famous Mango Sticky Rice. You’ll find it everywhere in Bangkok (and the rest of Thailand).''Pad Thai at Khao San Road''Fresh Pomegranate Juice sold by the entrance to Wat Pho''Super spicy Tom Yum served at an eatery in Silom. I asked for a bowl of mildly spicy soup but apparently their mild was too hot for me. I wonder how piquant their regular soup is.''Forgot the name of this dessert but it looks like tapioca pearl cake.''A fruit shake stall along Khao San Road''The name of this dish slipped my mind but it’s ground pork with chili.''Pork noodle soup.''Bangkok’s version of pichie pichie. 😀''My favorite! Pork rice. Tender pork boiled in slightly sweet soup served with half egg, veggies, and rice.''None of my friends believed me when I told them I stumbled upon Bangkok’s red light district by accident. Sure, I was curious and wildly intrigued, but that moment that I just found myself in the middle of it was not planned at all.''I arrived in Downtown Bangkok past six in the evening. From the Saladaeng Station of the BTS (MRT), the hotel I booked was located several blocks away. While I had the exact address, I was totally disoriented by everything in Bangkok — their address system, the night market, the goodlooking people, and the language barrier. I had asked many, but no one seemed to know where the hotel was. It was getting dark, the makeshift stores of the night market were slowly taking form, and I was still lost in a city so foreign to me. I struggled to figure out my location until the neon lights above me burst alive — Super Pussy, the lights screamed. Just a few steps and a man approached me with a menu, “Ping pong show,” he invited. And right at that moment, I knew exactly where I was.''The Strip Bar'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Pat Pong''Silom Road''Khao San Road''“We’re losing it!” I shouted in a mixture of excitement and panic as the 4×4 jeepney we were riding stirred dust across the vast arid land. The big ball of fire is slowly dipping in the horizon, and the sea pine trees — which under normal circumstances I would find delightful — were blocking the view.''We’re losing it'', \xa0I whispered again, this time\xa0in a tone that was coming from a place between sadness and frustration.''We just lost the sunset.''But there was no time to be unhappy. The vehicle accelerated under the twilight skies, illuminated by the afterglow of the sunset that we just missed. The weak sunlight hurdling the horizon became our guide and there we were in the middle of a desert in Ilocos Norte, just about to start our sandy adventure. Up and down the sand dunes we went while we struggled to keep a good grip on the safety bars. Taking photos was a challenge because not only did we not have enough light, I certainly did not want to be in the the next day’s news about a blogger who accidentally and stupidly got thrown off the vehicle.''The sunset afterglow.''We were in the middle of Paoay Sand Dunes, one of the many thirsty lands in Ilocos. On the plane while approaching the Laoag runway, my eyes were treated to view of spectacular landscapes, which are patched with many mini-deserts. This place was one of those. \xa0Paoay Sand Dunes is an 88 sq km parched paradise that lies adjacent Suba Beach. It is one of the two most popular sand dunes sites in the province, the other one being La Paz in Laoag City.''Imagine sandboarding here!''The 4×4 jeepney can carry up to 5 pax (excluding the driver and passenger seats)''Our vehicle slowed down to a halt on the peak of a sand wave. Our guide hopped out of the driver seat and asked who among us were interested to go sandboarding. I raised my hand like it had never been raised before! Never mind that I had never tried it, not even once. Never mind that I was wearing tight pants, which would get extremely dirty after. Never mind that I had just recovered from a terrible case of asthma.''The desert be damned, I just missed the sunset and there’s no way I will miss this!''I got on the board, bent my knees to a fighting form, and slid down to the valley! But not before crashing. Halfway on the way down, I lost balance and faltered. Picked up the board. Climbed back up.''Let’s try again!''The second attempt was perfect. I reached the base of the sandy cliff without touching the ground! Ha! I was getting lost in the delusion that I was the best sandboarder in the world of all time ever ever ever when the rest of the group called us back up. It was time to get moving, for the light was dwindling.''Whooooop! Slide!''The nasty part of sandboarding is climbing back up. Haha''No point of that ride was comfortable. When its gigantic wheels roll on the rugged terrain, we at the back of the vehicle could feel every muscle in our body tremble as if we were in those fancy massage chairs. The difference is, this was not relaxing at all. We needed to hold on for our dear lives for this one. It is quite funny that while I stood there, I had this awful feeling that my body would get sore that night (and it did) yet I wanted more — more dunes, more shaking, more sandboarding! The farther we got and the longer our ride went, the more I wanted to stay there. Alas, the dark was blanketing the desert.''How to get there'': From Laoag, one option is to take a tricycle to Paoay Sand Dunes. Here, you may rent a 4×4 jeepney. The cost of the tour is usually P2500 inclusive of the ride, guide fee, and the use of sandboard. The jeep can carry up to 5 pax so you might want to divide the cost among the group if you’re part of one.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Top 12 Long Weekend Destinations from Manila (No Flights Needed)''Lusong Shipwreck and Coral Garden: Shallow Reverie in Coron, Palawan, Philippines''Kabigan Falls: Pagudpud, Ilocos Norte, Philippines''Cape Bojeador Lighthouse: Burgos, Ilocos Norte, Philippines''Patapat Viaduct: Pagudpud, Ilocos Norte, Philippines''Uncovering Irawan Beach: San Vicente, Palawan, Philippines''Comprising 99 islands, Langkawi lies in Andaman Sea, off the coast of Peninsular Malaysia. Its main island, Pulau Langkawi, takes its name from the reddish brown eagle that has also become the symbol of the island. The archipelago is known for its natural resources. It may be small but it is packed with all kinds of natural wonders — glorious waterfalls, white beaches, mangrove forests, brackish rivers, limestone cliffs, and diverse wildlife.''While Langkawi’s popularity as a honeymoon and backpacking destination in Malaysia skyrockets, it remains unheard of to most Filipinos. During my visit, the manager of the hotel where I stayed shared that there were not many Pinoy tourists who grace the island with their presence. In fact, he added, we were the first Filipinos to check in at his resort that year and it was the middle of July already.''If you’re planning to set foot on Langkawi, here are some things you might need to know.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get to Langkawi''Where to Stay in Langkawi''Places to Visit in Langkawi''Where to Eat in Langkawi''Getting Around Langkawi''That scene alone sums up the park. Three zebras escaping the scorching sun took shelter in a garage and there they stayed beside a rusty, old Pinoy jeepney. It was an intriguing sight, a harbinger of how I would see the place after spending half a day in it.''The land rover we were riding stirred dust across a vast plain where giraffes roamed gracefully, hopping from tree to tree. Zebras bent their necks as they grazed, pulling the grass off the more moist corners of the island. Africa, I mumbled as our vehicle slowed down to halt. A far cry, maybe, but for now this was the closest I could get to an African safari — Calauit Safari Park.''Zebras in my garage. Well, not my garage.''We climbed down to the arid ground and Kuya Florante, a caretaker and tour guide, led us under the shade of a gazebo. Four giraffes, I counted. They, too, were avoiding the sun and were oblivious to our presence, which until then was thought to be irresistible (wahaha).\xa0“They look small,” my friend''Mica''remarked while looking at them from afar. But that would change as soon as they came closer and dwarfed us. It was the first time that I got this close to the tallest land animal in the world, and it felt like I would break my neck any time as I kept looking up to their cute, gentle faces.''“This is Isabel,” said Kuya Florante while rubbing the neck of the biggest giraffe of the lot. The others, he introduced as Miller, Terrence, and Mylene. “We usually name them after their sponsors,” he answered when asked how they come up with the names.''Oh hello there, Isabel.''Miller and Terrence.''Feeding the giraffe is allowed here. Our group tried it. I tried it too, thinking that there was nothing wrong with it since giraffes are not endangered or threatened. But now that I’m writing about it and after reading about''the behavior of these animals and their relationship with the human inhabitants of Calauit'', I figured I probably did a bad thing. Maybe it would be best for them to not be get used to humans and for tourists to minimize impact. Maybe feeding them isn’t a good idea after all. The park may be big enough for these animals but it has faced one problem after another through the years.''Calauit Safari Park covers almost 3800 hectares. Formerly known as Calauit Game Preserve and Wildlife Sanctuary, the park was established on August 21, 1976 by Presidential Proclamation 1578 issued by President Ferdinand Marcos.''You might be wondering: How did the giraffes and zebras get here? That’s easy to answer — by boat. One hundred and four animals which also included six types of antelopes (impala, gazelle,\xa0bushbuck, eland, waterbuck, and tobi)\xa0were brought here from Kenya. The green island was transformed to a savannah — its residents relocated and its bamboo forests cleared to provide a suitable environment for the animals.''The more interesting question is: Why? The most common reason you’re gonna hear is that this was a conservation effort by President Marcos. It is said that when he attended a summit meeting in the African state, the Kenyan government asked the International Union for Conservation of Nature for assistance in the conservation of their wildlife. Calauit was Marcos’s answer to the call.''Of course, some do not find this too convincing. An''Inquirer report''in 2011 revealed something else: Marcos wanted to launch a tourism business. Tony Parkinson, a British man who organized the translocation of animals from Kenya to the Philippines, said,\xa0“None of them were endangered… that was all nonsense. We would never have put them on an island like that if they were endangered.” Which one to believe is up to you.''Today, according to Kuya Florante, there are 23 giraffes, 38 zebras, and around 1000 Calamian deer on the island today. The antelopes have all died out. The Calamian deer is endemic to Palawan and is an endangered species but their population has improved in the park. The male Calamian deer is horned; we only spotted one male of the dozens we have seen that morning.''Ready for adventure!''More zebras! The males have darker stripes.''A female Calamian deer, endemic to Palawan''Camouflage tree, locally known as Panato''While most animals are free to run around and explore the island, there are those that are in captivity. Among these are four Philippine crocodiles, three porcupines, two pythons, a civet cat, a wild boar, a sea gull, and a number of tortoises. But the giraffes and zebras remain the crowd favorites among all animals in the sanctuary.''Crocodilus Mindorensis aka Philippine Crocodile. They are freshwater crocodiles. There are 4 at the sanctuary.''Porcupine, civet cat, wild bearded pig (endemic to Palawan) and a python''The environment (natural, social, and even political) has changed since Marcos created Little Africa in Calauit and time does not prove to be friendly to the park, which is facing a number of challenges today. Budget cuts have pushed the number of workers to dwindle from 300 to 30. The former inhabitants of the peninsula who were relocated decades ago are returning via the Balik-Calauit movement. And the animals are''reported''to have been on one end of a conflict with the residents.''With the staff of Calauit Safari Park''Whatever the real intentions are, one thing that remains the same is that the animals are already here. We brought them here. We adopted them. “All the animals here are Filipinos now,” Kuya Florante shared, explaining that the original individuals imported from Africa are all dead, leaving behind the offsprings, which are all born in Calauit.\xa0The least we could do is take care of them.''How to get here'': From Manila, fly to Busuanga airport. If your hotel is in Coron, you can take a van/shuttle to Coron town. Here, there are several options available. You may join a group tour offered by travel agencies, normally around P2500 per head. If you’re a big group, you may charter a private boat to Calauit (which can also take you to other gorgeous islands including''Black Island'') for P7500 for 1-4 pax or P9000 for 5-8 pax.''Calauit Entrance Fee'': P200 for Filipinos, P400 for foreigners''Use of land rover'': P1000 (divided by how many you are in the group)''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''The Other Pamalican Island in Busuanga, Palawan, Philippines''Black Island, Busuanga: The New Shade of Paradise in Palawan, Philippines''Maquinit Hot Springs: Tub Therapy in Coron, Palawan''Lusong Shipwreck and Coral Garden: Shallow Reverie in Coron, Palawan, Philippines''Snapshot: Waking Up to Paradise in PORT BARTON, PALAWAN''Sunrise at Culion Church and Fortress, Palawan''Upon contact with light, the walls of the cave sparkled as if covered with a girl’s bestfriend. He threw the light on the other corners and they, too, shimmered like diamonds stashed away in the dark. “There are many caves and chambers like this under this mountain,” he said proudly to an overly excited audience — we, his audience. “But they’re inaccessible today,” he added. And the audience let out a long sigh.''Harold, our boatman and tour guide, led us out of the second cave we visited that day. The caves are probably long and deep but we were only allowed at the mouth, leaving us wanting, drooling for more. Still, we were not disappointed. Its depths may be elusive for now but this island has given us so much for the day.''Whoah! The biggest chamber of the caves''In a sea of rounded peaks, Black Island is the odd man in these freckled waters of Busuanga. Odd man, yes, but not out. Its toothed tops and heavily contoured walls are not inviting but imposing, not nurturing but overpowering. The island does not beg for attention (like I do), it commands it.''Our first step on the island was an event on its own. We jumped off the boat and found our''soles''feet devoured by the thick dough that greeted us.\xa0The sand was so soft, I was taken to the time when I first fell in love with Panglao Island. But before we could have a chance to lie on it, laze on it, or roll on it, our hole-crazy boatman dragged us to the caves, which he had been pimping to us since the day before.''Our first glimpse at Black Island''Black Island aka Malajon Island in Busuanga, Palawan'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Caves''The Beach''The rise of low-cost carriers had made this world a lot smaller and interesting destinations closer. The distant islands north and south have become easily accessible to Manila-dwellers, who are eager to escape the heat of the city to a paradise that can give them a relaxing and exciting affair with nature. (Or, in some cases, just an affair.) Flying is relatively cheap now. But with all the surcharges, taxes, terminal fees, and the cost of land or boat transfers, the trip that is opened at an airport can still be quite heavy on the pocket.''Foreign travelers aiming for an island getaway in the Philippines most likely find themselves spending a day or two in Manila, whether they like it or not. Many of them are faced with the question:''what is there to do in Manila''? Well, there’s always Binondo, Intramuros, churches, and museums, of course. But if you’re not interested in doing a mall tour, sampling street food, or getting yourself squished inside the sauna that is the MRT, then heading for the countryside is a good alternative. We love Manila, yes, but when it comes to adventures for the nature-lovers and beach bums — let’s face it — she will break your heart.''If you’re looking for great vacation spots that are just within proximity of the capital, here are some of my recommendations.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Mt. Pinatubo''Anawangin and Nagsasa Coves, Zambales.''Taal Volcano''Tagaytay City''Anilao, Batangas''Lipa and Taal, Batangas.''Batangas Beaches''Borawan and Dampalitan Islands, Quezon''Festivals''Angono, Rizal and Paete, Laguna.''Laguna Waterfalls''Freedom Islands''Corregidor Island.''Bataan''Puerto Galera.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Mt. Pinatubo''Be blown away! Figuratively, of course! Take a bus to Tarlac, ride a 4×4 jeep, and trek to the crater of Mt. Pinatubo! It’s a long way but the view is definitely worth the time and effort. See the rim of the crater slope up from a lakeful of rainwater, accumulated over the years! You can even boat across the crater lake and camp overnight.''Mt. Pinatubo. Photo by Rolen Facundo''On your way back, pass by Angeles City to sample Pampanga’s rich and irresistible cuisine!''Day trip suggested budget'': P1500-P2000/person (Group of 5)''More info'':''Mt. Pinatubo Travel Guide''Where to Stay: Clark Hotels''.''Anawangin and Nagsasa Coves, Zambales.''One of the provinces at the base of Mt. Pinatubo, Zambales was terribly buried when the sleeping volcano awakened two decades ago. But the disaster dumped a good amount of ash onto its the rocky shores, breathing a new life to its otherwise ordinary beaches. Today, Anawangin and Nagsasa Coves have risen as popular tourist destinations for its ashen sand and agoho trees (resembling pine trees) that foster a unique Baguio-meets-Boracay vibe. Capones and Camara Islands are also waiting!''Anawangin Cove, Zambales''The other side of Anawangin''How to get there:''Take a Victory Liner bus to Iba or Sta. Cruz, Zambales and tell the conductor to drop you off at San Antonio public market. Take a tricycle to Pundaquit. From here, you may rent a boat to get to Anawangin or Nagsasa.''Day trip suggested budget'': P1200-P1500/person (Group of 4)''More info'':''Anawangin and Nagsasa Travel Guide''.''Where to Stay: Zambales Hotels''.''Taal Volcano''If you love admiring it from afar, you’re gonna love it even more when you’re actually on the volcano. It only takes two to three hours to get to the jump off point in Talisay, Batangas. From there, you can rent a small boat to take you to the volcano island. Prep for a rigorous trek because its slopes, while not as steep, can still drain all your energy especially when the sun is harsh. (And unless you’re trekking at night, I’m telling you: clouds or no clouds, the sun is harsh!) If long treks aren’t on your favorites list, there’s always the horse option, for a fee of course.''Taal Volcano Crater''How to get there:''From Manila, take the bus to Batangas and get off at Tanauan City Proper. If you’re renting a boat from Taal Lake Yacht Club, ride a jeepney to Sampaloc and get off in front of TLYC. It’s on your right side. You can also take a jeepney at Tanauan City to Talisay Town Proper.''Day trip suggested budget'': P1000-P1500/person (Group of 5)''More info'':''Taal Volcano Trek''Where to Stay: Tagaytay Hotel''.''Tagaytay City''If for whatever reason (read: laziness) you don’t want to trek, you can avoid getting physical and just admire the volcano and the lake from a distance, like most people do. Tagaytay offers the best views, with a lovely, cool atmosphere to boot. Visit the newly opened Sky Ranch and get into one of the coaches of their giant Ferris wheel, overlooking the lake. Not into rotating wheels? Spend a morning in one of the city’s parks and gardens. The People’s Park in the Sky has not been maintained well but you might still want to stay a 360-degree view of the city. Or just enter a coffee shop, order a latte, and just ponder on why the hell you don’t want to trek to the crater of the volcano you’ve been admiring from afar!''Double Rainbow!''How to get there'': From Manila, take a bus bound for Tagaytay or Nasugbu or you can also take a shuttle/van to Lemery at Starmall Alabang or Shaw. (Don’t take the bus to Lemery; it doesn’t pass through Tagaytay.) Either way, get off at Tagaytay Rotonda and take a trike or jeepney to your target destination from here.''Day trip suggested budget'': P850-P1500/person''Where to Stay: Tagaytay Hotels''.''Anilao, Batangas''Anilao in Mabini, Batangas is just three hours away, making it a favorite among Manila-based divers and future divers. One-day beginner courses are available to those who wish to learn how to, well, dive. Batangas waters host a wide array of marine wildlife that will blow you away.''If diving isn’t your thing, you may also opt to climb Mt. Gulugod Baboy, an easy climb for professionals (probably the climb of my life if that were me) or take a boat to Sombrero Island and make love with the sun while flaunting your brand new bikini!''Anilao Diving''How to get there'': Board a bus going to\xa0Batangas City and alight at Bolbok, just before Batangas pier under the flyover. Then take a jeepney to Anilao (Mabini).''Day trip suggested budget'': P1000-P1500/person (Group of 5)''More info'':''Anilao Travel Guide''Where to Stay: Anilao Resorts and Hotels''.''Lipa and Taal, Batangas.''From the petal shower site at Carmel Church to the sacred well of Sta. Lucia, from the magnificent Lipa Cathedral to the massive Taal Basilica, the biggest in Asia — the road from the city of Lipa to the heritage town of Taal is milestoned by grand churches and miraculous sites. Whether you’re a believer or not, make a stop at these places and see what the fuss is about. If you have more time, roll out a bit more of your map and continue your journey to Calaca and Balayan, which also boast old, majestic churches.''Don’t forget to dig in to some of the most delectable Batangueno dishes along the way! Missing bulalo, tapang Taal, lomi, and kapeng barako is a mortal sin!''Facade of the Basilica of St. Martin de Tours in Taal, Batangas''How to get there'': Take a bus going to Batangas City or Lemery and get off at Lipa bus stop. Most points of interest in Lipa are accessible by trike. To get to Taal Town, take the bus again or a jeepney going to Lemery and ask the driver to drop you off in Taal.''Day trip suggested budget'': P800-P1200/person''More info'':''Batangas Heritage Tour''.''Where to Stay: Batangas Hotels''.''Batangas Beaches''And there are a lot to choose from. The towns of San Juan, Lobo, Mabini, Tingloy, Nasugbu, and Calatagan are all laced with ivory shores.''San Juan harbors the province’s most popular beaches today but if it’s too crowded for you, drive to the other side of Batangas. Nasugbu is starting to be a great alternative, too, and the sight of Mt. Batulao is a constant invitation to awaken the dormant mountaineer in you. Fortune Island is a good choice, too! Lobo has Malabrigo Beach. Tingloy has Masasa Beach and Oscar Island. Matabungkay used to be the “it” destination decades ago but it might still be a good place for a respite. The barely touched shores of Calatagan offer front row seats to watch a spectacular Batangas sunrise. The Punta de Santiago Lighthouse is another point of interest.''Read my Batangas posts here''.''Malabrigo Beach''Oscar Island in Tingloy. Photo by Astrid Alvarez.''How to get there:''To get to Nasugbu, take a bus to Nasugbu. From here you can take a jeepney going to Lian or Calatagan.''Day trip suggested budget'': P900-P1500/person''Where to Stay: Batangas Hotels''.''Borawan and Dampalitan Islands, Quezon''They say that Borawan is a portmanteau, Boracay and Palawan. The more believable origin of the name however is bulawan, which means gold. But screw etymology, just get yourself to this paradise on your next holiday break!''The towering karst cliffs hug the white shores of Borawan, reminiscent of many islands in El Nido and Coron (but don’t expect them to match them). Borawan is only four to five hours away. It is one of the many islands off the coast of Padre Burgos and Pagbilao, Quezon, that nestle gorgeous white sand beaches! Other places to visit: Dampalitan Island and Puting Buhangin. There are no resorts here so camping is the way to go!''Borawan Island''Warning though: It can get really crowded during peak season, which leaves the water murky.''How to get there'': Ride a bus to Lucena City and alight at\xa0Lucena Grand Terminal. Take another bus to Unisan, get off at QCRB Bank (Padre Burgos), then take\xa0a tricycle to Aplaya, where you can hire boats to take you on an island hopping tour.''Overnight suggested budget'': P1600-P2500/person (Group of 5)''More info'':''Borawan Island Travel Guide''.''Where to Stay: Quezon Hotels''.''Festivals''Mark your calendars! Here are some of the most energetic and most interesting festivals near Manila:''Pahiyas Festival''– May 15 in Lucban, Quezon''Parada ng Lechon''– June 24 in Balayan, Batangas''Higantes Festival''– November 23 in Angono, Rizal''Giant Lantern Festival''– Saturday before Christmas, San Fernando, Pampanga''Hot Air Balloon Fiesta''– 3rd Week of February, Clark, Pampanga''All the colors of Pahiyas Festival''Pahiyas Festival is my absolute favorite. It is a celebration of the good harvest, in honor of San Isidro de Labrador. A parade roams around town passing by houses that are creatively decorated with vegetables and kiping, a colorful ornament made from rice (and yes, they’re edible)! If you get hungry, there’s always longganisang Lucban and pansit habhab! Traffic can be as dense as your former boss so you might also consider staying overnight in Lucban or neighboring town.''Day trip suggested budget'': P800-P1200/person''More info'':''Pahiyas Festival for Less than P1000''!''Angono, Rizal and Paete, Laguna.''Appreciate art and get cultured in Angono, Rizal and Paete, Laguna!''Known as the art capital of the Philippines, Angono is as interesting as it is accessible. See the Angono-Binangonan petroglyphs, a prehistoric artwork that is considered the oldest in the country. Pay a visit to the house of Carlos “Botong” Francisco and get to know the national artist better. For the adventurous eater, try Soup No. 5 and fried itik in some of the more famous restaurants in the area!''Paete Art Products''One of the most underrated destinations in the country, Laguna holds a number of surprises for those who will take a step into its overlooked territory. Learn the art of sculpture and witness how this craft has become the center of the lives of the people of Paete! Go on a bakya shopping spree in Liliw! Overcome your fears and descend into the Underground Cemetery in Nagcarlan. The province is also dotted with several historic churches, ancestral houses, and unique restaurants!''Where to Stay: Rizal Hotels''Where to Stay: Laguna Hotels''.''Laguna Waterfalls''Chase waterfalls! Cavinti Falls (Pagsanjan Falls) may be just another waterfall to many but it is the getting there that makes a visit an unforgettable experience. Board a small boat and be amazed with how the boatmen masterfully conquer the rapids and the rocky stream on the way to the waterfall! Buntot Palos Falls is another best-kept secret of Laguna that may be attractive to the thrill-seeking adventurer!''And then there’s the spectacular Hulugan Falls in Luisiana that cascades near two other waterfalls.''Tired of chasing waterfalls? Choose one of the seven lakes of San Pablo!''Where to Stay: Laguna Hotels''.''Freedom Islands''This one is not near Metro Manila, it is''in''it! Freedom Island and Long Island, collectively called''Freedom Islands'', lie off the coast of Paranaque and Las Pinas. More formally known as''Las Pinas-Paranaque Critical Habitat and Ecotourism Area'', the Freedom Islands have a huge ecological role in the area. It is the last remaining mangrove forest and salt marsh frontier in Metro Manila. \xa0These two islands also serve as a sanctuary for many marine lifeforms and a refuge for more than 80 species of birds, both local and migratory.''Satellite image of Freedom Island, courtesy of Google Maps''Freedom Islands. Photo courtesy of Earth Island Institute Philippines.''However, the Freedom Islands are under threat.\xa0The garbage the city produces — an awful lot of them! — has found its way to the islands. Environmental groups often organize clean up drives that you can join.''You cannot swim here but if birdwatching makes your day, you don’t need to travel to Pampanga or Batangas for it. The closest site is within Metro Manila.''Where to Stay: Metro Manila Hotels''.''Corregidor Island.''Brush Up on History! Corregidor is just a ferry ride away from Manila. You’ll be surprised that while many city dwellers have visited many islands in the far corners of the country, a good lot of them have never set foot on Corregidor. This tadpole-shaped island lies at the mouth of Manila Bay and was a strategic military base during World War II.''The remnants of the past remain standing and are just waiting for curious, open minds to come take a look. If ghost-haunting is right up your alley, they say it is also the place to be but maybe that’s too extreme.''How to get there:''From One Esplanade (beside SM Mall of Asia), take a ferry to Corregidor.''Day trip suggested budget'': P2500/person''Bataan''Retrace the Death March! Sounds like an emotional torture but this activity can be very enlightening and rewarding to history buffs! And since you’re already in Bataan, don’t miss the chance to visit Mt. Samat and some of the province’s beaches.''Photo by Nix Nicolas of Save Philippine Seas''If you can also visit in November, take part in Pawikan Festival and witness the turtle hatchlings’ return to the sea.''.''Puerto Galera.''A bus and a ferry ride away, Puerto Galera has been the go-to summer destination among city-dwellers for beach activities such as swimming and beach bumming. (Ha, I know what you’re thinking!) But there’s more to this Mindoro paradise than what’s on the surface! Puerto Galera is a great diving destination. Declared a Man and Biosphere Reserve of UNESCO in 1973, it is one of the destinations with the richest marine biodiversity in the world.''Puerto Galera''When doors open, we tend to overlook what’s right in our own front lawn. Manila itself is blessed with many culturally and historically rich sites but if you want more, the surrounding provinces can definitely deliver.''Where to Stay: Puerto Galera Hotels''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Anawangin Cove: Misadventures in Zambales, Philippines''Anilao, Batangas: Above the Surface of an Underwater Eden''Anawangin Cove: Overnight Camping in Zambales, Philippines''7 Insightful Things to Do in Metro Manila, Philippines''Dampalitan Island: Overnight Camping in Padre Burgos, Quezon''BEACHES NEAR MANILA: 10 Uncrowded Weekend Getaways''At first glance, it looks like your typical provincial town. There’s a church on top of a staired hill, old buildings flanking the tangling streets, a statue of a town hero standing proudly on a pedestal, and a plaza smack at the center of the town proper. Yes, at first glance everything looks ordinary except when you stop and stay a little longer, you’ll find that these structures talk. Yes, they do. And they tell stories of a stark past, one that has always been filled with constant struggles.''On May 27, 1906, two ships sailed, bringing 370 passengers from Cebu to their new home. But they were no ordinary ships, and they were no ordinary passengers. Aboard these Coast Guard cutters were the future inhabitants. Many of them were forced to abandon their lives and loved ones behind for a future in a place so foreign and isolated. Their destination: The Island of No Return — Culion.''Culion is a town small and very walkable. But it is big in history. This rich and unique history makes a walk along its streets a time travel — a trip into the dark and hopeful past. Culion Island has always been isolated, a distant, hardly accessible paradise. But isolation found another meaning in 1904 when an Executive Order was issued to create a leper colony in Culion, shutting it from the rest of the world. The patients became the first residents of an ordinary town built under extraordinary circumstances.''La Inmaculada Concepcion Church, aka Culion Church. Its walls used to be part of an old fortress''Fort Culion. Built in 1740 under the Recollect Augustinians, this fortress had 4 bastions.''Lower gate. This barangay arc marker used to divide the town into two: the worlds of “leproso” and the “sano.” All health workers passing through must dip hands in and wipe shoes with a disinfectant.''Culion Sanitarium and General Hospital. The Culion Museum and Archives is located inside.''The Culion Museum and Archives houses many of the equipment pieces and documents about the history of the town as a leper colony.''The Culion Museum and Archives. Something you shouldn’t miss when visiting Culion. Entrance fee: P150.''Statue of Rev. Fr. Felipe Milan, SJ, inside the Culion Sanitarium and General Hospital Complex. He was born in Spain in 1898 but he died serving in the Colony in 1926.''Sacred Heart Dormitory (Congregantes). A shelter for male patients from 16 above. Married men also stayed here. According to a marker, some of these married men, despite the heartbreak of being separated from their families, found new love and built new families in the island.''Plaza Basa Avellana. Named after the second Filipino chief of the colony, Dr. Jose Basa Avellana, the plaza comprises the Colony Hall, General Clinic (seen in the photo), Grand Stairway, and Injection Hall.''Leonard Wood Monument. The patients were said to adore Governor General Leonard Wood that in 1931, they voluntarily erected this statue at the heart of Plaza Basa Avellana to honor him.''Colony Hall. Constructed in 1912, it was the office of the Culion Advisory Council.''Balala Nursery. Built in 1916 for the children of patients, it housed babies that were isolated from parents to prevent contamination of the disease. The parents were allowed to see their kids every weekend through a glass window. More than 400 babies were admitted here.''Some of the 333 steps to Aguila. Along the way is a basketball court where priest used to play at when it was still a leper colony.''Aguila. The hill got its name from the American Eagle sigil “imprinted” on the slope. It offers the best view of the town but is accessible via a 333-step staircase.''A closer look at the statue of Jesus Christ at Aguila viewpoint, overlooking the town.''A Jesus Christ the Redeemer statue at Aguila viewpoint, overlooking Culion town.''Culion Town as seen from Aguila viewpoint''Culion Church (Inmaculada Conception Church) towering over the rest of the town.''Neighboring islands to the south''View of the hut by Safari Guesthouse from Aguila''Our local guide Kuya Toto and my friend Mica at Aguila Viewpoint''The peak of Aguila viewpoint, where a radio transmitter is mounted.''It’s a great morning for catching fish!''Radio Telegraph Tower. It was built in 1920 as a means of communication with the outside world. In April 1942, the Japanese disabled this when they landed on the island.''Old Presidencia. An old prison. (Yes, they had a prison, too.)''A small hut sticking out into the sea from Safari Guesthouse''Sandoval’s House. This house belonged to Sandoval Family who were among the original residents of Culion. When the leper colony was established, it was converted into the headquarters of local police.''More than a century later, Culion has transformed from the largest leprosaria in the world to a rising tourist destination. The affliction has been cured; thanks to the development of multi-drug therapy. Slowly, the island gets closer and closer to outsiders; thanks to the booming tourism in neighboring Coron. Still, the structures that sheltered the patients and health workers remain standing. The past lingers around them, eager to share stories that have been locked up in the island for the longest time.''How to get here'': From Manila, fly to Busuanga and take a van/shuttle to Coron town. From Coron, you may take the once-a-day ferry to Culion (P180) scheduled at 1:30pm. You may also charter a boat from Coron (P3000 per boat) or join a group day tour (around 1200). From Culion port, you may start walking to your left and you’ll spot these structures along the way.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Culion Museum and Archives, Palawan: Remnants and Descendants''Sunrise at Culion Church and Fortress, Palawan''Hotel Maya: Where to Stay in Culion, Palawan, Philippines''Black Island, Busuanga: The New Shade of Paradise in Palawan, Philippines''The Other Pamalican Island in Busuanga, Palawan, Philippines''Maquinit Hot Springs: Tub Therapy in Coron, Palawan''May 27, 1906. They were called Polillo and Mindanao. These two ships rippled across the water to bring 370 passengers from Cebu to their new home. But they were no ordinary ships carrying no ordinary passengers. Aboard these Coast Guard cutters were the future inhabitants, most of whom were forced to abandon everything they had known and loved for an island where they would face a life uncertain and isolated. This place, famed for being a paradise brimming with natural beauty, offered a fresh start but the vessels bound for it still overflowed with fear and trepidation.''Their destination:''The Island of No Return''— Culion.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Paradise Lost, Paradise Regained: Understanding Culion''How to Get to Culion Island''Where to Stay in Culion''What to Do in Culion''Traveling can be harsh on the skin. When you’re on the road, you expose yourself to more sun and more elements that are potentially harmful to the skin. It’s especially true during summer, when the heat and humidity rise to the roof. The skin reacts to weather changes. The cold months usually leave the skin drier than usual. The summer months, on the other hand, often pushes the skin to produce more oil. Not to mention that the hot atmosphere makes us all sweaty. The sweat and oil can clog the pores. If you have acne-prone skin like me, you might find yourself dealing with another pimple breakout in the middle of summer.''If you’re hitting the beach or the road this summer, here are some tips to help you fight, if not avoid, the ever-annoying pimple breakouts!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Avoid overwashing your face.''2. Choose non-comedogenic products.''3. Continue your anti-acne skin regimen.''4. Don’t touch your face.''5. Wear light, comfortable clothes.''6. Drink lots of water.''7. Take a shower before going to bed.''Much has been said about Bangkok being so touristy. But that’s a given. As the world’s most visited city, Bangkok is such a crowd-drawer that it is almost impossible to find a tourist-less frame whenever you try to take a photo of anything. Bangkok’s map is dotted with several tourist spots that most people flock to. Spend at least one day exploring the sites punctuating the Chao Phraya River and see for yourself. Self-proclaimed traveling elites may cringe at you visiting the usual tourist spots but go anyway. There just might be a reason they are on everyone’s maps and guidebooks.''The best thing about the Grand Palace and the great temples of Bangkok is that they stand close to each other. They are also easily accessible via the Chao Phraya Express Boat, which is also connected to the BTS (Skytrain). Here’s a quick guide to help you see six of the top tourist spots along the Chao Phraya. (I’m not saying this is the best, most comprehensive guide there is because it’s not. But this is how I did it given my limited time and energy.)'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Important Reminders''1. Bangkok Chinatown''2. Wat Arun – The Temple of Dawn''3. Wat Pho – The Temple of the Reclining Buddha''4. The Grand Palace''5. Siriraj Forensic Museum''6. Khao San Road''I always have to have a hat on when traveling. Have to. Always.''Never mind that my head is too big for a silly fedora hat (or any hat for that matter); it’s just my thing. It is comfortable, protective, and to a certain extent expressive. Without it, it just doesn’t feel right. If you’re traveling with me and you lose me in a big crowd, all you need to do is spot the fedora hat bobbing across the sea of humanity and, voila, you found me!''So on my first morning in Bangkok, when I realized that I lost my hat, I just had to find a replacement — fast. It was an instantaneous reaction, almost a reflex. It was a compulsion brought about an obsessive thought that I’d lose my head without it. A friend on Facebook suggested that I just found myself an excuse to visit Platinum Fashion Mall, a popular indoor market packed with clothes and accessories.''When I was looking at the map to plot the best way to get there, I found out that the nearest BTS (MRT) station is Chit Lom. But something else caught my eye. Next to Chit Lom is the Siam Station, at one of the entry points to Siam Square! And in just a second of two, the entire Love of Siam movie did a flashback in my head like I was lost in a lucid teenage dream. (Katy Perry much?)''Even though I never really intended to say a quick hello to Siam Square, I figured I might as well drop by since it’s along the way. And so I could flaunt the experience to some of my friends who are such massive fans of the film.''A scene in Love of Siam, shot at Siam Square''A scene shot at Scala Cineme in Siam Square'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Siam Square''CentralWorld Bangkok''Platinum Fashion Mall''Traveling outside the Philippines for the first time? You might be very excited but I bet you’re a little anxious, too! There might be a lot of questions brewing in your head right now so here’s a little something to shed light on some of the things you need to know before your trip. (These tips are for Filipino travelers only.)''Every country has its own Immigration rules. Some require visas from Filipino visitors, others don’t. Some have stricter rules, others don’t. It is important that you know these rules and requirements before your flight.''But here are some frequently asked questions that I thought I could answer. Again, I’m only relying on personal experience and some knowledge that I gained in my years of working in the airline industry. Some of these might already be outdated but I’ll try my best to keep them current.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'What are the processes at the airport?''How early should I be at the airport?''What are the things that I should bring to the airport?''What are the usual questions that the Immigration Officers ask?''What can I do to make sure I won’t be offloaded by the Immigration?''Should I present all these documents at the Immigration booth?''Do I need to have a hotel reservation before my flight?''I’ll be staying at a friend’s house, do I need an invitation letter?''Is there a show money? How much do I need to have for them to let me through?''Where should I exchange currencies? Is it best to exchange in the Philippines before the trip?''Should I bring an ID?''I’m a freelancer so I don’t have a company ID. What is a good alternative?''What is the weight limit for carry-on baggage (hand-carry)?''Where should I store my power bank (mobile charger)?''What should I wear?''Related Posts''What are the processes at the airport?''The usual process is this:''Pay the Travel Tax.''IDEALLY, the travel tax and departure fee are already included when you book your ticket, so please check your ticket. But there are times when it isn’t the case. If not sure, check-in first. The check-in agent will tell you if you still need to settle the tax. At NAIA Terminal 3, the travel tax counters should be on your far right when you’re facing the check-in counters. It’s P1,620 per person.''Check in''! Present the Departure Card together with the Travel Tax receipt, printed ticket and passport to the check-in agent. The Agent will give you your boarding pass.''Fill out a copy of Immigration Form (aka Departure Card).''You will get it at the Check-in Counter.\xa0Note that you will need to indicate your address abroad (address of the hotel or the friend you’re visiting).''Proceed to the Immigration Booths.''They will be asking questions like: How long will you be staying abroad? What are you going to do there? What’s your occupation? Where will you stay? The key is to convince them that you’re going there to tour and not to find work. When they’re satisfied, they will\xa0put a stamp on your passport.''Final security check.''Remove all gadgets and metal items (including belts and coins) from your body. Remove your shoes only when instructed.''That’s about it. It’s a long process and it involves a lot of queueing so make sure you’re at the airport at least 2 hours before your flight.''How early should I be at the airport?''At least 2 hours before your scheduled departure.''I personally like showing up at the airport 3-4 hours earlier just in case something untoward happens. I once lost my old passport and visa at the airport on two different occasions (yeah, I was careless, haha), but good thing I had enough time to search. Also, I like staying at airports. Hehe.''Update'': Given all the manpower problems that the Bureau of Immigration faces (super loooong queues), it would be best to arrive at least 4 hours before your flight.''What are the things that I should bring to the airport?''I always have a checklist of items I MUST NOT forget. Here it is.''Passport''– Duh.''Visa''– When applicable''Photocopy of the Passport and Visa''– Just in case you lose your documents, it would be easier for you to get a replacement if you have a copy. When you’re already in your destination and you’re going out, leave the photocopy in the hotel room if you’re bringing the original with you.''Printed Flight Itinerary/Tickets''– Make sure you print out the tickets. When I fly domestic, I usually just show the check-in agent the tickets on my phone. They accept it. But for international flights, you will be showing your tickets too many times (check-in counter, travel tax counter, departure fee counter, immigration, etc) that it would be impractical and ridiculously annoying to whip out your phone every step of the way. A printed ticket will make it a lot easier for you and the people who will check it. Besides, a piece of paper does not need to be charged.''Company ID''– Immigration Officers sometimes ask for a company ID as a proof that you would return to the Philippines and would not seek employment opportunities in your destination country.''DSWD Clearance''– Only when I’m traveling with my nephew or niece and their parents are not joining the trip.''Money''– Of course! Make sure you have enough. My usual budget for a 3-day or 4-day trip abroad is US$600 but I usually just spend less than USD400. Having not enough cash is a common reason why travelers are denied entry even when they are already at the airport.''Credit card''– Some airports require a copy of the credit card used when the tickets are booked online. You might also need it as a safety net in case you run short of cash. Some hotels also ask for credit card for deposit.''Travel Itinerary''– Make a clear plan of what you want to do and write them down. In case the Immigration Officers pick you for a random check, a printed itinerary will help convince them that you will really go to your destination to tour and nothing else.''Hotel address and contact number''– You will need it. If you’re traveling with a kid or someone who doesn’t speak English (or the language spoken in the country you’re visiting), give them the address and contact number of the place you are staying in. In case they get lost, it will be easier for them to find their way to you. You will also need the hotel address when filling out immigration forms.''Address and contact number of the Philippine Embassy in your destination country''– Just in case something happens.''A Pen''– Yes, the humble pen is important. You will be accomplishing forms.''I usually carry an envelope where I put all these together (except the photocopies and money).''In addition, I have a paper where I write the hotel address, contact number, my passport number, passport expiry date, and flight number. This way, when I’m accomplishing forms, I don’t need to fish out my passport and other documents. I just have one reference page.''What are the usual questions that the Immigration Officers ask?''The questions vary from officer to officer. If you’re lucky, the officer will just throw a couple of questions at you and you’re through. But often, here are the questions:''Where are you going?''When will you return to the Philippines?''What will you do there?''Whom are you traveling with?''What is your occupation here in the Philippines?''The key is to answer confidently, consistently, and truthfully.''Sometimes, they will ask follow up questions. Sometimes, you will be subjected to a secondary inspection, which I will explain below.''What can I do to make sure I won’t be offloaded by the Immigration?''The Bureau of Immigration has been implementing stricter rules lately. According to the bureau,''every day around 40 people are offloaded at NAIA Terminal 1''alone. Three to four in every 50 of these offloaded passengers actually have legitimate reasons to go abroad. You don’t want to be one of them.''If you want to make sure you won’t be offloaded, you need to follow the guidelines released to Immigration Officers by the bureau. A''2012 memorandum''enumerates what the officers must require from departing passengers:''Passport''Visa (if applicable)''Filled out departure card''Roundtrip ticket''They usually also ask for your company ID''. Then,''if they deem necessary'', you will be assessed based on the following criteria:''Age''Educational attainment''Financial capability to travel''What does the last item mean? Well, in a nutshell,''tourists with no steady source of income in the Philippines and no benefactors''who appear to have a different reason for traveling other than for leisure are more likely to be offloaded. So if in case you are subjected to a secondary inspection, you would want to have the following with you:''If you’re an employee'', Certificate of Employment (best if it indicates your salary and how long you have been with the company)''If you’re self-employed'', a copy of your Business Registration Certificate''If you’re a freelancer'', you should still have an ITR. If your clients pay it for you, you may ask for a copy from the client. You may also ask your client to produce a document that would certify that they have hired you and the details of the project/contract.''I always have a copy of both my ITR and a “Certificate of Employment” from my clients to be safe.''For more info about this, check out:''How to Avoid Getting Offloaded''Should I present all these documents at the Immigration booth?''No. Again, most of the time, the Officer will only ask for the following:''Passport (with visa, if applicable)''Accomplished departure card''Round-trip ticket''Company ID''Don’t present other documents when they don’t ask for them. All the other documents are more like safety nets IN CASE you need to prove you’re employed.''Just answer their questions confidently.''Do I need to have a hotel reservation before my flight?''It is BEST to always book accommodations first before your flight. You will be required to indicate the address of your hotel on your departure and arrival cards, and Immigration officers on both sides''sometimes''ask for hotel documents.\xa0Even when I’m backpacking across more than one country, I usually make sure I have booked accommodations on at least my first night in the next country I’m visiting.\xa0Again, you could go there without prior reservations but if you want to avoid the hassle of getting asked too many questions and the stress that comes with it, better book in advance.''I’ll be staying at a friend’s house, do I need an invitation letter?''If you could produce one, go ahead. They might just ask for it if they deem necessary.\xa0You will be asked to indicate your “address abroad” so make sure you have that. To be on the safe side, be sure you have your friend’s contact number, too.''Is there a show money? How much do I need to have for them to let me through?''I have never been asked to show money, but I know people who have been. I have been asked many times how much money I have with me, though, but never to show it.''My pocket money depends on the destination country. Some are more expensive than others. For example, the cost of living in Singapore is definitely higher than in Thailand. In countries like Singapore, Hong Kong, and Malaysia, I usually bring USD400 for a 4-day trip, USD500 for a week-long trip. But that’s way more than I actually spend. In cheaper countries like Cambodia and Thailand, I allot USD50 per day. Again, that has a big allowance.''I also bring a credit card, just in case.''Where should I exchange currencies? Is it best to exchange in the Philippines before the trip?''It depends on the country I’m visiting. In countries like Vietnam, Cambodia, Taiwan,\xa0where the PH peso is not widely accepted in banks/money changers, I usually exchange my pesos with US dollars here in the Philippines before the trip.''In countries like Singapore and Hong Kong where the PHP is widely accepted, I exchange directly when I’m already there.\xa0At the airport, I usually exchange a small amount, just enough to get me to my hotel. But when the airport rate isn’t that bad or the difference is very little, I exchange more. Sometimes, what you lose in the conversion might even be smaller than the money you’re gonna spend to get to a better money changer.''Based on experience, however, the best way to acquire foreign currencies is still through ATM withdrawal. Some banks collect transaction fees, some don’t. So if you’re setting up a travel account, choose your bank wisely.''Further reading:''10 Things I Wish I Knew Before I Started Traveling''Should I bring an ID?''Your passport is a valid ID. But Immigration Officers in the Philippines have started to ask for company ID to validate the occupation you indicated on your departure card.''I’m a freelancer so I don’t have a company ID. What is a good alternative?''When I was a freelancer, I didn’t have a company ID either. I would usually tell them that I was a consultant. I always had a copy of an Employment Certificate (which I got from my clients) and a copy of my ITR handy. I never had any problems with it ever.''Here’s the format I followed when I asked my clients to provide some sort of certification that I was working for them.''Sample Certificate Employment PDF''Now that I am a registered sole proprietor, I also bring a copy of my business registration documents although I have never been asked for a copy of it.''What is the weight limit for carry-on baggage (hand-carry)?''Depends on the airline so it’s best to call them. Most low cost carriers place it at 7kg. Lately, many have been really strict about it. JetStar and AirAsia, for example, would insist that you don’t exceed it, so make sure you stay below the limit.''Most legacy airlines don’t count laptops and cameras in their 7kg allowance. Most low cost carriers do.''Where should I store my power bank (mobile charger)?''Bring it with you onboard. NEVER store it in your checked in baggage. I made that mistake once in Tokyo, and I was asked to remove it minutes before the flight.''What should I wear?''Depends on your destination. Consider the weather both in your origin and destination. If it’s sunny in Manila and you’re flying to Korea in January, you might want to also bring a jacket onboard. Actually, I always bring a jacket onboard. I just find airplane cabins way too cold. Haha.''But in general, here are some tips:''Wear shoes that are easy to remove because you might be removing them during the final security check. Slip-ons are great.''Don’t wear a belt during check in, you’ll be asked to remove it too. Place it in your bag and just put it on once you’re through.''Don’t wear a watch during check in. Just put it on after the final security check.''…''Well, that’s all I can think of now. I’ll be adding more to this when I encounter other questions so keep them coming. Again, these are just my personal preferences based on experience. For more accurate and detailed answers, always check with your carrier for airline-related concerns and the embassy of the country you’re visiting for immigration requirements and policies.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''HOW TO AVOID GETTING OFFLOADED: Airport Immigration Requirements and Tips''NAIA Terminal 3: What to Do Before an International Flight''8 INSIDER TIPS: How to Book PISO FARE Flights Successfully''How to Book Safe Airport Transfers with KiwiTaxi''Do You Need to Bring the Credit Card You Used to Airport Check-in?''CEBU PACIFIC PROMO FLIGHTS 2018 (And How to Book Successfully)''A worldful of grays are scattered along the shore of Matabungkay. It is strewn with ashen sand that sparkles a white glow when hugged by sunlight. It is bordered landward by a long, cramped lane of resorts and stores. Many times, it is littered with trash that unabashed locals and tourists left behind. And lying on the berm, almost safe from the swashes of the struggling tides, are memories — neither fresh nor stale — that I always come back for.''I envy this kid!!!''I always find myself lazing on the beach of Matabungkay. Sometimes with friends. Other times, just me.\xa0My last visit was almost a year ago, April 2012. There’s just a hole in my heart that only the sand of this place can fill.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Beach''The Crowd''The Trash''The Memories''Taking care of your skin should not stop just because you’re traveling. If anything, you should be extra protective of your skin because you expose yourself to more sun, more dirt, and more elements that may be harmful. The last thing you want is to not enjoy your trip just because you’re sporting a not-so-fashionable look — red, swollen, and sunburnt. Whether you’re planning to hit the beach, gearing up for a backpacking journey, getting ready for a road trip, or prepping for a sightseeing walk around the city, here are some tips that you already know, but we just can’t stress enough.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Stay out of the sun around noon.''2. Take cover. Bring a hat, shawl, or sarong.''3. Load up on sunscreen and moisturizer.''4. Continue your daily skin care routine.''5. Drink lots of water.''We weren’t there for the bees. We were there for the food.''When we stopped at''Bohol Bee Farm''on the way to the resort, we knew that given our very hectic itinerary, we only had enough time for lunch. At the back of our minds, however, we still hoped that we could join a bee tour while waiting for our orders to be served. Unfortunately, the latest tour had already started and the next one won’t start until a couple of hours later. We agreed to just drop the idea and enjoy the rest of what the place has to offer.''Bohol Bee Farm is a privately owned resort and hotel but it is best known for two things — their restaurant and their organic farm. It was my third time in Bohol and I said to myself that I would not let it end without making a stop here for lunch. Perched on a cliff a kilometer from the main highway of Panglao Island, it is not very easy to find; a place that you need a conscious effort to get to. And those who make an effort are rewarded with a fantastic, healthy dining experience. The restaurant is hidden at the very end of the area, concealed by trees and their crawling branches. To get there, we had to walk across a lovely garden that sets the tone and the rustic atmosphere.''When we reached the restaurant, we were greeted by friendly staff, one of whom asked us to pick a table. We chose the one on the edge so we could have a great view of the beach. Unfortunately, the view was blocked by the overgrown trees, which was fine. (Of all things that could block a view, we’re definitely okay with trees.) There’s a staircase that leads to the beach at the base of the cliff but only hotel guests are allowed access to it.''Our table!''The waitress handed us a menu, which gave us a difficult time because we couldn’t pick for they all sounded intriguing. At one point we considered the buffet but since there was 4 of us and 2 children, we figured we could just order what we want ala-carte and let everyone have a taste of each. And that’s what we did.''Right after making orders, we were given a plate of complimentary squash bread with mango and pesto spreads. I’m not a bread person but I fell in love with this bread! It was very tasty, almost sweet, that it actually did not need any spread. But the spreads themselves were really good. The bread was enough for lunch under normal circumstances for they were quite filling.''Complimentary squash loaf bread with mango and pesto spreads. Yep, free.''When the main dishes were served, we weren’t surprised that they came with rice and salad. The kids were shocked, however, that the rice was red and the salad covered with colorful flowers. The kids immediately picked the flowers and asked, “Tito, are we supposed to eat this?” to which I replied, “I have no idea.”''Honey-glazed chicken meal, P220''No matter how hard we tried to brainwash them, we couldn’t get the kids to try the red organic rice because it’s pretty new to them. We didn’t want them to throw tantrums early on the trip so we ordered a plate of plain rice, which was served immediately. But not with another quirky twist. The rice was topped with camote bits to the delight of the kids. This time, the kids included myself.''The honey-glazed chicken and the grilled fish were both good. Not spectacular but good. The chicken was well-cooked and had a sweetness that lingered for a little while after swallowing. The fish was really tasty and smoky. I was expecting the slice of fish to be dry as in other restaurants I had tried in Bohol but this one was a bit tender and juicy. Everyone loved the fish — even the kids. The crab in coconut sauce, however, was a letdown.''Crabs in coconut sauce. I forgot how much but it’s P350-ish.''Grilled fish, P220''The salad was superb with or without flowers, and the honey mustard that came with it was heavenly. The freshness of the leaves and the sweetness of the dressing created this weird, addictive combination that I had never had before. I loved, loved, loved it.''After a hearty meal, we decided to walk around the resort. My niece is vain at an early age and she wanted me to take a photo of her at every picturesque spot she could find at every angle imaginable. But when she got tired, she begged that I buy her a scoop of ice cream from the Buzzz booth by the entrance to the resort.''The Buzzz Ice Cream''is also operated by Bohol Bee Farm. Like the dishes they serve at the restaurant, the flavors of the ice cream were just as curious with malunggay, spicy ginger, and tomato the most offbeat. I tried malunggay, my niece avocado, and my not-so-adventurous nephew mango. Another interesting bit, the cone the ice cream sits on is made from dried cassava.''Ice cream flavors available. Try the weird ones!''Buzzz Ice Cream, P60 per scoop, P80 per double scoop''When it comes to taste, the food at Bohol Bee Farm delivers. But its taste is not what actually makes this place worth trying — it’s the overall dining experience of which taste is just a part. The presentation is intriguing, the food healthy, the atmosphere cozy, and the service topnotch. It would have been much better had we joined a bee tour but even without it, it’s the kind of dining out that kids and adults alike will surely enjoy and remember for a long time.''How to get to Bohol Bee Farm'': If you’re on a packaged tour or staying at a resort on Panglao Island, you can simply ask your driver to stop at Bohol Bee Farm for lunch on the way. If not, you may take a tricycle or habal-habal from the airport but I have not tried either. I asked around and found out that the cost is P200 roundtrip. You can also ask Bohol Bee Farm to pick you up for free at the airport. Contact details below.''Bohol Bee Farm''Ms. Vicky Wallace''Dauis, Panglao Island, Bohol''vickywallace@boholbeefarm.com''+6338.5101822''Opening Hours: 6am-12mn''It’s easy to spot MNL Boutique Hostel. Amidst the grayness of that side of Makati, the hostel’s lower facade is painted fuschia and green, bright, garish and glaring. This front wall, in sync with their theme of fiesta neon colors, is hard to miss. Before it are tables and chairs set on the adjacent pavement, where some guests choose to gather and share conversations about their trips, before and after this stop. One night in January, I was one of those guests.''There’s no way you’re gonna miss this'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Filling a Void''The Common Areas''The Rooms''The Location''Biri Island''is where the gods go to wage war. This is where the San Bernardino Strait combats the mighty Pacific as the latter pushes its tides into the Visayan domain. The elements, who bear witness to the ferocious duel, are caught trapped in the battlefield. The winds sometimes cheer, sometimes howl as they watch from above. The waves, in their desperate attempt to flee, lap up the edges of the shore. And the land, Biri Island, referees the constant clash but not without finding a silver lining, getting a hold of it, and never letting go. As it takes the beating from the seas, who just pound its hard face with one blow after another, it allows the gods’ skilled hands to shape its cliffs. Every punching wave is a stroke of art and every gusty storm is a painful dash of necessary sacrifice — the torture in art, the beauty in chaos. The result, staggering rock formations that intimidate not just with their immensity but, more importantly, their splendor.''The jagged landscape of Biri Island''Located 45 minutes off the northwestern tip of Samar Island, Biri Island\xa0is part of the 18-piece Balicuatro Group of Islands that speck the perilous space between San Bernardino Strait and the Pacific Ocean, and Samar and Luzon. Biri Island had always resided on top of my bucket list. As a geologist-wannabe, places like this are my idea of Eden.\xa0Not much information was available online, but the few pictures I had seen were captivating and encouraging enough to urge me to plan a trip to this remote, almost unheard of town. So when the opportunity finally came, I was more than ready to finally see the battle of the gods in Northern Samar.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get There''Where to Stay''Where to Eat''Sample Weekend Itinerary''Budget Breakdown''“There’s only one jeepney in the whole of Laoang Island,” shared Putot, one of our new friends.''Celerino, nicknamed Putot, seldom spoke. If I’m not mistaken, it was probably the third time that I heard his voice in the two days that he accompanied us as we explored Laoang, Northern Samar. We were at a cottage along Onay Beach with two other locals Rocca and Mark.''“You’re kidding,” I uttered. It was one of the rare times that he said a word yet he chose to say something as''unbelievable''as that.''“I’m not,” Putot said.''“He’s not,” confirmed Mark. Later, we would ask a couple of local government workers to verify. As it turned out, there really was just one jeepney in the whole island.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Motorcycle Town''1. Calomotan Beach''2. Magsaysay Beach''3. University of Eastern Philippines''4. Laoang Church and Almuraya Fortress''5. Onay Beach''The white columns, ruins of probably a perfectly functional structure, were the first to grab my attention. Actually, the second. The first was the big house that stood by the beach like a cold, pale giant that was very imposing and very out-of-place. The house and the ruins stuck out and stood out in a sea of blues as we approached the island. Moving closer, the long white strip of sand was revealed slowly, pulling us out of our Mediterranean dream to tropical reality.''First to be spotted''Our boat was not able to reach the beach for the water was too shallow. We had to wade through the water to reach dry land and we excitedly did like zealous sailors who had never seen sand all their lives.''Pandanon Island lies in between Cebu and Bohol but it is politically part of the latter. It is located east of Mactan, south of Olango Island, and north of mainland Bohol. It is just a bit over an hour away on outrigger boat from Mactan. This close proximity to Cebu makes it very accessible to tourists visiting the Queen City of the South. A day trip to Pandanon is included in many Cebu tour packages.''Our boat (Island Banca Cruises)''Like on many other white islands in the Philippines, swimming and sunbathing are the top activities here. Its main asset really is its stretch of white sand but other than that, it’s hard to find anything else to do. There are cottages for rent (PhP 250 minimum), making it an ideal destination for family and barkada getaways. I heard visitors can also rent jet skis but I also heard the fee was steep. There’s not much to see under the waves as it’s not a big snorkeling destination, either.''But if you’re goal is to just relax, you will surely find the island pleasurable. It was not crowded at the time of our visit and we had the island to ourselves. (Actually, just one end of it because the island is home to 2000 residents.) But we were the only tourists at the time.''Densely populated''Pandanon Island sandbar''My friends and I spotted a long, narrow sandbar that extends to the sea and our spirits came alive! I love sandbars! The entire length of it was still under water but we didn’t care. We spent a good hour just lying, rolling, and making small splashes on the sandbar while playing games! When we decided to rise, we had a little camwhoring session at one of the structures on the beach.''That’s me, feeling model. Haha''My friend Ian and the blues''Oh, there’s a small chapel on Pandanon Island! It’s a cute, little white chapel and it could offer a solution to those trapped in between choosing a beach wedding and a church wedding. You get to have both here!''Pandanon Island''Entrance fee: P150''Cottage rental: P250''Travel time by boat from Mactan, Cebu: 80 minutes''Travel time by boat from Getafe, Bohol: 30 minutes''You can reach Pandanon Island from Bohol or Cebu. If you need help planning your trip, check out my''CEBU TRAVEL GUIDE''and''BOHOL TRAVEL GUIDE''We arrived early for dinner. Too early.''The sun looked like it had no plans of letting the night take over yet when our boat docked at a floating seafood restaurant off the coast of''Olango Island, Cebu''. We were supposed to watch the sunset here and have sinful dinner, but it seemed like plans needed to be changed at that point.''Another restaurant on stilts''We came from''Talima Marine Sanctuary'', where our snorkeling time was cut short for two reasons. First, we were kind of disappointed by the site. We just floated aimlessly there looking for anything interesting to see, but all that greeted us was a carpet of sea grass with very few fishes swimming around. I had heard many great things about Talima but I guess we were just at the wrong spot. Second, one of us almost drowned, and we just decided to climb back up to the boat and move on to our next stop.''So here we were, too early for dinner. But hey, we were excited to start regardless.''Cao-oy''(or Cao-uy) is an area off the coast of Olango Island that is dotted with several floating restaurants. Actually, the more correct name would be “stilted restaurants,” for they were not really floating but resting on wooden stilts. These restaurants have been a common stop for tourists who are on an island-hopping trip around Mactan and nearby islands. The place was spacious and incredibly relaxing. Just admiring the view of the island and the Olango Channel was enough to kill the time as we were waiting for our food to be served.''These stilted restaurants offer fresh seafood. The system is simple. You choose the main ingredient from an array of fresh catches, often contained in basins. These include prawns, crabs, lobsters, fishes, and a whole lot of shellfishes. Then, you tell the cook how you want them prepared — grilled, fried, steamed, boiled, whatever. You can even make requests and they will do it your way. Well, that’s about it. You may now relax and wait for the dishes to be served. But hey, it’s pricier than your regular restaurants.''Prawns and squid before meeting the fire''Seashells seashells by the scissors''When everything was served, we dug in as if it was our first time to try seafood. We may be too early for dinner but we’re never too full for a tempting feast. A feast is a feast, no matter how average the cooking is. And yes, the food was average. It was fresh, yes, but there really wasn’t anything special about it all.''Let the early dinner commence!''Olango Island as a whole is more famous as a bird sanctuary. It was a shame that I wasn’t able to go birdwatching while I was there. This is one of the downsides of being on a pre-arranged packaged tour: You can’t really go far from the provided itinerary. The group headed back to the hotel even before the sun got swallowed by the sea.''Had it been my way, I would’ve stayed for the birds. Heck, I would’ve stayed for the sunset.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''The Drenched Humor of BANTAYAN ISLAND, CEBU''Snapshot: Bantayan Blues – Cebu, Philippines''Tabo-an Market: Where to Buy Danggit in Cebu City, Philippines''Lusong Shipwreck and Coral Garden: Shallow Reverie in Coron, Palawan, Philippines''Be Resorts Mactan: Where to Stay in Cebu (Splurge Option)''Talisay Beach: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''The major crowd drawers in Batangas are its inviting beaches, breathtaking dive sites, and challenging mountains. But one thing that isn’t always highlighted enough is its cuisine. Batangas offers a wide, wide selection of gastronomic delights. The province is coastal so expect a lot of seafood, but it also harbors a big lake and rivers, so freshwater fishes are also available. Vast lands have been converted into farms, producing some of the best meats in the country. Batangas beef is known for its high quality. Many roadside stores sell buffalo and goat meat.''These rich resources have made Batangueno cuisine so diverse that it is difficult to describe it in just one word. Like in many provinces in Southern Tagalog, Batangas dishes usually involve soup, be it rich and thick like lomi or thin and brothy like bulalo. But we also have an affair with deep-fried, grilled, and smoked. One thing that binds them all together is that they are simple, straightforward, and incredibly easy to prepare.''If you’re visiting the Land of the Valiant soon, here are some local favorites that you just have to try!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Bulalo''2. Batangas Lomi''3. Batangas Goto''4. Taghilaw''5. Adobo sa Dilaw''6. Deep-Fried Tawilis''7. Tinapa''8. Sinaing na Tulingan''9. Tapang Taal and Longganisang Taal''10. Kalderetang Kambing''The scene had all the elements of a mainstream horror film — poor visibility, a creepy shed right at the sharp curve, and an empty uphill road leading to an old park. \xa0The fog had completely enveloped the site, and the dark clouds looming overhead were threatening to drench the already worried mortals below. But more than the bleak atmosphere and the rustic location, it was the near deplorable condition of the park that was giving me the chills.''A picturesque shed at the sharp curve to the “palace”''It was November 2011 and my friend Celine and I were just about to end our epic weekend getaway in Batangas. Coming from Nasugbu, we thought of spending the last afternoon in Tagaytay City, Cavite since it was just on the way. After a quick lunch, we agreed to check the popular tourist spots in the city. One of them —''People’s Park in the Sky''.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Palace in the Sky''People’s Park in the Sky Today''We never intended to tour around Malaysia that month. Our original destination was''Siem Reap'',''Cambodia''but an unfortunate event forced us to drop the idea. Our connecting flights were in Kuala Lumpur so we figured,''Why not explore Malaysia instead?''So just a couple of days before the trip, we found ourselves rummaging through the Internet for travel ideas. After a night-long research, we listed down the destinations we wished to visit and most of them are located near the West Coast. Our initial list had five cities but, wait, that was too many stops for a 6-day trip!\xa0Since I had been to Malacca and Kuala Lumpur in separate occasions, they got the cut. We settled for three destinations — Langkawi, Penang, and Cameron Highlands.''That’s me, squeezing my way across the tea plantation in Cameron Highlands.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Booking Flights''Finding Accommodations''Building Itinerary''Day 1: Clark to Kuala Lumpur to Langkawi''Day 2: Langkawi Island Tour''Day 3: Langkawi to Penang''Day 4-5: Cameron Highlands''Day 6: Back to Kuala Lumpur''Budget Breakdown''I still remember how I struggled to find another imaginary bowl to contain my overflowing excitement moments before my very first cable car ride in Hong Kong. Like all first times, the thrill was just immeasurable. I remember that very first step into a gondola; I almost jumped from the platform into it. I remember that moment when we reached the very peak of the line; I was scared and happy at the same time, and not many things can make me feel that weird mixture of emotions. It was that milestone in Hong Kong that got me too excited for my second gondola ride in Langkawi.''The landscapes were playing hide-and-seek with us that afternoon. It had been drizzling. The clouds were scattered over the lush and heavily contoured landscapes of Langkawi Island. Still, we hopped into one of the gondolas and hoped for the best.''Panorama Langkawi Cable Car''is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the island. Families and couples flocked the ticket counter located at the base of Mt. Cincang (Gunung Machinchang) expecting to be impressed by the views that were waiting for them. Expectations are high, of course, just like the destination itself. The cable car system, branded SkyCab, spans 2.2 km, a distance long enough for the experience to be rich and brimming with wondrous sights, especially over the dense tropical rainforest at the base and on the slopes of the second highest peak in Langkawi. Speaking of heights, the steepest gradient is 42 degrees, a little too scary for someone who had tried riding a gondola lift only once before.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. The Waterfalls''2. The Steep Climb''3. The Middle Station''4. The Top Station''5. SkyBridge''6. The Oriental Village''The municipality of Alburquerque, more commonly referred to as Albur, is known for two things: Prony, the largest python in captivity, and Sta. Monica Church, the town’s center of Catholic faith. Albur Church is an imposing structure that is hard to miss if you’re not sleeping on the way to Loboc from Baclayon. It was not part of our itinerary but when I spotted it, I asked our driver to stop for a minute because I just totally fell in love with its facade. (Love at first sight, yes?)''Albur Church''Facade of Albur Church''Facade of Albur Church''Palm trees that flank the walkway usher visitors to the main entrance of the church. While it’s not as old as those in Dauis and Baclayon, it is still over 120 years old. Built in 1885, the current building replaced the old church which was made of wood. What sets this apart from the other churches in Bohol is the arcade — a footbridge — that connects the main building to the convento. Inside, its ceiling is adorned by paintings, created by Ray Francia in the 1930s.''How to get to Albur Church:''From Tagbilaran airport, take a tricycle to the terminal and board a jeepney to Albur. Need more information about traveling to Bohol? Give my''BOHOL TRAVEL GUIDE''a look.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Loboc River Cruise, Bohol: Peculiar Bridge and Lunch Binge''Baclayon Church, Bohol: Before the Quake''7 CHURCHES IN BATANGAS: A Visita Iglesia Itinerary''Basilica of the Immaculate Conception: Batangas City, Philippines''Philippine Tarsier Conservation Area in Loboc, Bohol''Bohol Before 2013 Earthquake: Baclayon, Dauis, and Loboc Churches''Legend has it that some time during the Spanish era, pirates invaded the coastal town of Dauis, Bohol. The townsfolk locked themselves up in the church but it wasn’t long until they ran out of food and water. To their surprise, a well miraculously appeared near the altar of the church, which supplied them with water. The church was just yards from the shore but the water from the well was fresh, something the people could not explain. To this day, the well can be seen inside the church and still provides water, which many believe to have healing properties.''Stories of miracles like this make old churches in the Philippines more curious, more interesting, more charming. And it doesn’t even matter whether you believe them or not. Many locals believe them to be true and these “truths” add character and another dimension to the already fascinating history of these religious sites, which most often were the center of the town during the Spanish period.''Dauis Church''Bohol is one of the oldest provinces in the Philippines. And you know what that means — old churches. There are around 30 major Catholic churches throughout the island province and many of them are centuries-old. Unfortunately, I didn’t have time to see all them as it wasn’t really the goal of this trip. I was touring my family around to see the most popular tourist sites in the island, mostly in the southeastern part, and my siblings wanted to see the churches, too. From Panglao Island to Chocolate Hills alone, we spotted and stopped at four remarkable churches that caught our attention.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Dauis Church (Our Lady of Assumption Church)''Baclayon Church (Church of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception)''Loboc Church (The Church of San Pedro)''The Kenneth Cobonpue furniture pieces easily hypnotized some of my friends who had been fans of the designer. “This is the first time I’ll be sitting on a Cobonpue chair!” exclaimed one of my colleagues right before he graced the piece with the warmth of his\xa0derrière. Our first several minutes in the hotel turned into a photo op session with inanimate objects. Such is life these days.''Some interior pieces at night''Facade of Be Resorts Mactan''My friend Andre on a Cobonpue chair''As we waited for the staff to make up the room, we went out to the beachfront. The hotel balcony provided a breathtaking view of the white beach and the outdoor pool. As much as we wanted to dip right then, we figured we should probably check in first.''The Room.''The room assigned to us was spacious, bright, and had a very youthful vibe; thanks to its white walls and sheets, and pastel-colored accents. Round mirrors adorned the wall by the headboard, a plus for a very vain person like me. (Bakit ba?)''Our pastel room''The beds were big and very comfortable although the bed sheets were not as soft as I was expecting. (I’m not really particular with thread count of sheets.)\xa0Our room had a great view of the beach and the neighboring resort. We spent most of the time just looking out the window if we weren’t talking about our plans for the day. There were also a safe inside the closet, a large TV, a bedside lamp, and a table. And oh, the bathroom was roomy and was equipped with a hair dryer and hot/cold shower.''View from our room window''Toilet and bath''Safe for valuables''The Food.''I never really ordered anything else other than the free breakfast that was included in the booking. The buffet offered a wide variety of breakfast favorites from Pinoy (danggit, tapa) to American (bacon, hotdogs) to Chinese (congee). While there was nothing spectacular about it, I really enjoyed it because I’m a glutton and I love anything buffet.''The Amenities.''Right after checking in, the first thing we did was dip in the outdoor infinity pool right beside the restaurant and lobby. If you’re the type who doesn’t enjoy swimming in the sea for whatever reason but loves the beach, you might find their pool a delight as it creates the illusion that you’re out in the sea when in fact you’re within the “safe” bounds of an artificial ocean. Many times while I was in the pool, I found myself obsessively staring at the sea which was just yards away.''Right by the pool is their activity center where children and children-at-heart alike can enjoy a game of foosball or Nintendo Wii. There are also plenty of lounging areas where you can just laze the day away.''Pool overlooking the beach''Lazing at the beach''The Location.''One thing that is going for this hotel is its proximity to the airport since it is also in Mactan. But being in Mactan Island is a double-edged sword. On the one hand, it is set smack in a gorgeous landscape far from the crazy jolt of the city. On the other, it is far away from the city center, where many historical sites and major tourist-drawers are located. If you’re after a relaxing time on the beach and you do not wish to go to the more distant countryside, Be Resorts might be suitable to your needs. You will need to take a cab if you wish to get to the city or back in the middle of the night, though.''The Service''. No complaints whatsoever. The staff were helpful and friendly. When I wanted to charge my phone during breakfast, one of them stopped what he was doing to find me an available socket. Our room was always clean and made up.''My friends April and Chichi by the pool''It doesn’t happen all the time that the best part of my trip was the hotel where I stayed. My last time in Cebu was pretty uneventful. I’ve always liked Cebu but this trip was a company outing and the places we were set to visit were those I had been to twice before. While it was nice to see Cebu’s top tourist spots again, I guess I can’t be blamed for wanting to finally go out of the city and head for the islands of Bantayan or Malapascua, which did not happen. Thankfully, our hotel was quite the charmer.''Be Resorts Mactan is lovely in all sense of the word. I usually do not mind the accommodations because I’m always more concerned about the tour. As long as I have a comfortable bed to sleep in and a clean room with good ventilation, I’m happy. Nonetheless, it’s great to be reminded how topnotch service and facilities can turn a travel experience around sometimes.''BE Resorts Mactan''Punta Engano Road, Mactan Island, Cebu''Email: info@beresorts.com''Contact No.: +63 32 236 8888''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Marabut Extreme Experience: Marabut Marine Park Beach Resort, Samar''Punta Bulata Resort: Where to Stay in Cauayan, Negros Occidental (Splurge Option)''Caluwayan Palm Island Beach Resort: Where to Stay in Marabut, Samar''History of the Santo Nino Church in Cebu City, Philippines''Cao-oy, Olango Island: Seafood and Stilts in Cebu, Philippines''Snapshot: Bantayan Blues – Cebu, Philippines''I followed them blindly, for I had no idea what else Boracay could offer other than the beach and the nightlife.''Micaela''and''Doyzkie'', who both had been here before, led the way as we walked under the burning sun.''“Where are we going again?” I asked.''“We’re having some fruit shake,” Mica answered. And without any more questions, I just trailed them even though at the back of my mind, I was wondering why we had to amble almost the entire length of the island just for a cup of fruit shake. This must be a hell of a fruit shake.''When we finally reached the place, I was surprised to be greeted by an unassuming, little store just by the road. “They have another store by the beach,” my companions said. I guess they chose this one to avoid long queues. Jonah’s Fruit Shake is probably the most well-known refreshments store in Boracay and their main store is almost always packed with both local and foreign tourists. If you’re going to sample their offers, be prepared to wait a long time. Whether it’s the freshness of the ingredients or the wide selection of possible fruit combinations, something about it makes patrons keep on coming back.''Beachfront store of Jonah’s Fruit Shake''They handed me the menu and while they instantly gravitated towards the more fruity options, I picked Choco Banana. Most of the items on their menu were combos of two types of fruits, or fruits and milk — mango milk, avocado milk, mango banana, mango lemon, and more. Prices range from PhP 75 to even PhP 160 (strawberry options). But most cost around PhP 90.''Since we needed to be back at the hotel immediately, we decided to have them to go. I was a little bit surprised that they served it in plastic bottles with a little hole on their caps. I was expecting paper cups, to be honest.''Mango Milk Shake and Choco Banana Shake''When I finally had my first taste of it, I knew exactly why it became a hit. The fruit shake I had was rich and tasty. My only concern was that mine was too sweet and I thought it was just because of the chocolate. But when I returned to the store the next morning to have a glass of avocado milk shake, it was as sweet as my previous order. When I talked to some of my friends who had been here before and didn’t like it, it was also the excessive sweetness that kept them from giving it more love.''As for me, I liked both the choco banana shake and avocado milk shake despite its overpowering sugary taste. While it really did not quench my thirst — if anything, I longed for water even more after — it was really refreshing. Again, the only thing that I did not appreciate was the plastic bottle for I kept imagining how many of those they use every day and where they go. The wise thing to do is to have it for''dine in.''Or just bring your own glass or cup or tumbler.''Jonah’s Fruit Shake and Snack Bar''Station 1, Balabag, Boracay Island, Aklan''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''15 Exciting Things to Do in BORACAY, Philippines''Boracay After Dark: A Taste of Island Nightlife''10 Things that Make Boracay Special: Aklan, Philippines''Salt N Pepper Diner: Where to Eat in Sagada, Philippines''BORACAY: Budget Travel Guide''Amihan Home (Bed & Breakfast): Where to Stay in Boracay, Philippines''Dozens of macaque monkeys ushered visitors up the 272-step staircase to the Temple\xa0Cave. Actually, saying that they were “ushering” would be sugarcoating it. Not only did some of them follow visitors around, a few also found themselves on one end of a mini-brawl when they start getting territorial or when they just try to snatch food from unsuspecting tourists.''It was the last day of our week-long trip across the west coast of Peninsular Malaysia and there was no better way to end this journey than a stop at one of the most visited sites in Kuala Lumpur — Batu Caves.\xa0A 4-million year old karst hill, it is a network of caves and chambers. There are three big caves but the largest is the Cathedral Cave or Temple Cave, so called for its high ceiling and a number of Hindu shrines it houses. Located 13 km north of the Malaysian capital, Batu Caves is actually in Gombak, Selangor. It was named after the nearby river Sungai Batu.''While the site had long been known to Chinese settlers in the area, it wasn’t until 1878 that it received worldwide attention when colonial authorities put them on record. In the coming years, the site would be converted into a place of worship for Hinduism.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'All Things Tall and High''The Dark Cave Conservation Site''The Temple Cave''Some Tips''Standing along an amusingly named Love Lane is a pre-war shophouse building that has been converted into a charming hostel — the Old Penang Guesthouse. There were many reasons why we chose to stay here; on top of that list are the stellar reviews I found on the web. But the place was even shinier than its online reputation.''Old Penang Guesthouse is a restored heritage house at the heart of Georgetown, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. While it retains the many almost century old elements, it felt surprisingly modern.''We arrived in the late afternoon and the woman at the reception greeted us with warmth and kindness. She asked us to wait for a moment as they made sure the room was all made up. She then explained the house rules while laeding us to our room on the second floor. We booked a Private Double Room for RM95 via Hostelworld. (That’s RM47.5 each). \xa0The room we were given was super squeaky clean, even the toilet and bath. \xa0The bed was soft enough and very comfortable. It was also very spacious. The floor upstairs was wooden, so everyone was requested to leave their footwear at the base of the stairs. A cutesy lamp was lit in one corner, which added to the already delightful ambiance of the place. The only comment I can think of is that the room was a little too dim. But I guess, that’s what the bedside lamps were for. I guess I’m just not very used to a room that isn’t very bright.''Old Penang Guesthouse''Old Penang Guesthouse''Old Penang Guesthouse stands beside Red Inn, another budget hostel. There are small tables set up in front of these two hostels, allowing their guests to connect. The location is also pretty excellent. Many of the city’s major points of interest are within walking distance. It also seems like everyone knows where it is as most taxi drivers we hired did not ask questions when we told them where we would be going. The best part is that just walking around the area is quite an experience on its own. It actually felt like we lived in the Old Penang during our stay there.''Facade of Old Penang Guesthouse and Red Inn''Love Lane, Georgetown''On our second day, we had free breakfast with other guests at the hostel. It was just a simple breakfast, nothing fancy. Just bread and a few filling options, and coffee. No complaints, though. I actually liked it.''Other than the time we checked in, there were no more opportunities for us to connect with their staff because everything was pretty great, to be honest. Every time I asked them for directions or any assistance, they were always eager to help.''Without a doubt, it is one of the best accommodations I have tried anywhere. It has actually become a benchmark for me, raising the bar too high. Every time I would book a hostel or a guesthouse, I was hoping the experience would be as good as, if not better than, that one night I stayed at Old Penang Guesthouse.''There was a bonfire in the far end of the Jungle Bar, where guests were gathered around. Selina, a British lady I met on the road, pulled a chair, invited me to sit beside her, and introduced me to the rest of the group. The bonfire was providing the warmth on that chilly evening, but a different fire sparked within me as our conversations went on. For the first time ever, I was able to break out of my bashful bubble and make friends with other travelers on my own.''That alone sealed''Kang Travelers Lodge''‘s position on my Most Memorable Hostels list. Before this, I had never traveled alone and never made an effort to befriend other travelers. But the hostel fostered an atmosphere that facilitated creations of new bonds between guests. That bonfire was just one of the many things that made it possible. The bar that cradled it was another. And there were many others.''Location.''Also known as Daniel’s Lodge, Kang Travelers Lodge sits hidden on the quieter side of Tanah Rata Town Center. While most hotels and hostels are located just along the main road, Kang is a five-minute walk away from it. This ideal location adds to the charm of the hostel. It looks isolated, but it isn’t. It’s “far” enough to give guests some peace and quiet but close enough to make all the other establishments easily accessible from here. By the mouth of the alley leading to the hotel are a series of restaurants and a convenience store. The bus terminal is also just around the corner.''Not to be confused with''Kang Travelers''Hotel'', which is located along Jalan Besar, the main road of Tanah Rata. (Same owner, though.)''Cost.''We paid USD 11 per bed. And at that rate, we were very luxurious compared to the other guests. We booked a Private Double Room with en suite bathroom for USD 22 per night. Rates might have changed since then, but I’m pretty sure it’s still affordable.''Room.''The room assigned to us has 1 single bed and a double deck, which makes the room good for 3 people. (But we only paid for 2.) The size of the room was just right; it wasn’t spacious but it did not feel cramped either. The bathroom was bigger than I expected. The only comment that I can think of is that in my room there wasn’t a safe or locker that I can put my valuables in. They say there’s a luggage area but I never got to use it. Nevertheless, the room was clean and the beds comfortable.''Common areas.''A restaurant fronts the hotel, but I never saw anyone order anything other than drinks. To many guests, it was a great place to read books, work on their laptops, smoke, or meet other guests. A whiteboard, hanging by the entrance, caught my attention. It had F*CK LONELY PLANET written in bold letters on it. I don’t know the backstory but it seemed to me that it wasn’t getting stellar reviews at the travel site. Positive testimonials written by actual guests supported the angry declaration. I, too, found the lodge very delightful. I have no complaints.''The common areas at Kang Lodge''The Jungle Bar''.\xa0Just beside the hostel is the Jungle Bar, where guests can chill and have a drink or two at night. They offer cheap beers (although still expensive in Pinoy standards) and another opportunity for travelers to make friends. I was reading a Haruki Murakami book when Selina, a British traveler I met in Langkawi, “dragged” me to the bar. “Stop being so shy,” she ordered. “Come on, I’ll introduce you to everyone.” Three bottles of beer later, I was a non-stop talker! I was sharing stories with the others.''Service.''The staff, especially those assigned at the reception, were friendly. They were easy to talk to and were very generous with tips and other information. One of them was even concerned about me not talking to anyone else but my companion. She was encouraging me to make friends with other guests after telling her that I had always been very shy. It was also funny how every time I would drop by the reception since then, she would ask me if I had befriended anyone yet. For the first two days, the answer was always negative.''A small figure in front of the lodge''On my last morning in Cameron Highlands, she asked me yet again as I was checking out.''“Yes,” I replied. “Finally.”''“Don’t worry. It’s the start,” she assured me. “As you go along, you’ll be more and more comfortable. You’ll meet more friends on the road.”''And she was right.''Kang Travellers Lodge''No.9, Lorong Perdah, 39000 Tanah Rata, Cameron Highlands, Pahang, Malaysia''Email: danielslodge@hotmail.com''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Malaysia: 10 Places to Visit on a Cameron Highlands Day Tour''Rosette Cafe: Where to Eat in Cameron Highlands, Malaysia''Rose Center: The Hunt for the Blue Bud in Cameron Highlands, Malaysia''The Mossy Forest of Gunung Brinchang: Cameron Highlands, Malaysia''BOH Tea Plantation: My Cup of Tea in Cameron Highlands, Malaysia''Peninsular Malaysia: Sample 1-Week Itinerary''If the winter blues have got you feeling a little bit down, you might be dreaming of the trips you could take in the upcoming year. There’s only one thing standing in your way: your finances. With a bit of effort, you can make your travel plans a reality by following these simple money-making tips.''Travel money'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Sell it back.''2. Get paid for your opinion or perform a microgig.''3. Become a secret shopper.''4. Get a part-time gig.''5. Save on cost of living.''“You’re the first Filipinos to check in at this resort this year,” the manager told us after checking out. It was our second and last day in Langkawi. We spent the previous night at Tropical Resort in Pantai Tengah.''It was a shame to leave this early. I loved the island and I wished I could stay longer but we needed to get moving to Penang. The manager and staff were just starting to warm up to us. Just the day before, we arrived at Tropical Resort after a full-day tour of the island and everyone seemed to be so busy. The manager was the only one at the reception, taking calls, welcoming guests, and doing a quick tour of the resort. Unlike most hotel-owners I had met in Malaysia, he was not really friendly at first; very straight forward with no effort to connect with us. But I guess he was just swamped that afternoon.''That evening, he was a different man. He initiated conversations, showed interest in where we would be going next, and shared tips on how we could make use of our very cramped time backpacking along the West Coast of Peninsular Malaysia.''Tropical Resort seems to always cut to the chase. One look at their website and you’ll be impressed and amused by their hatred towards highfalutin words. On their homepage, they’re declaring war against nonsense: We are a WYSIWYG establishment, in other words, what you see is what you get. We also do not believe in abusing adjectives and adverbs to help sell our rooms. We are what we are… We are clean, quiet and real value for money. So, if you’re looking for a budget accommodation in Langkawi, without the hassle and hustle… your best option is Tropical Resort Langkawi.''And if you’re planning to book a room here, then that should serve as a sneak peek into your future experience with them. Just like their vocabulary choices, they only offer the basic accommodation needs of a regular traveler — spacious rooms, clean bathrooms with hot and cold shower, a small library, a wi-fi connection (albeit in limited areas only), and an excellent location. No more, no less. If you want a swimming pool or a highly equipped gym or a fancy restaurant as part of the amenities, then this is not for you. But this is one of the cheapest we found in Langkawi (USD36.67 per night for a twin room) so it was more like a case of “you get what you pay for.”''Our twin bedroom''Bathroom''Tropical Resort is tucked in a quiet corner of Pantai Tengah, a stark contrast to the crowded and almost psychedelic Pantai Cenang, which can be reached on foot in a few minutes. Pantai Cenang is where most hotels, restaurants, and attractions are located but a walk was always a welcome treat for me, not a chore. Honestly, I believe it is the location that I liked best about this resort.''After a long evening walking along Pantai Cenang, we came back to the resort late in the evening and it was so dark. That’s probably the one thing that I did not like so much about the place. It was so dark at night I was starting to get scared. Note, though, that it was dark within the resort and not on the way there. And oh, there were mosquitoes, which they take care of by lighting several insect repellant coils every night.''We only stayed one night at Tropical Resort Langkawi and to put it succinctly, it was a pleasant. As they promised on their website, the it was clean, quiet, and affordable. Maybe the resort doesn’t need flowery words to describe itself. When it comes to value for money, their guests will gladly provide the positive adjectives for them.''Tropical Resort Langkawi''Pantai Tengah, 07000 Langkawi, Kedah, Malaysia''+(6)+(04)+9554075''rooms@tropicalresortlangkawi.com''www.tropicalresortlangkawi.com''Office Hours : 10:00 a.m. – 10:00 p.m.''How to get to Tropical Resort Langkawi:''From KL Sentral in Kuala Lumpur, ride the overnight intercity train to Arau Station, take a taxi to Kuala Perlis, and then board a ferry to Kuah, Langkawi. Take the cab to Tropical Resort in Pantai Tengah.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Peninsular Malaysia: Sample 1-Week Itinerary''LANGKAWI, MALAYSIA: Budget Travel Guide''Kilim Geoforest Park: The Soaring Spirits in Langkawi, Malaysia''7 Things to Do in Langkawi, Malaysia: Overnight Itinerary''Pantai Cenang and the Crime of Passion in Langkawi, Malaysia''Tanjong Rhu Beach: Missing the Blues in Langkawi, Malaysia''The hunger that was tormenting me was starting to burn a hole in my tummy, but I was sure I won’t be having a meal any time soon. My travel buddy and I stared at the menu for more than five minutes, deciding on what to have for dinner. We arrived at the restaurant to try their steamboat feast, but the Western dishes on the menu were making the task difficult.''“Not ready?” asked the waitress whose impatience leaked despite a very polite facade.''“Not yet,” I answered. “Give us five more minutes.” And with that, the waitress rushed to the next table. She’s the only server on duty at the time.''Facade of Rosette Cafe''After a while, she returned and stood by the table as she waited. We still could not pick.''“Still not ready?” she said.''I looked at my travel buddy and asked, “Have you made up your mind? Are we going to try their steamboat tonight?”''“I don’t know,” my buddy replied. “Sige, wag na lang.”''“Ay sus, Tagalog!” the waitress interrupted and flashed a big smile. “Pinoy pala kayo!”''“Opo, ate,” I responded. “Di kami makapili. Ano po bang pinaka-okay?”''She gave us a rundown of their bestsellers, narrowing down our options, and we had made our choice in a few seconds. Her name is Irene, and she’s one of the only 11 OFWs in Cameron Highlands.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Much ado about nothing''A Western Night''The Steamboat Hotpot''A more updated version of this article can be found here:''Siem Reap Travel Guide''It is not a walk in the park. While for some people, setting foot on the grounds of''Angkor Wat''is scratching off the top items on my bucket list, exploring the site is anything but dreamy. Angkor Wat can be overwhelming. It is huge, even bigger than you probably imagine. And it is JUST ONE of the many structures at the''Angkor Archaeological Park''. There are several other temples peppering the jungles of this part of Cambodia, and — trust me — you will want to visit most of them.''If anything, it can suck out all the energy in you and make the experience less enjoyable if you come unprepared. Thus, here are some tips to help you make your trip hassle-free.''Angkor Wat''1. Tuktuk is the most popular means of''transportation within Angkor''and for a reason.''It is cheap and comfortable. The usual cost is USD12 but if you’re a group of 3 or bigger, you can save a lot more. If you have made friends at your hotel who will also be touring around Angkor, you can form a group with them. If you’re alone and you have the stamina, biking is a great option (although very tiring). Bike rental shops usually charge USD1 per day.''2. Don’t lose your tuktuk driver.''There are so many tuktuks swarming in front of major structures that it can be difficult to find the one you hired. It’s a lot harder when it gets darker around sunset. Before leaving the vehicle, you and your driver should agree on where you should find them or ask where he will be parking.''3. Use a good pair of shoes.''Your shoes should have a good grip because the ground can be uneven and, when raining, slippery. Also, pick the most comfortable pair. Rubber shoes for hiking or running are ideal because you will be walking the entire day.''4. Don’t buy from kids selling souvenirs''. At Angkor Wat alone, you’ll find many children selling postcards. I personally think they should not be working and buying from them will just allow them to stay that way. There are many other ways of helping.''5. Bring a hat or an umbrella.''The sun and the rain can be such a damper sometimes.''6. Bring a bottle of water.''Or two. You’ll probably finish both bottles after Angkor Wat alone.''7. Read up on Angkor and Khmer history in general before your trip.''This will allow you to appreciate the temples and its many features better. This is especially true if you don’t have a guide.''The South Gate of Angkor Thom''8. Be wary of “guides” offering to tour you around the temple.''As in many other major tourist destinations, there are many scams in Siem Reap and the last thing you want is to fall victim into one of them. At some temples, there are people who approach tourists and present themselves as guides. Some of them are children. They will tour you around for a short time but they will charge you or ask for a big, big donation after.''9. Buy tickets at 5pm.''Weird tip, huh? It’s because at 5pm, the Ticketing office already sells admission passes''for the next day.''But the best thing about it is that you can already use the pass on the day itself. Although this will give you only a few additional hours, you can use the time to view the sunset (and perhaps view the sunset again the next day but at another temple) or already start exploring some parts of Angkor Wat. And oh, don’t ever lose your pass.''10. Pace yourself.''At first you’ll be like, “Oh! So many temples! I’m gonna see them ALL!” But when you’re actually doing it, the temple fatigue kicks in and you might find yourself not wanting to visit any other temple anymore. The key is to just take your time and not rush. Take a break and “recharge” every time you feel tired. This is also a good reason why you should read up on the temples before going there — it’s not that tiring when the many features of the places you visit actually mean something to you. Not only will it give you more things to look forward to, it also manages your expectations. So, on the way to the next temple and you spotted an eatery and you want to try it, go ahead. Don’t jump from one temple to another like you’re gonna see them ALL in one day because it’s just not gonna happen.''That’s about it! Like I said before,''exploring Angkor''is a mind-blowing experience but it can be a test of stamina as well. It would be best if you come prepared. If you’ve been to Angkor and you have other tips, please post them using the comment form below!''Planning on seeing Angkor Wat for your next trip? You will find more tips and more information that can help you plan your trip in my''SIEM REAP TRAVEL GUIDE''here''.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Angkor Wat, Siem Reap, Cambodia: Amidst the Greatness''Bayon Temple and the Many Faces of Angkor Thom, Siem Reap, Cambodia''Ta Prohm Temple: The Crushing Embrace in Angkor, Siem Reap, Cambodia''Biking Around Siem Reap, Cambodia''Pub Street and Angkor Night Market, Siem Reap, Cambodia''Thommanon and Chau Say Tevoda: The Twin Temples of Angkor, Cambodia''Nowadays, beaches are the most favorite destinations in the Philippines. Travelers rarely visit the highlands for a hiatus anymore. For whatever reason, people have somewhat lost their attraction to the mountains, choosing instead to frolic in the sea for their vacation. This is why in the summer, if you hit the beach (Boracay, Palawan, or Batangas), you should bid goodbye to the concept of personal space. Everybody is there that it’s pretty hard to move. It seems that they have forgotten that the summer capital of the country is Baguio City.''But we haven’t. How could we?''When the rest of the country is unbearably hot, it’s where we go to cool down. Of course, the usual famous spots are added perks; a trip to Baguio will not be complete without visiting the famous Burnham Park, Baguio Cathedral, Camp John Hay, The Mansion, Wright Park, Mines View Park, Botanical Garden, and the Strawberry Farm. And if you haven’t visited recently, you probably wouldn’t know that it is home to the coolest art place yet: the''BenCab Museum''.''Photo by Robx of www.thetravellingdork.com''The BenCab Museum is named after the gallery’s main artist, painter, and printmaker''Benedicto Cabrera''. He’s a National Artist who has shared his works in his museum so we can all marvel at them. If you’re coming from the city it’s going to take about twenty minutes to drive to Asin Road in Tuba, Benguet where the museum is located. The downside: the parking area holds very few cars, so if there’s a sudden influx of tourists it’s going to be hard to find space. This kind of problem makes us long for''www.parking4less.com'', where we can get the luxury of a meet & greet parking and are met by a valet chauffeur who’ll park our car for us so we need not worry. Wishful thinking, I know. But aside from the parking space, there’s nothing else to complain about.''The museum is divided into galleries: the BenCab Gallery, Maestro Gallery, Patio Salvador, Cordillera Gallery, Erotica Gallery, Larawan Hall, Philippine Contemporary Art Galleries, Print Gallery, and Sepia Gallery. There’s an amazing showcase of ancient tribal statues and figures. Some of the tribal things and weapons they used from the past are also on display. In the BenCab Gallery one will realize how great the artist is, and why he is worthy to be one of the country’s National Artists. Even Paul McCartney recognized his talent and bought one of his paintings.''You may have scratched off Baguio on your Go To list during the summer (or any other time for that matter), but with this new museum, you might want to reconsider visiting the place. After your photo-ops at the usual stops, drop by BenCab to experience the rush that comes when appreciating the finest pieces of artwork, and you’ll tell yourself that the long drive to Baguio in order to see this is worth it.''View Larger Map''Disclosure: This is a guest post.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Inside Baguio’s Most Haunted: The Laperal White House''Azalea Hotels and Residences: Where to Stay in Baguio City, Philippines''Cafe by the Ruins: Where to Eat in Baguio City, Philippines''7 Things to Do at Camp John Hay, Baguio City''La Trinidad Strawberry Farm: Heart-shaped Madness in Benguet, Philippines''Ketchup Food Community: Where to Eat in Baguio City, Philippines''After numerous wrong turns, I finally reached the street that harbors the hotel I was staying in. It was past midnight in Siem Reap, and I was trying my hardest not to look crazy drunk as I walked back to the hotel after a night of partying in''Pub Street''. When I finally made it to the reception, a helpful staff member smiled at me, took the key to my room from the pigeonhole, and handed it to me. Great service — it was that one asset of Mandalay Inn that I saw radiate through even when I was severely intoxicated.''Mandalay Inn''is a budget hotel located along Sivatha St., just five minutes away from the Old Market and the Siem Reap River. It is tucked in a city corner where several inns and hostels abound. I booked this hotel upon the strong recommendation of a friend, who was with me on this trip. He had been to Siem Reap more than a couple of times before and each time, he stayed at Mandalay Inn. Never, he said, did he encounter any problems and the staff had grown to know him already.''We arrived in Siem Reap in the early evening and their employees were the first to greet us after a long time trying to find the hotel. That’s probably the only complaint I can think of about the place, it’s not very easy to spot. There was a small red signage by the gate but there was also a tree blocking it.''My original plan was to stay in''Siem Reap''for only three days and head back to Bangkok. We spent all our nights at Mandalay Inn and the experience at this hotel was more than satisfactory. We booked a twin room for USD10, which did not come as a surprise to me since I already had an idea of the price range of the budget hotels in Siem Reap. I was surprised, however, by the size of the room. It was bigger that I was expecting and the bathroom was also much, much more spacious that the picture I painted in my head.''Bedroom and bathroom''A 12-year old boy was the first to greet me upon stepping on the temple grounds. He introduced himself to be a tour guide. Although I politely declined, he insisted on accompanying me as I walked around the ancient structures. I thought he would let me be, but the little boy followed me around. Having been warned by other backpackers about many scams involving children, I explained to the kid that (1) this temple was not part of my itinerary, and I was just taking quick photos of the place; (2) I was in a hurry because it was late, and I was still halfway my tour; and (3) I wouldn’t have the money to pay him. All of my reasons were true, for what it’s worth. Still, he continued trailing me and narrated the history of the place.''To be quite honest, I struggled understanding what he was saying. But that’s not why I did not like this stop very much.''Don’t get me wrong, the site, like all the other structures within Angkor Archaeological Park, was marvelous.\xa0In between the Victory Gate of''Angkor Thom''and''Ta Prohm''lie a pair of overlooked Khmer temples. Separated by a narrow road, these two temples are both small compared to the massive Angkor Wat and Bayon, but they have a charm that nurtures a more tranquil atmosphere.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Thommanon Temple''Chau Say Tevoda''“Are you sure?” asked the waiter, who appeared to refuse to take note of our order. “Four tiger prawns? Four?”''“Yes, that’s right,” I confirmed. “Four.”''“So that’s four tiger prawns, one sea bass, one chicken satay, and fried rice. Correct?” asked the waiter. But before I could say yes, he spoke again. “One serving of chicken satay is a dozen. That’s equal to 12 sticks. Twelve.”''Facade of Orkid Ria Seafood Restaurant in Langkawi''“Yes. Twelve. A dozen is twelve.”''The waiter left us utterly confused. It was as if he did not want us to have what we ordered. That confusion, however, would be killed as soon as all the dishes were served. It was just too much. Way too much. Considering that we were just a party of two, we knew at that moment that we were in for a big, big dining experience.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Orkid Ria Seafood Restaurant''Our Taste of Orkid Ria''There was a delusional part of myself that used to think I knew much about Taiwan. I learned about its history in high school, its foreign policies in college, and its boy bands and asianovelas just before I graduated. But when I was already in Taiwan, I realized that it was not much. Actually, it dawned on me that I knew no zit about this neighbor to the north. Taipei, the capital of Taiwan, offers so many attractions for tourist. I recommend to anyone who is planning a visit to search for deals on''Taipei hotels''ahead of time. But that’s what made my first time in Taiwan so enlightening. I learned a lot. And one of the first places that provided me with an introductory course — Taipei 101. Well, that’s not really why it’s named so, but that’s what this towering structure gave me.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Taipei 101 – Architecture and Other Features''Up to the Observatory!''At the Observatory: A City Tour from the Top''The Damper and other Structural Features''“It was as if they had so much time,” commented Cerbrina, one of our tour guides, as she described the''Carved Olive-stone Boat''while the rest of us were busy having our minds blown by the tiny yet impressively intricate art piece.''“They didn’t have Facebook then,” responded Fitz, a blogger who was also with us on the tour. Everyone chuckled. At that moment, one of the museum’s ushers announced that we could already proceed into the room holding that centuries-old gem.''National Palace Museum, Taipei, Taiwan'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Taipei National Palace Museum''Inside the National Palace Museum''“This is it?” I asked myself in disbelief as I stood on the bank of the stream whose water was flowing across a series of travertine terraces. A crack of disappointment slowly and silently crawled across my chest.''Although I did not say anything out loud, my being underwhelmed must have been so clear that Charlotte, a solitary French traveler whom I met along the way, tapped my shoulder. “I’m sure this is not the main waterfall yet, silly,” she said while pointing at a trail that goes deeper into the park.''And she was right.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Tat Kuang Si: The 3-Tiered Waterfall''Exploring Tat Kuang Si Park''Throughout my stay in the Old Quarters in Hanoi, every day was a battle with the countless scooters speeding across the district like it’s nobody else’s business. They were fast, relentless, reckless, oblivious to the crossing pedestrians. Each chance to cross the street was a leap of faith and a test of courage as I faced the possibility that it could be the last street that I would ever see . But that evening, the battle was even more intense. That moment, my friend Josephine and I walked so briskly we were almost running as we tried to catch the start of the performance at the''Thang Long Water Puppet Theater''.''We weren’t really late. Well, we were. (Denial.) But it was because we were too early for the show. (Excuses…) We arrived at the theater to buy tickets over an hour before the show so we decided to have dinner first. Why we chose a restaurant on the other end of the area was something I don’t have an answer to but we did and enjoyed our dinner so much that we didn’t realize that an hour had already passed. We ended up catching our breaths as we swept through the Old Quarters just to beat the opening time of the show. We didn’t. And so, we were late. Yes, we were. Damn it.''Thang Long Water Puppet Theater in Hanoi''Fortunately, latecomers were still allowed to enter. We missed the first five minutes of the show but our front row seats made up for what we lost. Or, that’s what I want to believe.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Puppetry in Ancient Asia''The Water Puppets of Vietnam''Imagine being imprisoned in a small cell where you could not do anything but stay alive and every now and then, someone would come to you to prick you with a needle so deep and extract bile from your tortured gall bladder. For some bears, they do not have to imagine; they’re living it.''I still remember the pain and pity that I felt when I saw earlier this year a documentary on TV about bear bile farming, a practice of collecting bile from bears in captivity in many parts of Asia. I can recall how angry I felt seeing the constant harvesting of these hormones. Worse, the living conditions that these poor bears have to endure. In many bile farms, these bears are kept in small cages with no space to move in.''I also remember how happy I was at the Tat Kuang Si Park. While I was glad that the place was beautiful beyond compare, what really soaked my heart in happiness was the small bear sanctuary in the middle of it.''The bears were rescued from illegal wildlife trade'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Free the Bears Fund''Tat Kuang Si Bear Rescue Center''We picked up a piece of the salmon in front of us and raised the chopsticks to our drooling mouths. The hotness of the freshly cooked morsels dominated at first but within a few seconds’ linger, the taste took over our palates.''Hannah'', one of my blogger friends, turned to me and I threw the delighted look back at her.''“Best salmon I ever had,” I whispered to her. Take that with a grain of salt because I’m not really a salmon guy and I had tried it only a few times in the past.''“Mine, too,” Hannah replied with a smile. “Best salmon I ever had.” Now that’s something you can trust. I’m pretty sure she had tasted a lot of salmon dishes before. Hannah and I took another bite and excitedly invited''Mica''to try it, too, who also found it extremely delightful. The best part, it cost only NT 100 (around PHP 130). The cut was a little thin but still, I doubt I’d find a 130-peso salmon meal (with rice and soup) in Manila.''Fried salmon and prawns''That salmon was not the only gastronomic delight that made our trip to Shilin Night Market miserable. Yes, miserable. It was just so agonizing to get bombarded by a gazillion mouth-watering dishes while carrying a not-so-empty stomach with very limited capacity. The market is brimming with so much tempting street food, and I wished to try them all. It was difficult picking what to try and what to try first amidst the ocean of people that flooded through the doorway to the food court. The moment I decided to try one eatery, the seats would be occupied almost magically. But that’s part of what makes Shilin Night Market an adventure on its own.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Shilin Night Market: An Overview''Exploring Shilin Night Market''The warm water had completely swallowed the entire sandbar of Pungtud Island when our boat docked. My niece and nephew could not believe their eyes. For the first time ever, they saw a sandbar, a lengthy, white sandbar that extended to the shallow sea from a small island. Immediately, the kids hopped out of the boat, ran to along the sandy runway, and made little splashes along the way.''More commonly known to tourists as Virgin Island, Pungtud Island lies in the middle of a relatively shallow area between Balicasag and Panglao Islands. It is always a crowd favorite because of its C-shaped naked sandbar.''“It looks like a snake!” my nephew exclaimed, referring to the shape of the island.''“Or a tadpole!” shouted my niece. It looks like so many things. A comma. A bent spoon. A hair follicle. A sperm cell. Name it.''Pungtud Island on Google Maps (Satellite view)''Unlike in Balicasag Island, there’s not much to do here other than bathe in the sun. One thing I like doing here, though, is to just sit or lie in the sand with my body half dipped in the shallow water. There’s not much space to swim around either because the island is surrounded by sea grass. It’s alright for snorkeling because there are some fish hiding underneath. But it can underwhelm visitors who just came from Balicasag.''But in the itinerary, I’d like to think of Virgin Island as the “relaxing” part of the tour. You know, where you don’t make much effort to appreciate the sheer beauty of the surroundings. You just lie in the sand, make little splashes in the water, drink fresh buko juice, share stories with family or friends, and just have pure, relaxing, fun time. Other times, we liked pretending to be part of Aang’s entourage and try sand-bending.''Pungtud Island up close''My send-bender friends''Private part of the island''Years before, I used to sit underneath one of the trees in the central part of the island. Today, however, a fence runs around it and a signage marks whose territory it is. That part of the island is private. Oh well, we can always enjoy the sandbar.''How to get to Virgin Island:''From Tagbilaran or Panglao Island, there are many travel agencies and hotels offering sea tours that include a stop here. You might also charter a private boat for P1500-P2500, good for 8-10 persons.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Pandanon Island: A Piece of Bohol, A Trip from Cebu''Balicasag Island, Bohol: Turning the Tides''5 Stunning Beaches in Panglao Island, Bohol''Sandugo Shrine: Blood Compact Monument in Tagbilaran City, Bohol''12 MUST-VISIT BEACHES IN BATANGAS, PHILIPPINES''BOHOL: Budget Travel Guide''It’s been two years since I last stepped on the island of Balicasag in Bohol, and things had changed tremendously. It was one thing that became obvious to me during my last visit. Yes, the dolphins were still there. The tourism was still booming. The beaches remained gorgeous. What actually changed? I put on my snorkeling mask, dipped my face in the water, and found exactly what it was.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Dolphin Watching''Lunch at Balicasag Island''Swimming and Snorkeling''Patience is a funny thing. It is that one trait that for the longest time I had wondered whether or not I possessed. While I have no patience with incompetence and other annoyances, I have no problem waiting. Part of the reason is that I always find a way to spend my time wisely. I use waiting time to read books, write blog posts and poetry, and even build a life plan for the rest of the year. In that sense, I believe I am patient. But then, it had never been tested. Until this bus ride.''There was only one bus that plies the Luang Prabang-Hanoi route per day. It was already my fifth day in Luang Prabang, Laos and it was time for me to move on to Vietnam. While my original plan was to spend a day in the cities of Hue and Vinh each, I realized that the little time I had left (one week before my flight back to Manila) won’t be enough to really experience Hanoi, the Vietnamese capital, and Ha Long Bay. I decided to just go straight to Hanoi. But there was a caveat — the estimated travel time was 24 hours. Yes, my friends, one full day sitting in a bus.''Luang Prabang, Laos''The good news was, my friend Josephine would be going with me. Josephine is a lovely French lady I met in Chiang Mai, whom I coincidentally bumped into again in Luang Prabang seven days later. We decided to take the same bus to Hanoi. It was probably the best decision I made in this entire trip.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Bus From Hell''1. Food and Water''2. Earphones/Headset''3. Books and Gadgets''4. A Neck Pillow''5. Jacket or Scarf''6. Hand Sanitizer''7. Social Skills''8. Patience''Final Destination. It was the first thing that entered my head as soon as I stepped into the Forensic Pathology section of Siriraj Medical Museum. The wall right after the entrance displays images and body parts of victims who died horrible, horrible deaths — from brutal murders to freak accidents. But as one adage goes, it was just the tip of the iceberg. As these pictures and specimens ushered me deeper into the place, I was taken on a ride into a world that reminded me of the genres of movies that I have loved so much — forensic, detective, suspense, and above all, gore. The only difference was, all these happened in real-life. And that’s what makes it more horrifying.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Museum of Death''Inside the Museum of Death''It was probably half past noon, and I had just finished window shopping at''Siam Square''and''Platinum Fashion Mall''. I started walking under the heat of the sun while secretly wishing for some clouds to pass overhead. Some good deity might have heard my wish and sent clouds my way. Problem was, they came with rain. And just like that, it poured.''The funniest thing was: I was in the middle of giant phalluses.''The place is called Chao Mae Tuptim Shrine, simply Tuptim Shrine or more colloquially P*nis Shrine. Situated at the Swissotel Nai Lert Park, it is certainly off-the-beaten-path as there isn’t any other popular attraction nearby.''I took shelter at the nearby basement carpark of Swissotel for over an hour because the rain just won’t cease being a killjoy that time. All of a sudden, another guy arrived. Now I got some company! I could just pass the time sharing a conversation with my fellow “strandee”.''Chao Mae Tuptim Shrine: Myth or History?''Although it sits beside a modern hotel, it has a long history. No one knows about the real beginnings of the phallic offerings at the site but it all points to the belief that a certain tree goddess known as Chao Mae Tuptim resides in a towering Sai tree in the area.''Thailand’s first investor and “Beloved Millionaire” Nai Lert had a spirit house built near the tree. According to the sign by the entrance to the park, at first, people left the usual offerings at the shrine — joss sticks, lotus buds, and jasmine flowers. “Chao Mae Tuptim has received yet another, rather unconventional kind of gift, phallic in shape, both small and large, stylised and highly realistic,” the sign reads. “Over the years they have been brought by the thousands and today fill the area around the shrine. Confronted by the extraordinary display the shrine has automatically been concluded to be dedicated to fertility.”''Chao Mae Tuptim Shrine in Bangkok''Phallus Shrine in Bangkok''Small statues of children around Chao Mae Tuptim Shrine''There are many theories about how the offerings started.''Legend''has it that there was once a woman who had trouble getting pregnant. After exhausting all possible ways of conceiving, she finally went to the shrine to ask for Chao Mae Tuptim’s help. To cut the story short, she gave birth to a healthy baby boy eventually. As a sign of gratitude, she offered a large wooden phallus to the goddess. Others followed suit, thereby creating a tradition.''Fertility? Maybe, maybe not. Phallic objects known as''palad khik''are not really seen as obscene in Thailand. Many men and women wear necklaces or bracelets with a phallic pendant. Some for fertility, others for good luck. Palad khik is also believed to deliver financial prosperity.''My new friend and I have run out of topics but the skies were not yet done with creating a waterworld so we killed more time at the edge of the carpark. We waited.''And waited.''And waited. But the rain just won’t stop. We were stuck with these wooden phalluses the whole time.''Bangkok flood''At around 3pm, frustration got the better of me. I gave up. I climbed to the upper ground floor (which I didn’t know was accessible from the site) and just took a cab all the way back to the BTS Station. In this weather, I would not be able to explore anyway. On my way, I found just how bad the flooding problem is in some parts of Bangkok, reminiscent of a soaked Manila. I was stranded in the cab in the streets of Bangkok for almost an hour. This time, no d*cks around.''How to get here:''Chao Mae Tuptim Shrine is located at 2 Wireless Road, Pathumwan, Bangkok. To get here, take the train and alight at Chitlom Station. Walk down Wireless Road until you see Swissotel. You’ll see a short street to the basement car park. Walk across the parking area and you’ll see the Shrine tucked in a corner of the park.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''6 Popular Attractions in Bangkok: A DIY Boat + Walking Tour''Siriraj Medical Museum: Freaky Forensics and Deathly Displays in Bangkok''Bangkok, Thailand: The Grand Palace and the Temple of the Emerald Buddha''THAI FARM COOKING SCHOOL: Hot and Spicy Lessons in Chiang Mai''In Photos: Thailand Tourism Festival 2016''10 Free or Cheap Things to Do in Bangkok, Thailand''Growing up in Batangas, I am a sucker for lomi. And not just lomi — Batangas lomi. While most of my friends are disgusted by the super thick sauce that devours the egg noodles, I am all for it! I have tried various versions of lomi in many parts of the country but I always come back to the rich recipe that the Banguenos have perfected. If you’ve been to Batangas, you might have already noticed the many “lomi houses” that abound along the main roads, a testament to just how obsessed we are with this dish.\xa0Of course, the taste varies from one restaurant to another but the basic recipe remains the same.''Lomi Special by Lomi King''Lomi King is probably the most popular noodle restaurant in Lipa City. While their specialty has always been pancit lomi, they also serve a wide variety of noodle dishes. On my last Batangas tour with my friends from Manila, we spent one night in Lipa and this was where we had dinner. Don’t be fooled by the prices. Yes, they’re unbelievably cheap (average price of a dish is''P69'') but the serving is humongous! If you’re thinking of making it just a side dish, then better find someone to share it with.''Their lomi, as expected, is phenomenal. Its noodles are so tender and sauce so rich. There were also generous amount of vegetables, squid balls, and pork liver. There are three toppings to choose from — chicken, liempo, and fish fillet. Mine came with liempo chunks, which are cooked separately. In true Batangueno fashion, I made a mixture of calamansi juice, soy sauce, and chili pepper in one saucer and slowly added a teaspoon of it to my lomi every time I would have a spoonful of the dish. Their recipe is really flavorful with just the right combination of salty and the egg taste.''If lomi isn’t your thing, there are other pancits to choose from. My other favorite is mike-bihon because I love how the smoothness of bihon complements the much bigger mike noodles. Like the lomi, their mike bihon guisado is served with a lot of vegetables (carrots, pechay baguio, spring onions) and pre-cooked meat toppings. Interestingly, it also comes with a bowl of sauce that are intended to be added to the dish as you dig in to it.''Miki-bihon guisado with liempo''Bihon Guisado with liempo''Bihon, sotanghon, canton, and palabok are also available at Lomi King!''There is nothing fancy about Lomi King. The place itself looks like your ordinary eatery and their menu does not really complete a full-course meal. But it’s a good way to be introduced or, in my case, reintroduced to how much Batanguenos love their noodles. We love them good and we love them thick!''Lomi King''Ayala Highway, Barangay Sico, Lipa, Batangas''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Bulalo: The Signature Soup of Batangas, Philippines''Cafe at the Ranch: Where to Eat in Taal, Batangas''10 Distinct Batangueno Dishes You Must Try''Casa Rap: The Perks of Slow Cooking in Batangas, Philippines''KAINAN SA DALAMPASIGAN: Where to Eat in Nasugbu, Batangas''Cafe Milflores: Where to Eat in Batangas City, Philippines''Siem Reap is not exactly a food destination. While neighbors Thailand and Vietnam have already gained worldwide popularity for their delectable cuisines,\xa0Cambodia is not as well-known for its food as it is for its temples and historical sites. Well, at least here in the Philippines. Thus, I did not have much expectations of my tastebuds bathing in utmost delight during my stay in Siem Reap. Still, this Cambodian city did not disappoint. Many dishes that I tried were cooked simply, prepared fast, and cost cheap!\xa0For \xa0someone who isn’t really an adventurous eater anyway and whose budget is very limited, sometimes they are enough.''Actually, during my stay, I found a new appreciation for Khmer cooking. Its simplicity is its greatest strength. Other Southeast Asian cuisines rely heavily on spices and herbs but Khmer cuisine uses them in moderation, not as vital ingredients but as mere flavor-enhancers that they can do without. For example, chili pepper isn’t as popular here unlike in nearby Thailand and Laos. I’m not a big fan of spicy food so I really had a good time dining in Siem Reap.''A restaurant at the Old Market in Siem Reap''Amok Shrimp. Shrimps in a coconut-based sauce, wrapped in banana leaf and steamed. I wanted to try a freshwater fish but it was not available at the time. I had to settle for shrimps which was fine.''The sun was scorching the pavements of Siem Reap, but I was more than ready to flaunt my newly acquired biking skills. After spending the entire morning learning how to bike for the first time (since I was a kid), I roamed around the city in two wheels, looking for anything of interest. And''Wat Preah Prom Rath''was certainly interesting. I breezed through the gate straight to the bike parking area, where a group of young locals were quietly having a conversation. After a quick smile and a nod at them, I walked around the site.''Lying by the river, Preah Prom Rath Pagoda is adjacent to a well-embellished bridge. It was actually the bridge that caught my attention first, but my eyes wandered around the nearby places and spotted a highly ornate gate, featuring carvings of Buddha and his followers. The temple grounds are huge, hosting several buildings including the main hall (Preah Vihear building), a university building, and decorated towers scattered throughout the site.\xa0It is one of the many spiritual centers in the city proper. Some of the Buddhist monks I had encountered were friendly. While we didn’t exchange a word, they greeted me with a smile every time. It’s always nice to feel welcome at a sacred place like this.''Preah Promreath Pagoda''The temple grounds of Wat Preah Prom Rath''The main entry gate to the temple and the many towers in the area''Monks at the temple grounds''The bas relief on the main gate''More towers beside the temple''One of the ornate towers at the site''A bas relief image on one of the pagodas''A fly. Looking pretty on a pretty leaf. 😛''A small statue of an old couple on one of the towers. Cute.''A boat replica in front of the temple''While the many colorful towers that surround the main temple were really attractive, the most curious structure outside was the replica of a boat with a monk on it, holding a pot. I thought it was not of any significance until I stepped into the temple where a brief history of the place was written on a board.''In 1900 BE or in 1500 AD, a colossal statue of reclining Buddha was built and placed inside the main temple of Wat Preah Prohm Rath. What caused our then Buddhists to build the statue was that there was a story that in the year 1500 AD, there was a Buddhist monk who always traveled by boat to ask for food at Long Vek, the ancient capital of Cambodia, which is situated near the capital city of Phnom Penh. It is a long way from here to the ancient capital. But whenever he returned to this place from Long Vek, the rice in his pot was still fresh and so people nicknamed him''Preah Ang Chong Han Hoy'', which means “monk with freshly cooked rice in his pot.”''One day, while he was traveling in his boat, some sharks attacked the boat and the boat broke into two pieces. Instead of sinking into the lake, one piece of the boat floated to Wat Boribo in Kompong Chnang Province’s Boribo district. The Buddhists there built a standing statue. The other piece, the prow part, brought him back here safely. It was going with great speed that the water could not flow into it. Because of this wonderful event, our Buddhists decided to build a statue of reclining Buddha made of the wooden piece of the boat which has been kept in the Preah Vihear building. It has been subsiding deeper and deeper because the ground is growing thicker. Besides, the statue has been kept in the Preah Vihear building for over half a millennium.''I wanted to see the reclining Buddha inside but it was closed at the time. The main hall was surrounded by a gallery of paintings of Buddha and some monks. I am just not sure what they are depicting because the writings and captions were not in English.''Gallery outside the main hall''As I was looking at the paintings, two Cambodian men approached me and introduced themselves. They were overly friendly that I thought they were up to no good. After all, I had seen scammers befriend and then trick tourists in Bangkok and I was really cautious. But they appeared really genuine so I eventually let my guard down and shared conversations with them. Only one of them was talking because the other could not speak English. The more outspoken one was Pe (not sure if that’s how it’s spelled but it sounds like it).''“I talk to tourists because that’s the only way I can practice English,” he explained. “Not many locals speak good English. I was hoping you were Filipino when I saw you because Filipinos are good English-speakers and I was right.”''Our conversation went from the education system in the Philippines and that in Cambodia to my future travel plans and his life aspirations. He was from the countryside, hours from Siem Reap, but he had been staying in the city to work.''“In the afternoon, when I have no work, I learn English,” he said. “I really want to be good. We don’t have English classes at school so I come here whenever I can. We study there.” He pointed at a small room just next to the bike parking area.''“Well, they’re not doing a lousy job teaching you. Your English is good.”''“What does''lousy''mean?” He threw me a confused look. I told him what it means and how it is used.''“Why is it so important for you to learn English?” I asked.''“I need a good job,” he replied. “The jobs I like require fluency in English. I want my life to get better. If I master English, I will get a good job and a good life.” His face remained bright while expressing this. There was no tinge of sadness in his words and his manner of delivering them. They were brimming with hope.''I wanted to stay longer to talk more but I needed to move on to my next stop so I had to say goodbye. Before I left, he asked me one last question.''“Why did you choose to explore Siem Reap on a bike?”''“I just wanted to try,” I answered. “I just learned this morning.”''“This morning?” The shock in his voice was undeniable.''“Yes.”''“Well, it’s cool that you learned fast. But that explains everything.”''“Explain what?”''He tapped my left shoulder as I was about to ride my bike again. “Be careful. You’re a''lousy''biker.” Our tummies hurt laughing, careful to not make a sound.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Bayon Temple and the Many Faces of Angkor Thom, Siem Reap, Cambodia''Ta Prohm Temple: The Crushing Embrace in Angkor, Siem Reap, Cambodia''Angkor Wat, Siem Reap, Cambodia: Amidst the Greatness''Thommanon and Chau Say Tevoda: The Twin Temples of Angkor, Cambodia''Biking Around Siem Reap, Cambodia''Mandalay Inn: Where to Stay in Siem Reap, Cambodia''When I was planning this Malaysia trip, the only thing that I was sure of was that I wanted to set foot on George Town, Penang. But as I read more about other places in West Malaysia, particularly''Cameron Highlands''and''Langkawi'', the shorter my Penang time got. At the start of the trip, Penang was reduced to a “connecting stop” and my stay was narrowed down to half a day. I would still spend a night in George Town but I would have to leave the next day for another destination. It was a mistake. As soon as we stepped on its soil, it dawned on us that 12 hours won’t be enough to truly experience the city.''Old buildings along Love Lane in George Town, Penang'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'About George Town''My 12 Hours in Penang''Kapitan Keling Mosque''Arulmigu Sri Mahamariamman Temple''Gurney Drive Hawker Center''Love Lane''“Forgive us for talking loudly non-stop,” Kuya Rey apologized for everyone in the middle of a highly lively conversation. “It’s just that it’s not often that we meet fellow Filipinos here in Cameron Highlands. There are only 11 of us here.”''Kuya Rey works as a travel agent in Cameron Highlands in the state of Pahang in Malaysia. The weather was rather gloomy, but the bright energy filled the atmosphere in the town of Tanah Rata. We were fortunate and thankful that in our 3-day stay there, we were able to come across six OFWs (Overseas Filipino Workers) in the region.''With OFWs in Cameron Highlands. They were so nice and helpful.''Tanah Rata Town Center, Cameron Highlands''Tanah Rata literally means “flat ground,” so called for its topographical feature that paved way for settlements to boom in this part of the mountains. It is the biggest town in Cameron Highlands, an extensive hill station spanning\xa0\xa0712 square kilometers. It has emerged as a favorite tourist destination for many who wish to experience a more “countryside” lifestyle and escape the heat of the city. What I liked most about the region is its climate. Average temperatures just play between 24°C (average high) and 14°C (average low). It boasts an active tourism, propelled mostly by its tea plantations, rainforests, and various farms.''The most common activity in Cameron Highlands is the so-called “Leisure Tour” that takes visitors to the tea plantations and mossy forests. You have two options: half day and full day. In the list below, half day tour ends at the strawberry farm. (Note that we booked a whole-day tour of the town and nearby Brinchang with''Cameron Holiday Tours and Adventure,''a tour operator for which Kuya Rey works for.)'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Boh Tea Plantation and Factory''2. Mossy Forest of Gunung Brinchang''3. Taman Rama-Rama Butterfly and Reptile Park''4. Raju Hill Strawberry Farm''5. Rose Center Kea Farm''6. Ee Feng Gu Kea\xa0Bee Farm''7. Mushroom Farm''8. Market Square''9. Sam Poh Buddhist Temple''10. Parit Falls and Jungle Trail''Under the sun, Macau bares its soul in its mosaic-art cobblestone streets flanked with historical Portuguese colonial buildings, calming parks, and long-standing temples. But as soon as the sun starts hiding under the horizon, Macau transforms into a totally different creature — more alive and definitely kicking! At nightfall, the city is ruled by neon lights that hypnotize and draw the crowd towards the vibrant and energetic resort hotels.''Macau''‘s luxury hotels provide not only accommodations but also a wide variety of entertainment forms. From its exhibits and shows, these world-class hotels have become attractions on their own. After all, Macau is home to the biggest hotels in the world, even dwarfing their counterparts in Las Vegas and Atlantic City. They also house boutiques of several high-end brands where you can shop for clothes, jewelry, and accessories.''Wynn Hotel and MGM during the day''Wynn Hotel at night''The best thing about these hotels is that they provide FREE shuttle services from key tourist spots throughout the city. They are easily accessible from the airport or the ferry terminals. You just need to search for the buses to the hotel you wish to visit. Here are four of these hotel resorts that are worth a look!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Venetian''City of Dreams''Wynn Resort Hotel''Grand Lisboa''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''The Venetian''Describing the Venetian Macao without the help of superlatives is difficult because everything about it screams topnotch. Owned by the Las Vegas Sands Corporation, it is a lot larger than its sister in Vegas. Scratch that. It is the largest casino in the world according to''Businessweek''. Spanning an area of around 10 million square foot, it is Asia’s\xa0biggest single hotel building and the world’s sixth largest building.''venetian macao architecture''The Venetian Macau''The Venetian Macau''Although famous for its 3000-room hotel and 3000-machine entertainment gaming area, it is also widely known for its architecture and design, which is modeled after the Italian city of Venice. It even houses a Grand Canal, where guests can enjoy a gondola ride around the area while gondoliers entertain them with a song. You’ll also find more than 600 duty-free shops, 30 restaurants, and a number of theaters. During my visit,''The Human Bodies Exhibition''and the''Titanic Exhibition''were on but I wasn’t able to check them out. Here are some pics I took at The Venetian.''Main lobby of the Venetian''A gondola inside the Venetian Macau''Venetian Food Court''The sky is NOT real. It’s just the ceiling. #Amazing''City of Dreams''Standing opposite the Venetian, City of Dreams is another crowd-drawer at Cotai Strip. Taking the form of a giant podium, it has four towers Crown Towers Hotel, Hard Rock Hotel, and the two towers of Grand Hyatt. Aside from its hotels and shops, it is popular for its many water-themed attractions such as the''Vquarium''(at its main lobby),''the Bubble''(where the''Dragon’s Treasure''show is shown), and the''House of Dancing Water''(the largest water performance show in the world).''City of Dreams Macau''Of these three attractions, I was able to experience only two. The House of Dancing Water was too expensive for me and would ruin our already hectic schedule. The cheapest ticket at the time of my visit was HKD480 (roughly PHP2500).''The Vquarium is open to everyone for free. It looks like a real aquarium at first glance until you see some mermaids appearing and disappearing from time to time. It’s easy to spot this because it is showcased at the hotel lobby. When I was there, it was a struggle to find a good spot because of the number of tourists attempting to take a photo against this stunning background.''The Bubble is a dome-shaped theater specifically designed for the''Dragon’s Treasure''multimedia show. I had no expectations about this show. I saw some YouTube videos of the show before getting here, and I thought it was''just nice''. But seeing it live was phenomenal. It was breathtaking. I was taken into the magical world of the four dragons. The show was crazy good! It did not feel like I was watching it; it was more like I was in it! How the characters just flew by, over, and around the theater was so thrilling and stunning at the same time! Kids and adults alike will absolutely enjoy this! It was my favorite moment of the whole Macau leg of this trip!''Inside the Bubble. Fireworks, a scene from the Dragon’s Treasure show''The World of Dragons!''Jellyfish Invasion!''One of the best parts of the show: a giant octopus devouring the dome!''Wynn Resort Hotel''Wynn Hotel was our very last stop in Macau. We took a long walk from Senado Square and the St. Paul Ruins to get here. It had been a long day of walking, walking and more walking, and if our knees could talk, they would have probably cursed at us incessantly. Sadly for our knees, we were determined to get to our last destination.''We used the underpass from the Grand Lisboa area to reach Wynn. As we emerged from the tunnel, we caught a spectacular view of Macau Tower and the Sai Van Bridge (Ponte de Sai Van), which connects the Macau Peninsula to the island of Taipa.''Macau Tower at the end of Sai Van Bridge''When we reached Wynn Hotel, my cousin noticed a big pool before the main entrance and asked me what it was for. Knowing what it was exactly, I answered, “You’ll see” and smiled. In just a few minutes, the pool transformed into an illuminated fountain and started dancing to the loud music that played in the area. It was fantabulous, to say the least! My cousin and I were left speechless watching the water dance, create shapes, and reflect the colorful lights thrown at it.''Dancing Fountain at Wynn Macau''Flash didn’t work!''The Dancing Fountain starts mesmerizing guests at 7pm and ends at 12midnight in 15-minute intervals. This means it plays every 15 minutes and the cool thing about it is that it does not do the same number twice, at least not within the day! \xa0Inside Wynn Tower is the Tree of Prosperity, which we failed to see that night.''Grand Lisboa''The 58-floor and 261-meter Grand Lisboa is the tallest building in Macau. It houses 430 rooms and suites, and 800 mass gambling tables and 1000 slot machines. The Star of Stanley Ho, “the world’s largest cushion shaped internally flawless D-color diamond,” is on permanent display inside.''Lights! Lights!''Casino Lisboa Macau''Macau is a monster at night. It grabs you and takes you from the ordinary modern, futuristic city to a more vibrant, spirited world as soon as dusk hits. While some may argue that all the neon lights and the megastructures suck out the peaceful atmosphere of Macau, all the flash and bedazzlements have given the city a schizophrenic character, with both faces capturing the two ends of the spectrum. Will you find something to love about Macau? Bet on it.''How to get there'': Whether you’re coming from the airport or the ferry terminal, you’ll find buses /shuttles that can take you to these hotels for free.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''5 Relaxing Parks and Gardens to Visit in MACAU''10 FREE Things to Do in MACAU''Snapshot: Sweet Surrender at Mount Fortress, Macau''A-Ma Temple: Tracing the Roots of Macau''MACAU: The Ruins of St. Paul’s and the Three Fires''HONG KONG and MACAU: Budget Travel Guide''I feared that when I walked through the doorway, I would be taken into another world. To my astonishment, that’s exactly what happened.''I had been to many temples before, but this was something else. Prasat Ta Prohm (Ta Prohm Temple) is one of the dozens of ancient structures scattered throughout Angkor Archaeological Park in Siem Reap Province, Cambodia. While the temple itself is truly stellar, what sets it apart is its losing battle with the surrounding jungle. Trees have started to take over the site again, their monstrous roots creeping around the walls like mutant tentacles giving a deadly embrace.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'History of Ta Prohm''Exploring Ta Prohm''Making my way in between the walls of the stone labyrinth, I could not shake off the feeling that someone was watching me. Who would not feel that? The Bayon Temple is dominated by towers with faces on every side. And they’re not just faces. They’re giant, smiling faces. You know, the same kind of smile that Mona Lisa has — enigmatic, magnetic, bordering on creepy. They make Bayon Temple one-of-a-kind. Its many faces watch over the temple that was at the dead center of the once thriving Angkor Thom.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Angkor Thom''The Gates of Angkor Thom''Prasat Bayon (Bayon Temple)''No other man-made structure has made me feel so small.''As soon as I stepped on the temple grounds, I felt weirdly''belittled''but not in a bad way. Angkor Wat is immense, and I’m not talking about just its size. From the intricacy of the bas reliefs in its galleries to its role in the history and culture of Cambodia, everything about this colossal structure must have required tremendous amount of time, resources, effort, and patience. And standing in the middle of the site, I could not help feeling insignificant compared to the surrounding grandeur made of sandstone.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Angkor Wat''Exploring Angkor Wat: Layout and Architecture''A more updated version of this article can be found here:''Hong Kong Travel Guide''Macau Travel Guide''Maybe it’s just me but one thing I have noticed in my three years of being a travel blogger is that the closer you get to big cities, the pricier accommodations get. Of course there are exceptions; most big cities harbor some “best kept secrets”. Not only are they few, they also get sold out fast especially during peak seasons.\xa0Fortunately, there are aggregator sites that make hotel hunting much less of a chore. Websites like Expedia, Agoda, HostelWorld, and Booking.com compile lists of hotels, hostels, inns, and guesthouses that you can choose from.\xa0But based on personal experience, it’s always a struggle to find affordable rooms in major metropolitan areas like Singapore, Macau, and, of course, Hong Kong.''The vibrant and modern city of Hong Kong is one of the busiest and the most developed in Asia in terms of trade, business, and tourism. A Special Administrative Region of China, Hong Kong consists of the Hong Kong Island, the Kowloon Peninsula, the New Territories, and 200 outlying islands. While these areas are connected impressively by the city’s expansive train and bus networks, it is important to be familiar with its geography. Hong Kong Island is where the Central area, the political and economic center, is located. There are also a number of cheap guesthouses and hostels here and it is home to many tourist attractions including the Victoria Peak.''Kowloon is where you will find most museums, markets, and the Avenue of Stars. The New Territories, north of Kowloon, is dotted with wetland parks and temples. Lantau Island, one of the many outlying islands, takes pride in''Ngong Ping (Giant Buddha and Po Lin Monastery)''and''Hong Kong Disneyland''.''Kowloon and Hong Kong Islands have the most accommodations. If you’re planning on including Macau to your itinerary, they also have a ferry terminal each: the Hong Kong Macau Ferry Terminal (Connaught Road Central,\xa0Sheung Wan area in Hong Kong Island) and Hong Kong China Ferry Terminal (Canton Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon).''I have been to Hong Kong three times in the past two years and have stayed at three different guesthouses. Here are some of my reviews and comments, with information about them.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Tai San Guesthouse''New China Yan Yan Guesthouse''Comfort Hostel HK''“Left or right?” Our cab driver asked us without a bit or urgency in his voice but the traffic lights blinked as if our lives depended on the decision. “If we go left, we can go straight to your hotel,” added the driver. “Right, let’s do an island tour.” My travel buddy and I looked curiously at each other on cue and, without saying a word, agreed that we should go right.''But I’m getting ahead of the story.''Langkawi Eagle Square''Langkawi was not even part of the plan. We intended to fly to Siem Reap and see the Angkor Wat. It was at the time when Cebu Pacific Air had yet to offer direct flights to Cambodia, so my friend and I decided to just take a connecting flight to Kuala Lumpur and then another to Siem Reap, both legs via AirAsia. We were both very excited to experience Cambodia because it had always been on our bucket list. Unfortunately, something unexpected happened, and we decided to drop the whole Angkor idea and take a detour.''So our connecting flight tickets would not go to waste, we agreed to just explore Peninsular Malaysia instead. I had been to Kuala Lumpur and Malacca, so they’re off the table, leaving us with three other destinations: Penang, Cameron Highlands, and Langkawi. Our trip would only last six days but we really wanted to experience all three of them. Since it has always been my habit to visit the farthest first, we had to travel to Langkawi straight from Kuala Lumpur.''Langkawi is an archipelago of 99 islands off the coast of West Malaysia in Andaman Sea. The archipelago takes its name from the main island, Pulau Langkawi, which was named after the many reddish brown eagles that abound in the area. Located in the extreme northwest of Malaysia, it lies adjacent to the Thai border. In fact, you can already see parts of Thailand from here and there are direct ferries that take passengers to a nearby Thai island.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Left or Right: Check-in or Tour''1. Kilim Geoforest Park''2. Tanjong Rhu Beach''3-4. Oriental Village and Panorama Langkawi Sky Cab (Cable Car)''5. Pantai Cenang''6. Orkid Ria Seafood Restaurant''7. Langkawi Eagle Square''The Mediterranean is among the seas most commonly criss-crossed by cruise ships carrying hundreds of seriously relaxed holiday-makers and there is fierce competition among providers of these tours. The result from the consumer perspective is that there are good prices being offered on great value getaways throughout the year but the trouble now can be picking from the best Mediterranean cruise operators.''Always likely to be rated among the best is Royal Caribbean, whose ships dip into several of Europe’s most popular cruise holiday hotspots at various times of the year. P&O Cruises meanwhile has been delivering excellent value and a heady combination of great food and wonderful nightlife for decades and more, with trips round the Med always high on the agenda. And not forgetting Norwegian Cruise Lines, which has ships traversing the length and breadth of the Med and heading into some of the sea’s best kept secrets towards the south-eastern reaches.''From a UK consumer’s perspective there are virtually no end of options when it comes to cruise tours around the Mediterranean. It can be tough to figure out precisely which areas of the region you’d most like to visit on your next trip but every reason to think you’ll be able to pick up a bargain. Indeed, the level of competition among operators is such that there has never been a better time to be planning a trip around what is an endlessly fascinating and so often beautiful seascape.''The best offers on cruises around the Med, and indeed any other region of Europe or the world for that matter, will tend to find their way on to the''Thomas Cook Cruise''website, which has an interactive online system to guide users through the search and booking process.''Disclosure:''This is a guest post.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''From London to Paris – The Inexpensive Way''Enjoying the Caribbean by Cruise''How to Help Fund Your Travels''8 Ways to Save While Traveling In India''JustFly Reviews: 5 Excellent Ways to Survive a Road Trip''7 Items Travelers Often Forget to Pack''I was the biggest cliché in Cameron Highlands that time. From the moment I spotted a big dark crimson rose that sat in a green throne of leaves in that petal paradise, I whispered the rhyme''Roses are red, violets are blue''like my entire life depended on it. Before I knew it, over an hour had passed and I realized I had stayed longer than I should. Ah, such is the power of flowers over me.''At the risk of sounding stereotypical, I have always had an unshakeable fascination with and weakness for flowers. (I even won a flower arrangement contest when I was 10 back in the country.) Flowers are just one of those things that are impossible to dislike, much less hate. Even the most brutish of the brutes surely have a place in his heart, no matter how small, for cute little flowers; they’re just too chicken to admit it. And if you’re me, then you’ll find your heart made up of petals and sepals and pollens. But it was not the love for these pollinating things per se that made me stay so long at the Rose Center (Rose Centre). I was searching for something I had never seen in my life —''a blue rose''.''Roses I have seen in many a hue, but not a single one that is blue.''See? Now I’m making up my own awful rhyme just thinking about this place. And this hunt for the blue rose was what kept me scouring around the site the whole time. I’m pretty sure I would find a blue rose (at a flower shop or a mall) in the Philippines, but I never really took the time to look for one. I just figured since I was already at a place called Rose Center, it was probably the right time to fulfill a long disregarded wish.''The''Rose Centre Kea Farm,''simply known in the region as Rose Centre, has become one of the more popular tourist spots in Cameron Highlands; thanks to its inclusion to many “leisure tours” arranged by various tour operators based in Brinchang and Tanah Rata. Established in 1989, the place was originally a vegetable farm but later''blossomed''into a vibrant garden. It is located around 5km from Brinchang.''Even before we made it past the gate, our tour guide picked up a pair of blue red-orange flowers from the ground.''“We call them ‘Ladies’ Shoes,” he said. At first we couldn’t see why but it became obvious as soon as he arranged them on the floor. He then got another pair, this time blue, and laid them side by side. “Blue butterfly,” he revealed.''Blue butterfly and ladies’ shoes''But I was not there for blue faux-butterflies. I was there for blue roses.''I was disappointed upon seeing the forepart of the center, which was filled with hundreds of roses but none of them were blue. I thought that was it, but as I hopped from one aisle to another, I was introduced to more and more rows. A staircase led to another level of terraces that also had tomatoes and cacti, and another staircase ushered me to an even higher level where the Shoe House was on, surrounded by more flowering plants. I thought that was the end of it, but behind it was a sunflower-fringed concrete walkway that snaked around more plants and trees. It was only when I laid eyes on the giant signage at the top of the hill that I realized that the place was enormous. Rose Center is made up of 10 levels of terraces, spanning an entire face of a slope of that hill. If I were a bee (and I probably was in my past life), this would probably be close to my idea of heaven!''Lovely pink-and-white rose''Roses of various colors! No blue. 🙁''Up to the next level!''Tomatoes, vines, and more flowers!''Cherry tomatoes?''See how huge Rose Center is?''Pink power!''A fly looks weirdly pretty on a flower.''A pink rose hiding behind lavender bellflowers''The flowers on the lower row look like little ballet dancers.''Closeup of a red hibiscus (gumamela)''In many parts of the site stand a number of colorful statues and carvings. There was no cohesive theme that binds these structures together. Western and eastern architectural elements collide and mess with each other here. In one corner are images of the Chinese zodiac, in another is a statue of three playful monkeys. On one side is a fountain topped with concrete angels, and in another, Confucius (or, if that’s not him, then a Chinese guy who looks like him). They have nothing to do with the flowers surrounding them but they add more color to the already kaleidoscopic environment.''The Shoe House at one of the upper levels of the center''A smorgasbord of ideas''At Rose Center, I saw sunflowers, daisies, hydrangeas, heathers, mums, violets, zinias, azaleas, birds of paradise, jasmines, stargazers, and roses among others — red, pink, peach, orange, white, yellow, but not blue, not even one. But that’s not to say that I didn’t have a great time. In the course of finding a blue rose, I had quite a blooming time getting introduced to more flowers of various colors. The blue rose had to wait.''But not for long.''On the way to the next destination, we stopped at the Market Square, and there I found amidst a sea of other flowers is a bouquet of blue roses being sold on the sidewalk.''Finally, blue roses!''And for a moment there, I felt — without an ounce of doubt — pure and genuine happiness. I’m just shallow like that sometimes.''Rose Centre Kea Farm, Cameron Highlands''Entrance Fee: RM5 (Adults), RM3 (Kids)''How to get there'': From Kuala Lumpur, take a bus to Cameron Highlands. There are many tour operators in Tana Ratah or Brinchang that arrange trips to the Rose Center as part of a bigger half-day or full-day tour. You can also take a cab.''The peace that the innocent clouds held precious was disturbed by the retiring sun. The cotton lumps, ashen white, floated in the air while the rays of the sun, like magical arrows of a jealous lover, pierced through them. And they bled! Oh how they bled dark orange and purple radiance that spread across that corner of the sky. The guilty sun, caught between two island mountains, was going for an escape as it dove, slowly and painfully, into the horizon. The crime was done, and it was beautiful.''Down on earth, mortals sat on the sand and watched the heavenly act in awe. There was no wind but all souls present were blown away. I was seated at the very end of a bamboo fence at the very end of the cove’s west side. Pantai Cenang, the most popular beach in Langkawi, is strewn with beige sand and, at that particular twilight, passion. Lovers were everywhere when I was there. Yes, lovers — of all shapes and sizes and sexual orientation.''“Maybe we should ask him to take a photo of us,” suggested one girl to her boyfriend, while trying to point at me as inconspicuously as she could without realizing that her voice was loud enough for me to catch. The guy was too shy to do the approaching so the idea lived a short life. To my left were a gay couple who had been walking two feet apart along the beach. Many times they would breach the two-foot distance and let their arms brush each other as quickly as that sunset. Up in the air was a man being dragged along thrillingly by a speeding jetski below. Waiting for him on the shore was a woman, who, based on the sweet nothings she fired at him as loudly as she could, was his girlfriend or wife. I wouldn’t be surprised if Langkawi becomes a top honeymoon destination in the near future, if it isn’t now.''Lovers here…''Lovers there…''Lovers everywhere!''Parasailing!''Passing by the sun…''Pantai Cenang is a 2-km strip of fine sand facing the Andaman Sea. About 25 km west of the town of Kuah, the district capital, it fringes the southeastern tip of the main island of Langkawi, facing nearby Pulau Rebak Besar and Pulau Rebak Kechil.\xa0While it is nowhere to be found on my long list of the whitest beaches, it holds a few appealing strengths. What it lacks in fairness, it makes up for in wideness and fineness. The beach is so vast that the berm, where shells and other sediments are deposited during high tide, was so far away from the line where permanent structures stand. The sand is so fine and compact that pick up trucks and other medium-sized vehicles can drive confidently on the shore face along the tideline without being bogged. The downside of that, of course, is that it is less relaxing to the soles. Too bad it was always a favorite activity of mine to dip my toes in the grains.''Pantai Cenang’s wide beach strip''The shore ends landward at the series of restaurants, stores, hotels, and resorts, from budget to mid-range and even a few high-end. Behind them is a busy road that runs parallel to the shoreline. It is here that the tourism in the area is visibly booming. The place is crammed with tourists — backpackers, expats, families, and honeymooners. Langkawi is a duty-free island, making it a haven for tourists. Alcohol is absolutely cheaper here than in most parts of the country.''Pantai Cenang may be long but the entire stretch, end-to-end, can be covered in on foot in less than an hour at a leisurely pace. The hotel that I was checked in was located not in Pantai Cenang but in the adjacent beach, Pantai Tengah, and I never took a vehicle to go anywhere in the area.''Planespotting! Probably an AirAsia flight.''The downside of being touristy — trash.''The blood in the sky was beginning to fade as darkness slowly took over. The lovers were walking away from the waves, through the gaps between concrete walls that separate the sandy beach to the asphalt road. At nightfall, all the evidence of the sun’s marvelous crime had been wiped out by the looming shadows of the clouds that only made their presence known when the moon caressed their silver linings. The moon, too, will be killed by the sun in a spectacularly gory fashion by morning.''How to get there'': From Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia you may fly to Langkawi and take a cab to Kilim Geopark. You might also want to consider taking the overnight sleeper train from KL Sentral to Arau (10-hour travel time, RM 54). At Arau Station, take a cab to Kuala Perlis (RM 25), then board the ferry to Kuah Port in Langkawi (RM 18). Take a cab to Pantai Cenang (RM 25).''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Tanjong Rhu Beach: Missing the Blues in Langkawi, Malaysia''Kilim Geoforest Park: The Soaring Spirits in Langkawi, Malaysia''LANGKAWI, MALAYSIA: Budget Travel Guide''Panorama Langkawi Cable Car, Malaysia: 6 Things to Expect''7 Things to Do in Langkawi, Malaysia: Overnight Itinerary''Peninsular Malaysia: Sample 1-Week Itinerary''Our cab breezed through a sparse evergreen forest to reach this remote nook in the island of Langkawi. The view on the way was refreshing, to say the least. There was a small, almost stagnant lake on one side of the road, on the banks of which some campers pitched tents.\xa0Coming from the''Kilim Geoforest Park'', where the gloomy weather started to pour rivers, I was dead anxious that the rainmakers would suck all the joy out of this trip.\xa0Fortunately, it was not raining at the beach when we arrived, but clouds, the friendlier, non-buzzkill type, remained looming overhead, swallowing the blue skies.''The place is called''Tanjong Rhu''(or Tanjung Rhu). Tanjong in Malay means Cape, and Rhu refers to the species of willowy evergreen tree also known as Casuarina Tree or, more popularly, Sea Pine Tree. It is these casuarinas, standing along the beach and in many parts of the island, that the cape is named after.''An old metal green sign marks the way into the bay. The hour and minute arms were about to rendezvous at the top of the clock when we got there and our tummies also signaled that it was time for lunch. Luckily, there was a small, cheap restaurant by the bay, serving Malaysian and Thai dishes. Even before I hopped out of the cab, there was already an\xa0incessant grumbling of my stomach, desperately begging for something to digest. While waiting for the food to be served, we took the opportunity to walk by the beach to save time.''The small karst islets that rose from the calm water caught my attention immediately. My bet is that they help tame the already shy waves that not sweep but gently roll along the channel that separates Langkawi from the rest of West Malaysia. Tanjong Rhu lies in the northeastern tip of the main island of Langkawi. It faces not the open Andaman Sea but mainland Southeast Asia. In fact, from Tanjung Rhu, we could see the faint silhouette of the mountain ridges that run, like the spine of a sleeping giant, from Malaysia to Thailand. Yes, Thailand is visible from here. Vividly, had it not been for the clouds.''Tanjong Rhu Beach!''Tanjong Rhu sand''The bay is littered with milky white sand. When we arrived, it looked like it had been combed with a giant brush as the sand had linear patterns snaking on it. It is a small cove, even shorter than Anawangin in Zambales. But like Anawangin, evergreen trees grow proudly on the edge of the cove, with their narrow, hairlike leaves swaying gently with the wind. There were also just a few tourists when we were there, definitely a plus. We shared the small beach with five other small groups, \xa0many of whom were on an island hopping tour, as they came on private boats. Some just stayed to take photos while the others chose to bathe in the water and the sun.''When we returned to the restaurant, our food was already waiting for us. It was not difficult to understand why the price here was low; the size of the serving was sad. The good news is, they tasted good.''Chicken in Turmeric''One fresh coconut later, we walked back to the beach to take pictures and found one thing that never fails to make me feel lighter. Oh blue skies, how I missed you!\xa0The grayness finally paved way for the bright blue skies, leaving only thin sheets of cirrus clouds that floated like they too wanted to get lost in the blues.''While the other side of the island, where Pantai Cenang and Pantai Tengah lie, remains the most popular white sand strip in Langkawi, it is undeniable that Tanjong Rhu Beach fosters a more relaxing, more charming atmosphere than the rest — clouds or no clouds.''How to get there'': From Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia you may fly to Langkawi and take a cab to Kilim Geopark. You might also want to consider taking the overnight sleeper train from KL Sentral to Arau (10-hour travel time, RM 54). At Arau Station, take a cab to Kuala Perlis (RM 25), then board the ferry to Kuah Port in Langkawi (RM 18). Take a cab to Tanjung Rhu.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Pantai Cenang and the Crime of Passion in Langkawi, Malaysia''7 Things to Do in Langkawi, Malaysia: Overnight Itinerary''Panorama Langkawi Cable Car, Malaysia: 6 Things to Expect''Kilim Geoforest Park: The Soaring Spirits in Langkawi, Malaysia''LANGKAWI, MALAYSIA: Budget Travel Guide''Tropical Resort: Where to Stay in Langkawi, Malaysia''While this trip comprises both Singapore and the Malaysian city of Malacca, it was actually the latter that I was more excited about. I had been to Singapore a number of times but never Malacca. It had always been on my bucket list and \xa0I was thankful that I finally had the chance to set foot on this remarkable place. The Singapore leg of this trip, however, also proved to be extremely enjoyable even though it was a repeat of my''previous SG trip''.''Malacca River Night Cruise''Singapore River Night Walk'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Planning a Singapore-Malacca Trip''Day 1: Arrival in Singapore, Dinner''Day 2: Malacca – Dutch Square and River Cruise''Day 3: Chinatown, Back to Singapore''Day 4 – Universal Studios Singapore, River Night Walk''Day 5 – Orchard Road, Bugis Market, Departure''Breakdown of Expenses''It played in my head as if it happened only the night before. The crowd had come alive at Makansutra Gluttons’ Bay by the Singapore River and the queues grew as they snaked in front of the stalls offering a wide variety of Asian Food. I could not help thinking about the first time I set foot on this place three years ago. It was my first night outside the Philippines.''In 2009, I was one of the bloggers invited by Nuffnang to attend the Asia Pacific Blog Awards that was held in Singapore. The event itself was excellent, but what truly made that trip unforgettable for me was that it was my first trip abroad. On my first evening, I went to the Gluttons’ Bay for dinner with other Philippine delegates and spent the next couple of hours walking around the river area. It was still vivid in my head like a fresh work on a canvass with the paint still carrying a high potential to stain any surface that comes in contact with it.''Fast forward to 2012.''“I’ll just have some me-time,” I told my friends Ces and Astrid before I broke away from the group. It had only been three years, but I had visited Singapore three times prior to this trip. Singapore, as''steel-cold and artificial''as it appears most of the time, always manages to radiate a natural warmth for a nostalgic soul like me. Maybe it’s that I give too much value in it being the first country I visited besides my own. Or maybe because I just feel like I somehow''belong''here, in the middle of the towering skyscrapers and theme parks. The truth is, every time I had a new Singaporean stamp on my passport, this small city-state never failed to surprise me.\xa0Like that night when I chose to walk alone.''Small glass vials filled to the brim with colored liquid were weaved together to create a glowing fabric that made up the vibrant giant lanterns that abounded a park on the bank of the river. The lights shone as if summoning everyone.''Come closer'', these glass creatures hollered in silence. And I was drawn to them in an instant.''Chinese New Year lantern arcs''Traditional Chinese lanterns''Giant glass lanterns''Close up of the glass vials''More lanterns''Entrance to the lantern exhibit''From afar, these enormous beast lanterns looked like constellations not only with dots connected but also the spaces in between shaded, spread out in a galaxy. The Chinese New Year had just ended, but its spirit still lingered in the area. The lanterns were probably just leftovers of what I bet was a massive festival. Nevertheless, the crowd delivered the energy needed to keep this galaxy spinning. Traditional red lanterns and more offbeat animal-shaped ones became the centers of attraction in this universe.''But these weren’t the only stars here. Not very far away, lights, like glowing spirits, escaped through the tiny windows that dotted the body of the skyscrapers that towered over the river. They joined the other lights that bordered the edges of the buildings and the ones that bounced on the river surface in painting a massive canvass of countless galaxies. The laser rays coming from the three bodies and the ship of the Marina Bay Sands beamed like fickle comets that cut through the darkness, as spectators watched the luminous cosmic display in glee.''Laser show by Marina Bay Sands''Singapore skyline at night''I sat in one of the concrete benches that dashed the side of the river and kept on thinking about the first time I was here, the now, and the in-between. I let myself indulge in the thought that when I was a child, never did I imagine myself being in another country, much less coming back again and again. Never did I wish upon any star that I fly out of the country as I believed I would be reaching for the stars then. I guess I just got lucky.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Asian African Carnival 2015 in Bandung, Indonesia''7 FREE Things to Do in Singapore''SINGAPORE: Budget Travel Guide (Updated 2014)''SINGAPORE ON A BUDGET: Travel Guide & Itinerary''DIY Singapore River Walking Tour: Raffles Place to Gardens By the Bay (Updated: 2014)''Sagada Bonfire Fest in Mountain Province, Philippines''“It’s the largest fountain in the world,” my friend Mimi said as she ushered us out of the building to an alfresco area that harbored a shallow man-made pond.''“That one?” I asked while flashing a look that excellently expressed disbelief. “That little fountain at the center of the pond? That’s the largest in the world?” As the words came out of my mouth, the right side of my brain was sarcastically taunting the left,''Am I being Punk’d?''Obviously, I had seen fountains bigger than that one. Lots of them. That fountain that geysered in the middle of the pond in the middle of Suntec City was definitely not the biggest in the world. It would not even make it in my category of massive, not even big. Heck, not even medium.''“Not that, silly,” Mimi corrected. She then led my eyes to the diagonal pillars that extend from the ground up to a few stories high. A giant ring overhead connected them. She pointed at it and said as-a-matter-of-fact-ly, “That’s the fountain. The whole place is the fountain, actually.”''Oh. Okay. Amazing.''The place is called the Fountain of Wealth. Listed as the largest fountain in the world by the Guiness Book of Records in 1998, it is the centerpiece at Suntec City, one of the biggest and most popular shopping malls in Singapore. The fountain is situated at the center of five office buildings, which represent fingers and the fountain the palm. According to Feng Shui, it symbolizes wealth.''This giant fountain comes to life only at night. The ring overhead sprays jets of water around the smaller fountain, while lights paint colors in the towering cylindrical fluid wall that forms as a result. The thin pond is also dotted with pin lights that fire beams of light that add to the already magical atmosphere of the place.''Screenshot of Suntec City Mall page on YourSingapore.com''In the daytime, the bigger fountain rests and the tiny stream of water at the center takes the spotlight. But looking at this smaller fountain isn’t the only thing that you can do here. There’s a narrow boardwalk that runs across the water to the fountain that visitors can take to do a short ritual for Good Luck. Here’s how to do it:''Steps for the Good Things from the Fountain''Yes, yes, I did it, too. Not that I believe in it. I just wanted to experience it since I was already there.''The real question here is:''Is the Fountain of Wealth worth visiting?''Well, honestly, not for me. But if you’re going to Suntec City to do some shopping, then you might as well drop by especially at night.''Update'': According to YourSingapore.com, the Fountain of Wealth will be closed from September 1, 2012 to June 2013 for upgrade. You may contact Suntec City’s customer hotline to be sure.''How to get here'': Take the MRT and alight at Esplanade or Promenade Station. Just follow the signs. You won’t get lost.''Suntec City Mall''3 Temasek Boulevard, Singapore''68252668 / 68252669''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Jewel Box Singapore: Where Everything’s a Gem''Full Circle Aboard the Singapore Flyer''Orchard Road: Window Shopping in Singapore''Little India By Night, Singapore''Books Kinokuniya: Lost in the Pages of Orchard Road, Singapore''Flames and Mirrors in Sagada''I did not want to leave the club yet. I was at the bar, alone, having my fifth mug of beer, just waiting for all the alcohol to sink in. Then I could join the mob, start dancing, vanish in between the phosphorescent lights, and lose myself in the beat of the pumping music that almost made the building explode. It was close to midnight, and I had not spoken to anyone at the club except one waitress who had been serving me my pints of beer. The night did not start out this way and would not end like this, either.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Angkor Night Market''Pub Street''If you’re the type who sees the glass half-empty, you can say that I crashed and fell from the bike on the way back to the hotel from Angkor Wat, leaving me with two big, nasty wounds on my left leg. If you see the glass half-full, then you can say that after a whole day of biking in the crazy streets of Siem Reap, I’m still alive!''In all honesty, the streets of Siem Reap are not really''that''crazy. I’m just an awful biker. To be fair, it was my first time to ride a bike in 15 years. I was still in primary school when I last rode one, and I just could not get it together anymore. My bike kept on wobbling and my body wiggling, as my arms refused to relax. Still, I survived getting around Siem Reap and even reached Angkor Wat in two wheels in spite of! I don’t think I would be doing it again in the near future, though. Not until I get rid of the wobbling. And the wiggling.''That’s my bike!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Bike Rentals in Siem Reap''Learning How to Bike''Siem Reap City Tour''To Angkor Archaeological Park''A bright pink glow was beginning to spread across the horizon when we reached the middle of the boardwalk. Without a word, all of us agreed to stop and watch the luminous display of colors in the heavens. We were on a walkway connecting mainland Singapore to the island of Sentosa, and this viewpoint allowed us to fully appreciate the surrounding beauty. We weren’t alone. Almost everyone taking the boardwalk halted and took a moment to have a good look at the clouds being painted pink and red by the retiring sun. Thank Heavens for the long queue at the monorail station.''Several minutes earlier, my friends Ces, Astrid and I found ourselves amongst the hundreds of people\xa0flooding through the front gate of Universal Studios Singapore. The Hollywood Dreams Parade had just ended, and everyone made their way to the main exit as soon as it was over.''Where did you all come from?''I was blown away by the sheer volume of the crowd. But I was blown farther away when I set eyes on the queue that snaked towards the monorail station. Our plan was to take the train to go back to the main island, but that would prove to be so stressful with this big a crowd.''“You still have some energy left?” I asked the ladies.''“Barely,” replied Ces. “Why?”''“The line is too long. I say, let’s just walk to the main island.”''I knew that there was a boardwalk somewhere around the area so we scurried around the place looking for it. It wasn’t long until we reached the riverbank and found the bridge that stems from it over the undisturbed channel below.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Sentosa Boardwalk''The Romero Britto Neo-Pop Exhibit''A Leisurely Walk''All that was missing was the Big Bad Wolf and I would have been convinced that I was in a Grimm fairy tale.''There is something haunting about the Mossy Forest of Gunung Brinchang, the second highest peak in Cameron Highlands and the highest point in Peninsular Malaysia that is accessible by road. Even from afar, when I was looking at the area from the 50m tall Lookout Tower, I could feel the eerie atmosphere it fostered as it slowly welcomed the blanketing thick sheet of low-lying clouds. At 2000 meters tall, the summit of Gunung Brinchang regularly catches a lot of rain and constantly embraces mists and clouds, ensuring a moist and dewy environment, to the satisfaction of the wide array of plants that cover its slopes.''View of the forest from the Lookout Tower (L), Inside the mossy forest (R)''Morning dew''When the moment came that we had to enter the Mossy Forest, the ambiance even got more beautifully surreal. This rich 200,000-year old forest nurtures ancient trees that stand tall like proud Elizabethan ladies. They are hugged by thick layers of moss, lichen, and ferns that drape from their trunks to the ground like elegant green and golden gowns. The trees wear their leaves proudly like intricate headdresses that sway at every whisper of the cold wind. Their branches are slender arms that are laced by more tussled moss and some bear jewels — pitcher plants and orchids.''To be honest, I did not even know that this place existed until two weeks prior to this trip. I was absolutely satisfied with my original Kuala Lumpur-Penang-Langkawi itinerary until my friend''Mica''posted a photo of this mystic forest on Facebook. One look and I knew I would have to make major adjustments to my already satisfying travel plan. I just had to be there, right there in the middle of the forest and set foot on that red peat-like floor.''And set foot on its red peat-like floor, I almost failed to do.''I was surprised that there was an elevated walkway that snaked around the site, something I did not see in Mica’s photos. I was hoping to leave footprints and I meant it literally.''“There are two trails that wind around this forest,” explained our tour guide John. “The other one allows you to hike and go deeper in the forest. But we have kids in our group so it would be best to just take this boardwalk.”''The draped branches bending over the trail''The lovely German Family and our tour guide whom we shared the van with.''Gold lace.''I have to admit that it let me down but only for a short while. After all, the Mossy Forest is so enchanting there is no place for sadness here (unless you get left alone in the middle of it). The elevated boardwalk is 150 meters long, meandering in between trees, under the canopy, and around many points of interest. It’s a short trail and there is no risk of getting lost, unless you wander off the trail. Around the area are several''Nepenthes''pitcher plants (also known as monkey cups), a tropical montane monotypic plant with flowers that trap its prey, usually insects and small vertebrates.''Pitcher Plant and a Cinnamon Tree''I stumbled upon another group of tourists in one corner, gathered around a small tree. Out of sheer curiosity, I joined their group and listened as their tour guide cropped a small piece of bark and asked what it smelled like after passing it around. When it finally fell in my hands, I knew exactly what that delightful smell was — cinnamon. Call me shallow but, to a certain extent, it made my day. I don’t think I had seen a \xa0cinnamon tree before.''“Can we venture outside the boardwalk?” I asked John.''“Yes, of course,” he affirmed. “Just be careful. The soil is moist and soft.”''With that we explored the other areas surrounding the trail but cautious that we would not go very far from it. Other than the awful fear of getting lost, the little child inside of me was afraid there would be a Big Bad Wolf hiding behind the trees, out to get me.''Now, if only I could find Red Riding Hood.''How to get there:''From Kuala Lumpur, take a bus to Cameron Highlands. There are many\xa0tour operators\xa0in Tana Ratah or Brinchang that arrange trips to the Mossy Forest as part of a bigger half-day or full-day tour.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Malaysia: 10 Places to Visit on a Cameron Highlands Day Tour''BOH Tea Plantation: My Cup of Tea in Cameron Highlands, Malaysia''Rose Center: The Hunt for the Blue Bud in Cameron Highlands, Malaysia''Rosette Cafe: Where to Eat in Cameron Highlands, Malaysia''Kang Travelers Lodge (Daniel’s Lodge): Where to Stay in Cameron Highlands, Malaysia''Peninsular Malaysia: Sample 1-Week Itinerary''A French couple meandered in the middle of the tea plantation, squeezing their way in between the shrubs that make up the hedgerows. The man stopped upon finding a good spot and the lady asked him to just stay where he was. She grabbed the camera dangling from her neck and aimed a shot at him, who flashed a sincere smile. Before she could press the button, however, the man let out a loud sneeze. In utter embarrassment, he froze and she mildly beamed. Neither said a word. The lady walked toward the man and planted a deep, wet kiss. They both laughed as they prepped up to take another photo. The day just turned brighter for the two lovers.''French lovebirds at a tea farm''It was like a scene from a romantic comedy. I stood by the road, overlooking the vast hedgerows of tea shrubs, as I watched the French couple attentively. It was a sweet moment that I, without them realizing it, caught on camera. This is the sort of things that I love about traveling. I just enjoy''stalking''observing other people in silence as they live their lives in a setting so beautiful, it’s like we’re in a movie and I am the storyteller.''Cameron Highlands''is famous for its foothills of tea shrubs. This Malaysian region harbors three tea plantations: Sungai Palas, Fairlie, and Boh. It was the last that we oh-so-gladly set foot on.''BOH Plantations Sdn Bhd''is the number 1 tea grower in Malaysia and they have a number of tea gardens in Cameron Highlands. They produce over 4 million kilos of tea every year, about 70% of all tea manufactured in Malaysia. There are over a thousand different varieties of teas but to many tea lovers, there are four main types — black, green, white, and oolong. All four are made from the leaves of''Camellia sinensis''. BOH grows black tea, the stronger, bolder, and more oxidized type.''The BOH Tea Plantation was the first stop in the “leisure tour” that we availed of. I shared the van with a friend, a German family, an Arab couple, and the French couple I was describing earlier. We were dropped off at the side of the road that snakes across the vast fields and rolling hills of shrubs. It was like heads of giants who just went to the salon to have their hair done — green-dyed and cornrows-styled. The height of the shrubs differ throughout the fields. In some parts, the plants reach the waist, in some even lower. They actually grow into tall trees so the workers intentionally trim the branches at a certain height to make it easier for them to get the new leaves come harvest time. They have a term for it, but, once again, it slipped my ever-reliable memory. (I should start writing things down. Seriously.)''A wider view of the plantation''A “mountainful” of tea!''That’s me, squeezing my way across the field.''After more than 20 minutes, our tour guide signaled that it was time to hop back into the vehicle for our next stop — the Gunung Brinchang Peak. I thought I already had my last close look at the tea plant. I was wrong. A couple more stops and we found ourselves at the doorstep of the BOH Tea Center, which houses a Tea’ria (refreshment area), an exhibit hall and a factory.''The Tea Factory is my favorite. There are old but fully functional pieces of equipment that the factory continues to use up to now. Visitors are given an opportunity to witness the tea-making process from harvest to sorting to packaging. It was quite an enlightening walk along the edges of the hall.''Workers harvesting tea leaves''At the Tea Factory''Aside from the factory, there are exhibit halls that showcase the old equipment, boards depicting the history of the company, and a short video about the place. One corner tucks a small store where guests can purchase BOH tea products. At the other side of the hall is the Tea’Ria Refreshment Area, which serves their premium teas along with some delectable pastries. But the food is not the only thing delightful here; it has a balcony that provides a fantastic view of more tea hedgerows.''BOH Tea Center, Cameron Highlands''BOH Tea’Ria Refreshments''Inside the Tea’Ria''Blueberry scones and egg sandwich''I’m not really a “hot tea” kind of guy. Iced Tea: Lime, Black Currant, and Cameronian''Just how much my snacks cost. That’s for two people. Haha.''I was waiting for the rest of the group outside the Tea Center when two tourists — a European couple — approached me to ask me take a photo of them. I obliged.''“Are you from Singapore?” the woman asked.''“No, no,” I smiled. “I’m from the Philippines.”''“Oh cool,” the man said. “''Kumusta ka''?”''“I’m great,” I replied as I stretched out my hand to shake his.''“We met in the Philippines,” the man said, explaining how they met in Manila and were now traveling together in Malaysia. They were going to Thailand in a week’s time.''At the back of my head, I was painting a vivid picture of the fortunate events that led to each other and their adventures together. In my head I was shooting a cinematic scene with the storyline reaching the climax in between the hedges of tea in the rolling hills of Cameron Highlands. The rest of the group emerged from the center just when I was thinking of what the ending could be. I decided to think about it another time. Perhaps over a cup of tea.''How to get there:''From Kuala Lumpur, take a bus to Cameron Highlands. There are many tour operators in Tana Ratah or Brinchang that arrange trips to the BOH Tea Plantation as part of a bigger half-day or full-day tour.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Batu Caves: All Things Tall in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Panorama Langkawi Cable Car, Malaysia: 6 Things to Expect''Cheng Hoon Teng Temple, Malacca: The Oldest Chinese Temple in Malaysia''Sri Poyyatha Vinayagar Moorthi Temple in Malacca: Malaysia’s Oldest Hindu Temple''Lao San Cafe: Where to Eat in Malacca, Malaysia''Hoe Kee Chicken Rice Balls: Where to Eat in Malacca, Malaysia''I had never seen that many eagles swarming and flying around in just one place.''The Poor Traveler was at Kilim Karst Geoforest Park in Langkawi in the state of Kedah in the western coast of Peninsular Malaysia. Langkawi is an archipelago of 99 islands in Andaman Sea. Langkawi means reddish-brown eagle in the local language, taking the name from the glorious birds of prey that abound in the island.''Brown Eagle in Action''The northeastern tip of the main island of Langkawi is covered in thick mangrove forests, specked with spectacularly formed karst cliffs rising from its brackish water. Three rivers flow and meander across this region — Kisap, Air Hangat, and Kilim. Together, they form a gorgeous landscape that has nurtured and nourished a healthy ecosystem and a wide and diverse array of life forms. Kilim River, locally known as Sungai Kilim, runs across Kilim Nature Park, sprawling over an area of about 100 square kilometers of mangrove forests, blue lagoons, and white beaches.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Prepping Up for the Speedboat Ride''The Bat Cave (Gua Kelawar)''The Yacht Park''The Floating Restaurant and Fish Farm''Crocodile Cave (Gua Buaya)''Brown Eagles''The Faces and Shapes of Kilim''Everything comes in threes.''Miss the third strike, and you’re out. If the Ruins of St. Paul’s were a baseball player, that’s exactly what would have happened. Except, even when it has been out of the game, the Ruins of St. Paul still managed to emerge as a major superstar.''Déjà vu''. It was my first time in Macau, but the site was fostering an atmosphere that was familiar. As I moved farther from the structure to squeeze everything in my viewfinder, it dawned on me what it reminded me of — St. Paul’s Church of Malacca, Malaysia. Both stand on top of a hill, adjacent to a fortress. Both were named after St. Paul. Both used to harbor a church and a college. Both complexes were built under the Portuguese in the 16th century. Both are now down to ruins. Both structures have become iconic landmarks of the cities that cradle them. And both left me breathless. But despite the many similarities, the Ruins of St. Paul’s possesses a charm of its own.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'History: The Three Strikes''St. Paul Ruins Architecture''The northeastern monsoon brought with it a biting cold and I felt it pierce through my not-so-thick jacket when I hopped out of the bus. Nevertheless, even the dropping temperature was not discouraging enough especially upon setting eyes on the giant statue of Gautama Buddha sitting on an enormous lotus throne at the summit of a small plateau in Lantau Island, Hong Kong.''One doesn’t need a keen eye to notice that the lotus flower is the dominant motif at Ngong Ping and it’s not difficult to understand why. The lotus is probably the most significant flower in Buddhism, a symbol of purity, fortune, faithfulness, and enlightenment. Because it grows in murky, muddy, water, it is also admired for its ability to survive and even thrive in the most unforgiving conditions. Everywhere I looked, I would catch an image of the lotus flower — painted and sculpted, concrete and metal, big and small.''Buddha seated on a lotus throne''Lotus flowers everywhere!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Getting to Ngong Ping''Tian Tan Buddha''Po Lin Monastery''Ngong Ping Village''“Let’s do it again,” exclaimed my friend Astrid right after alighting her seat. “Come on, guys! Let’s do it again!!!”''“I just need a moment,” I said to her. If only I had an out-of-this-world olfactory perception, I would probably smell adrenaline all over the place and a good fraction of it would be reeking from Astrid. We were coming out of the Cylon Ride, one of the two Battlestar Galactica rollercoasters at Universal Studios Singapore.''“Tell you what,” said I, “Let’s try Human next and then I’ll see if I could ride this Cylon thing again.”''I couldn’t.''By the end of that minute aboard that frakkin’ Human ride, everything was already spinning around me. “You go ahead,” I told my friends Astrid and Ces. “I think I’ll just stay here and die.”''“So much for being a Battlestar Galactica fan,” teased Astrid.''Well, I am a big Battlestar Galactica fan and I loved every second of that adrenaline-pumping ride. Just that I could not, apparently, do it over and over again. My friends fell in line again for their second Cylon ride, and I watched them get enveloped yet again in a different kind of thrill. This was my second visit to Universal Studios Singapore, and one thing — one obvious thing — that I learned this time around was that it was indeed more fun to experience it with friends than with my mother. Duh?''Battlestar Galactica: Human vs Cylon!''The Iconic Universal Studios Globe'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'About Universal Studios Singapore''Hollywood!''Madagascar!''Far Far Away''The Lost World''Ancient Egypt''Sci-Fi City''New York''Hollywood Dreams Parade''Rates and Tips''It’s not always that I fly out of''Diosdado Macapagal International Airport'', more popularly known as''Clark Airport (CRK)''. Living in Metro Manila, I still prefer flights that take off and land at Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) because it is obviously more convenient to me. The air traffic congestion problem in Manila, however, pushed many airlines (Tiger Airways, Cebu Pacific Air, Airphil Express, and more)\xa0to fly to and from Clark, making this Central Luzon gateway probably the fastest growing airport in the country.''Clark Airport is located two to three hours from Manila, depending on which part of the city you’re coming from. If you’re not very lucky, traffic can make the travel time even longer. Thus, to be on the safe side, I usually leave Manila six hours before my flight schedule — that gives me a four-hour allowance on the road and two-hours to get through all the airport processes. For example, if my flight is scheduled at 12 noon, I am already at the bus terminal in Pasay at around 6am. I know that may be too much time but you know what they say, better be safe than sorry. After all, it gives me ample time to come up with a Plan B should something unfortunate happen like the bus breaking down at the expressway or something.''An AirAsia A320 plane'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get to Clark Airport''What To Do Before an International Flight at Clark''The hum of the wind was beginning to weave a joyful melody in my head as it drowned the words that I was shouting to my friend Ces at the base of the cliff. I was at the summit of the Bel-at rock formation in the middle of the rocky shores of Barangay Progress in Biri, Northern Samar.''“THIS IS THE MOST BEAUTIFUL PLACE THAT I HAVE BEEN TO!” I screamed my lungs out, hoping that she would hear me even when I was at the highest point of a giant rock and she at the very bottom of it.''“SAME HERE!” she yelled back.''That was no exaggeration. Biri Island is the most gorgeous place that I have been to so far. I stood there and tried to take in all the beauty and wonder that surrounded me but even my elephantine head could not contain it all.''View of Macadlaw (left) and Puhunan (right) rock formations from the summit of Bel-at. Can you spot my friend Ces?''My friend Ces at the base of Bel-at crag in Biri, Northern Samar'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Across the Mangrove Forest of Progress''Fantastic Four:\xa0Macadlaw, Puhunan, Bel-at and Caranas Rock Formations''The Bel-at Pool''Magasang and Magsapad''I sat on a bench at the perimeter of the plaza and watched three boys play their version of''Chinese garter''. Their Chinese garter was not really a garter but a long bamboo stick. It’s “luksong tinik” quite literally. None of them, nevertheless, minded it.''The bubbliest of the three was Ben (not his real name). He was a determined, persistent fellow. He missed jumping over the hurdle successfully on his first try but tried and tried again but failed each time. Still, he asked his two friends to hold the stick on the shoulder level and made another attempt to bounce over it without touching the marker. He failed yet again. But I was not the only one watching someone that day. They were also returning the favor, even noticing the camera hanging from my neck.''“Kuya, kuya, picture!” shouted Ben.''JUMP! Children playing at the plaza!''The moment I grabbed my camera, the three boys were already posing and smiling. Kids! After flaunting five poses or so, they invited me to join and play with them. Unfortunately, I was not in my fighting form; the pants I was wearing were rather tight, and I was afraid it would rip apart with just one big move. I declined and said I’d just take photos of them as they played.''The concrete bench in the west corner of the plaza that I was seated on was smoldering after hours of bathing in unforgiving sunlight. It was mid-afternoon and the plaza, the central park, was a playground to children who were trying to displace some juvenile energy. In the opposite corner was a tree under which a group of teenage girls gathered, sharing stories and a good laugh. From where I sat, I could see a number of the town’s most important landmarks — the St. Michael the Archangel Church (aka Laoang Church), the Shrine of the Immaculate Concepcion, and a big white cross in the middle strip of the plaza.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'St. Michael The Archangel Parish (Laoang Church)''Almuraya Fortress''Plaza Inmaculada''I had never wanted to become an ornithologist until my visit to the fish ponds of the University of Eastern Philippines in Laoang Island.''I know; it sounds utterly odd to want to become a bird expert while standing in the middle of fish ponds. But we were not there to catch fish. At least, that was not the intention. We were just there to admire the view. Funny because it was the birds that caught our attention as soon as we arrived and before we knew it, we were birdwatching.''Hoping for a better view each time, my friend Ces and I darted on the dikes through the maze of fisheries and then tiptoed as we got nearer the flock, fluttering about. Every move was a balancing act and one wrong step and we’d find ourselves slipping into the muddy pond. But it was a challenge that we welcomed without complaint. The birds were just so worth the slop.''Photo by Kuya Marlu Gonzales, Sr.''Ten minutes into this activity — which was a first time for me, mind you — I kicked myself in the butt for not reading enough about birds or not paying much attention to my biology classes in high school and college.\xa0The birds were there, showcasing their enviable ability to fly, displaying their form and colorful feathers, and maneuvering in the air like jet planes in an exhibition show. But their names were missing. I just thought it would be so much more fun to watch birds if I knew what they were called.''Every time a bird appears, I was like “Hey look! There’s a… there’s a…''bird''.”''And then my friend Ces would find another and she would yell, “Here, here! There’s another''bird!''A big''bird''!”''The air was filled with similar sounding expressions of excitement (for the birds) and disappointment (for our cluelessness) rolled into a sentence. A flock of''birds''. That blue''bird''on that tree. The black-and-white''bird''. That egret-looking''bird''. Bird, bird, bird!''That egret-looking bird. Haha. Or is it really an egret?''A flock of black and white birds with red long legs…''Oh how well they flew!''There was also a bright blue bird that we failed to take a photo of. It was beautiful and chirped so loudly.''Of course, we enjoyed the whole birdwatching stint! It was my first time. But yes, it would have been more enjoyable and more appreciated had we had any idea what their names were. Suddenly, I remembered my Davao trip last year and how Evanjohnn of''FocalGlass.com''knew every bird we spotted, no matter how far. Damn. He has a gift of identifying birds easily! I’m jealous!''I know this won’t be the last time that I would go birdwatching. I will certainly do it again when I return to Laoang next year. Hopefully, I will have a chance to go birdwatching in other places before that time comes. I know there are so many places in Batangas, Pampanga, and even in Manila that are great spots to admire our avian friends. And when that happens, I promise I’ll be equipped with a good zoom lens, a pair of binoculars, and basic knowledge of the major families and species of birds.''How to get there'': From Manila, fly to Catarman Airport in Northern Samar. Take a tricycle to the “bus station” and ride a jeepney to Barangay Rawis (P60). Hail a trike to the pier then board a small boat to Laoang Island (P7). From Laoang Pier, ride another trike or habal-habal to UEP.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Magsaysay Beach: Laoang, Northern Samar, Philippines''Onay Beach in Laoang Island, Northern Samar, Philippines''Calomotan Beach: A Cloistered Calm in Laoang, Northern Samar, Philippines''Laoang Church and the Almuraya Fortress: Northern Samar, Philippines''Biri Island Rock Formations: Northern Samar, Philippines''BARAS BIRD SANCTUARY: Herons and Villains in Sultan Kudarat, Philippines''There was a duck in our bedroom window.''We were staying as a guest at a house of Architect Michael, a local who oh-so-graciously hosted us during our visit in Laoang, Northern Samar. The house is a concrete piece of beauty in the middle of the vast greenery, a five-minute trek away from the highway in Barangay Magsaysay. One has to cross a low wooden bridge, running over the crops. The beach is not visible from here. Taking the place of the waves are rows of rice whose leaves are being tousled by the sweeping cold wind.''During our brief stay at the house, a cute little dog loitered around the house and in the fields, hunting lizards. Its tail wagged left and right, proud of its accomplishment, whenever it caught something. Ducks and native chickens also scattered nearby, wandering in between zinnias. And yes, one of the ducks just found it too comfortable to stay in the window, staring at us as we passed by. What a freaky duck!''Creepy duckie''Later that afternoon, we rode a habal-habal to the beaches of Magsaysay. Just like in''Calomotan'', we followed a narrow trail that ran across a thick fern garden, nestled under the shade of coconut trees. A bamboo hut stood at the end of the trail and it was the only man-made structure in the area.''Magsaysay Beach is strewn with uber fine sand. It is not white-white. It is light grey bordering on beige. The destination that bears sand closest to it is Anawangin Cove in Zambales, but some parts of the shore are more beige than grey. It actually looked weird, to be honest, but in a delightful way. But the real treat was revealed to us when we took off our slippers. The sand is so soft that our feet sank into it effortlessly, which was a surprise since most beaches with fine sand that we had been to usually are hard and compact.''This hut is the only man-made structure on the beach''The greenery fades as it gets closer to the shore that is littered with dry coconuts and leaves. The ferns disperse and the grass thins, giving way to the flowering vines that inch their way to the sea. On one side of the beach, the bush is replaced by mangroves that border an inlet. I’m not sure but it looks like a narrow, shallow river, eager to embrace the ocean.''Near the mouth of the\xa0river\xa0is a small sandbar, probably a delta. We didn’t have to swim to reach it. We just had to wade the shallow water and enjoyed dipping our toes and soles in the sand to get there. We shared the sandbar with small birds that made loud chirps. We asked the locals what the name of the bird was but, unfortunately, it slipped my memory. The waves, when we were there, were not as gentle as those in Calomotan but not as strong as in''Onay''.''Magsaysay Beach, viewed from the end of the cove''My friend Ces #LeavingNothingButFootprints''I’m not sure whether it was the blinding sun or the spectacular seascape but there was something about Magsaysay Beach that was so soothing, the place was like a lullaby. Maybe it was the soft sand that seemed to gently sway our feet. Maybe it was the easy waves that breezed through shallow waters. Maybe it was the romantic wind that seemed to kiss my cheek and caress my hair. Or maybe it was the sandbar that looked to me like an inviting giant bed. I have no idea. But Magsaysay Beach has that relaxing, sleepy feel to it. It could have lulled me to sleep if it weren’t for our companions who called for us, announcing it was time for some buko juice moment!''Coco Time!''After having buko juice (sold by locals living near the area), we headed to the town proper to visit the University of Eastern Philippines in Laoang.''Later that night, we went back to the house we were staying in to spend the night. The day had been long, after visiting the many breathtaking destinations in the island. We never expected Laoang to be this stunning. We expected good beaches and good people. But we got more. Laoang is home to great, gorgeous beach destinations and gracious, generous people, who had shown nothing but warm hospitality since we first set foot on the island.''Countryside Sunset in Barangay Magsaysay, Laoang, Northern Samar''But the real shocker was the duck, which was still in our window when we arrived five hours later. The duck, immovable, watched us as we finally fell to slumber that night.''How to get there'': From Manila, fly to Catarman Airport in Northern Samar. Take a tricycle to the “bus station” and ride a jeepney to Barangay Rawis (P60). Hail a trike to the pier then board a small boat to Laoang Island (P7). From Laoang Pier, ride another trike or habal-habal to Magsaysay Beach.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Onay Beach in Laoang Island, Northern Samar, Philippines''Calomotan Beach: A Cloistered Calm in Laoang, Northern Samar, Philippines''Birdwatching at University of Eastern Philippines: Laoang, Northern Samar''Laoang Church and the Almuraya Fortress: Northern Samar, Philippines''Biri Island Rock Formations: Northern Samar, Philippines''5 Must-See Places in Laoang Island, Northern Samar: A Motorcycle Tour''When our habal-habal (motorcycle) hit the dirt road, we knew we were in for a treat. All major roads in Laoang, the island, in Laoang, the municipality in the northeastern tip of Samar, have been paved with concrete but it is still the dirt roads that serve as the only gateways, albeit difficult, to the outlying nooks of the island countryside. And these outlying nooks cradle some of the country’s most underrated yet wigsnatching beaches. Laoang Island is home to three of these isolated coves —''Onay Beach'', Magsaysay Beach, and Calomotan Beach.''Coconut trees rise from a thick blanket of ferns that cover the land that harbors Calomotan Beach. Named after the barangay where it is located, Calomotan Beach tassels the greenery with beige sand that form an almost perfect crescent shape. The primary access trail to this beach cuts through the dense fern garden into the rocky end of the sheltered bay. As soon as we reached the sandy shore and parked our motorcycle, I knew exactly what Calomotan could offer — a reclusive kind of calm.''First glimpse of Calomotan Beach, Laoang, Northern Samar''Rough medium sized rocks speck the dark gray sand that are dispersed throughout this end of the cove. These rocks, however, are the only disturbance to the smooth and serene environment. The gray sand seem to become paler gradually as you walk farther from the rocky end. The rich vegetation along the shore, providing a more colorful backdrop, seem to run endlessly with vines — sometimes decorated with yellow and purple flowers — extending towards the quiet water. While the wind blows with a little more push sometimes, the water remain undeterred, making very little friendly waves.''From dark gray to beige: the sand lightens as you walk farther away from the trail''A shallow saltwater swamp that resemble a waxed floor scrubbed so heavily mirrors the trees and the cloudy skies above. A recess that leads inland, this estuary is almost out of sight, flowing inconspicuously behind thick bush and trunks of coconut trees. Where it leads, I don’t know. While I was extremely curious about what other sights that await if I follow the water inland, I guess I was just afraid to explore the unknown.''Calomotan Beach is long and stretched out but there is no permanent structure at the site, save for a small wooden swing that dangles in between two short trees and a bamboo table flanked with a couple of benches right at the mouth of the trail to the cove.\xa0We were the only people at the beach that time. Locals said that the beach does not really get as many visitors as the others.''My friend Ces swingin’''While Calomotan Beach is not as impressive as Onay and Magsaysay, it holds a charm of its own, a huge chunk of which is its remoteness and seclusion. A real hideaway, it is the place to be alone, to relax, to bond with nature. It is a paradise that takes its strength from its slowness and naked beauty. The water here is an enormous mirror, an ideal retreat to reflect and rediscover oneself. The gentle waves here are hypnotic, a far cry from the adrenaline-squeezing body-slapping giant waves of the other beaches in the island. It is this quietness that makes Calomotan an unforgettable personal, emotional refuge \xa0you wouldn’t want to share. It is one of those places you want to keep your secret and keep it like it is yours and yours alone. \xa0Trust me, when tourism in Laoang booms, this is the beach that will emerge the least changed or affected. And for that, I’m happy.''How to get there'': From Manila, fly to Catarman Airport in Northern Samar. Take a tricycle to the “bus station” and ride a jeepney to Barangay Rawis (P60). Hail a trike to the pier then board a small boat to Laoang Island (P7). From Laoang Pier, ride another trike or habal-habal to Calomotan Beach.''View Larger Map''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Onay Beach in Laoang Island, Northern Samar, Philippines''Magsaysay Beach: Laoang, Northern Samar, Philippines''Birdwatching at University of Eastern Philippines: Laoang, Northern Samar''Laoang Church and the Almuraya Fortress: Northern Samar, Philippines''Biri Island Rock Formations: Northern Samar, Philippines''5 Must-See Places in Laoang Island, Northern Samar: A Motorcycle Tour''A dozen teenage boys littered the shore with their excited yells and hurrahs as they mustered all their strength to grip on the little niches on the rock cliff. They climbed all the way to a tree on top of it. Their branches extended over the giant waves that splash the side of the massive rock. One by one, they jumped into the deep and disappeared beneath the bubbly waves only to resurface later. I sat on a table rock next to the cliff and watched them climb, jump, swim, and do it all over again— an exhilarating cycle that is powered by testosterone.''Although their pubescent cheers are signs of the good time that awaits here, it is said that the name of this place came from a sad, dark legend about a brokenhearted girl who lived a long, long time ago. We’ll get to that later.''Cliff jumping!''Locals call this place''Onay Beach''. The prized possession of Brgy. Onay (Doña Luisa), this golden beach is the most popular swimming spot in the island of Laoang, located a couple of minutes off the coast of the north-eastern tip of Northern Samar. Blanketed in a glowing mixture of white, black, and brown grains, Onay Beach reflects the afternoon sun and glitter as if the sand is golden. There was nothing much left to do first but to remove our sandals and just walk in the sand and feel its super soft and fine grains make love with my heels, soles, and toes. Yet, when I dug a shallow hole, a layer of shells was revealed like hidden treasures just waiting see the light of day.''Onay Beach is a long, long stretch, with one side fringed with thick vegetation and the other soaked in turquoise water. As I stood at the mouth of the main access point in the middle of the cove, I could hardly see its north end, seemingly disappearing in the droplets that the waves spray into the air.''On the south end lie a cliff and two massive rocks. The cliff serves as a breakwater, pushing the waves to make loud splashes as they slap its edge. Fully grown trees grow on top of it, allowing cliff jumpers to leap from the edge into the deep water. The first of the two rocks is generally flat-topped but is heavily contoured. Half of it is bare, a torture to the sole, and the other half grass-covered. At the center of the verdant surface is a deep, half-filled watering hole. Both these rocks can be accessed from the dry sand, and they stretch all the way to the sea. The other rock is a bona-fide islet, surrounded by water but still very accessible. Its top is also flat and is crowned with a small bush. The gaps between these rocks created mini-rivers as the water rushed through them for a chance to touch dry land.''Onay Beach (literally means Suicide Beach) in Laoang Island, Northern Samar''Ces relaxing on top of a rock islet and a local preparing to jump from the other''Onay Beach’s sand area is loooong and wide! Yay!''My friend Ces, surprised to see so many shells underneath the fine sand''Gap between the cliffs where waves rush through to the beach''More visitors jumping from the top of rock to the sea''Gold!''Aside from the boys cliff jumping, there were also children running around, trying to catch crabs. Some were just having a blast swimming. A group of kids shouted at me whenever I passed by, “Kuya, picture! Picture!” And I would stop to take shots of their silhouettes as they flash their wackiest poses. Life is brimming at Onay Beach.''It was almost six o’clock when the boys quit their game, allowing me to focus on the sunset, another fantastic display of life. My friend Ces and I chose the site of the two rocks to be our exclusive, front-row seat and waited for the sun’s turn to dive in the horizon. As the gentler sun sank in the sky, it colored the clouds deep orange and red with the sea mirroring its companion above. While the clouds looked spectacular, they were not really wanted in the frame for they were blocking our view of the Mayon Volcano, which was visible from the beach albeit barely. Still, the Majestic Mayon displayed her almost perfect conical silhouette in a darker shade of orange. Soon, the orange turned to red and the red to black and the day was done. So was our visit.''View of Mayon Volcano (and another mountain) from Onay Beach. My camera ain’t powerful enough to catch a sharper image.''Pink orange purple skies…''“Onay literally means suicide,” shared some of the locals we met. “In Waray,''Onay''means suicide.”''The Poor Traveler and his equally shocked friend, Ces, looked at each other in a strange combination of surprise, awe, and curiosity.''“Why would they name it after such a grim act?” we asked. Our first theory was that it was the place that most residents, who want to make an attempt at self-destruction, go to. Our first theory was wrong.''“Legend has it,” said Ate Jade, the Tourism Officer in Laoang, “that it earned its name when a woman, who lived along time ago, took her own life at that beach after a terrible heartbreak. Since then, the place became known as''diin ba ang may nag-''onay'', or in Tagalog,''kung saan may nagpakamatay''.''“How did she do it? Drowning?”''“Hanging,” she answered. “They said she was found hanging from one of the trees at the beach.”''“Is it still there?”''Ate Jade nodded. If the tree is still at the site, then we think we already found which tree in particular it was. After all, there are only a few trees there that are very easy to climb. It makes a perfect spot for cliff jumping, too.''Regardless of whether it is true or not, Onay Beach is beyond the story behind the origin of its name. The government of Laoang is planning to promote this beach heavily as a tourist destination, promising a rebirth, \xa0a new life that will benefit the community but hopefully will preserve its natural beauty. Its name may be dark, but should it be named after what it is now, people will be referring to it as the Place with the Golden Sand, or the Place to See Golden Sunsets, or simply, Paradise.''How to get there'': From Manila, fly to Catarman Airport in Northern Samar. Take a tricycle to the “bus station” and ride a jeepney to Barangay Rawis (P60). Hail a trike to the pier then board a small boat to Laoang Island (P7). From Laoang Pier, ride another trike or habal-habal to Onay Beach.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Magsaysay Beach: Laoang, Northern Samar, Philippines''Calomotan Beach: A Cloistered Calm in Laoang, Northern Samar, Philippines''Birdwatching at University of Eastern Philippines: Laoang, Northern Samar''Laoang Church and the Almuraya Fortress: Northern Samar, Philippines''Biri Island Rock Formations: Northern Samar, Philippines''5 Must-See Places in Laoang Island, Northern Samar: A Motorcycle Tour''The beach found a new life as soon as the sun went down. Colorful lamps illuminating the facade of stores and restaurants glowed, as stalls selling street food mushroomed along the shore. Loud dance tunes drowned the sedating lullaby of the rolling waves. Firedancers put a spell on the crowd that gathered around them. I stood at the beach with my back turned to the horizon that had just devoured the sun, watching the metamorphosis to complete.''Boracay is different when blanketed in darkness. During the day, it is a sparkling tropical island paradise strewn with white sand. At night, the sand gives up the spotlight to the establishments lined up along the beach, its lights, its music, its food, its crowds. Boracay becomes a monster at night. Whether you take that positively or negatively is up to you, but I just had to have a taste of it. With a beer in one hand, I got lost in the crowd, lost in the music, and lost in the chaos under the dance lights!''Epic Boracay''Drinks, anyone?''The night was still young when the Tattoo website launch at''Epic Boracay''finished. They just had a short program with their roster of high-profile endorsers introducing the features of their''new website''and their''new line of lifestyle sticks''. At the event, we had our first round of booze, which was overflowing. My blogger friends and I stayed a little longer, sharing conversations about our blogs, our plans, our travels, and about their past Boracay trips over beer and cocktails.''The music was pretty loud and lights from cameras flashed from everywhere everytime. (It got a little bit uncomfortable to be honest. I don’t really like being surrounded by celebrities and people wanting to see them.) The light at the beach front of Epic, where the event was held, was still too bright for me so I was just waiting for any of my blogger friends to invite me to move to another bar or wherever. I guess the wait was too long that when''Mica''and''Doyzkie''pulled me to move, I was pretty much severely intoxicated already.''Firedancers!''Boracay after dark''Tattoo endorsers including Saab Magalona, Alodia Gosienfiao, Danica Magpantay, and Georgine Wilson''Star Patroller and college classmate Gretchen Fullido''Hello, fashion and lifestyle bloggers.''Old friends and new friends''Mica, Doyzkie, and I were all carrying a half-empty stomach that time so we initially wanted to find a restaurant and have proper dinner. On the way, we spotted Kring (of FunnySexy.ph) and the gang at a shisha bar and we joined them, hoping it was also offering food good enough to be the night’s first meal. Unfortunately, we didn’t find anything appetizing so we ended up having a glass of juice. After almost an hour of conversations (which left me sobered up), others wanted to call it a night and return to the hotel. Of course, Mica, Doyzkie and I were soooo not gonna end the night this way so we continued our search for the elusive dinner!''We met Brian, another travel blogger, and his two friends TJ and Jacques, who were with us the rest of the night. I didn’t know any of them personally prior to this trip but it was nice to make friends on the road. Our “proper dinner” was not a full meal but came in the form of isaw manok (chicken intestines) paired with Red Horse beer. Afterwards, we moved to Juice Bar, where an event organized by Brian’s friend was being held. They told us that the drinks were on them.''That was the last thing I remember. Kidding.''Our first rounds of booze were free of charge. Knowing what kind of drunkard I was and how much booze I can consume in one night and how fast I can finish a glass, the shy guy in me kicked in and decided to just order straight from the bar and pay for my drinks. I do not remember how many glasses of potent cocktails and bottles of beer I had that night. Everyone was dancing to the tunes that were played over and over again by the DJ who seemed like he had a limited playlist. (He played some songs countless times, we were like''Hay naku, eto na naman''!) I was pushing Mica to just leave me and start dancing with other guys but she was pretending to be virginal. Whatevs, Mica.''I just never stopped drinking that night. Fortunately, I didn’t do anything embarrassing like throwing up or starting a fight. I was able to make a new friend, though.''If you know what I mean.''The night ended with all of us completely spent and tired, lying in the sand at the bar’s beach front. I was so drunk I kind of remember rolling around that the sand got in every pore of my shirt and every corner of my camera bag (and my camera, too). Heck, there were some grains in my ear, too!''We had a blast. Mica decided to spend the night at our hotel. Doyzkie, who did not drink, stayed up and waited for the sunrise. His flight back to Cebu was scheduled in the morning. I had a bad case of hangover, but I would do it again given another chance.\xa0Even up to now, we still talk about that one night like it just happened the night before. Boracay nightlife is a monster. It just claimed another willing victim.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''10 Things that Make Boracay Special: Aklan, Philippines''15 Exciting Things to Do in BORACAY, Philippines''Jonah’s Fruit Shake and Snack Bar: Where to Eat in Boracay, Philippines''The Palms of Boracay: Where to Stay in Boracay (Splurge Option)''Borawan Beach in Pagbilao, Quezon''Alubihod Beach: Finding Paradise in Guimaras, Philippines''“I have bad news for you.”''That was the first thing I said to''Doyzkie''as soon as I opened the door. He was standing right outside the door, his finger still pressed to the doorbell. He had barely entered the suite, and I was already bombarding him with negativities.''“What?” he asked.''“We’re sharing a bed,” I answered. “A matrimonial bed.”''“Naaah, I don’t mind,” he dismissed. “May I enter now?”''I opened the door to the suite wider, moved aside, and gave way. Doyzkie pointed to the room at the end of the hall and flashed a look asking me if that was the bed. I followed him as he settled down, opening the closet and shoving his bag into it.''“I don’t mind sharing the bed. No problem,” he said.''“I snore,” I sheepishly admitted in the form of a barely comprehensible mumble.''He laughed. “It’s okay! Don’t worry.”''“No, no. You don’t understand. I SNORE!”''“Let’s have lunch,” he dismissed as he made his way to the kitchen. Doyzkie and I were two of the many bloggers invited by Tattoo to the launch of their new website in Boracay.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Location''Rooms and Rates''Design and Architecture''Service''Not too long ago, I was parading around town, screaming my indifference, feeling like I was above being a Boracay dreamer. I just couldn’t understand all the hype. “I will never go to Boracay,” I declared. “Unless it’s free.”''The joke was on me. Together with other bloggers, I received an invitation to an event in Boracay from''Tattoo''. They would be covering everything. All I had to do was show up. Now, now, that’s the very definition of free. Who am I to pass up an opportunity like that?''Prior to this trip to Boracay, every time my friends and I were planning a trip and discussing where to go next, and someone would make a predictable suggestion of even''considering''going to Boracay, I would pretend that I didn’t hear anything and make my eyes roll like they were really meant to stick to the ceiling of my eye sockets. I just hated Boracay. Scratch that. I didn’t hate Boracay. I hated the''idea''of it. I always loved the underdogs. I had always preferred secluded beaches over the crowded ones, and Boracay just did not appeal to me in any way.\xa0If I wanted to party, there’s plenty of places for it in Manila. To me, Boracay was overrated.''That was then.''Willy’s Rock, Boracay''All it took was just one trip to Boracay, and I switched teams instantaneously. I’m a shame to the Boracay-hating brotherhood. Bite me.''That moment when I first stepped on Boracay sand and got to see the landscape and the fun people are having, it was the moment I knew I have misjudged it. Boracay is gorgeous!!! And yes, that comes with three exclamation points, people.''Boracay is an island two kilometers off the northwest tip of Panay. It is part of the Municipality of Malay in the Province of Aklan. It is the most popular beach destination in the Philippines, registering almost 780,000 tourist arrivals in 2010 alone. I bet it has skyrocketed since then after the addition of new flights, both domestic and international, in and out of Kalibo airport (the nearest major airport other than Caticlan). And after topping a number of lists of the best tropical beach destinations in the world, we should expect a lot more visitors in the years to come.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'What Makes Boracay Special''1. The Sand''2. The Landscapes''3. The Familiar''4. The Activities''5. The Food''6. The Convenience''7. The Accommodations''8. The Sunset''9. The Nightlife''10. The Crowd''There I was hiking up an active volcano and I was worried that something else was gonna explode — my bladder. I gotta pee. Really bad.''We were at the slopes of Taal Volcano, one of the smallest active volcanoes in the world, smack in the middle of Lake Taal in Batangas. Yes, it is small but, mind you, it is very, very active. In fact, it is one of the few “Decade Volcanoes” in the world. According to''Science Daily'',''Decade Volcanoes are 16 volcanoes identified by the International Association of Volcanology and Chemistry of the Earth’s Interior (IAVCEI) as being worthy of particular study in light of their history of large, destructive eruptions and proximity to populated areas.''One of the “horsemen” (why does it sound so apocalyptic?) urged me to just unload anywhere, but I couldn’t. There really was not much choice other than sucking it up and holding it until we reach the summit.''There might be a restroom at the Tourist Area at the top,''I thought. I decided to just enjoy the view despite my bloody bladder.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Finding a Boat to the Volcano''The Trek to the Summit''The View from the Top''The Island Within a Lake Within an Island Within a Lake Within an Island''Some Useful Tips''The crowd was starting to grow bigger at Cheng Hoon Teng Temple grounds. By the gate, vendors greeted tourists with invitations to see and buy the peacock feathers in their gentle embrace while another group sat behind a set of bouquets. Beyond the gate outside the main prayer hall, tourists walked around the complex while carrying cameras around their neck.\xa0\xa0At the \xa0front porch and inside the hall, Chinese locals, oblivious to the snapping and clicking of the metal gadgets, gathered to light incense sticks and offer prayers for the departed loved ones. It was around nine in the morning.''I was tucked in one far corner of the site, seated on the ground with my back pressed against the gate, and trying to squeeze everything I was seeing into a single frame even though it was impossible with my low-tech camera, unpowerful lens, and limited talent. All of a sudden, a monk clad in yellow emerged from the right side of the temple, followed by believers on a single file. Their heads bowed and their hands held in front of their chest with palms touching or holding a tray. Call me an over-eager first-timer, but I had never seen anything like it before. I had seen monks before, but not''during worship.''A monk leads a single-file procession''A monk leads a single-file procession'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Cheng Hoon Teng Temple''Temple of Clear Clouds: Design and Architecture''I had never been inside a Hindu temple.''I had seen a number of Hindu temples before: in''Singapore'', in Penang, in Kuala Lumpur. But I had never been inside one. I only had a chance to stand outside with my head tilted and my mouth open as I admired the facade and overall architecture. When I learned that there’s one along Harmony Street in Malacca, I got so thrilled thinking that the time had come that I get to step into a place of worship for one of the oldest religions in the world. I thought it was my lucky day!''And lucky day it was not!''The''Sri Poyyatha Vinayagar Moorthi Temple''was closed when we visited. Poor me, indeed. Once again, I was an''outside lover.''Built in 1781, the Sri Poyyatha Vinayagar Moorthi Temple (sometimes referred to as simply Sri Poyyatha Temple) is said to be the oldest Hindu Temple in Malaysia. This 230-year old structure stands at the heart of the old town of Malacca, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It is located in Malacca Chinatown, specifically in Jalan Tukang Emas, which is part of what many tourists aptly call Harmony Street, because it harbors a number places of worships belonging to different religions — the Cheng Hoon Teng Temple (Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism), the Xiang Lin Si Temple (Buddhism), and Kampung Kling Mosque (Islam).''The rectangular land where it stands was donated by Kapitan Thaivanayagam Chitty, the head of the community. It was built for the Hindu population of the area to practice their religion, especially the veneration of Lord Vinayagar (also known as Lord Ganesha), a deity with the head of an elephant, body of a man, and four arms.\xa0According to the website of''Sri Ruthra Kaliamman Temple''(a Hindu Temple in Singapore):''Vinayagar is both the Lord of obstacles as well as the Remover of obstacles. When we do evil things or when the time is not right, He places obstacles in our path. When we take the correct path, He removes the root of our troubles.''Sri Poyyatha Vinayagar Moorthi Temple, Malaysia’s oldest Hindu temple''While its bright yellow-painted facade makes it very hard to miss if you’re walking down Harmony Street (Temple Street), I still kind of missed it. (I really am visually-challenged when the sun is too bright. Or maybe I’m just stupid sometimes. Sometimes is the keyword there.) Perhaps, I was just expecting a temple of Dravidian architecture with a colossal''gopuram''(dome/tower) covered with rich, colorful, intricately designed ornamentation. While it doesn’t have a massive, overwhelmingly embellished crown, the structure is topped with a three-leveled tower with blue molded edges and arch niches with relief images. Each of the columns of this peak tower has a triangular hole-accents at its center as with the perpendicular base where a line of triangles run horizontally. Sculptures of sacred cows also adorn the fenced rooftop of the temple.''The temple is separated from the street by a set of brown picket fences. Since it was built during the period when the Dutch ruled the city, there are also some dutch elements and influences in the design of the temple such as the details of the roofs, vaulted domes, walls, and columns.''Well, that’s what’s outside the temple. What’s inside? Maybe another day. When I finally get that opportunity to enter it.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Walking in Harmony: 4 Religious Places to Visit at Temple Street, Malacca, Malaysia''Cheng Hoon Teng Temple, Malacca: The Oldest Chinese Temple in Malaysia''Kampung Kling Mosque: Embracing Diversity in Malacca, Malaysia''Jonker Street in Malacca, Malaysia''Lao San Cafe: Where to Eat in Malacca, Malaysia''Hoe Kee Chicken Rice Balls: Where to Eat in Malacca, Malaysia''Kuala Lumpur is Malaysia’s capital city. It is the main economic and cultural centre of Malaysia, home to both the House of Parliament and the Istana Negara (or National Palace). Malaysia itself is a multicultural melting- pot of different ethnic groups and cultures. As the cultural and tourist capital of this diverse country, Kuala Lumpur draws tourists from across the globe. As a result, it is one of the most visited cities in the world with almost nine million tourists visiting per year.''You can arrive in Kuala Lumpur via one of two international airports: the KLLCCT or the KLIA. On arrival, there is an airport bus and rail link to the city and travel time is quite speedy.''Central districts which are popular to stay in include the old town and the ‘golden triangle’, a business district with exclusive hotels, and the famous''Petronas Twin Towers''. The diverse cultures that make up Kuala Lumpur ensure that there is an amazing variety of ethnic cuisine on offer throughout the city. The Chow Kit district near the Twin Towers is an excellent shopping area and the Kampung Baru food market is deservedly famous. The area is an amalgamation of traditional villages and it holds a nightly food market on Saturday evenings. The visitor can walk through miles of stalls of ethnic food served buffet style. Here, you can grab a plate of meats, seafood, mixed rice dishes and rojak salads, while sauntering through colorful market displays. It is one of the best ways to get an immediate sense of the ethnic and cultural diversity of Kuala Lumpur.''Petronas Twin Towers''The Petronas Twin Towers are the tallest twin buildings in the world, making them Kuala Lumpar’s most famous tourist attraction. The steel and glass façade of the towers loom over the city; they are particularly impressive at night, and even more so at sunset. There is an entrance fee and advance booking is necessary to gain admittance. However, it is worth it to view the city from the tower’s sky-bridge and observation points. Walk along the sky-bridge and you are literally walking above Kuala Lumpar, in the evening you can see the lights of the city spread below.''Visit''Chinatown''and you will get a sense of the religious diversity of Kuala Lumpur: mosques, temples and churches almost brush against one another. The visitor to Kuala Lumpar should also ensure that they don’t miss a visit to the Islamic Arts Museum. Within its stunning dome architecture are numerous Islamic artefacts, art works in porcelain, works of pottery and texts. The Islamic Arts Museum holds one of the world’s principle collections of Islamic art and is a noteworthy destination to include in your itinerary .''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Petronas Twin Towers and Suria KLCC: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Thean Hou Temple in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''The Merdeka Square and the Sultan Abdul Samad Building, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Airphil Express’ Fly and Sail AdvenTour Package (Rates and Itinerary) | Singapore – Kuala Lumpur Cruise''KL Tower and 1 Malaysia Cultural Village: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Batu Caves: All Things Tall in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''A dark grey dove glided through the air into the mosque and perched atop a fountain in the middle of the pool. I looked at my friends Asta and Ces and, without saying a word, stood there and watched it. Two muslim men sitting on the porch were watching us, too, as we watched the bird. Don’t get us wrong — we’ve seen doves before, but we were drawn by how regally it stood on the second layer of the fountain before us.''We were at the courtyard of the Kampung Kling Mosque (or Masjid Kampung Kling) in Malacca. We stood on a slightly raised walkway beside a loaded pool, the center of which harbored a richly-designed functional fountain. But I’m getting ahead of the story.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Kampung Kling''What Makes Kampung Kling Mosque Special''The street is known by many names. Locals have three names for this long road, one for each segment:\xa0Jalan Tukang Emas, Jalan Tukang Besi, and Jalan Tokong. Why they have to “divide” the street and give it three names is quite beyond me, but it really is just one long, curved street. Tourists usually call it “Temple Street” because of the number of temples that stand on its edges. But my favorite among all its names —''Harmony''.''It was our second day in Malacca. It was also our last day, which was quite unfortunate because we have not really seen much of the city other than Jonker, the Dutch Square, and the Museum Complex. In a matter of hours, we would be flouncing out of Melaka. Our scamper along the street slowly turned into a stroll as soon as we noticed the beauty that surrounded us. Harmony Street is flanked with old buildings that have been converted into Chinese shops.''It’s not difficult to see why this historically and culturally important place is dubbed “Harmony Street.” A number of places of worship abound in the area, and they belong to different religions — the major religions in Malaysia. They are the''Kampung Kling Mosque''(Islam),''Sri Poyyatha Vinayagar Moorthi Temple''(Hinduism),''Cheng Hoon Teng Temple''(Taoism, Buddhism, Confucianism), and''Xiang Lin Si Temple''(Buddhism).''Harmony Street is a gigantic testament to religious pluralism in Malacca, which is absolutely admirable.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Kampung Kling Mosque''2. Sri Poyyatha Vinayagar Moorthi Temple''3. Cheng Hoon Teng Temple''4. Xiang Lin Si Temple''Carrying an empty stomach, the Poor Traveler and his poor friends Asta and Ces hurried back to Jonker Street to find a place to have dinner at. Unfortunately for us, the restaurants along Jonker were all closed for the day. It was already past 9 o’clock and we have just finished the Malacca River Cruise, for which we spent much time waiting in line. While street food abounded the famous street that night, we were looking for a place where we could sit down and have proper dinner. We had walked the length of the street twice to no avail; we decided to look elsewhere.''We turned onto the adjacent street, parallel to the river, and found a bright spot — a cafe, which was still open to serve us. While we hoped they were serving rice meals, we were really not in the position to choose at the time. We entered the cafe, picked a table with the view of the river, and asked for the menu.''There were no rice meals. Damn.''The place was Lao San Cafe, an unassuming homey cafe on the edge of Malacca Chinatown by the river. The menu handed to us listed beverages and homemade cendol, which were the bestsellers. We asked the waiter whether they served something solid.''Lao San Cafe in Melaka Chinatown at night''“Dumplings,” he said. “We have dumplings.”''Ces, Asta, and I all agreed that it was good enough for us. We were really starved at that point and we would eat anything that isn’t flowing or melting.''“But,” the waiter said but then hesitated. He smiled.''“But what sir?” I asked.''“I’m afraid it’s pork,” he answered.''“Don’t worry, we love pork!” said Ces. “Oh, how we love pork!”''The waiter explained that he thought we were Muslims so he thought we would not want it.''While waiting, each of us ordered a drink. I had a glass of Barley Drink while my two female companions had Ice Lemon Tea and Ice White Coffee.''Ice White Coffee (RM 3.9), Barley Drink (RM 3.9) and Ice Lemon Tea''The Barley Drink was actually lemon barley drink as the lemon overpowered the “barley” taste, which I appreciated. It was citrusy sour and had a tangy after taste. Another thing I liked about it was that its sweetness was just right. The White Coffee tasted like the ones we get from Starbucks or other more popular cafe, except that it’s a lot cheaper. Of the three drinks, I loved the Ice Lemon Tea the most, which unfortunately was not my drink. The tea and lemon flavors were both very strong, making this drink a more potent and more tasty version of the bland ones we get from other restaurants. I really loved it.''The dumplings had a very short life span on our plates. Less than five minutes after they were served, they were gone. We were really that hungry. There was nothing special about the dumplings but they tasted really good, anyway. If anything, the serving was quite smaller than what we expected.''While finishing our food, a few boats passed by and we watched the tourists enjoy their cruise. We kept on talking about how nice it would be if we succeeded in cleaning up Pasig River and have cafes on its banks, allowing people to watch the waves roll downstream and bond with nature in the middle of the city. I believe it can still be possible but not anytime soon. We have a lot of work to do to clean up Pasig.''Anyway, while Lao San Cafe was not able to quench our growing hunger, the view and the ambiance of the place were truly satisfying. It’s not because the food was not pleasant. On the contrary, they tasted good! We were just extremely hungry. The dumplings were enough to revive our energy to find another restaurant in the area. Unfortunately, it really seemed like the heritage town, with the exception of Jonker street, was already asleep. We ended up gorging on some street food on stick in Jonker.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Hoe Kee Chicken Rice Balls: Where to Eat in Malacca, Malaysia''Jonker Street in Malacca, Malaysia''Sri Poyyatha Vinayagar Moorthi Temple in Malacca: Malaysia’s Oldest Hindu Temple''Kampung Kling Mosque: Embracing Diversity in Malacca, Malaysia''Walking in Harmony: 4 Religious Places to Visit at Temple Street, Malacca, Malaysia''Oriental Riverside Residence Guest House: Where to Stay in Malacca, Malaysia''The very long queue in front of''Hoe Kee Chicken Rice Ball''extended down to Singapore. Yes, that’s an exaggeration, but it was long enough to push my friends Ces and Asta and me to deliberate for several minutes whether we would like to try this evidently popular restaurant or not. While the long line was truly convincing, a testament to how good their food could be, it was also very discouraging.''There we were in the middle of Jonker Street, under the bright and fierce Malaccan sun, wondering how long it would take us to secure a table if we chose to dine there now. Our minds were saying “Go for it!” but our grumbling stomach was disagreeing! It was already 2pm and we were hungry, no, famished. We hadn’t had any meal that day. The tummy prevailed. The group decided to just save it for tomorrow and just find a quick restaurant instead.''Queue from here to Mars''The next day, we were the first in line. It was 10 o’clock in the morning and we were ready for lunch! Or brunch.''Hoe Kee Chicken Rice Ball Restaurant''is one of the two most popular chicken rice ball places in the city of Malacca; the other is''Chung Hwa'', not very far from the former. It’s not very difficult to see just how tourists and locals adore this resto. The long queues are an unmistakable sign. The light blue notice is another; it warns customers that they would be serving “loose” chicken rice along with their rice balls on weekends and public holidays, primarily because rice balls take much more time to prepare.''You’ve been warned!''Follow the rules!''Customers, customers, customers!''A waitress took our order while we were waiting in line, which was a smart and efficient move, I reckoned. Our instinct pushed us to have''half chicken''(RM 15),''rice balls''(RM 0.2 per ball),''liver''(RM 0.5), and''cabbage''(RM 1). It wasn’t long until another waitress led us to a corner table. We could not help but notice just how busy the place was. The servers were totally restless, entertaining so many tables one after another. Everything was fast paced here. I guess they had to''make it work''given the number of customers that flood through their door every day.''Five minutes later, the waitress approached our table, bearing light green plastic plates that cradled our lunch (or brunch)! None of them were remarkably appetizing as far as plating is concerned. It was just like your typical food-spooned-into-the-plate set-up. But I guess the taste would make up for the presentation.''Rice balls (RM 0.2 per ball) vs Loose Rice (RM 1 per plate)''Half chicken (RM 15)''The most unusual thing on our table, of course, was the rice balls because here in the Philippines, we don’t really do much with our rice. These rice balls are cooked with chicken stock and were hand-shaped into golf balls. I am not really a fan of dense rice so I still preferred the loose version to the balls. Quite honestly, the rice was just OK. Nothing wrong with OK, though.''The Steamed Chicken, however, was another story. Served with slices of cucumber on the side, the chicken was so tender and soft. It was also so smooth and juicy that I could imagine it just slide down my throat every time I took a bite. The soy sauce and chili sauce served with it also added to its delightful taste! It was so good. It was great. It was perfect.''The cabbage was also a great surprise. We ordered a plate of cabbage just to balance out the meat but we got more than what we bargained for. Like the chicken, it was perfectly cooked. It was soft and flavorful, with the right saltiness to it. I don’t really like vegetables but I really enjoyed it.''The liver and gizzard were just okay, too. Nothing special.''As much as we’d like to stay longer and talk about everything there was in the world during that time, the queue outside the restaurant was starting to grow and grow. While we hoped the rice were something more unexpected, we left the place with a full tummy and\xa0with new appreciation of chicken and, surprisingly, cabbage.''Hoe Kee Chicken Rice Ball''4, 6, 8 Jalan Hang Jebat (Jonker Street),''75200, Melaka, Malaysia''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Lao San Cafe: Where to Eat in Malacca, Malaysia''Jonker Street in Malacca, Malaysia''Walking in Harmony: 4 Religious Places to Visit at Temple Street, Malacca, Malaysia''Sri Poyyatha Vinayagar Moorthi Temple in Malacca: Malaysia’s Oldest Hindu Temple''Kampung Kling Mosque: Embracing Diversity in Malacca, Malaysia''The Stadthuys Town Hall: Museum of History, Ethnography, and Literature of Malacca, Malaysia''Sagada had always been in my bucket list since I decided to become a travel blogger. Even when the only thing I knew about Sagada was the Hanging Coffins, I already wanted to visit the place and get lost in its nurturing charm. There was just something about Sagada that was fascinating to me. Or maybe I just really loved the highlands.''The first time I set foot on Sagada was during our company trip in 2009. Even before we hopped out of our rented vehicle, I already fell in love. The sights that welcomed us as I peeked through our van’s window were all captivating and breathtaking. Within a minute since we entered the town, I had decided that I must return. And return I did. The next time I visited, I was with my closest friends, all of whom had been dying to be here. It was one of our barkada’s best trip ever.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get to Sagada''Where to Stay in Sagada''What to Do in Sagada: Tours''Places to Visit in Sagada''Where to Eat in Sagada''Preparing a 3D/2N Sagada Itinerary''Budget Breakdown''I have this weird love-hate''relationship''with yoghurt. You know that person that you always miss and always want to see but when you’re together, he makes you sick? Yoghurt is like that to me. I hopelessly, desperately, dangerously love yoghurt but, unfortunately, it turns my stomach upside down. I’m lactose intolerant and yoghurt (and other dairy products) starts a revolution within me.''Imagine how I feel whenever I stand in front of''the Yoghurt House''in Sagada.''The Yoghurt House in Sagada''It’s like a house of sin for me. I know yoghurt is bad for me, but in the three times that I have been to Sagada, I always found myself stepping into this unassuming restaurant for a cup (or a bowl) of this dairy goodness, even though I knew how it would make my guts spin like an old, clanky washing machine. Alright, too much information.''My first time at the Yoghurt House was rather brief. It was more than three years ago. We were waiting for the rest of the group near''Salt and Pepper Diner''when, out of sheer impatience, decided to go for a short walk. I spotted the pretty facade of a restaurant, which had its doors shut but a small OPEN sign hung. Its big yellow signage was the first to catch my attention. (Yellow is my favorite color.) I entered the restaurant and ordered a sinful serving of their flagship homemade yoghurt with strawberry preserves, served in a styrofoam cup covered with a sheet of aluminum foil. I started digging in even before I could leave the counter.''Facade of the Yoghurt House in Sagada''While there was nothing spectacular about the yoghurt, it tasted pretty good. It was sour with a hint of sweetness to it. Its consistency was perfect, enough to highlight its sour taste but not for a long time as it melts in your mouth straight away. (I still prefer its frozen counterpart that we’re all used to here in the city but frozen yoghurt would be too much in chilly Sagada.) The strawberry syrup was sweet, as expected, and it complimented the sour dairy base. I just felt like there was too much syrup in my cup that it kind of made my whole cup a bit too saturated for my taste. (I actually liked better the homemade yoghurt sold at the store opposite the entrance to Sumaguing Cave for it did not have the''umay''factor but I believe that store doesn’t serve it anymore. Too bad.)''The last time I visited the Yoghurt House, I was with friends. As always, the place was packed even after they had opened the second level of the building to customers. I really wanted to try their carbonara because I remembered how my friends raved about it but, unfortunately, it was not available that time. In fact, most of what was on their menu was not available that night. The waitress who entertained us explained that it was because there were too many customers so the dishes were kind of limited. But recommended something that was off the menu — Roast Pork, if I remember the name correctly. And that’s exactly what we ordered.''Roast Pork''My friends Ces, Celine and Dane at the Yoghurt House in Sagada. See how many customers there were in the background?''It was great, to say the least. The pork was cooked perfectly — no bloody or burnt part. The meat was tender and easy to cut. There was not much fat, too. It was bathing in gravy, but it was sweet and really delightful. The serving was also big enough for''one and a half''two people. The vegetable salad on the side was also phenomenal. The cucumber was fresh and made a good crunchy sound when I took a bite. I loved everything on my plate that dinner.''If there’s one thing that the Yoghurt House still has a big room to improve on, it’s the service. While I understand that most home-cook restaurants in Sagada take so much time to prepare food, waiting is always almost painful at the Yoghurt House.''First, because it takes almost 40 minutes to an hour for them to prepare your meal, which I don’t mind, to be honest.''Second, because there really isn’t much to do, look at, or enjoy at the place that could help pass the time more pleasantly.''Third, because the place is always jam-packed, thus I get uncomfortable when I see other customers standing by the door looking for a free table or waiting for one to be vacated (or maybe that’s just me).''And also, the waiters always seem to be in a big hurry, which might be because there are so many customers.''Lastly and most importantly, because the''staff''was not as warm as the ambiance of the place. I had dined at the Yoghurt House on five different occasions in the three trips to Sagada that I made and''not once''had I seen any of the staff make any friendly gesture or even''smile''at the very least. Maybe it’s just me but they don’t feel as warm and welcoming as the staff at the other popular food places in Sagada.''Still, the food is great. The food here always makes me want to visit the restaurant but, like my love-hate relationship with yoghurt itself, my feeling towards the place when I’m there can easily turn sour.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Lemon Pie House: Where to Eat in Sagada, Philippines''Salt N Pepper Diner: Where to Eat in Sagada, Philippines''Orange Picking at Rock Farm, Sagada (Updated Rates: 2016)''Sagada Weaving: Mountain Province, Philippines''Ligaya’s Guest House and Cottages: Where to Stay in Sagada, Philippines''That Thing Called Kiltepan Sunrise: Sagada, Philippines''I was worried about one thing and only one thing as I stood by the mouth of''Lumiang Cave'', about to start our''Cave Connection Spelunking Tour''with friends — the seam of my shorts. There’s something that I didn’t mention when I blogged about my''Sumaguing Cave adventure''the year before — that the seam of my shorts, the crotch part, ripped apart in the middle of the activity. Good thing no one noticed. (Or maybe no one brought it up even though they noticed.)''I thought I learned my lesson. But for Cave Connection, I totally forgot to come in my sturdiest, most durable shorts. The pair I was wearing was something I got for only P60, and I was''a little bit''totally worried that it would fail me just when I stretch my legs to hop from one wall to another, revealing something that would make the trip Rated R-18. But it was too late to do anything that time. I figured I would just traverse what needed to be traversed in the most graceful manner that I could, if that was ever possible, and checking every now and then if the crucial seam in question was still intact.''So there, despite knowing how tough and strenuous this tour would be and at the risk of sounding sleazy, I was worried about my groin more than anything. But that worry immediately faded away as the challenges we faced quickly erased all the silly and shallow nonsense I had in mind.''My friends enjoying their first Cave Connection adventure!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Cave Connection Experience: From Lumiang Cave to Sumaguing Cave''Some Useful Tips''Cave Connection Tour Rates''“I asked for a fish. You gave me an ocean,”''I told a friendI had been urging to take me where I could buy danggit. The entire day that I was exploring Cebu City, a nagging voice had been playing in my head. It was my mother’s; she always''requires''that I bring danggit home as''pasalubong''whenever I am in Cebu. My friend appropriately took me to Tabo-an Market. What I didn’t expect was how much dried fish and how wide a variety of it would welcome me there! It was''a danggit-lover’s paradise!''Tabo-an Market''in Cebu City houses dozens of stores offering a rich selection of dried fish! While I guess the best-seller remains the regular danggit, this market also houses several other types of dried seafood including dried squid (posit or pusit), fish tocino (sweetened dried fish), dried shrimps, dried mussels, fish tapa, and more! Most of them are also available in different sizes — small, medium, large. It was a feast!''The whole experience left me utterly confused as to whether\xa0the term''danggit''refers to a specific type of fish or the act of drying fish. But another friend,''Doyzkie'', clarified after I got home that it was the former.''Mounds and basketfuls of dried fish at roadside stores will welcome visitors but there’s more in the inner stalls! I explored the market and canvassed for prices but I ended up buying from the first store we approached. I also took the opportunity to purchase a few packs of dried mangoes while I was at it.''Mounds and mounds of dried fish at Tabo-an Market!''Dried fish''More options!''One thing I noticed, though, was that the smell of dried fish kind of stuck on my shirt (and pants) after staying for almost an hour in the market. Good thing I had an extra shirt in my bag. Regardless, I was extremely happy as I knew just how my purchases, packed in plastic, wrapped in old newspaper sheets, contained in a big, big carton box would make my mom totally ecstatic. After all, she only asked for danggit and she would get more than what she bargained for.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Cebu: Inside Fort San Pedro, The Oldest Fort in the Philippines''Cebu Taoist Temple, Philippines: A Date with Dragons''Cao-oy, Olango Island: Seafood and Stilts in Cebu, Philippines''A No-Regrets Half-Day in Cebu City, Philippines''Biscocho Haus: From Biscuits to Business in Iloilo City, Philippines''Snapshot: Bantayan Blues – Cebu, Philippines''I excitedly hung my camera around my neck as I hopped out of the vehicle and trod toward the Sagada Weaving complex only to be greeted by a “No Taking of Pictures” sign posted on the door. Just when I was about to take my cam off and put it back to the bag, one of the ladies working there said that it was okay. We asked if we could take photos of them while they worked; she obliged. She even encouraged us to explore the other parts of the workplace. From that moment on, I knew I would have fun inside the building. Warm hospitality always makes traveling a lot more enjoyable!''Sagada Weaving''has been weaving quality products such as bags, slippers, souvenirs, and apparel since 1968, making them a pioneer of the industry in the area. Many residents work here and it is said to be one of the largest employers in town. They built a souvenir shop along the road that visitors can check out if they are looking for real and traditional made-in-Sagada items.''My friend posing behind a weaving loom''But the highlight of our visit was our brief moment inside the work hall, where we witnessed the workers create colorful fabrics using wooden weaving looms. It was quite fantastic how complicated, painstaking and patience-testing the whole thing seemed to me. I even asked one of the women manipulating the threads manually if it was difficult what they were doing. She answered, “Hindi naman.”''Watching the threads run and''merge''with others to create a sea of colors and a distinct pattern was astonishing to me as I had never seen anything like it before. While the weaving looms somewhat scared me a little bit when they moved, I couldn’t help imagining my finger getting cut as it gets caught between the twining threads like in the movie''Wanted''(starring James McAvoy and Angelina Jolie, I just have to say that ‘coz I love them). That’s what I get for watching too much gory films.''Threads!''More threads!''I tried to understand the whole weaving process, throwing questions to the women every now and then, but I felt like I was bothering them because they looked really focused. By the end of our visit, I still could not grasp how the whole thing works, to be honest. I guess weaving is not for me. Still, the visit was a great part of our trip. It’s always great to learn something (or at least, try to) especially when you’re in the company of warm, welcoming people.''Sagada Weaving and Souvenir Shop''Nangonogan, Poblacion, Sagada''+639195571431''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Cave Connection: Next-Level Spelunking in Sagada, Philippines''Over the Mountains to Bomod-ok Falls: Sagada, Philippines''Sagada Bonfire Fest in Mountain Province, Philippines''The Hanging Coffins at Echo Valley: Sagada, Philippines''That Thing Called Kiltepan Sunrise: Sagada, Philippines''Lemon Pie House: Where to Eat in Sagada, Philippines''I hate to start this entry on a sour note, but I just have to say that I don’t really like lemons. I enjoy it as a fruit or as a chaser for a hard drink, but it loses me the moment it becomes an ingredient to a cooked or baked dish. I dislike lemon squares and lemon chicken and other dishes with overpowering citrusy taste.''But that bright yellow building that stands along the main road of the town of Sagada was too inviting. The Lemon Pie House is located farther down the road, away from the town’s main establishments that it stands out from the grey and green setting. Before I knew it, I was already holding a small menu, deciding on what to have for breakfast that would go best with a slice of — wait for it — lemon pie.''The Sagada Lemon Pie House''The Lemon Pie House fosters a quaint, very homey atmosphere. It felt like we were at the living room of a house in the province. And now that I think about it, we were actually at the living room of a house in the province. Except that the area was transformed into a dining hall. The tables are low, reminiscent of the Japanese dining set-up, and guests are expected to sit on the floor. There are regular-level tables in other parts of the room but, of course, the Poor Traveler and his friends chose to sit around a low table to complete the''experience''.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'History of the Lemon Pie House''The Menu''The Poor Traveler''and his friends walked into the cafe without a care in the world other than to be seated and to be seated for a long time. The trek to Bomod-ok Falls while totally rewarding was also absolutely exhausting. (Imagine four hours of walking up and down the hills to the waterfall and back.) We picked a table, pulled chairs, and sat like the chairs were our long-lost lovers. What comfort! It was only when a waiter handed us the menu when we realized we were there for lunch and not just to be seated.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Cafe Bodega''The Orange Orchard''A contemporary tune played by a talented blind musician welcomed us as we stepped into the grounds of Fort San Pedro in Cebu City. The music was rather merry that my cheery friends could not help but dance to the tune. There we were by the entrance to a truly historic site, dancing and sharing a laugh on a bright Saturday afternoon.''Rewind to centuries earlier, when Fort San Pedro was not a popular tourist spot but a functional military defense structure. Lying in Plaza Independencia in Cebu City, Fort San Pedro (aka Fuerza de San Pedro) was constructed by Spanish and Cebuano laborers. Miguel Lopez de Legazpi, a Spanish conquistador who founded the earliest Spanish settlement in Cebu, initiated the construction of the fortress.''By the entrance to the fort''The fort has a long and rich history. At the entrance to the site, we already indulged our eyes with the images posted on the walls of barrel vault entrance, depicting the gradual development of the fort. Its earliest form was made of logs, built on May 8, 1565, only 11 days after Legazpi arrived in Cebu. Through the years, the fort experienced many changes including the replacement of wood with stone and mortar. There was also a portrait of Ferdinand Magellan, a Portuguese explorer who led the Spanish expedition that eventually reached the Philippines in 1521.''A portrait of Ferdinand Magellan''A colonnade inside the fort, topped with yellow bells''Fort San Pedro is said to be the oldest and the smallest fort in the Philippines, covering an area of 2,025 square meters. Its walls are 20 feet tall and 8 feet thick, forming a triangle with uneven lengths: two sides face the sea and the other the land, where the current entrance gate to the fort is located. The gate has two rectangular columns that flank a raised Philippine flag, that serves as the apex of the structure. Three tunnel-shaped windows sit on top of a gable which hosts a niche that shelters an image of the Sto. Nino, the city’s patron saint. Below it is another shallower niche marked with a seal, which I was told was the seal of the Spanish king. Below it is the entrance, a barrel vault, whose arch is topped with a spandrel that bears the Spanish name of the place and the year it was built.''The top part of the gate to the Fort''The seal of the Spanish King at the gate''A turret in one of the corners of Fort San Pedro''Each corner of the triangular fort harbors a bastion — the Ignacio de Loyola in the southeast corner, La Concepcion in the southwest, and San Miguel in the north corner.\xa0On each corner stands a turret that serves as a watchtower. There are 14 cannons installed at the site along with a number of trees and ornamental plants that serve as inanimate ushers around the fort.''My friend Ian, admiring the view''My friends Chichi and Clare dancing to the music''Today, Fort San Pedro is a fusion of a park which serves as an oasis in the middle of a bustling city and a museum where visitors can learn a great deal about the history of Cebu and the beginnings of the Spanish rule in the Philippines.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Magellan’s Cross in Cebu City, Philippines''Cebu Taoist Temple, Philippines: A Date with Dragons''History of the Santo Nino Church in Cebu City, Philippines''Tabo-an Market: Where to Buy Danggit in Cebu City, Philippines''A No-Regrets Half-Day in Cebu City, Philippines''Snapshot: Bantayan Blues – Cebu, Philippines''So, you’re considering a trip to London and whether you want to head to the Olympics or have a touristy trip to see Buckingham Palace there are numerous ways to add a new twist. Whether you head to the Mad Hatter’s for afternoon tea or jump on the Eurostar and take a nice trip to the city of love, the possibilities are wide and varied.''London. Photo by JT Pandy''We’ll take you through a couple of activities you can enjoy in London and then consider heading over the Channel to Paris for a beautiful addition to your trip. The beauty of this is that you can take in two capitals in one, relatively inexpensively as well.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'London’s West End''The Whispering Gallery''Afternoon Tea''Go Further''Paris’s Oldest Restaurant''Tour de Montparnasse''Notre Dame Cathedral''A wooden board displaying instructions on how to communicate with God stood just outside the main temple hall. My friends gathered in front of the board while trying to think of the perfect questions to ask God and excitedly anticipating whether the answer would be Yes, No, or Maybe. But before they could come up with any, another friend invited us to explore the rest of the Cebu Taoist Temple complex.''The''Cebu Taoist Temple''was built in 1972 by the Chinese community of Cebu City. Located in Beverly Hills Subdivision, this multi-tiered temple stands on top of a small hill at an elevation of 300m above sea level. It is the center of the Taoism religion in Cebu but is open even to non-worshipers from 8am to 5pm.''Dragons protecting the area'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Architecture and Design''Rules of the Temple''Taoist Procedures in Communicating with God''The Chinese New Year was very much alive when we were in Melaka. An enormous Chinese water dragon, dangling over Jonker Street was spitting cold water into a small fountain to the delight of tourists and locals alike. Darkness was slowly blanketing the UNESCO World Heritage Site but Jonker Street was just starting to get a life of its own.''Jonker Street''is the primary road of Melaka Chinatown. Over so many decades, this street has been famed for its row of antique shops. As the years passed, however, several restaurants and clothing outlets sprang up in the area. Today, Jonker Street is popular to travelers for it retained its old charm while offering food and crafts that are unique and truly affordable. Every Friday and Saturday, the whole street turns into a long night market where you will find everything from street food to traditional souvenir items.''Mouth of Jonker Street Malacca''The water dragon floating over Jonker Street''It’s not easy to see why this street has always made visitors fall in love with it. Its charm lies in its history and style. At the center of the UNESCO World Heritage Site, it runs from the Tan Boon Seng Bridge across the Chinatown. It is flanked with some of the oldest heritage houses in Malaysia, built in as early as the 17th century. The buildings also boast a unique mixture of European and Asian architecture, mostly Portuguese, Dutch, and Chinese.''Jonker Street has also emerged as a popular food destination because of the number of good and interesting restaurants offering a wide array of Asian cuisines that are located here and in adjacent streets. Probably the most popular delicacy here is the Chicken Rice Ball. During lunch and dinner time, long queues at certain restaurants stretch to as long as half a block.''When it comes to souvenir shops, I especially loved the many Jonker Gallery stores that abound in the area. I love the small trinkets such as the “spices” ref magnets and other decors. I even tried their 60s iced tea and it was so good. It is available in many flavors but the one I tried was Apple+Guava. I wanted to buy an entire case of it but we figured it woud be hard to carry it around or to check it in at the airport.''60’s Iced Tea by Jonker Gallery, Apple+Guave flavor! Refreshing!''“Spices” ref magnet!''Some clothing stores sell humorous statement shirts and blouses that are sure to crack up even those who are just passing by!''A Chinese Temple stands conspicuously along the streets. The Hokkien Huay Kuan Temple\xa0stands out even in the middle of a vibrant and colorful environment. Thanks to its intricately carved relief doors and pillars!''While walking around, my friends Ces and Asta and I kept hearing a clanking sound and we couldn’t figure out where it was coming from. It turned out that it was from a booth serving a local hard candy that they break into small pieces with a metal chisel-like tool and a hammer.''The clanking hard candy.''Hokkien Huay Kuan Temple in Malacca''The highlight of our stay at Jonker was our quick food trip while walking on the way back to our hotel. There was a booth serving street food on stick and I just couldn’t help but dig in. I’m a sucker for street food! It was just a bit pricey for me. I had a stick of a chorizo-like thing and hotdog and chicken balls and I was charged over P200. But it was OK because I loved it like a love song (Cue: Selena Gomez). It was just weird for me because I still prefer my impaled foodam fried than just boiled.''We also had egg-shaped ice cream and milk tea!''Quite pricey. These three sticks cost me over P200. Imagine.''We dropped by Jonker Street more than a few times in our short stay in Malacca. These small stops and the Melaka River Cruise were the highlights of our trip!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Walking in Harmony: 4 Religious Places to Visit at Temple Street, Malacca, Malaysia''Sri Poyyatha Vinayagar Moorthi Temple in Malacca: Malaysia’s Oldest Hindu Temple''Lao San Cafe: Where to Eat in Malacca, Malaysia''Hoe Kee Chicken Rice Balls: Where to Eat in Malacca, Malaysia''Kampung Kling Mosque: Embracing Diversity in Malacca, Malaysia''The Dutch Square in Malacca, Malaysia''My mom tried her very best to get out of the living room of our house. It was the first day that we had a color TV and \xa0it was my first time to see color on a boobtube. I was so mesmerized by the colors and vibrance that my mom had to carry the small chair I was seated on to the dining room so I could finally have dinner. I was seven years old.''It was just a small, boxy TV. But that Sharp TV was my bestfriend when I was a kid. It was the first TV we had. Before this, I had been watching shows on the black-and-white TV at my lolo’s house and I was thrilled that I won’t have to cross over to the neighbor’s just to see my favorite cartoon show. That day, I watched everything — everything — even the cheesy soap commercials because I was so magnetized by the moving colors.''Growing up in Batangas, I had always been in love with the beach. Though the shores of our side of Batangas are strewn with black volcanic sand, they still provide a fantastic place to relax and swim. But because of the black sand, the water looks gray and murky even when it’s not. When I was a kid, it was my one and only concept of the beach. I thought all beaches in the world had black sand with coconut trees rising from them.''It was smashed by our small Sharp TV. I remember the first time I saw a photo of a white beach in full color on TV, how I was blown away by it, and how it triggered my initial desire to travel. \xa0I still love the beaches in our little barangay (I love all beaches!) but since then, I had been hopping from one gorgeous beach to another.\xa0All it took was one image of Boracay and it somehow paved way for who I am today.''These are my #Sharp100 memories? How about you? Do you have memorable Sharp moments?''You might want to share some of these memories for a chance to win a\xa0trip for 2 to the US West Coast! All you need to do is share your''most memorable Sharp moment''on their website:''https://share.sharp100years.com/''Here are more details:''Interested? Head over to the #Sharp100 website to get started:''https://share.sharp100years.com''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''JustFly Reviews: 5 Excellent Ways to Survive a Road Trip''Puting Buhangin Beach and Kuwebang Lampas: Pagbilao, Quezon''Dampalitan Island: Overnight Camping in Padre Burgos, Quezon''Puerto Princesa Subterranean River National Park: A World Wonder in Palawan, Philippines''Win a New Pair of Skechers GoWalk2!''How We Enjoyed Pahiyas Festival for Only P1000''The queue at the jetty for the river cruise stretched several yards. Backpackers and families composed the long line and excited conversations filled the air as we the queue moved slowly. After a couple of loading batches of tourists, it was finally our turn to step on the ferry. I guess it is not a secret that the Malacca River Cruise is best enjoyed in the evening as recommended to us by Asri, our hotel owner.''Melaka River, or Malacca River, is a very pretty sight. But its appeal is not just physical. Like I said on a previous post,\xa0rivers always play a gargantuan role in history. Most of the world’s greatest civilizations sprung up on the banks of mighty rivers. Others are used as the gateway to conquest of other great settlements. Such is the case for the Melaka River and the old town of Melaka.\xa0The Melaka River was used by the Portuguese to conquer and take over the town in the 1500s. The heritage town of Malacca is divided into halves by the Melaka River — on one side lies the''Red Square''and on the other, the Chinatown.''Today, the local government has cleaned up and beautified the riverbanks. The river is flanked with several delightful structures that can be seen from the cruise including the Dutch Square (or Red Square), traditional villages, and other tourist attractions. The cruise also sails under several old bridges that link the two sides of the river. While I bet doing the tour is also great in the daytime, the real beauty of the place is revealed when darkness hits as these structures bathe in artificial lights.''By the way, the ticket rates are RM10 per adult and RM5 per child.''Here are photos of some of the curious sights that await the lucky ones who would take the Melaka River Cruise:''Queue at the Ticket Counter (Kaunter Tiket)''Ticket costs RM10 for adults and RM5 for children.''My friend Ces enjoying the ride under the purple light!''The Melaka Malay Sultanate Water Mill seen from the ferry''Artwork painted on the walls of the buildings''The name of this place slipped my mind. Wuuu''Monorail train''Melaka River Cruise''A ferris wheel!''Overall, it was a great experience. It was a quiet ride and the tourists who were with us were rather calm. I was expecting a “noisy” ride but it was very peaceful. It was a fantastic feeling to see the lights that showcase another side of the beautiful city of Malacca.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Melaka River Quayside Square, Malaysia: A Walking Tour''Lao San Cafe: Where to Eat in Malacca, Malaysia''Sri Poyyatha Vinayagar Moorthi Temple in Malacca: Malaysia’s Oldest Hindu Temple''The Dutch Square in Malacca, Malaysia''Jonker Street in Malacca, Malaysia''Kampung Kling Mosque: Embracing Diversity in Malacca, Malaysia''The Banaue Rice Terraces was built 2000 years ago (?) by the indigenous people of Ifugao mostly by hand. Covering an extensive area of over 10,300 square kilometers, it is a massive engineering wonder.\xa0According to the old Philippine Tourism website, when these terraces are all connected in a straight line, it would encircle half the globe!''Aside from the great effort needed to build such a colossal structure, what makes these terraces truly breathtaking is that it reflects the culture of the people who have lived in these mountains for millennia.''When I was a kid, I had always wondered why the people of Ifugao went through the trouble of “carving” a difficult mountainous terrain until my Grade 1''Sibika and Kultura''teacher explained to us how\xa0rice\xa0is a significant part of the culture of Ifugao. In the highlands where it is difficult to find a flat fertile ground to plant crops in, terraces are one of the best ways to make use of arable lands. Rice needs plenty of water to grow and the terraced structure allows water to be trapped in each paddy while excess trickles down to the lower terraces.''It’s not just in the Philippines for there are other terraced mountainsides in China and other parts of Southeast Asia. It is a perfect example of people and the environment, and culture and nature (and agriculture) blending together in harmony.''Vast. Extensive. Breathtaking!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Not a UNESCO World Heritage Site''At the Banaue Rice Terraces Viewpoint''There was a tired silence lingering inside the van as we pressed our heads on the window. Silently we admired the view.  as we drove from Sagada to Banaue. The road to Banaue from Sagada is long and winding, but none of us complained about the travel time — even though our butts were starting to catch fire. The hills, the hillsides, and the terraced hillsides; the mountains, the mountaintops, and the terraced mountaintops; the cliffs, the valleys, and the rivers that run across.''When our van stopped for the first time since we left Sagada, we thought we were already in Banaue but our driver was quick to crush our false assumptions. “We’re in Bontoc,” he announced. “There’s something you might want to take a good look at.”''We hopped out of the van one by one and saw what our driver was referring to —''Bay-yo Rice Terraces''. Although not as big as the Banaue Rice Terraces, Bay-yo is still a stunner. To be honest, it actually looked more appealing than any of the terraces I had seen so far. Perhaps it was because of the fact that there were no houses that stand in the middle of the terraces. The houses were all on one side of the cliff and the terraces, on the other.''Because it is called Bay-yo Rice Terraces, we easily assumed that the crops planted here are rice but one of the locals there said that they sometimes plant vegetables. And not too far from the viewpoint is a lane veggie stores.'"That's our driver purchasing veggies!"'Silence once again dominated when we hopped back into the van. Nothing could be heard but the soft rumbling of the van’s engine and the whisper of the wind as it ruffled our hair and touched our faces, and the mild snoring of a friend who had slept the entire trip out. But together, they created a hypnotic symphony, a lullaby.''And then silence was broken.''Everybody sitting on the left side of the van let out shouts of excitement and urged the driver to stop the vehicle at once. There was a lush rainforest carpeting one side of the mountain. A thin sheet of mist danced over it. And when they parted, they revealed a waterfall, a magnificent waterfall cascading in all its splashy glory.''Truly enchanting falls!''Until now, we don’t know what this waterfall is called, but it sure is a marvelous sight! It is somewhere between Bontoc and Banaue. We have asked around and posted this on my social media channels hoping someone would give me the name of this waterfall but I have yet to find out. Regardless of its name, this moment would remain one of the most unforgettable I have had on the road.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Over the Mountains to Bomod-ok Falls: Sagada, Philippines''That Thing Called Kiltepan Sunrise: Sagada, Philippines''The Hanging Coffins at Echo Valley: Sagada, Philippines''Banaue Rice Terraces in Ifugao, Philippines''Sagada Weaving: Mountain Province, Philippines''Cave Connection: Next-Level Spelunking in Sagada, Philippines''People, with drinks in their hand, danced to the loud music as the light flickered in the middle of the place. While it sounds like a scene from your favorite club in the city, that is how one would describe the bonfire event that happens in Sagada every year. Except, the dance is native, the music is created by traditional percussion instruments, and the light is coming from a big bonfire that burns gloriously at the center of the site.''Every year, the Sagada Genuine Guides Association holds a bonfire event and tourists are welcome to join in the celebration. It happens on one night between Christmas and New Year (December 27 or 28), considered a peak season for Sagada tourism.''Aside from the low temperature, this is the reason why I always visit Sagada at this time. They have been doing this for three years and, not missing any, I attended this event every year for three years. And I have no intention of putting an end to this habit.''The first two years, they did it at Kiltepan Viewpoint. In 2011, they moved the venue to Langtiw, near the mouth of Sumaguing Cave.''It’s not free, though. For a minimal fee of PhP 250 (rate last year), you can be part of the celebration. This rate covers transportation from the town center to the venue and back, full buffet dinner (including a native dish called''pinikpikan'')'', overflowing drinks (water, coffee, and wine), and a chance to learn more about the dances and the culture of the lovely highland paradise called Sagada. This is partying Sagada-style!'"That's my friend Tonet with too much wine in her belly. Don't be like her. Haha. Kidding.""That's Ces enjoying the warmth of the fire and the people of Sagada!"'Keep the fire burning!''I know I got you at wine. The past three years, they served a number of wines — mulberry wine, blueberry wine, strawberry wine, and a native wine, the name of which slipped my mind. (Guess who was drinking too much at the parteeh?) You can have as much as you want but please behave properly. (Pretty please?)''Some of the guides will perform a native Sagada dance around the big fire and everyone is invited to dance with them.''You can also bring your own food. Yep, even marshmallows that you can put on a stick and heat near the bonfire!''One thing I noticed through the years, though, was that it got more and more chaotic. The first bonfire was exceptional. Food was served early and people were lining up (and they should). In 2010, there were two lines; it took so much time to reach the buffet but it was pretty organized. Last year, at the risk of sounding whiny, was sort of a mess. There were so many queues that got tangled up as they got nearer the buffet. At one point, the lines disappeared and it was ugh. I’m not sure whether it was because the food was served later than usual or the batch of tourists last year was more impatient (or hungrier) than the others or both. But it something has to be done, in my opinion. Still, I would gladly return and join this feast in the years to come.''If you wish to have the same experience, contact Sagada Genuine Guides Association and ask for the schedule of this year’s bonfire so you can plan ahead. I’m not sure if they picked a date as early as now but it’s safe to assume it’s between Christmas and New Year.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Over the Mountains to Bomod-ok Falls: Sagada, Philippines''Sagada Weaving: Mountain Province, Philippines''The Hanging Coffins at Echo Valley: Sagada, Philippines''That Thing Called Kiltepan Sunrise: Sagada, Philippines''Cave Connection: Next-Level Spelunking in Sagada, Philippines''Lemon Pie House: Where to Eat in Sagada, Philippines''The dew that the shrubs collected through the night was still cradled in their leaves’ lovely embrace when we arrived at''Kiltepan Viewpoint''. While time seemed to stand still for these droplets, we were hurrying to the top of the hill as fast as we could, trying to catch the sunrise. We cut the fog that blanketed the trees and carefully trod to the top, all the while trying to avoid stepping on the red mud. We ended up catching our breaths, our footwear covered in mud and our eyes feasting on this heavenly spectacle that unfolded before our eyes.''The sun emerged from the sea of clouds and its first rays broke through with indescribable wonder. We tried to take all marvels in — although it seems impossible — as we stood there and watched the sun signal the start of day. It was amazing.''Kiltepan Viewpoint is the most popular spot to catch the famous Sagada sunrise. The fading darkness reveals an ocean of white clouds blanketing the hills and the valleys below. The sun peeks like a curious god, saying hello to its creation. As the sun inches from the horizon, the clouds part — if you’re lucky — and reveal the magnificent terraces underneath.''The path to paradise. The trail to the viewpoint.''Beautiful foggy morning!''A small cabin at Kiltepan hill''My friends, feeling model''View after the sunrise.''Aside from the golden sunrise, simple joys await those who are determined and early. For a guy like me who is used to the heat of the sun, it was quite entertaining to watch the smoke that came out of my breath when I spoke. The trees lining up around the site also made a gorgeous view. And the fog, ah the fog, made it all enchanting.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Over the Mountains to Bomod-ok Falls: Sagada, Philippines''The Hanging Coffins at Echo Valley: Sagada, Philippines''Sagada Weaving: Mountain Province, Philippines''Sagada Bonfire Fest in Mountain Province, Philippines''Cave Connection: Next-Level Spelunking in Sagada, Philippines''Lemon Pie House: Where to Eat in Sagada, Philippines''“''This waterfall better be worth it'',” said my friend Tonet in between gasps and pants. We had not walked even a quarter of the distance yet our legs and lungs were already complaining hard. It was exhausting, to say the least. But the view on the way there was highly encouraging. There we were, in the middle of the terraced hillside, planted with all sorts of vegetables. The view was nothing short of spectacular.''Bomod-ok Falls''is also called the Big Falls because, well, it is definitely bigger than Bokong Falls, another popular waterfall in Sagada. Hidden deep in a valley, it takes an hour to two to get here by foot from the main road (and that’s just one-way). Bomod-ok’s cold, cold water cascades from the top of a beautiful naturally contoured cliff to a pool below, forming a 200-ft column of water and wonder.''The start of the trek was easy. The concrete path that leads to the falls is actually easy to walk on. It also provides visitors spectacular views of the terraces, the hills, the valley. It also allows a quick glimpse into the lifestyle of the community. On the way there, we realized how difficult it must be to live here — walking long distances. Yet, we came across locals, men and women, who effortlessly trod in between rice paddies while carrying sacks (yes, plural) of produce on their back. We even met a man balancing a stack of timber on his shoulders as he made his way up.''(Nahiya naman kami kay manong.)''We saw children planting crops, playing along the terraces, and singing while watching tourists pass by.''It was exhausting, yes, but none of it mattered. It was the kind of “exhausting” that still kept us going, all the while knowing that a paradise was waiting for us at the end of the trail.''Picture-picture muna!''Celine and Ces starting to get tired''On the way down!''And more terraces!''Hey there, Carabao! You having a great time?''The trail cuts across a small village. There are restrooms there and stores selling food and drinks. It also provides temporary shade and plenty of opportunities to exchange stories about things encountered along the first half of the trail.''After a drink and a few minutes of rest, we moved on and made our way further down the hill. From here the trail was steeper, and the thought of climbing back up was a little bit terrifying. Still, we walked on and on, across more terraces, over a small stream, along the side of a cliff. Though it got more and more tiring, the view got better and better. The sound of water cascading to the pool was both exciting and encouraging.''Let’s cross that stream!''Look! A River! That’s a good sign, right?''Soon, we had our first glimpse of the mighty waterfall.\xa0We wanted to get a better view of the falls so we hopped from one boulder to another and let ourselves get drenched in the water that splashed when the water dove to the basin. Tiny droplets of water got blown to my face and gathered on my eyelashes as I sat on one big rock near the falls. I did not plan on swimming at the pool but it was so inviting. Though the water was extremely cold, I knew that soaking in it would be the most refreshing part of the trip.''Bomod-ok Falls or “Big Falls” in Sagada''After over an hour of soaking, we agreed it was time to go. All we had to do was trace back our steps to the basketball court. Like I said, the going down to the falls was the easy part. The trek back up made me do something I had never done before — vomit air.''If from every tired gasp, a gold coin would pop out of my throat then I would have been a millionaire by the time I reached our van. But I’d surely give away all that gold anytime if it’s for Bomod-ok Falls to keep all its wondrous beauty. Worth it?''You bet''.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''That Thing Called Kiltepan Sunrise: Sagada, Philippines''The Hanging Coffins at Echo Valley: Sagada, Philippines''Cave Connection: Next-Level Spelunking in Sagada, Philippines''Sagada Bonfire Fest in Mountain Province, Philippines''Sagada Weaving: Mountain Province, Philippines''The Bay-yo Rice Terraces and the Mysterious Waterfall: Bontoc, Mountain Province''The question always pops up. I had been to Sagada three times. Each time, I visited the Echo Valley. Each time someone always asked the guide this question:''Why do locals hang coffins on the side of the cliff''? Although the answers vary in small details, they are basically similar — the locals believe that the higher the coffins are, the closer they are to heaven.''Only a short walk away from the town’s main road, the Echo Valley is probably the most\xa0accessible of all the tourist spots in Sagada. We started our walk at the St. Mary Church through the Calvary Hill (Mission Compound) Cemetery to get there. What welcomed us was a vista of sharp cliffs with hanging coffins affixed to one of its edge.''A small sign nailed to a pine tree caught our attention on our way to the valley. “This area is restricted for graves,” said the sign. Behind it is a gorgeous landscape: a small hill covered with grass and pine trees, and dotted with white graves of different sizes. The group agreed to take a minute to explore the graveyard. The chilly atmosphere was made eerie by the gravestones that surrounded us. Still, we hopped from one spot to another, looking for something that would spark interest. Our short stop became a long moment of reflection for us as the graves served as mirrors of how we lived our lives. It wasn’t long until our guide called us and asked us to follow him to the valley before the dark starts blanketing the site.''The Mission Compound Graveyard in Sagada''On one end of the cemetery was a well-worn trail, a testament to how popular this site is to tourists. The reddish walking trail stood out in a sea of greenery. The ground was rather soft, veiled with dry pine tree leaves. The sight was a wonder in itself — pine trees standing like sentinels of the dead, the deep valley that seemed to invite us to walk down, and the limestone cliffs that rise gloriously from the ground. We could not help but snap away, trying to capture everything we laid eyes on. It was an easy walk; so easy that we actually forgot that we were traversing the side of a cliff and that one wrong step could cost us our lives. Needless to say, any tourist who will visit this place has \xa0to watch his or her step and be careful.''Pine trees in the area''Echo Valley and the Hanging Coffins''When we finally reached the viewpoint, we stood there and just looked at the hanging coffins from afar. Our guide encouraged us to shout for it would echo.''This is Echo Valley''after all. We started throwing one shout after another to the other hill and heard them bounce back to us, to our delight and amusement. It was quite ironic in a way. I remember one foreign travel blogger who shared his view about shouting at the Echo Valley. He said that he found it rude to shout at the site, knowing that there were hanging coffins ahead of us and a relatively modern cemetery behind. His view was that we should keep the place quiet and peaceful as a sign of respect to the dead. I agree with him now.''Although I had been to Sagada a few times before, I have never tried going down the valley and see the hanging coffins up close. It’s not because I was scared but more like exhausted. In all three occasions, I had visited this site in late afternoon, after a trek to Bomod-ok Falls or a spelunking tour through Sumaguing Cave or Cave Connection. I just couldn’t exhaust more energy going down to the valley after a tiring day. But that gives me a reason to go back to Sagada soon.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''8 Unusual Cemeteries in the Philippines''That Thing Called Kiltepan Sunrise: Sagada, Philippines''Over the Mountains to Bomod-ok Falls: Sagada, Philippines''Orange Picking at Rock Farm, Sagada (Updated Rates: 2016)''Sagada Bonfire Fest in Mountain Province, Philippines''Sagada Weaving: Mountain Province, Philippines''The worry in my head started to grow bigger as we moved deeper into Sumaguing Cave. It wasn’t because it was difficult to climb down — it''is'', actually — but because it was beginning to dawn on me how tremendously tougher it would be to climb back up. You see, the way out of this cave if you’re doing the standard Sumaguing Cave Spelunking Tour is the same as the entry point. It didn’t help that as our trail became steeper and steeper as we went along, it also got more slippery. But it was the most fun I had had in a long while!''There are over 60 caves discovered underneath the town of Sagada. Of all of these underworlds, Sumaguing Cave has the biggest chamber, earning its nickname “The Big Cave.” Inside are countless rock formations slowly shaped by nature over thousands of years. These rock formations mimicking familiar shapes are the highlight of this spelunking adventure. Some of these formations include the bear, elephants, turtle head, chocolate cake, and pregnant woman. It is perhaps these shapes (and the overall experience) that tourists keep coming back to Sagada for. Sumaguing Cave is probably the most popular of all tourist attractions in town.''There is a man-made staircase from the roadside that leads into the mouth of Sumaguing Cave. It was very easy to walk down these steps. (But again, the going down is not really the most tiring part of the trek.) The stairs slowly transform into rocks as you walk farther. The more you look ahead and look down, the more it becomes clear how challenging an experience it will be especially to first-time spelunkers.''The trail is divided into three stages.''Stage 1''is what I usually call “The Descent” because this is the part where your only goal is to reach the bottom of that steep,\xa0bat-poop covered''cliff.''Stage 2''is the easy and happy part. You’ll get to see most rock formations here. (This is the part where they will ask you to remove your shoes or slippers.)''Stage 3''is what the guides call''The Tunnel''. Time to get wet! This is where you’ll squeeze yourself into narrow openings and soak in cold water, and be guided by ropes as you traverse the cave.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Sumaguing Cave Spelunking Tour Tips''Sumaguing Cave Tour Rates''When the Portuguese built the''A Famosa''in 1511, I bet they had no idea that this military fortress would become one of the most iconic historical structures of Malaysia.''A Famosa''means “The Famous” in Portuguese. True to its name, this fortress turned out to be one of the most popular tourist spots in peninsular Malaysia almost 500 years later.''A Famosa, known locally as Kota A Famosa, is one of the oldest surviving European architectural wonders in Asia even though its gate house called''Porta de Santiago''is the only part of the fortress that remain standing.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'History of A Famosa Fortress''The\xa0Middelsburgh\xa0Bastion''The\xa0Fredrick\xa0Hendrick\xa0Bastion''It was past six o’clock in the evening but the sun was still shining oh-so-brightly and we didn’t know whether to feel good or bad about it. As much as we didn’t want our day to end just yet, we also could not wait for the heat to subside a bit. (It''is''hot in Malacca.) We were also determined to do the Melaka River Cruise at night as recommended by''Asri, our hotel owner'', who assured us that the cruise was best done when the artificial lights start giving colors to the riverbanks.''Our original plan of simply checking out the museum complex was done and we wanted to do something while waiting for the dark. As we were crossing the street back to Jonker Street, we noticed a crowded structure ahead of us. While we had been busy exploring the other parts of Malacca, we totally failed to see that there was another historical site just next to Tan Boon Seng Bridge — the Middleburg Bastion. Before we knew it, we already started what many tourists call the''Melaka River Quayside Square''Walk.'"Malacca Fort's Middleburg Bastion viewed from the Fredrick Henrick Bastion site""WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Melaka River''The Middleburg Bastion''The Melaka Malay Sultanate Water Mill''The Fredrick Hendrick Bastion''The Malacca Maritime Museum''There was a small kitten sleeping beside one of the graves at the Dutch Cemetery. I was immediately drawn to it and found that it bore some small wounds. Like this poor kitten, the place itself is often overlooked by tourists primarily because of its not-very-exposed location. It lies behind St. Paul’s Church.''While visitors gathered at St. Paul’s Church on top of the hill and at A Famosa fortress below, it is eerily quiet at the Dutch Graveyard. I visited this place for two days and found that not many tourists step on this side of the complex. If they do, they usually pass by as they take the short cut to the church ruins from the fortress or vice versa.''Poor kitten resting at the Graveyard''More graves''The graveyard was first used in the late 17th century'',''when the Dutch was the ruling power in the city. While it was the Dutch who first used it, it seems like there are more British graves here than Dutch ones. Currently, there are 33 graves that became the resting place of British individuals, and only five Dutch graves. The first Brit to be buried in this cemetery was Captain John Kidd, a naval captain. Most bodies buried at the cemetery were British naval personnel or wives of army officers.''This is part of my''SINGAPORE-MALACCA TRIP''. Learn more about the other places I visited and how I planned the trip!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''St. Paul Church and the Writings on the Wall: Malacca, Malaysia''The Stadthuys Town Hall: Museum of History, Ethnography, and Literature of Malacca, Malaysia''Christ Church Melaka, Malaysia''A Famosa Fortress: Unearthing and Rebuilding Malacca’s History''Melaka Youth Museum and Art Gallery: Malacca, Malaysia''Walking in Harmony: 4 Religious Places to Visit at Temple Street, Malacca, Malaysia''The sun was rather unkind that afternoon and we were thankful to be standing under the shade of the massive walls of St. Paul’s Church, standing at the summit of a hill in the museum complex of Malacca. Needless to say, our stay within the church premises was refreshing but not just because it gave us a temporary shelter from the heat of the sun. As we stood in the middle of the ruins, we found ourselves surrounded by centuries-old tombstones with Portuguese inscriptions.''We let our eyes linger at the inscription on each tombstone displayed and admired the choice of words. No, we don’t understand (or can’t read) Portuguese. Thanks to the small tablets with English translations that sat on each gravestone, we were able to grasp what the writings meant.'"St. Paul's Church in Malacca, Malaysia"'One of the tombstones affixed to the walls of the Ruins'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'History of St. Paul’s Church – Melaka''St. Paul’s Church Melaka Today''We stared at the sign hanging on the door and the word on it —''buka''. My friends Ces and Astrid and I stood by the door and briefly talked about how close Bahasa and other Filipino languages must be.''Buka''means''open'', which in Tagalog is''bukas''.''“See? We haven’t even stepped inside and we’re already learning something,” exclaimed Ces. It was the first of the many things we discovered and learned in our visit to the Melaka Youth Museum and Art Gallery.''The Melaka Youth Museum and Art Gallery stands along Jalan Laksamana (Laksamana Road) just beside Christ Church Melaka. It is part of the Dutch Square and it is one of the attractions in Malacca that are easiest to find. Like the rest of the building in Dutch Square, it is painted red. On the ground floor is the Youth Museum that houses artifacts about the more recent history of the city. On the second level is the Art Gallery, which houses several excellent artworks including paintings, sculptures and more.''The Melaka Youth Museum and Art Gallery building as seen from the Dutch Square, and I with my friend Asta''Inside Melaka Youth Museum'"Malaysia's longest horse painting on canvas (displayed inside Melaka Art Gallery)"'More artworks inside the Art Gallery''More artworks''Malacca Dutch Square viewed from the window of the Art Gallery''Astrid and Ces''The Melaka Youth Museum and Art Gallery is open from Wednesday to Sunday, 9:00 am to 5:30 pm. The entrance fee is RM 2.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Christ Church Melaka, Malaysia''The Dutch Square in Malacca, Malaysia''The Stadthuys Town Hall: Museum of History, Ethnography, and Literature of Malacca, Malaysia''Walking in Harmony: 4 Religious Places to Visit at Temple Street, Malacca, Malaysia''The Dutch Graveyard of Malacca, Malaysia''Melaka River Quayside Square, Malaysia: A Walking Tour''I do not remember whether the bell rang or not but the''Red Clock Tower''caught my attention as I passed by the''Dutch Square''. It was already six in the evening, which came as a shock to me. I didn’t realize that my friends Ces and Astrid and I had been walking around Malacca for several hours now and the sun, which was still burning oh so brightly that time, left us disoriented about time. (You see, the sun sets at around 6pm here in Manila.) We decided to cease walking and rest for a few minutes at the Square.''The Dutch Square is probably the most recognizable landmark in Malacca. It harbors some of the city’s most popular buildings including''Christ Church'', the Malacca Art Gallery and Youth Museum, and the Stadthuys, all surrounding the Queen Victoria Fountain and the Red Clock Tower. Trees rise from a blanket of red, orange and yellow flowers adding more vibrance to the already colorful plaza. Throughout the day, dozens of tourists flock around the Dutch Square trying to have photos of themselves taken at the square.''Malacca Dutch Square viewed from the window of the Art Gallery'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Tan Beng Swee Clock Tower''Queen Victoria Fountain''Red and orange flowers blanket the small park in front of''Christ Church Melaka'', one of the most recognizable landmarks of this breathtaking Malaysian city. The park was crowded as tourists gathered to have their photos taken with the church as their backdrop. It stands in the Dutch Square, the center of European power during their rule in the city.''Christ Church Melaka is Malaysia’s oldest functioning Protestant church. While its construction started as early as 1741 on the Dutch occupation centennial, it wasn’t until 1753 that it was completed. Before this was built, the Dutch who lived in the city used the old church on top of St. Paul’s Hill.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Architecture''Inside the Church''Asri pulled a chair, sat next to us, and whipped out a printed map. “These are the places you must visit in your two days here in Malacca,” he marked the map with little black dots. Asri is the owner of the Oriental Riverside Residence where we stayed. He is also the best thing about this hostel. He’s friendly, warm, sincere, and absolutely helpful.''With no idea about any of the accommodations in Malacca, I desperately read hundreds of reviews posted on different travel websites while preparing for this trip. Of all the hostels in the city, Oriental Residence has the best reviews and highest scores. Travelers who have tried it have only wonderful things to say about their stay and they especially noted how friendly the owners Asri and Lin were. I was glad that even with so little lead time, I was able to book two rooms with them. We paid around PhP 800 per room. We booked 2 rooms for 3 persons so that’s PhP 530 per head.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Location''Rooms and Amenities''Listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, the historic city of Malacca (or Melaka, its local name) is one of Malaysia’s most important tourist destinations. Its long history saw the rise and fall of the Portuguese, the Dutch and the British as they conquered the place, leaving long-standing structures and cultural influences that are still alive and visible and creating a melting pot of cultures that is truly one of a kind. Although this city is rapidly developing into an urban hub, at its core is a heritage area divided into two parts by the Melaka River. On the river’s eastern bank lies the Chinatown and on its western bank, the center of the European settlement during their rule.''Dutch Square, Malacca''The historic city of Malacca may be in the heart of Peninsular Malaysia but it is only 4-5 hours away from Singapore. This means that if you’re visiting Singapore, you may consider paying this magnificent destination a visit, too. Be it a day trip, an overnight stay, or a whole weekend, a stop in Malacca will surely prove to be an enlightening and rewarding experience.''The Poor Traveler''had always planned to travel to Malacca but it was not until January of this year when it finally happened. I tried my hardest to squeeze a two-day visit to this city into our 4-day itinerary in Singapore and fortunately for me, my travel companions loved the idea. If you’re going to Singapore for 4 days or more, I encourage you to visit Malacca.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Traveling from Singapore to Malacca by Bus''The Poor Traveler’s Bus Ride to Malacca''Listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, the historic city of Malacca (or Melaka, its local name) is one of Malaysia’s most important tourist\xa0destinations. Its long history has seen the\xa0rise and fall\xa0of the Portuguese, the Dutch, and the British as they conquered the place, leaving long-standing structures and cultural influences that are still alive and visible, creating a\xa0melting pot\xa0of cultures that is truly one of a kind. Although this city is rapidly developing into an urban hub, at its core is a heritage area divided into two parts by the Melaka River. On the river’s eastern bank lies the Chinatown and on its western bank, the center of the European settlement during their rule.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get to Malacca''Preparing Travel Documents''Finding a Cheap Hostel/Hotel in Malacca''Places to Visit in Malacca''Where to Eat in Malacca''Sample Malacca Weekend Itinerary''Sample Travel Budget''I was a warrior in the middle of a battle. With reliable weapons in my bag — meds, vitamins, paper napkins, and a bottle of water — I decided to go on an important journey back home. Not even the bad fever and runny nose, however, stopped a smile from slicing across my lower face when we finally passed under the arc that proudly screamed\xa0“Maligayang Pagdating sa Lalawigan ng mga Magigiting,” or, in English,''Welcome to the Land of the Valiant.''Batangas — my hometown. Even when I have a bad case of cold, I still peek out the window and try to catch a glimpse of that “statement arc.” This trip was a product of an important personal crisis.''The Poor Traveler'', born and raised in Batangas, was a fool for not having explored much of his province. I had been to as far as Ilocos in the north and General Santos City in the south, and had gone abroad a number of times but it was such a shame that I had not taken enough time to appreciate my home. Although a proud Batangueno, I was guilty of ignoring the familiar. I was so used to Batangas that I forgot that many of the places I pass through, the things I experience, and even the food I eat \xa0contributed so much in making me who I am.''Even though I was supposed to be at home and getting some rest, I pushed through with probably the most important trip of my life. Combating a cold and all the nasty things that came with it, I declared that it was time to return to, well,''the''Land of the Valiant''.''Taal Basilica'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get There''Finding a Place to Stay in Batangas (Hotels, Hostels, Resorts)''Places to Visit in Batangas''Where and What to Eat in Batangas''Building an Itinerary''Budget''This post was last updated in 2012.''We were expecting a delightful restaurant with a stunning view of the seashore. We didn’t get that. We got something else. And we’re content.''Tucked in a quiet barangay in Nasugbu, Batangas,''Kainan sa Dalampasigan''is still a delightful seafood restaurant but we did not get the view of the sea. Instead, this authentic Batangueno gastronomic paradise lies in a lush garden that allows visitors a quick but memorable moment with nature. It’s an oasis in the middle of a rapidly developing town. The place is bursting with flowering vegetation with a beautiful organic ceiling, made of vines many of which hang like frozen gentle raindrops. Even without having our first taste of the dishes they had to offer, we already enjoyed our stay there.''Dining tables carefully arranged''One of the waitresses were replacing dried flowers in vases sitting on the dining tables when we started to order. (Mind you, these were fresh flowers from their own garden, not plastic.) We asked them what their bestseller was and all of them agreed that it was the “Bilao,” a basket of some of their seafood bestsellers and pork with cucumber and tomatoes. Since we were only two people sharing, we were hesitant at first but decided to go for it. It was the only thing we ordered aside from rice and calamansi juice.''While waiting for our order, we walked around the place and indulged in the beauty of it. Large dining tables were arranged in four rows, flanked by long wooden benches. Each table had a vase of fresh yellow flowers on the center. Sheets of sheer beige fabric form ambiant waves overhead; a nice touch. A piano covered with lace sat in one corner while a''Palamigan,''where drinks and refreshments were prepared,\xa0lied in one corner. On the other end of the room was an indoor garden and a fountain under a ceiling made of hanging vines and dry leaves, which allowed sufficient amount of sunlight in. Old decors hanging from it added to the overall appeal of the place. Right outside was a real garden, all covered in grass and bush.''A lovely decor hanging from the vine ceiling''The Palamigan, where refreshments are prepared''After taking enough photos, we trod back to our table and found that the rice, wrapped in banana leaves, was already waiting for us. It was a huge serving — like 2-3 times bigger than the usual serving. One waiter then served the calamansi juice — pleasantly orange, fresh, and sweet. It was really good.''Giant servings of rice! (P30)''Calamansi Juice (P45)''The last to be served was the bilao. It was humongous. My friend Celine and I threw each other shocked stares, trying to figure out how in the world would we be able to finish this. There were 18-20 mussels covered in cheese and butter, some shrimps, liempo, fried bangus, tomatoes, onions, cucumber, and bagoong alamang (shrimp paste). It was everything we wanted in one bilao. The mussels were to die for; the moment we tasted one, we could not stop. The cheese complimented the taste of the mollusk perfectly. The pork was tender and the bangus (milkfish) was breaded and crispy.'"Kainan sa Dalampasigan's famous BILAO (Platter)! (P530)"'It took us over an hour to finish everything. We wanted to try their leche flan, halo-halo, and even lomi and bulalo but there was just no more space in our tummy.''If you’re going to Nasugbu, Calatagan or Lian (Matabungkay) for a weekend getaway or a road trip, don’t forget to drop by this place!''What a way to end this Batangas Heritage Tour, full and happily satisfied. We took a trike to the town proper and boarded a bus back to Manila.''Kainan sa Dalampasigan''R. Martinez Street, Barangay Bucana, Nasugbu, Batangas''Tel No. 043 931 1134''How to get there:''Movie production trucks and service vans lined up in the area beside the Cape Santiago Lighthouse like giant wheeled gates that separate us from this towering structure. Apparently a horror film by Regal Entertainment was being shot when we arrived and the lighthouse had been closed. It was already late afternoon and according to some of the residents watching the shoot, it would remain closed until the next morning. We were utterly disappointed but there was nothing we could do. We didn’t travel to Calatagan just to see the top of the lighthouse; we wanted a closer, grander view. We needed to come up with a Plan B quick.''Cape Santiago Lighthouse in Calatagan, Batangas''Shooting trucks parked by the entrance to the Lighthouse when we arrived'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Road to the Lighthouse''The Cape Santiago Lighthouse''My grandfather used to call it''Balayang''. “Balayan po,” I would always correct him. He wouldn’t budge. No matter how many times my cousin and I told him that the town is called''Balayan''and not Balayang, he would insist that the town’s name was Balayang.''Now that I’m a grown-up, I learned that my grandfather wasn’t that wrong after all. One of the probable origins of the name of the town is the word''balayang'', which means wood in Old Tagalog. I have also heard other old neighbors, aside from my lolo, use''Balayang''instead of''Balayan''. Others say that the name was from the word''balai'', meaning house, or''balayan''which is also an Old Tagalog term.''Church of the Immaculate Conception (Balayan Church)''Balayan’s history can be traced back to the early 13th century. They say that way before the Spaniards came, Balayan was already a booming settlement and a busy trade center. When the Spaniards arrived, Balayan was one of the first towns to be organized. In 1578, the Municipality of Balayan covers modern-day Balayan and some areas of Calaca, Calatagan, Lian, Nasugbu and Tuy. It even became the capital of the province for over a century and a half. At the time, the entire province of what we call Batangas today used to be called Balayan.''Balayan has also produced several national heroes including Don Galicano Apacible, who co-founded the Nacionalista Party and the La Solidaridad, and Don Sixto Lopez, who was a big supporter of Jose Rizal, giving him financial aid among others.''This long history makes Balayan a town rich in culture and heritage. The town is dotted with a number of ancestral houses that \xa0offer a peek at the past. At the center of the poblacion stands the Church of the Immaculate Conception, one of the oldest churches in Batangas and in the Southern Tagalog region (if not the oldest). The construction of the church was started in 1749 and was completed in 1759, ten years later. A stone arc depicting angels and doves is the first to welcome guests. A few meters from the church is the four-layered bell tower.''The arc in front of the Balayan Church and its bell tower''Balayan celebrates the Feast of St. John the Baptist (San Juan de Bautista) every June 24th in a wet and wild way. The Parada ng Lechon happens on this day and visitors are invited to participate in the celebration!''How to get to Balayan:''From Manila, take a bus going to Balayan, terminals of which are in Pasay or Sta. Cruz, Manila. You may also take a bus bound for Nasugbu, get off at Palico and take a jeepney to Balayan. Another option is take a bus to Lemery. From there, ride a jeepney going to Balayan.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Bohol Before 2013 Earthquake: Baclayon, Dauis, and Loboc Churches''Taal, Batangas: The Miraculous Well of Sta. Lucia and the San Lorenzo Ruiz Steps''Plaza Mabini, Batangas City: Dusk and Dawn''Casa de Segunda: Meeting Jose Rizal’s First Love in Lipa City, Batangas''Masasa Beach and Anilao: Travel Guide''Basilica of the Immaculate Conception: Batangas City, Philippines''Taal used the be the capital of the province of Batangas. It used to be located in present day San Nicolas but the whole town was forced to move to a safer elevated location, farther from the Taal Volcano after the disastrous 200-day 1754 eruption (May 15-December 1, 1754), the biggest eruption of this small volcano in recorded history.''The town continued to prosper during the Spanish era and produced some of the country’s bravest national heroes including''Don Felipe Agoncillo'', a revolutionary hero and a diplomat; his wife''Doña\xa0Marcela Marino Agoncillo'', best known for making the Philippine Flag;''Doña Gliceria Marella de Villavicencio'', known as the Godmother of the Revolution and a major supporter of the revolt against the Spanish forces; and''Gen. Ananias Diokno'', the only\xa0Tagalog general to have headed an all-out military expedition to the Visayan region.''Their well-preserved ancestral houses remain standing up to this date and offer a glimpse of the lifestyle of the rich and famous at the time.''The massive Taal Basilica towering over the town''At the center of Taal Park stands the towering Basilica de San Martin de Tours, the biggest church in the orient, surrounded by other cultural landmarks including the''Hall of the Municipal Government of Taal''and a number of ancestral houses.''While commercialization has penetrated the old heritage town center, the overall character of the city remains. The 7-Eleven store located near the plaza is housed in an old structure while''Don Juan BBQ'', a popular restaurant, serves some of Batangas’ signature dishes such as Tapang Taal, pork and sweeter than usual, and Taal Longganisa, the fatty, garlic type. The Taal Market is also around the area where you will find several stores selling Barong Tagalog and other products made from piña and Taal delicacies like panutsa, Batangas’ version of peanut brittle, suman and empanada.\xa0Taal is also the balisong and Barong Tagalog capital of the Philippines.''The Town of Taal was founded in 1572 and this year, the people will be celebrating the town’s 440th founding anniversary with the''El Pasubat Festival''.''Here are some of the photos that I took while walking briskly (because we were running short of time) from the Taal Basilica all the way to the San Lorenzo Ruiz Steps. At the time (November), the streets of the town center were filled with several caravan makeshift stores selling everything from toys to clothes.''The Municipal Hall of Taal standing across the Basilica''Escuela Pia''Tricycles are the primary means of transportation in Taal. The Basilica is not very hard to miss.''Embroidered fabrics made from piña. "Burda" or embroidery is a handicraft of fabric decoration that the people of Taal have mastered.''Ancestral House of Dona Gliceria Marella de Villavicencio''A bust of Dona Gliceria Marella de Villavicencio standing outside the ancestral house. Dona Villavicencio, or Aling Eriang, provided moral and material support to the Philippine Revolution, including the vessel " SS Bulusan" which was the first warship that Filipino revolutionaries used.''Another Villavicencio House. Unlike most ancestral houses in the country, this is painted blue and yellow making it standout. Built in 1871, this was a gift by Don Eulalio Villavicencio to his bride Dona Gliceria Marella.''The Goco Heritage House right across the San Lorenzo Ruiz Steps''125 granite steps of San Lorenzo Ruiz, which lead to the Shrine of Our Lady of Caysasay and the Sta Lucia Well.''This arch marks the spot where the Virgin Mary allegedly appeared to a girl, Catalina Talayn. This was the beginning of what was believed to be a series of miracles in the area. A bas relief of an image of the Virgin crowns the arch.''The Our Lady of Caysasay Shrine is a chapel built to shelter and honor the 17th century image of the Virgin Mary, which is believed to appear and reappear miraculously in certain parts of the town.''How to get there:''Madam Maria Espiritu was tasked by the parish to take care of a small image of the Virgin Mary. She had an urn made where she kept the image. It wasn’t long until Madam Maria noticed that every evening the urn turned empty and the image missing. As if that wasn’t odd enough, the image would return, back in the urn, every morning. The widow reported these strange events to the priest, who joined her in watching after the image. The same thing happened — every evening the image of Mary vanished and every morning it reappeared. One day, the image disappeared and never returned to the urn.''Our Lady of Caysasay Shrine in Taal, Batangas''This is just one of the many mysterious and intriguing occurrences that surround the small image of''Our Lady of Caysasay''.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Our Lady of Caysasay Shrine''Juan Maningcad and the Image of the Blessed Virgin Mary''San Lorenzo Ruiz Steps''The Apparitions of Our Lady of Caysasay''Banal na Pook: The Sta. Lucia Well Today''Madam Maria Espiritu was tasked by the parish to take care of a small image of the Virgin Mary. She had an urn made where she kept the image. It wasn’t long until Madam Maria noticed that every evening the urn turned empty and the image missing. As if that wasn’t odd enough, the image would return, back in the urn, every morning. The widow reported these strange events to the priest, who joined her in watching after the image. The same thing happened — every evening the image of Mary vanished and every morning it reappeared. One day, the image disappeared and never returned to the urn.''Our Lady of Caysasay Shrine in Taal, Batangas''This is just one of the many mysterious and intriguing occurrences that surround the small image of''Our Lady of Caysasay''.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Our Lady of Caysasay Shrine''Juan Maningcad and the Image of the Blessed Virgin Mary''San Lorenzo Ruiz Steps''The Apparitions of Our Lady of Caysasay''Banal na Pook: The Sta. Lucia Well Today''A giant scaffolding rose right before the basilica’s altar at the point where the nave and the transept meet. Apparently, the church’s interiors were undergoing a minor renovation. The top of the bamboo scaffold reached to the ceiling of the dome which was being painted. I could not imagine how difficult it was for the painters. After all, they were inside the biggest Catholic church in the Philippines and in the whole of Asia.''The''Basilica de San Martin de Tours'', simply known as Taal Basilica, is Asia’s largest church and it was not very difficult to see. Sitting on top of a hill, the basilica towers over the old heritage town of Taal. It is a very dominant structure and is visible in most parts of the town proper and even in some parts of the neighboring town Lemery.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'History of the Taal Basilica''Facade and Interiors''Taal Park and Nearby Structures''It was the best halo-halo that I ever tasted in my life.''The Poor Traveler and his poor friend stared at each other as we had our first spoonful. And with the kind of smile that cut across our face, we knew having a stopover at Casa Rap for breakfast was totally worth all the time and the trouble.''Casa Rap,''sometimes called Cafe Casa Rap, is a restaurant tucked in a residential area along the highway in San Jose, Batangas. It was not very easy to find. None of the people we asked going here knew about this cafe or where it was located exactly. Armed with information it was located in, we still boarded a jeepney and requested the driver to let us know when we enter Barangay Banay-banay. Unfortunately for us, the driver was forgetful. Thank God I spotted the inconspicuous wooden signage erected along the highway despite it being almost concealed by leaves and vines. Wondering whether I saw it right, it took me a couple more seconds before I asked the driver to stop. We had to walk a hundred yards back.''The inconspicuous Casa Rap signage! Watch out for this!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Place''The Food''Six Months Later''The Menu''Darkness was slowly blanketing when we emerged from the Basilica of the Immaculate Conception in Batangas City. The rain had just ceased but the city continued with its active business. Just when we thought the day had ended as soon as darkness fell, the Plaza Mabini and its surrounding streets came to life anew as street food vendors sprung out, making Dandan Street a block-long banquet.''Isaw! Yum!''The Poor Traveler''is such a sucker for street food especially isaw and I did not even resist the urge to try some of what these vendors had to offer. We tried two stalls and it was frickin’ delicious. I could live here forever.''Because it was already dark, we decided to postpone exploring the area until the next morning as we make our way out of the city. The next day, we returned and under the light of day, we had full appreciation of this green oasis.''Plaza Mabini lies across the Immaculate Conception Basilica at the heart of Batangas City. Trees and grass are the most dominant element within its perimeter. The sun had just risen but there were quite a number of people who were already at the plaza, most were senior citizens jogging or working out.''The wind still carried breeze and was a little bit cold that time.\xa0The ground was still soaked from all the rain that poured the night before. We didn’t worry about the mud, though, because the entire place was covered by grass and there were concrete paths running around the plaza. Aside from the greenery, we were pleased that we didn’t see any trash littered in the area. Aside from the fact that it was early morning, I guess the several trash bins around the park take credit for that.''Dandan Street in the morning''At the dead center of the plaza was a monument of''Apolinario Mabini'', to whom the plaza was dedicated and named after. It was actually just a bust on top of a tall pillar. Mabini is considered the Brains of the Philippine Revolution and is often called Sublime Paralytic. He is one of the greatest national heroes that the province has produced. In front of Mabini is a statue of a woman in a''baro’t saya''. I am not sure about this but I easily assumed that the woman was Marcela Agoncillo, who also hailed from Batangas.''Monument of Apolinario Mabini and Marcela Agoncillo (not sure)''A fountain in front of the monument''In front of the monument runs a rectangular fountain while at its back are lined up coconut trees with benches in between, where locals and tourists alike may use to rest. It is definitely a place for relaxation and escape from the business of the rapidly developing metropolis.''We did not stay longer at the Plaza Mabini and decided to just get going, fearing that the rain would pour again.''Take a look at my''BATANGAS TRAVEL GUIDE''for the list of the places I visited in Batangas!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Plaza Cuartel and the Puerto Princesa Cathedral, Palawan, Philippines''5 Batangas Beaches in 1 Weekend Adventure''The Lost Cemetery of Negativism: Burying Bad Vibes in Baguio City''Basilica of the Immaculate Conception: Batangas City, Philippines''Laoang Church and the Almuraya Fortress: Northern Samar, Philippines''7 CHURCHES IN BATANGAS: A Visita Iglesia Itinerary''Prince Harry stood by the entrance to a dainty cafe at the heart of Batangas City.''Well, it wasn’t really Prince Harry but a life-size standee that seemed to welcome visitors. Beside him was a faceless bride that can be anyone who wishes to take a picture beside the wooden, inanimate prince. If that wasn’t quirky enough for us, we just needed to step inside and we were convinced it was the most eccentric coffee place the province of Batangas has ever seen.''Cafe Milflores''stands prettily at the corner of Dandan and Panganiban Streets, right across Plaza Mabini in Batangas City. It’s not difficult at all to spot as its pastel colors stand out in a sea of greens and grays. Walking into this impressive cafe is like entering a little girl’s fantasy complete with small balloons, bright lanterns, and handsome images of Princes William and Harry.''Facade of Cafe Milflores''“Calm down. You can still marry Harry,” says one stationery pressed against the table by a glass cover. Next to it were photos of the Royal Princes. “Harry’s still single,” assures one framed poster hanging on the wall. “Keep calm and eat cupcakes,” orders the other poster beside the British Union Jack.''In one corner lie a very comfortable sofa that customers may use. There are six to seven single tables with baby pink and sky blue chairs arranged below colorful rounded lanterns hanging overhead.''Straight from a little girl’s royal fantasy''Photos of Prince William and Prince Harry on the table''Calm down. You can still marry Harry!''Before we got lost in this little sweet dreamland, we composed ourselves and placed our orders. The waiters and cashiers were very friendly and cheerful, exchanging jokes with us as we voiced out what we thought about the place. They even offered to take photos of us without us asking. Upon their recommendation, we ordered''Choco-almond Fudge''and''Toblerone Cheesecake''.''The Choco-almond Fudge was phenomenal. It was moist and soft and not too sweet, unlike most chocolate cakes out there. The crispy almonds topping our slice complemented the sweetness of the cake. It also sat on a zigzag of caramel that added more flavor to it. Overall, we were delighted with this one.''Choco-almond fudge''Toblerone Cheesecake''The Toblerone Cheesecake, on the otherhand, was a bit of a letdown perhaps because we didn’t expect its consistency to be gelatinous. Its texture was more like jelly than cheesecake. Although we appreciated the presentation, its jelly-like behavior on our tongues kind of got in the way of the taste.''Nothing much can be said about their lemonade as they tasted pretty average. They serve lemonade in two colors — pink and yellow — but they tasted exactly the same, which was expected since the waiters told us that only the color varied.''Pink and yellow lemonade.''We just had our dose of isaw and barbeque right outside the cafe before we came here so we were pretty full already. We wish there was more space for more food in our tummies so we could try the other cakes. All the other cakes and cupcakes on display were equally mouth-watering.''Overall, we enjoyed our time at Cafe Milflores. We stayed too long, quite frankly, because we were really in love with the ambiance, which is probably the cafe’s greatest strength. The view of the park across the street also made our royal moment here more enjoyable. Certainly a must-try in Batangas City.''Cafe Milflores''12A P. Dandan St. cor P. Panganiban St., Batangas City, 4200''Operating Hours: Tue – Sat: 2pm-9pm''+(63) (927) 548-7680''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Cafe by the Ruins: Where to Eat in Baguio City, Philippines''Cafe de Lipa: Reviving Kapeng Barako Glory in Batangas, Philippines''Ketchup Food Community: Where to Eat in Baguio City, Philippines''Casa Rap: The Perks of Slow Cooking in Batangas, Philippines''Cafe at the Ranch: Where to Eat in Taal, Batangas''KAINAN SA DALAMPASIGAN: Where to Eat in Nasugbu, Batangas''A young boy and a young girl lit candles as they stood in the middle of the candle racks. They then closed their eyes, said a silent prayer, walked towards the series of pews that filled the nave of the basilica, and joined their parents who were both deep in prayers of their own.\xa0The Poor Traveler is not really a religious person but it was heartwarming to see little kids spending quality time with their parents.''The Basilica of the Immaculate Conception is the center of Catholic faith in Batangas City, the province’s capital. It is not difficult at all to reach this place as anyone in Batangas knows where it is and how to get there.\xa0It was almost dusk when we arrived and although we were actually planning on paying this church a visit the next morning, we decided to step into this peaceful spiritual haven after seeing the heavy clouds threatening to shower the city.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Facade and Interior''History of Batangas Basilica''Camiguin is the second smallest province in the Philippines (next only to Batanes). Touted as the Island Born of Fire, Camiguin is home to not one but SEVEN volcanoes, including Mt. Hibok-hibok and Mt. Vulcan, often referred to as the Old Volcano. These fiery and dangerous wonders have constantly and continually molded the physical features of the island and shaped the culture of its people, giving this paradise an tourism atmosphere that is one of a kind. Here are 10 activities that you will surely enjoy in this fierce yet peaceful Northern Mindanao destination.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Embrace the sun at White Island.''2. Enjoy beach life at Mantigue Island Nature Park.''3. Hike to the Old Volcano (Mt. Vulcan).''4. Conquer Mt. Hibok-hibok.''5. Be awed by underwater tombs at Sunken Cemetery.''6. Dive and see a trove of marine treasure at Jicdup and Burias Shoals.''7. Chase waterfalls!''8. Go spring hopping: Hot, cold, and soda!''9. See the Guiob Church Ruins.''10. Celebrate with the locals during Lanzones Festival.''Disappointment was painted all over my face when I found out that the room we got was not facing the sea. Not that I am a sucker for beachfront rooms but the view of White Island lying just a few kilometers from the shore would have been the icing on the cake. Regardless, our 2-night stay at Paras Beach Resort in general was anything but disappointing.''It was still a very pleasant experience.''The receptionist was all smiles when we arrived at the resort, giving the Poor Traveler and his friend a drink while they were completing cleaning up the room we booked. She invited us to have a seat while we waited but we were like wigglers in the water, trying to check out the different parts of the resort out of excitement.''Paras Beach Resort viewed from the sea''It didn’t take long for us to notice that it wouldn’t be a good idea to swim by the resort’s beach area since it was very, very narrow and even disappeared altogether when high tide hit. It wasn’t a problem for us, though, because we easily spotted that glittering white paradise not far from the resort —''White Island''. It was a very tempting sight.''We walked by the pool for a couple of minutes and headed back to the reception, where we saw a brochure compiling the tours that Paras Beach Resort offers its guests. Earlier that morning, we already asked the driver of the multi-cab we were on how much the whole-day tour usually costs and upon seeing the resort’s brochure, we knew we’d have to just get tour services elsewhere. Paras’s rates were more than double the price the driver told us.''Lounge and waiting area at the ground floor and the 2nd floor lobby''Food at Hibok-Hibok Restaurant at Paras Beach Resort was just OK. Nothing crazy spectacular about it.''Rooms and Rates''We originally wanted an Economy Room but they were all taken at the time. We decided to just book the Superior Room instead for P2,500 per night.''Please note that these rates have already changed.''They even changed the names of their rooms. I think their Superior Rooms are what they call Amihan Rooms now.''On the way to the room, we had a glimpse of the mighty Hibok-hibok, standing within view from the hotel’s side alley and balcony. We hit the bed as soon as the door opened. There were two beds — 1 queen size and 1 single — and it could actually accommodate up to three, or even more. As I picked the remote control of the cable TV that sat in front of the beds, I noticed just how big and spacious the room was — to our satisfaction. We loved, loved, loved it.''Blue, coral-themed comforters covered the beds. They smelled crisp and fresh and clean. One thing I dislike about many of the hotels and resorts I had tried before was that the beds and beddings had that “old cabinet” smell. Thankfully, these beds did not reek of anything. The beds and big pillows were also soft and very comfortable.''The room also had a phone and a safe. We also appreciated the complimentary bottled water and coffee.''Even the bathroom was spacious. There were complimentary soap and shampoo inside along with clean towels. The bathroom was also equipped with hot and cold shower.''Amihan Room formerly known as Superior Room!''Clean, spacious bathroom with hot and cold shower, fresh towels, and complimentary toiletries''Here’s the complete list of their rooms and corresponding rates lifted off of their website as of April 25, 2012. Visit their official website to make sure you get the updated list:''Economy Room''(budget option) – PhP 2,250/night''Amihan Room''(2nd floor) – P4,000/night''Garden Room''(with view of the pool and garden) – P4,000/night''Family Loft''– P3,500/night''Ocean View Room –''P4,000/night)''Family Room''– P4500/night''Dormitory''(cheapest but for large groups, up to 12 people) – P5,500/night''Extra bed''– P500''Overall, our stay at Paras Beach Resort was positive and enjoyable.\xa0The only criticism I have is its cost. Like I mentioned, our room was P2,500 per night at the time (March last year) and that was too expensive for me even with all the amenities. If I’m not mistaken that Superior Rooms are what they call Amihan Rooms now, then that’s even pricier at P4,000 per night. What a difference a year can make. I think the best option is the Economy Room or the Dormitory if you are a big group.''Will I stay here again if and when I return to Camiguin? With their old rates, probably. But now that it’s a lot more expensive, I’ll try to look for other accommodation. For what it’s worth, I think Paras Beach Resort remains the most reputable of all resorts in Camiguin.''Paras Beach Resort''Rocky Village, Mambajao, Camiguin''Telephone No.: +63 (88) 3879008''Mobile No.: +63 9177152285''Check rates and availability here''.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Review: Bagobo Beach Resort in Panglao Island, Bohol''10 Awesome Things to Do in CAMIGUIN, Philippines''Amihan Home (Bed & Breakfast): Where to Stay in Boracay, Philippines''Budget Holiday Options in Majorca''CAMIGUIN: Budget Travel Guide''White Island: The Naked Temptress of Camiguin, Philippines''Constant fear is probably what one who resides near an active volcano has to live with every day. That’s especially true when one is in the company of seven volcanoes. Perhaps for the people of Camiguin, though, it has become part of their everyday lives. After all, danger is everywhere no matter where we are and the best way to deal with it is looking on the bright side. Yes, volcanoes, no matter how dangerous they are, have perks, too. Some of these perks come from deep underground — springs!''The island-province of Camiguin is blessed with so many springs — hot and cold. Powered by volcanic activities underneath, these tourist havens are perfect for those who have been longing for some, ironically, peace of mind as the water is sure to relax the body and rejuvenate energy.''Here are some of the spring destinations in this marvelous land of varying temperatures.''One of the pools of Ardent Hibok-Hibok Resort. This pool is the lowest in the series.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Ardent Hibok-Hibok Spring Resort''Santo Nino Cold Spring''Bura Soda Water Swimming Pool''Laughter filled the air as little children ran around the''Old Guiob Church Ruins''while pushing their toy wheels with a wooden stick. It was a delightful, charming sound. It reminded me of my own childhood days when small toys and games were everything that mattered. It reminded me of the past. But this place has a past of its own. A violent one.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Mount Vulcan and the Town of Cotta Bato''The Guiob Church Ruins Today''Faith is not something we always see in tropical island destinations. The island of Camiguin, however, is different. After all, in a land where seven volcanoes lie, faith goes a long way. The faith and devotion of the people of Camiguin is apparent in many of its most popular attractions such as those in Catarman — the Walkway to the Old Volcano and the Sunken Cemetery.''Seated comfortably in the multi-cab that we hired for the day, I moved closer to the window to let the wind blow my hair dry. Coming from Ardent Hot Springs and Katibawasan Falls in the capital Mambajao, we were now headed for Catarman. But the wind was not the only thing pleasant about this trip. The road to Catarman provided spectacular view of Camiguin’s coastline.''Camiguin’s coconutty coastline''From the road we could see the island’s rocky shores where coconut trees lined up and swayed like giant arms waving to us. Although at times I felt the drive was a little dangerous as we drove on the edges of the cliffs, none of it mattered the moment we caught a glimpse of the scenic landscape.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Walkway to the Old Volcano (Mt. Vulcan)''The Sunken Cemetery''Satisfaction was already achieved even before we entered the park premises. The area surrounding Katibawasan Falls has been transformed into a park by the local government, but they managed to keep the natural appeal of the site. Before the gate stands a small kiosk selling''kiping'', a popular delicacy in the Philippines made from rice. The kiping sold at Katibawasan Falls, however, is made from \xa0ground cassava, which makes it a little bit sweeter than usual. It was delightful — a foreshadowing of what was in store for us at the park.''Kiping made from cassava at the entrance to the park''There was a monkey tied to a bamboo stick right after the entrance to the park.''The Poor Traveler''didn’t bother to ask whether there were monkeys in the heavily forested island of Camiguin or whether the monkey was caught there but I was entertained by how nimble it was and saddened that it was not free. Still, we trod on and climbed down to the base of the waterfall.''The concrete path to the waterfall was fringed with flowers, which I ignored because I was so zealous to see the waterfall.''As the walkway got narrower and deeper, the more of the waterfall was revealed to us. The sound of the water both rumbling as it plunges from the top of the waterfall down to the small pool below and flowing along the river was a sign of how close with nature we were. As we reached the bottom, the mightier the waterfall appeared to us. Located at the foot of Mt. Timpoong, water cascades from about 250 feet above ground. There was not much water unlike what we had expected but that’s not to say it was anything short of majestic. Ferns and plants decorate the edge of the cliff while big boulders rest below, naturally arranged to let the water make beautiful movements around it.''Katibawasan Falls''A tranquil river at the base of Katibawasan Falls''Tourists bathing at the stream''There were other tourists bathing in the stream when we arrived. We were so tempted to join but we somehow imagined how cold the freshwater must be and we decided against it. We, however, walked farther along the river to take more pictures of this magnificent view before us. As I sat on a boulder and threw gazes of admiration towards it, I began wondering how it would feel to live deep in the forest with a waterfall just a few steps away. It must be so therapeutic to always hear the sound of the splash like a constant reminder that the most beautiful things in the world are those that nature itself built, carved, and nurtured. And then it hit me, maybe one day this waterfall will run out of water and this river will run dry perhaps due to natural causes or not. I looked up and thought how lucky I must be to be in the company of nature and to see this wonder even once in my life.''Flowers fringing the walkway to Katibawasan Falls''As we traced our steps back to where the multi-cab we hired was parked, we passed by the colorful flowers at the side of the walkway. I stopped, took a closer look, and appreciated just how vibrant nature is. It was time to smell the flowers, and even if they were not fragrant, there was joy in simply moving my nose closer to it.''Katibawasan Falls Park''Entrance Fee: P15 (Adults), P6 (Kids)''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''White Island: The Naked Temptress of Camiguin, Philippines''Camiguin: The Sunken Cemetery and the Walkway to the Old Volcano''The Old Guiob Church Ruins, Camiguin: Rising From the Rubble''Ardent Hibok-Hibok Resort and Other Springs in Camiguin, Philippines''How to Get to Camiguin from Manila and Cagayan De Oro, Philippines''Kabigan Falls: Pagudpud, Ilocos Norte, Philippines''It was a constant invitation. The stunning White Island was within view from Paras Beach Resort, where I stayed. Even during lunch, I couldn’t help but be hypnotized by this inviting stretch of white sand not very far from the resort’s beachfront. It wasn’t long until we finally gave in and allowed ourselves to be drawn to this naked, sparkling sand bar.''More commonly known as White Island, Medan Island (or Medano Islet) is 10 minutes away from the northern coast of Camiguin. In Barangay Yumbing, boat rentals are available for P480. Resorts also offer their own day tours to this pristine, powdery paradise.''Medan Island is more popularly called White Island''Although it often looks like a boomerang, the island’s shape changes according to the tides. It is uninhabited and there are no permanent concrete structures here — no houses, no towers. Even trees are absent here. It’s just a beautiful dump of fine sand with Mt. Hibok-hibok and Mt. Vulcan as the backdrop. When we arrived, however, there was a tent under which sat a man, who had been renting out big umbrellas to tourists for P50. (To be on the safe side, don’t forget to bring hats, sunglasses, and sunblock, of course.)''There were umbrellas for rent when we were there but we only used it to protect our belongings from the sun. We allowed ourselves to be kissed by the sun.''Twin peaks! View of Mt. Hibok-hibok and Mt. Vulcan from White Island''Look how powdery the sand is!''There was another group sharing the island with us but they were staying on the other end of the island that it still felt like we were the only ones there. As I stood in the middle of this beauty, I noticed that while the waves on one side were pretty strong, the other was calm and gentle, harboring seagrass. One may choose to snorkel on this more peaceful side of the island.''The side of the sandbar with gentle waves''Leaving a mark!''The sun was smack overhead when we arrived and we just told our boatman to pick us up at around 5pm. At first, we were not sure if it was a good idea. We didn’t know how to spend four full hours in an island as bare as this but time really flies when you’re having a blast. The whole afternoon was spent by us swimming and braving the waves. Every time we got tired, we buried ourselves in the sand, bathed in sunlight, built small sand castles, and scribbled messages on the sand with a stick. Before we knew it, our time was up and it was time to go. We wanted more time but we didn’t want the dark to catch us.''White Island, Camiguin Sunset''The sun was just about to take a plunge in the horizon when our boatman returned to fetch us.\xa0According to our boatman, most tourists choose to drop by the island early morning until before lunch time to avoid the sun’s harsh rays at noon. We kept it in mind for next time. In the meantime, our eyes were still glued to the island as our boat sailed away back to the resort. The sun was just setting and the island was turning golden. I never expected that I would enjoy a bare island with no trees on it but I did. I guess that’s what adds character to it. That’s what makes it special. That’s what makes it inviting, that even when we were on the main island, we couldn’t help but throw admiring gazes towards this white, glittering paradise. It glistened like the irresistible smile of someone urging us to come back.''How to get to White Island'': From Manila, you can fly to Camiguin via Cebu. Alternatively, you can fly to Cagayan de Oro, take a shuttle to Agora Terminal (P199), then ride a bus to Balingoan Port (P110). Board a ferry to Benoni (Camiguin). Take a multi-cab or tricycle to Brgy. Yumbing, the jumpoff point to White Isladnd. Boat rental is P480/boat, travel time 10 minutes.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''The Old Guiob Church Ruins, Camiguin: Rising From the Rubble''Ardent Hibok-Hibok Resort and Other Springs in Camiguin, Philippines''Katibawasan Falls: A Splash of Nature in Camiguin, Philippines''Camiguin: The Sunken Cemetery and the Walkway to the Old Volcano''How to Get to Camiguin from Manila and Cagayan De Oro, Philippines''10 Awesome Things to Do in CAMIGUIN, Philippines''Camiguin is the smallest province in Mindanao and the second smallest in the Philippines. Dotting Bohol Sea, this pear-shaped island rises in between the province of Bohol and the mainland Northern Mindanao.''Camiguin has its own airport. As of this writing, only Cebu Pacific Air offers flights to Camiguin from Cebu. If you’re coming from Manila, you can make a connection in Cebu, but it might cost a bit more. Cagayan de Oro City, on the other hand, is the most usual gateway to the island of Camiguin. All major airlines have daily flights to Laguindingan Airport so catching planes wouldn’t be a problem.''Update'': The new Laguindingan International Airport is located an hour from the city center, something you must consider in booking flights if you opt to take the fastcraft.''Cagayan De Oro Seaport (Fast Craft) vs Balingoan Pier (Regular Ferry)''Upon landing in Cagayan de Oro, the next thing you should do is proceed to the pier. But before worrying about how to get there from the airport, you need to decide how you plan to travel to Camiguin by sea. There are two ports than you can use going to Camiguin — the Cagayan de Oro Seaport (or Macabalan Port) and the Balingoan Seaport.''The Macabalan Pier is within the city. The Balingoan Pier, on the other hand, is an hour and a half away from the city center.''Macabalan Pier. From the airport, take the shuttle to the city center. Fare is P199.''Balingoan Pier. In addition, you will need to go to Agora Bus Terminal and board a bus going to Balingoan.''The last time I heard,''Paras Sea Cat had ceased operations''(Macabalan-Benoni). Don’t fret, though, because another liner, the OceanJet, has replaced it and is using the same 8:30am schedule.''OceanJet leaves CDO at 8:30am and is estimated to reach Camiguin at 10am. Fare is P900. Note that they only have one trip per day for this route. This might have changed already.''Please call OceanJet at +63 (32) 255 7560 to confirm fare and schedule.''Balingoan Pier, on the other hand, allows more flexibility because they have more trips (almost every hour) to Benoni Port in Camiguin before sundown. It is also waaay cheaper. The catch is that this pier is more or less 2 hours away from CDO.\xa0If you’re going to Balingoan Port, know that the bus fare is no cheaper than P110.''At the airport, take a shuttle to the city center (P199)''At the Agora Bus Terminal, ride the bus bound for Balingoan (Fare: P110, Travel time: 1.5-2 hours)''Board the ferry to Benoni Wharf, Camiguin!''Upon reaching Benoni Port, you can take a multicab or a jeepney to your resort.''Here are some photos I took on our journey to Camiguin from CDO.''Coin divers at Macabalan Port''I couldn’t help but feel worried for the children who dive for coins''Philippine flag waving gently''A glimpse of Camiguin from our boat''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''The Old Guiob Church Ruins, Camiguin: Rising From the Rubble''White Island: The Naked Temptress of Camiguin, Philippines''Katibawasan Falls: A Splash of Nature in Camiguin, Philippines''Camiguin: The Sunken Cemetery and the Walkway to the Old Volcano''Ardent Hibok-Hibok Resort and Other Springs in Camiguin, Philippines''Paras Beach Resort: Where to Stay in Camiguin, Philippines (Splurge Option)''It was love at first sight. That’s exactly how I felt when I first laid eyes on Casa de Segunda, also known as Luz-Katigbak Ancestral House. From the balcony overlooking the garden, I could see the many interesting shapes and patterns around the place. It was my first time here. While I had been to many of Lipa’s tourist destinations before, I had no idea that this place existed prior to this trip. I learned about it while preparing for this tour. We struggled to find it but we did not give up on our search. And boy was I grateful. It was a place to fall in love with.''Entrance to Casa de Segunda. Pretty hard to find.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Jose Rizal’s First Love''Casa de Segunda''On 24 January 1991, petals fell straight from the sky at the Carmel Monastery in Lipa, Batangas. It was one of the many miraculous showers of petals that occurred at the site.''But the miracle at Mt. Carmel in Lipa City goes beyond petal showers and can be traced back to decades earlier.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Apparition of 1948''The Carmel Monastery Church''It was like someone pricked my heart really bad when the first Starbucks in Batangas opened — if only they also offer kapeng barako as a tribute to the land they stand on.''I grew up in Batangas, once the coffee capital of the Philippines, and\xa0Kapeng Barako was a significant part of my childhood.\xa0Every time we didn’t have meat or veggies to eat, my grandfather would simply brew coffee and pour some on our plates, drowning the rice. That was a complete meal for us.''The Magical Brew: Barako Joe (taken from Cafe de Lipa’s official website)''Kids avoided that part of our school where coffee trees stood when their flowers would start to bloom. The strong fragrance of the coffee flowers were too much for us to handle, like strong concentrated jasmine perfumes. Oh, how I missed that scent!''And almost every week, my mother took me to the public market and I remember getting magnetized by the aroma of mountain ranges of coffee beans — some were ground, some were full beans. Such a shame that whenever I visit our market today, I hardly see these heaps and hardly smell coffee. Just based on my observation, they have almost completely vanished from our market. Or maybe most of the coffee stores were just pushed into the inside lanes.''When Starbucks and other coffee shops penetrated the Batangan market and prospered, there was a certain kind of sadness that filled me. It was the kind of sadness one would feel when he realizes his childhood is gone for good.''On a recent trip to Batangas, we spotted a coffee shop along San Carlos Drive. And in that coffee shop floats that scent of those childhood moments I had been longing for.''We were the only customers at the time. The first impression we had was that the store looked kinda like Starbucks of Figaro. But Cafe de Lipa’s jewels cannot be found on its walls and decors but the menu.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'History of Kapeng Barako''Cafe de Lipa''I had to push my lower jaw up with my hand. I didn’t realize that the whole time I was looking up, admiring the huge, intricately painted circular dome crowning the Lipa Cathedral, that my mouth had been wide open in awe. The Poor Traveler was one of the only few people inside.\xa0It was cold and dim inside the Cathedral, like in most big churches, and the magnificent dome seemed to be the most well-lit part of the building. In fact, the dome itself illuminated the place, as most of the light inside came through its small windows, adding marvel to its already grand design.''But as one cliche goes, this dome is just the tip of the iceberg.''The gorgeous dome of the Lipa Cathedral'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'History of the Lipa Cathedral''Architecture and Design''Paseo de San Sebastian''For a good five minutes I stood opposite a painting hanging on a wall of the museum at the Mabini Shrine. As I let my eyes linger on the strokes and colors, I began to wonder how a single painting can evoke so many emotions all at once. Apolinario Mabini did not paint this painting but he’s in it, in a hammock, carried by soldiers to Emilio Aguinaldo’s camp at the height of the Philippine Revolution.''Apolinario Mabini, summoned to the camp of Emilio Aguinaldo''Contracting polio when he was young, Apolinario Mabini was confined to a wheelchair. His legs were not at all functional and were of no help during those terrible times. But Mabini had something else going for him — he was a force of wisdom and intellect. Often dubbed “Sublime Paralytic,” Mabini used his strengths in helping out in the movement the way he knew how, contributing much of his knowledge, and had since widely (and aptly) regarded as the “Brains of the Revolution.”''But it was not always easy for Mabini. Actually, I don’t think it was''ever''easy for him. All his life he struggled and strongly''fought''for every single thing he wanted. Thanks to his innate intelligence and unrelenting passion, he was able to achieve so much in spite of all the hardships and trials.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Mabini Shrine in Tanauan, Batangas''The Early Life of Apolinario Mabini''Mabini’s Role \xa0in the Philippine Revolution''Exile, Return, and Death''La Revolucion Filipina''I got lost in utter confusion when I received a message from a geek friend a few months ago. “What can you say about that bill concerning Miguel Malvar?” said the message.''“Which bill?” I asked him.''“About Miguel Malvar being the second president of the Philippines,” answered he. Curiosity sparked instantly as it was my first time to hear about the news. Apparently,''Vice President Jejomar Binay had sought the help of the country’s top historians to set the record straight''. As I read on, I also learned that there''is''a pending bill in the Congress filed in 2007 by Oriental Mindoro Representative Rodolfo Valencia, proposing that Miguel Malvar be recognized as such.''The imposing monument of Miguel Malvar in Sto. Tomas, Batangas''I was completely embarrassed that all I could answer to my friend’s questions about the matter was a series of “Hmmm. I don’t know.” Being a Batangueno myself, it is a shame that I did not know much about Miguel Malvar, who is an important figure in history, especially during the Spanish and American eras in the Philippines.''Fast forward and there I was standing at the center of the Gen. Malvar Library in Sto. Tomas, Batangas, Malvar’s birthplace, staring at a sign that reads:''Miguel Malvar assumed the position of Commander-in-Chief and Supreme Head of the Filipino Government after the surrender of Vice President Trias and President Aguinaldo. This pronouncement was approved also by the Hong Kong Junta. -The Army of the First Philippine Republic.''Inside the Miguel Malvar Library''Well, I am no historian so I can’t judge and say anything about the bill or the proposition. But I can say that I had an awesome, enlightening time inside the library.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Life of Miguel Malvar''The Miguel Malvar Shrine''There was no telling whether it was disappointment or ire that would flash over my mom’s face every time she served a bowl of''bulalo''and realized I had to intention of touching it back when I was a kid. Her lips curled and brows raised like reflex whenever I refused to have even a teaspoon of her specialty dish. I just used to dislike beef. I disliked burgers and corned beef and steak and all the rest of it, and I haven’t had an idea why. Perhaps only the inaccessible subconscious part of my brain holds the key to the reason behind it. Such a shame, really, because Batangas is most famous for its beefy goodness. And heck, I’m from Batangas.''Like with most phases, I was able to go past it nevertheless. Immediately after college graduation, I promised myself to learn to appreciate most of the things I took for granted — one of them was''beef''. One evening after a hectic day at work, I stepped into a restaurant at a mall, mustered all courage, and ordered steak. Yes, a cut of steak — very big and''very beef''. To my surprise, it was a delight. Since then, I had learned to love beef the way I love chicken and pork. (Hang in there, veggies. Your time will come, too.)''Still, the chance for my tastebuds to drown in the flavorful soup of bulalo was elusive. Until my recent trip to Batangas.''Rose and Grace Restaurant: Home of Batangas Bulalo in Sto Tomas, Batangas''Our bus passed by a restaurant called''Rose and Grace''in Sto Tomas, lying just along the national highway. Shining in all its yellow-painted glory, it caught our attention like the inescapable aroma of pancakes in the morning. Our first stop was supposed to be the General Malvar Library and Museum. Instead, we found ourselves walking the other way — to that building with a signage bragging about being the Home of Batangas Bulalo.''Bulalo, or beef bone marrow soup, is a very simple dish when you break it down to its ingredients. Basically, it’s just beef shank boiled in water with onions, garlic, black pepper, and salt. At least, these are the most basic ingredients. My mom sometimes add vegetables like cabbage, Chinese cabbage, corn or potatoes, sometimes not, depending on the availability. On the other hand, I know one of our neighbors never included any vegetable in her Batangas bulalo recipe. She’s not a veggie-person, either.''Batangas Bulalo. Beef shank with the marrow oozing out of the bone.''The key is how long it was being cooked. I’m no chef but when I was little and my mom was preparing bulalo, I remember complaining why it always took her forever to cook it. But that’s what makes it special. It is''so''cooked that the meat becomes so tender and seems to fall off the bone almost hopelessly. It is also this long, slow dance of ingredients while on fire that gives it its rich texture.''Of course, you have not eaten bulalo if you don’t slurp the marrow out of the bone. That’s the climax of the entire experience — trying to get that tasty, flavorful, sinful marrow in whatever way you please. My friend Celine, who was with me on this trip, and I had to use the stick from the barbeque we ordered to scoop the marrow out.''As I sat there taking one sip of the beefy soup after another, I began to wonder about rainy days or cold nights in Batangas. When I was younger, I just sat by the window watching cars speed by while my siblings and cousins gather around the table waiting for their bowls to be refilled. It got me thinking how shameful it was to sit there at a table in a restaurant and enjoy my first taste of bulalo when it had always been made available to me ever since.''As I put down my spoon, an image was painted on my mind. I imagined myself visiting my mother’s house, holding an empty bowl as my mother, flashing a satisfied smile, pours a soulful serving into it. And that’s exactly what I’m going to do.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Miguel Malvar Museum, Batangas: Of Battles and Surrender''12 Tourist Spots in Batangas, Philippines''Apolinario Mabini Shrine: An Undying Spirit in Tanauan, Batangas''The Metropolitan Cathedral of San Sebastian: Lipa City, Batangas''Cafe at the Ranch: Where to Eat in Taal, Batangas''Taal Basilica, Batangas: Asia’s Largest Catholic Church''Batangas is a blessed land. It also cradles a wide array of diverse landscapes — pristine beaches, a scenic lake, spectacular diving sites, breathtaking rivers, fertile farm lands, enchanting mountains, and a volcano. These places have also nurtured communities from the pre-Spanish settlements to the rise of the province’s many urban centers in its long history. Thus, it is no surprise that Batangas has a rich culture and heritage, and has become home to some of the country’s most significant national heroes whose roles and legacy cannot be stressed enough.''The best part: It is close to Manila, just two to three hours away. Here are 12 destinations you might want to check out the next time you plan a quick getaway!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Taal Volcano''2. Taal Heritage Town''3. Balayan''4. Lipa City''5. Nasugbu''6. Laiya, San Juan''7. Anilao, Mabini''8. Tingloy''9. Verde Island, Batangas City''10. Malabrigo, Lobo''11. Calatagan and Lian''12. Mt. Maculot, Cuenca''A more updated version of this article can be found here:''El Nido Travel Guide''We called ourselves S Club 7. We were a group of three guys and four ladies on the beach. We couldn’t help but relive our younger days when the airwaves were filled with melodies of boy bands and pop groups. We wanted to shoot a remake of S Club 7’s''Bring It All Back''video when we were there. Don’t worry because we didn’t do it.''“You’re such a cheerful, fun bunch,” noticed Kate, half of the Danish couple who were with us on the tour. Our laughs resonated across the entire Bacuit Bay. Our body movements were so big and animated we could be seen from the top of the cliff of another island. Our smiles were wider than any stretch of white sand that you could find in any of the 45 islands of El Nido. After all, we were there to be happy. We easily assumed that any form of sadness is banned in this place. El Nido is just too marvelous for any of that.''Fake “S Club 7” with Kate and Rene. Haha.''Each of us, however, used laughter to conceal our own unhappiness. One of us had been contemplating quitting his job. One is escaping the relentless nagging of family issues. One had been trying to get over the passing of his mother. Every one of us was there for a temporary break, a temporary relief that only sheer beauty can provide, something that the 7 Commandos Beach has.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Seven Commandos Beach''The Seven Soldiers''El Nido, apparently, has many secrets.''We thought the Secret Beach of Matinloc Island (Tour C) was the only concealed beach that we were gonna set foot on in this trip. But Miniloc Island has a secret, too. After exploring the Big and Small Lagoons, and having lunch at Payong-Payong Beach, Tour A continued and led us to a paradise made of limestone. It was a surreal experience approaching this hard, spiky karst world. It was like we entered another world — a world where “ugly” is either banned or non-existent.''To our right were magnificent cliffs that, as we passed by, slowly revealed a white, sparkling beach that harbors coconut trees. The cliffs were like open arms, inviting us to come nearer and see what the island had to offer.''The beach beside the Secret Lagoon hiding behind the karst fences''Coconut trees dot the beach beside the Secret Lagoon''When our boat finally docked, our attention was drawn to a little opening in one of the cliffs to our left. It was a huge wall with a tiny hole. And that hole, my friends, was the entrance to the Secret Lagoon, also known as Hidden Lagoon, of Miniloc Island. All along, we thought the Secret Lagoon was the beach behind the giant rocks to our right. Apparently, there’s another world behind the karst rocks on the other side, so hidden that I had to twist my body like a pretzel to get there.''Fortunately, the opening was above the water so we didn’t have to swim through it. We just had to crawl into the Secret Lagoon. Note also that the water leading to the lagoon was shallow so you need to be extra careful with the rocks and corals.''Penetrating the hole! Mwahaha''This is what’s in store for you when you look up!''This is the entrance to the Secret Lagoon''My friends having a mini-pictorial at the Lagoon''The Secret Lagoon was much smaller than the Secret Beach. The temperature inside was much cooler because it is constantly in the shadows of the limestone cliffs enclosing it.''Although the water inside looked shallow, our boatmen warned us that it gets deeper as you go farther so we did not dare.''Rene and Kate, Danish tourists whom we shared the boat with''Our Danish friends Rene and Kate were having a blast camwhoring. They kept on raving about the beauty of the Philippines and how they wish to be back and how we were so lucky to be living in a country that is overflowing with wonders.''We stayed at the Secret Lagoon for over 30 minutes before we called it quits and moved on to our next destination, ready as ever for more secrets.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Big and Small Lagoons: Kayaking Around Miniloc Island, El Nido, Palawan''How to Get to El Nido from Puerto Princesa Airport, Palawan, Philippines''El Nido, Palawan: Making Friends at Payong-Payong Beach''The Secret Beach of Matinloc Island: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''Talisay Beach: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''The 7 Commandos Beach and the 7 Lost Soldiers: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''They were the first to speak. “Where are you from?” asked the gentleman.''“We’re from Manila,” Leo, one of my friends answered. “How about you?”''“We’re from Denmark,” said the lady.''They were Rene and Kate. He’s a surgeon, and she’s an anthropologist. They had been traveling around the Philippines for almost a month at the time. El Nido was their last stop, not counting Manila.''Payong-Payong Beach lies next to Miniloc Island Resort (a luxury resort by El Nido Resorts)''Rene and Kate from Denmark at the Secret Lagoon''“Are you a couple?” asked Leo.''“Yes, yes,” said Kate. “We’ve been together for three years.”''“Oh, getting married soon, I bet?” added Leo.''And then there was silence. Awkward silence.''It was a long, painful moment, and no one said anything. We just looked at one another. “Oh Leo,” said Ayn, another friend of mine. “Stop asking uncomfortable questions!”''At that point, our boatmen announced that our lunch was ready. Saved by the boatmen!''We had been sharing the boat with Kate and Rene, our new Danish friends, but it wasn’t until we were lazing at Payong-Payong beach, waiting for lunch, that we started a conversation. As our boatmen prepared lunch and after we introduced ourselves, we finally had time to talk about where we were.''Payong-Payong Beach''is one of the many white sand beaches of Miniloc Island. Like most beaches in El Nido, it is also dotted with limestone cliffs, although not as tall as the others. Still, it was totally comforting to stay under their shade. On one side of the beach, the waves rolled more gently. On the other, they were stronger and more violent. Although we all went swimming at one point, most of our time was spent sitting on the sand, admiring the surroundings, and exchanging stories. It’s always nice to make new friends especially on a trip.''My friends playing skipping stones on the shallow side of the beach.''Other tourists enjoying their tropical island lunch.''The waves behind these two cliffs were really strong.''LUNCH! We had chicken, fish, veggies, and fruits!''Just like the day before, our lunch was composed mainly of grilled food, prepared at the beach. We had grilled fish, grilled chicken, ensaladang talong, cucumbers, tomatoes, and bananas. As expected, there was too much food for everyone but we somehow managed to devour everything.''We sat on one of the rocks on the other side of the beach and just let the strong waves play with our feet.''“You’re very lucky,” Kate said to us. “You have a beautiful country.”''Yes, we do.''Update (August 24, 2013): Rene and Kate have finally tied the knot! Congrats to them!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Big and Small Lagoons: Kayaking Around Miniloc Island, El Nido, Palawan''The Secret Lagoon of Miniloc Island: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''Matinloc Shrine: The Two Faces of Abandonment in El Nido, Palawan''Sunset Walk in El Nido, Palawan''How to Get to El Nido from Puerto Princesa Airport, Palawan, Philippines''Bacuit Grill Bar and Restaurant: Where to Eat in El Nido, Palawan''I was starting to enter a state of depression as I tried to zip up my life jacket forcefully. “My tummy is getting in the way,” I self-deprecated when I was asked what the matter was. It was the third life jacket I tried and I really needed one because I, embarrassing as it sounds, doesn’t know how to swim. Boo, bite me. (I should start taking lessons.)''But it’s difficult to be sad in El Nido.''The imposing limestone cliffs fringed with green vegetation are therapists in disguise. Their colors against the blue skies are visual music that has the ability to relax, hypnotize and blow all bad vibes away. Heck, even the sound of the boat’s engine has that ability, too. It’s funny because every time the sound of the engine stopped, we knew we were in for a treat.''Miniloc Island''is right smack in the middle of Bacuit Bay, El Nido. The island’s jagged coastline is filled with pockets of white beaches and lagoons and caves, both shallow and deep. It is one of those islands you think only exist in the movies or your head.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Gliding Around the Big Lagoon''Kayaking Around the Small Lagoon''Update: El Nido Waterfront Hotel is no longer operational.''We stood in the middle of the road, not talking, on our second night in El Nido. All seven of us wanted to try other hostels but we just couldn’t find available rooms. We were in front of''Garnet Hotel'', a towering red-orange building that looked newly-built. We had already talked to the caretaker but she said there was only 1 room available and it could accommodate up to three persons. We were a group of seven.''Just when we were about to walk away, the lady from Garnet Hotel asked us to check its neighboring''El Nido Waterfront Hotel''. We did. The guy from El Nido Waterfront Hotel said there was one available room that is good for two persons. “But if you’re willing, we can provide an extra mattress to accommodate up to four people.”''El Nido Waterfront Hotel''Garnet Hotel, just opposite El Nido Waterfront Hotel, where three of my friends stayed''We were sold. The group decided that three of us stay at Garnet and the rest at El Nido Waterfront. I was one of the four to spend the next two nights at El Nido Waterfront Hotel.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Beachfront and Lobby''Room and Rates''Staff and Service''The Danish flag was flirting with the wind that evening as my friends and I discussed where to have dinner. We had seen this restaurant before — on our first afternoon — and our initial impression was good. The day before, we were just enjoying the view of Bacuit Bay when we were approached and greeted by a Danish man, who owns and runs the place.''The signage in front of El Nido Corner''The Danish flag dancing with the wind''“My name is Ole,” he said to us. “Are you looking for good food? I can show you our freshest catch of the day!”''Ole Jakobsen had a sweet, friendly smile and he was really accommodating. Unfortunately,''the''Happy Hour''sign hanging in front of the restaurant next to his''was too tempting for us to pass up. We had to decline Ole’s fresh catch that day but we promised him to be back the day after.''The day had come. We were surprised how packed the place was that night. There seemed to be no available tables. But Ole walked towards us as soon as he saw us approaching and led us to the second floor (balcony set-up) and gave us a table for seven. Unlike some of the more popular restaurants in town, El Nido Corner does not have a live band or play loud music. Candles and faint lamps illuminate the place — a nice, practical touch. The atmosphere really allows customers to enjoy nature especially when one hears the sound of the waves rolling only a few feet away.''Faint lamps add an almost romantic element to the experience''When we were handed the menu, the first impression we had was that it was pricier than most restaurants in El Nido but we hoped that the food and service would be worth it. It took us so long to pick a dish because everything on that menu sounded delicious. At one point, I whipped out my phone to check in to Foursquare and found a tip that the “Fish with Butter and Herbs” was really great and the poster sounded really excited recommending it. And then another commenter replied and said it wasn’t that great. I was sooo intrigued so that’s exactly what I ordered and rice and fried potatoes, which I shared with two of my travel buddies to divide the cost.''Several minutes later, the food was served and without saying anything, we just dug in. It was that automatic.''The first thing we noticed was that each plate came with a slice of watermelon, which was a pretty welcome surprise because I looooove watermelons.''Watermelon on each plate!''There was nothing spectacular about the Fried Potatoes. It was simply potatoes cut and fried. But I liked how it was perfectly cooked. The potatoes were soft and tender but not mushy. It wasn’t crispy like French Fries. It was just right. You know they’re real potatoes and not some powder whatever shit we usually see at the supermarket. I actually liked it very much. And of course, it’s fried so it’s a little oily.''Fried potatoes!''Fish with butter and herbs''Now, the main course — Fish with butter and herbs. It was AWESOME. At first glance, it was just an ordinary cut of fish — no garnish at all. But from the get-go, I knew the fish was fresh. It looked and smelled fresh. There was no nasty smell to it or anything. The butter and the herbs made it so much appetizing. The aromas were mixing beautifully straight to my nostrils.''I should have ordered one for myself alone''was all I was thinking that time. Haha.''It was war when we tasted it. All three of us loved, loved it. And remember, we’re sharing ONE serving of the dish. We didn’t know what kind of fish it was but we didn’t care because it just tasted so good. The meat was soft and each bite was flavorful. In \xa0minutes, the fish was gone. We were left with the butter and herbs mixture on the plate yet we continued eating. It tasted really good that I had to pour my rice on the plate and let the flavor of the butter and herbs mix with the rice.''Overall, it was a great dining experience. As we left the place, Ole was going around, hopping from one table to another with a plate with two fish on it. “These are today’s fresh catch,” he said to customers who seemed to be enjoying not just the place but the hospitality of its owner.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Bacuit Grill Bar and Restaurant: Where to Eat in El Nido, Palawan''Sunset Walk in El Nido, Palawan''Talisay Beach: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''The Secret Beach of Matinloc Island: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''El Nido, Palawan: Making Friends at Payong-Payong Beach''Matinloc Shrine: The Two Faces of Abandonment in El Nido, Palawan''The towering gray karst cliffs surrounding me went ignored as I stood in the middle of a pocket of white beach on one edge of Matinloc Island. I was at the so called “Secret Beach,” the place that, according to legend, inspired author Alex Garland to write his novel''The Beach''when he stayed in El Nido.''The Secret Beach is a piece of paradise concealed by the cliffs and is only accessible through a narrow crevice. One has to swim through this opening to reach this place, shining even under the shade created when the sun kisses the cliffs. I wanted to take it all in when I was there. It was beyond beautiful indeed but all I could think about was:''“I should have brought a water-proof camera.”''Cliffs, cliffs, cliffs…'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Finding the Secret''Into the Secret''The Secret Beach''Water is said to be the most important substance to life. All living things need water. All living things, yes, including travelers. Swimming, snorkeling, running around, and more swimming are exhausting activities that must be enjoyed by those who will go on a whole-day island-hopping adventure. And to survive this day, one should not forget to bring a bottle of WATER.''I did. I did forget. Poor me.''Why does it always happen to me? Damn.''But I’m getting ahead of the story.''Hey look! Pineapple! And inside, Spongebob! NOT.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Talisay Beach and Matinloc Island''Island Lunch at Talisay Beach''The Watery Confusion''With reckless abandon. That’s how I described our trip to El Nido in general. Not much planning was involved. We dove into it even though we had not even found a place to stay. And we pushed through with it even though we were in the middle of a very critical season at work. All we wanted was that feeling of peace and some time for ourselves. It was like we abandoned everything we had in the city and jumped into this trip blindly. But it was all worth it.''We began island-hopping on our second day in El Nido. The weather was pleasant and the waves were gentler than usual. We were supposed to do Tour A but noticing how favorable the boating conditions were that day, our boatman politely suggested that we take Tour C first. Tour C islands are farther and getting there take more time so he figured, we could take advantage of the friendly day. We agreed.''I wish it were my house''Our first stop was Matinloc Island. It was one of the farther islands from the town proper. On the way there, we passed by several islands and had a sneak peek of what was in store for us in the next few days.''After almost 20 minutes of mingling with the waves and singing Kesha songs with friends, our boat docked on a little white beach where we were greeted by a sculpture of Jesus Christ in a small cave and a concrete gazebo (which reminded me of Greece in an instant).''The white beach near the Matinloc Shrine''The entrance to the shrine is this gorgeous beach!''Some religious sculptures at the Shrine''While the rest of the boatmen secured the boat, the lead boatman led us to the left and invited us to climb a limestone cliff standing mightily on the beach. We followed him and we were blown away. The top of the cliff offered a magnificent view of some parts of Matinloc Island and other nearby islands and beaches. From there, we saw the waves rolling, slapping the white shores as other boats sailed by. It was a pleasant feeling. We were the only people in the area and we felt like we owned the place.''Looking up, there was a reminder that this is also a religious, or at least spiritual, place — a cross, standing mightily on the tallest peak of the cliffs. Word of caution, by the way, the cliffs are steep and the rocks are pointed that one wrong move and you’ll be in bloody trouble. Watch your steps.''See how sharp and pointed the rocks are? One wrong move and…''The beach just across the Shrine as viewed from the top of the cliff''Port beside the shrine''Not far from the base of the cliff was a narrow runway over the water leading to a platform, which reminded me of those old, abandoned ports I see on TV. We were drawn to it like nails swarming around a magnet because at first look, we knew it would be a perfect spot to have a jump shot.''I stayed a little longer on the platform, admiring my surroundings that I didn’t realize I was the only one left there. Moments later, I heard my friends called out my name from the building nearby. They were on the second floor terrace and I thought they wanted me to climb up there, too, so I could appreciate the view. Apparently, they just wanted me to take more photos of them. My friends are the greatest.''Out the window…''Matinloc Shrine has been abandoned''The view of the beaches was fantastic from the second floor of the building. But it wasn’t the outside view that got my attention but the inside. It was empty. Other than a couple of couches, nothing much was inside. The first thing that entered my head was, “Hmmmm. It’s a perfect location for a suspense thriller.”''But yeah, kidding aside, the place is fascinating.\xa0I actually loved the idea that it was abandoned because it adds to the overall appeal of the place, especially that it is a shrine. BUT, a big part of me was hoping that the place be functional and be put to good use.''Sayang kasi''.''“Why is the place empty?” I asked our boatman.''He answered that there used to be a lot of furniture pieces and other items inside but they vanished slowly as time passed. When asked why only the couches were left, he told us grinningly that it was only because an average boat can’t carry big couches. We all laughed but it was a sad, why-am-I-laughing kind of laugh. I have no way to verify whether what our boatman told us was true, though.''We stayed another 10 minutes in the place. And while we sat at the gazebo and talked, time passed so fast that we had to abandon the shrine.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Talisay Beach: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''The Secret Beach of Matinloc Island: El Nido, Palawan, Philippines''El Nido, Palawan: Making Friends at Payong-Payong Beach''Sunset Walk in El Nido, Palawan''Big and Small Lagoons: Kayaking Around Miniloc Island, El Nido, Palawan''How to Get to El Nido from Puerto Princesa Airport, Palawan, Philippines''We were magnetized by the big, bold letters posted in front of a seaside restaurant along Bacuit Bay. It said “Happy Hour.” We were just there for dinner but the idea of getting two glasses of cocktail drinks for the price of one was strong enough to add some alcohol in our supposedly sober dinner.''Bacuit Grill Bar and Restaurant is an open-air dining place perfect for those who wish to see the sunset at the bay. It is on the far end of the bay so you might find yourself walking along the beach for quite some time just to get here. Its wooden columns and chairs, bamboo ceiling, and nipa walls and roofs provide that tropical beach ambiance. The sound of the waves rolling made our stay here more relaxing. As darkness fell, candles provided enough light for friendly conversations.\xa0I guess that’s the strongest appeal of this place — it allows customers to enjoy food without letting them forget that they are on the beach!''Bacuit Bay''We somehow predicted, while observing other people’s orders, that the serving was humongous. While my friends ordered pasta, I had''Crab in Sweet and Sour Sauce''and rice. As expected, it was big. My blogging buddy and I had to share coz there was no way I could finish that one crab without dying due to high blood pressure. LOL. Besides, \xa0it was really good for 2-3 persons. The sound of the crab’s shell as we break them to scoop out the meat was music to us as we were really starved coming from a five-hour trip from Puerto Princesa. The smell assured us that it was fresh — it did not smell''malansa''. It tasted good, too. I just wished they added something more to the dish. The crab was great but there was nothing special. The sauce was a letdown, too. It actually tasted like it came out of one of those bottles of ready-to-serve sauces.''But on the upside, where can you find a full serving of fresh, delicious crabs for only P190? I’m certainly not complaining. 🙂''Crab in Sweet and Sour Sauce (P190)''I also had a taste of my friends’ pasta dishes (carbonara and meat sauce). They were good. That’s all I can say. Nothing special. Tasted exactly what you would expect from an average restaurant. BUT the serving was really big.''Cocktails and pasta''I guess at this point, it is important to note that Bacuit Grill Bar and Resto is more of a bar than a sit-down restaurant. The food is great for the price because they offer generous servings. If dinner is what you want, this will satisfy but not blow you away. But if it’s drinks that you’re after, maybe it’s the place to be. But the real selling point of the place is its excellent, romantic location and ambiance.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''El Nido Corner: Where to Eat in El Nido, Palawan (Splurge Option)''Sunset Walk in El Nido, Palawan''El Nido, Palawan: Making Friends at Payong-Payong Beach''How to Get to El Nido from Puerto Princesa Airport, Palawan, Philippines''Big and Small Lagoons: Kayaking Around Miniloc Island, El Nido, Palawan''Matinloc Shrine: The Two Faces of Abandonment in El Nido, Palawan''From where I stood, I could see the sun paint the clouds pink as it began to kiss the horizon. The Poor Traveler was walking with friends to the beach and our excitement was just overflowing with each step towards the shore. As the sound of the waves stammering the name of the sea got louder, the thought of watching the sunset in El Nido gave me chills. It wasn’t long until I realized that it was not going to happen. One of the cliffs along Bacuit Bay was blocking the sun. Still, we sat on the sand and glued our eyes to the skies as blue turned to pink.''The El Nido Town Proper lies along El Nido Bay, next to Bacuit Bay, which is dotted with several islands that create a stunning view. I had been to many popular beaches in the country and many times I got bothered by boatmen offering tours and rides. It didn’t happen in El Nido. We were just there watching the sea and the skies and the sand, and enjoying our time. This beach is part of Barangay Buena Suerte, one of the four villages that make up the town’s poblacion.''While the sun was starting to call it a night, I removed my slippers and felt the sand and the waves on my feet. The sand was not as fine or white as that on Panglao Island in Bohol or Boracay but it was good enough for a tourist wanting to bond with nature. The view alone made me want to move to El Nido for good. It was''that''beautiful. As it started to get dark, we decided to walk and look for hostels where we could spend the next couple of nights.''From the shore, we got a good glimpse of beachfront hotels/hostels. Many times we stopped and inquired. We skipped the others as we knew they were too costly for us just by looking at them.''The view of the nearby islands added to the ambiance of the restaurants lined up along the bay. Tables were set up on the beach in some areas.\xa0Candles were lit. Music were turned on.''As we checked out one restaurant after another, we realized that most of the customers in the area were foreigners. In fact, we found ourselves the only Filipino tourists wherever we went. European words — English, Danish, German, French — filled the air.''El Nido Poblacion Beach''When we reached the farthest restaurant where the flag of Denmark danced with the wind, we decided it was time to pick the place to have dinner at. We walked back a few steps to another restaurant and sat at a table behind a chalkboard with''Happy Hour''written on it.''Tonight, we shall eat and drink and get drunk.''And we shall get lost in the familiar yet strangely foreign embrace of El Nido as the pink skies get swallowed by the dark.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Bacuit Grill Bar and Restaurant: Where to Eat in El Nido, Palawan''El Nido Corner: Where to Eat in El Nido, Palawan (Splurge Option)''Big and Small Lagoons: Kayaking Around Miniloc Island, El Nido, Palawan''How to Get to El Nido from Puerto Princesa Airport, Palawan, Philippines''El Nido, Palawan: Making Friends at Payong-Payong Beach''Matinloc Shrine: The Two Faces of Abandonment in El Nido, Palawan''Every time my phone beeped, I prayed to see a “yes.” I wasn’t proposing to my partner; I was procrastinating. It was one o’clock in the morning, a few hours before our flight and there I was, still trying to find a hotel online. I had texted every contact number I had seen online in the middle of the night and I was just waiting for a favorable response. And true to my name, I was the Poor Traveler — every beep was a NO. And every NO was followed by a facepalm. At 5am, I decided to go to the airport and just hoped for the best. Seems like kicking my Bahala Na attitude will still be on my list of New Year’s resolutions. Damn.''At 6am, we were already at the pre-departure area waiting for boarding when my phone made a sound again. This time, it wasn’t a beep but a ring. A real, legitimate, yes-someone’s-calling-me ring. “Hello po, taga-Cliffside Cottages po ito,” said the voice on the other line when I picked up. Her name was Marilyn. And she just saved us from the possibility of sleeping in the streets of El Nido.''Cliffside Cottages''Ate Marilyn, the lady on the other end of the line, told me the good news. Cliffside Cottages had three vacant rooms and they could accommodate all seven of us. Sweet! I had the three rooms reserved for a night. Problem solved.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Location''Rooms and Rates''El Nido’s biggest crowd-drawers are its island tours, and there are four of them, conveniently named A-D. Some tour operators are offering combination tours at a higher cost, and you’ll even find some that can customize a tour for you. I’m not sure if these combination tours are allowed. I heard before that the local tourism authorities put a stop to it, but the last time I visited, they are still offered by tour companies.''If you’re \xa0visiting El Nido for a few days, you’re probably wondering which tour is the best to take. If you ask most of my friends, it’s a toss between Tours A and C. Let’s say that for whatever reason, you have to pick only one. Here’s a break down of these two options so you could make a wiser decision.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Standard Tours: Rates and Inclusions''Tour A''Tour C''Coffins scare the hell out of me. I said it before and I’m saying it now —''The Poor Traveler''is not the Brave Traveler. There are so many things out there that terrify me. One of them is death. And most of the things related to it. The mere sight of a coffin is enough to make me shiver. Imagine how I felt when I learned I’d be in a cave full of coffins!''“No way. Not gonna happen,” I resisted.''An hour later, I found myself in a cave, surrounded by coffins. The fear of coffins was overshadowed by the fear of not getting to experience the trip in full so I walked down to the cave, along a steep and rugged trail, with my friends to face the most coffins at a single place I had ever seen.''And it wasn’t scary.''Coffins stacked one after another, creating an entire wall of sealed proof of how much our ancestors valued the afterlife, did not trigger fear but curiosity. The place offers a quick but rich glimpse of the past — traditions, culture, life.''The Lumiang Burial Cave is probably the most visited burial site in Sagada primarily because it is usually bundled with the Sumaguing Cave Tour. Sumaguing Cave is arguably the town’s most popular tourist attraction and those who avail of the tour are given a free side trip to the Lumiang Cave. It is also the start point for the Cave Connection, the more challenging of the spelunking options you may choose from.''The cave is hidden several meters away from the road and one needs to go down a steep — and if you’re unlucky and it’s raining — \xa0slippery trail. There are parts that are very difficult to traverse but nowhere near dangerous. You just need to keep your balance by using your arms as your third and fourth legs. Some parts are rocky that you might want to watch your step, while some were littered with soft sticks that make music when stepped on.''Although a challenge, especially for asthmatic tourists like me, the trail offers a good view of the limestone cliffs along the way. There’s even a spot for picture-taking!''My friends at a photo stop. Haha''When we reached the site, we were greeted by a number of small groups of tourists, all posing against the piles of coffins. While some settled for just looking at the coffins from afar, others went deeper into the area to get a closer look at the priceless content of the cave. On one end were those about to start their Cave Connection spelunking adventure.''Our Guide leading the way into the mouth of Lumiang Cave''Tourists about to start their Cave Connection Spelunking Adventure!''The Lumiang Burial Cave''Lumiang Burial Cave Coffins''A good fifteen minutes had passed and everyone in our group agreed it was time to come back up to the road. Minutes before, we were all talking about how difficult it was to go down to the cave. Apparently, the going down was relatively easy if you ask me. It was the coming back up that left me gasping for and vomiting air.''I wouldn’t say my fear of coffins had been completely removed by this experience. However, this close encounter with the vessels of the departed brought me closer to the realization that death and all things that we associate with it are all reflections of the culture we take part in.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Ligaya’s Guest House and Cottages: Where to Stay in Sagada, Philippines''Salt N Pepper Diner: Where to Eat in Sagada, Philippines''Cave Connection: Next-Level Spelunking in Sagada, Philippines''Flames and Mirrors in Sagada''Sumaguing Cave: Spelunking for Beginners in Sagada, Philippines''The Hanging Coffins at Echo Valley: Sagada, Philippines''We missed the sunrise.''Although the original plan was to witness the sunrise from the Kiltepan Viewpoint on our last morning in Sagada, we still hoped we could catch the dawn as soon as we arrived. We tried to dodge the idea of waking up really early on our last day. Unfortunately, the sun was already up when we reached the quaint town of Sagada. But we were not complaining; we were too busy getting awed by the place.''Our first stop was the''Salt and Pepper Diner''. After almost 10 hours on the road, we were ALL starved and were ready to eat the first food that would come our way. Good news,''Salt and Pepper Diner''offers complimentary fruits to their customers. Yay!''Salt and Pepper Diner''isn’t very easy to spot. There’s just a small signage in front of the diner. The place is located above the Ug-ugo Souvenir Store, beside the office of''Sagada Genuine Guides Association''(SAGGAS). You will have to climb a short flight of stairs to get there.''My friends Tonet and Dane loving the coffee and the weather.''On my previous trip to Sagada, I noticed that the place was always packed in the morning. Fortunately, there was still one vacant table when we arrived. And there was a basket of bananas on it. Last time I was here, it was a basket of dalandan.''Although''Salt and Pepper''offers a variety of dishes, they usually just serve longganisa and tapa when there are too many customers. Don’t worry because both dishes taste good especially when paired with coffee or chocolate.''Ganayo’s Favorite: Homemade longganisa with fried egg and garlic red rice''Bisled’s Choice: Beef Tapa, Fried egg and garlic race! TAPSILOG Sagada-style!''When our meals were served, we were hypnotized by the smell. I’m not sure whether we were just hungry or the smell of the beef was just really strong and appetizing. Mind you, I’m not even a beef fan. The meat was not dry and each bit was tender. The best thing about it was that it didn’t have the usual “beef” aftertaste.''Each order of longsilog comes with two rolls of homemade skinless longganisa. It was sweeter than many other longganisas I had tasted before and I liked it. It was perfectly cooked. The outer part was a little crispy while the core was juicy and tender but well-cooked.''The red rice was a breath of fresh air for me. It was my first time to see this type of rice. I was reluctant at first because I was expecting regular rice. I thought it would taste different. \xa0Fortunately, it tasted like your ordinary garlic rice. Awesomely normal. If it had another taste, then I wouldn’t have liked it as I usually like my rice to taste exactly like the rice I am used to.''Overall, it was a great experience. The ambiance of the place was very homey. We felt like visitors at a home of a great cook, and we were treated exactly like that. Although we would have loved to try their other dishes, we understood that the diner’s manpower could only produce two dishes at the time. But they were two great-tasting dishes. The complimentary fruits were greatly appreciated. So was the service. The next day, we had breakfast at Salt and Pepper again, which goes without saying just how much we enjoyed the place.''For the complete menu, visit Salt and Pepper’s official website''here''.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Ligaya’s Guest House and Cottages: Where to Stay in Sagada, Philippines''Lumiang Burial Cave: Sagada, Philippines''The Yoghurt House, Sagada: A Love-Hate Affair''Lemon Pie House: Where to Eat in Sagada, Philippines''Flames and Mirrors in Sagada''Orange Picking at Rock Farm, Sagada (Updated Rates: 2016)''“Let’s go to Sagada.”''More than five years ago, just before our college graduation, my friend Tonet invited me to go to Sagada. “I don’t think that’s possible given that we’re too busy working on our theses. Perhaps after graduation?” I suggested.''After graduating, while we were walking in Makati looking for a job, she brought it up again. “I think we should find a job first. And then let’s plan a Sagada getaway,” I dodged. She agreed.''When we finally landed a job, the desire to travel to Sagada was still there. But neither tried to bring it up because we knew there was no way we could squeeze a 3-day trip into our totally toxic schedules. It wasn’t until our company-sponsored outing in 2009 when I finally set foot on Sagada.''When Tonet found out that I had been there already, she made me promise that I should take her with me the next time. Fortunately, Sagada is one of those places anyone would love returning to. A year later, I decided to go back to Sagada. The perfect time glimmered in between Christmas and New Year. I gave Tonet a call.''“You asked me to call you the moment I decided to go to Sagada. The moment has come. You still up for it?”''Tonet’s response was a loud and happy “Of course.”''After 5 years of wanting, it finally happened.''When our friends found out about this trip to Sagada, they decided to join. After all, because the trip was scheduled on December 27-29, they already had filed a leave of absence from office. Before we knew it, we became a group of 10, composed of college friends and some colleagues.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Planning a Trip to Sagada''Day 0 – Meet-up and Departure''Day 1 – Arrival in Sagada, Sumaguing Cave Spelunking Tour''Day 2 – Bomod-ok Falls, Orange Picking, and Echo Valley''Day 3 – Kiltepan Sunrise and Sidetrip to Banaue Rice Terraces''Expenses''Quarter-life crisis. I guess it’s starting to kick in. Almost every night since my 25th birthday I would just lie in my bed at night and think about my childhood. When I close my eyes, I try to relive the days when I would just spread my arms wide open and pretend to fly. I try to remember the day when I first rode a bicycle. I try to imagine climbing a nearby hill just so I could see the beach and feel the wind on my face. Many times I would even dream about it. Unfortunately, unless time travel becomes a reality, all I can do is remember.''Woot! Sentosa!''Sentosa Merlion''I have always considered Singapore to be a very modern and futuristic city. I had never been to any place in Singapore where I could not see or hear a nearby construction. Development is unrelenting. But it is in this city where I had an opportunity to relive my lost childhood.''It was Day 4 of our Singapore-Malaysia cruise. Our cruise ship, the Superstar Virgo, docked in Singapore that morning. It wasn’t long until we found ourselves stepping on Singapore soil again. It was sad to bid goodbye to the ship but we were optimistic that there were still so much in store for us on the last day of this four-day trip.''Our tour bus driver was already waiting for us when we emerged from the Harbourfront Centre. In no time, we were crossing over to Sentosa Island.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Tastes of Asia''GoGreen Segway Eco Adventure''The Luge and Skyride''Sentosa 4D Magix and Sentosa Cine Blast''Tiger Sky Tower''Earlier that day, when our Tour Guide announced that we had entered the city of Kuala Lumpur, I quickly moved to a window seat and started searching the skies for an imposing structure — the Petronas Towers. When I looked at our itinerary before this trip, I was familiar with these twin towers only. Prior to this trip, I had not heard of the Thean Hou Temple or the Merdeka Square. The Petronas Towers, I have to admit, were the only man-made structure in Malaysia that I was familiar with. That’s why I was really excited when it was finally time to visit this iconic landmark.''Also known as Menara Berkembar Petronas in local language, the Petronas Twin Towers held the record as the world’s tallest buildings from 1998 to 2004. The twins lost the title to Taipei 101 in Taiwan but they remain the tallest twin buildings, according to the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat (CTBUH) official rankings.''The towers were designed by Cesar Pelli, an Argentine architect; Deejay Cerico, a Filipino-Malaysian engineer; and Dominic Saibo, another Filipino designer. The seven-year construction of these twin giants wrapped up in 1998.''When we hopped out of our tour bus, we were led to the lobby of the towers. Briefly, we gathered and listened to some last minute reminders by our Guide. We agreed to spend the next two hours within the complex and return to the lobby after. Since it was almost noon, we headed straight to a food court at Suria KLCC.'"Petronas Twin Towers: Kuala Lumpur's imposing twin giants"'The Malaysian flag displayed proudly near the entrance; the facade of the Petronas Towers; the ceiling at the main lobby.''Widely regarded as the country’s premier shopping destination, Suria KLCC is located at the base of the Petronas Towers, occupying 6 levels. The shopping center formally opened on August 31, 1999.''Upon setting foot on the place, I was reminded of Glorietta and Trinoma. I don’t know why but it had that “Ayala Mall” atmosphere. From where we stood, we could see several delightful stores including Books Kinokuniya. There are a number of gadget stores, department stores, fashion boutiques, and restaurants. There was also a supermarket and a cinema complex.''Suria KLCC, a shopping complex at the base of the Petronas Twin Towers''We were told that there’s a park at the base of the tower with walking and jogging trails, playgrounds, and pools. Unfortunately, our very limited time did not permit us to explore or even see it.''When we returned to the lobby, we were also told by our Guide that next time we come to Kuala Lumpur, we should try the SkyBridge between the two buildings on the 41st-42nd levels. Yes, maybe next time.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Thean Hou Temple in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''The Merdeka Square and the Sultan Abdul Samad Building, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''KL Tower and 1 Malaysia Cultural Village: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Airphil Express’ Fly and Sail AdvenTour Package (Rates and Itinerary) | Singapore – Kuala Lumpur Cruise''Pasta de Waraku: Where to Eat at Changi Airport, Singapore (Splurge Option)''Sights and Sounds of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''The Kuala Lumpur Tower, or Menara Kuala Lumpur, has become one of the most iconic landmarks in Malaysia. Completed in 1995, the tower is 421 meters (1,381 feet) tall, making it one of the tallest free standing towers in the world.''The KL Tower, as it is more popularly called, was built to improve the quality of telecommunications and broadcast in the city. The Tower also serves as the Islamic falak observatory, enabling observation of the crescent moon, which marks the Ramadan and other important events.''KL Tower'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'KL Tower Observation Deck''1 Malaysia Cultural Village''Bukit Nanas Forest Reserve''Our tour bus stopped in front of what looks like a cricket field. “We gonna play?” I mumbled. The green field lie in front of Tudor-style buildings that somehow reminded me of Old England.''Malaysia was under British rule before.\xa0It was only when I caught a glimpse of the flag pole in the southern end of the field that I realized that we were at the Dataran Merdeka (or Independence Square).''That flag pole is said to be one of the tallest in the world, standing at 95 meters. On this flag pole, the Union Jack (flag of the United Kingdom) was lowered and the Malaysian flag was raised for the first time. It was the midnight of August 31, 1957. That explains the countless Malaysian flags displayed in the vicinity. It was August when we visited Kuala Lumpur.''Today, the Merdeka Square is the venue for the Merdeka Parade or the National Day Parade.''The Merdeka Square (Independence Square) and the Tudor-style buildings of the Royal Selangor Club''The Merdeka Square is surrounded by several historical buildings. Right across the street is the Sultan Abdul Samad Building, which boasts of magnificent architecture that is so different from the very English buildings of Royal Selangor Club. The Sultan Abdul Samad Building was designed by A. C. Norman, inspired Indian Moghul architecture he saw in some of his travels. The construction of the building was finished in 1897. Since then, it has housed many government offices including the Selangor State Secretariat and the Supreme Court. Today, it is home to the Ministry of Information, Communications and Culture.''Sultan Abdul Samad Building''Lovely!''Another shot of Sultan Abdul Samad Building''Aside from the Royal Selangor Club buildings and the Sultan Abdul Samad Building, other structures around the Independence Square include the National History Museum (used to be the Chartered Bank Building), St. Mary’s Anglican Cathedral, the Memorial Library, the Sanitary Board fountain, and the Dayabumi Complex.''We didn’t stay that long at the Merdeka Square. After only a few minutes of sightseeing and taking photos, our Guide signaled that we should return to the bus and proceed to the next stop.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Thean Hou Temple in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Petronas Twin Towers and Suria KLCC: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Airphil Express’ Fly and Sail AdvenTour Package (Rates and Itinerary) | Singapore – Kuala Lumpur Cruise''KL Tower and 1 Malaysia Cultural Village: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Pasta de Waraku: Where to Eat at Changi Airport, Singapore (Splurge Option)''Sights and Sounds of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''I had never been on a cruise ship before. I’m not even sure if I had seen one before. I had been on a ferry a number of times but many of them were short trips. I had spent a couple of days on a ferry once, when I was young, to General Santos City but there was nothing remotely luxurious about the trip. We did not even have a private cabin and there was nothing I could do but watch the horizon. A cruise ship complete with entertainment facilities and buffet dining? Nah, never experienced it before. It was also my first time in Malaysia. That’s why this trip is so special for me. It gave me many first times. I was beyond thrilled.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Boarding the Cruise Ship''The Cruise Card''The Cabin: Compact but Clever''The Amenities''Dining''There’s something about the smell of new books that excites me. Call me weird but I love putting my nose close to the pages as I flip them. I also love the feeling of my fingers running on the edges of the books and its virgin pages. It’s just addictive. Books give me life.''That’s why when our very little time in Orchard Road on my previous trip to Singapore did not allow me to step into''Books Kinokuniya'', I was really disappointed. Knowing that it’s one of the biggest bookstores in Southeast Asia — Indonesia’s Gramedia flagship store in Jakarta is the largest — I promised myself I would pay it a visit the next time I’d be in Singapore. And this Singapore-Kuala Lumpur Cruise paved way to fulfilling that promise. On our Day 2 of the tour, I was able to step into my paradise made of paper and words.\xa0We were easily overwhelmed by the thousands of books that greeted us when we entered the place. I immediately headed to the Fiction section while my two blogger-companions went straight to the Manga corner.''Books Kinokuniya in the imposing Ngee Ann City was officially opened on August 8, 1999. For around 10 years, it was the largest bookstore in Southeast Asia. But the infrastructure was not the only big thing about it. It houses an extensive collection of more than 500,000 titles from across the globe. You’ll find English and Japanese books as well as Chinese, German and French publications.''Books Kinokuniya''Singapore Main Store (Ngee Ann City)''Fax: (65) 6738 0487''Tel: (65) 6737 5021''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Orchard Road: Window Shopping in Singapore''Little India By Night, Singapore''On Board the Superstar Virgo: Singapore-Kuala Lumpur Cruise''Pasta de Waraku: Where to Eat at Changi Airport, Singapore (Splurge Option)''Fragrance Hotel Selegie: Where to Stay in Singapore''Sentosa Singapore: Becoming a Kid Again at Asia’s Favorite Playground''After seeing the city from the Singapore Flyer, the group decided to have early lunch at the''Singapore Food Trail'', located at the base of the Wheel.''The Singapore Food Trail''is an open-air complex of food stalls offering a variety of Asian foods. But what really sets it apart from the other dining attractions in Singapore is the vintage atmosphere it fosters. The overall look and feel of the place, especially the interior design, is reminiscent of Singapore in the 1960s, an interesting counterbalance to the modern and futuristic Singapore Flyer towering above it.''When we were there, the most difficult part of the lunch was choosing the stall. The food items displayed on every stall were all inviting. The vendors in this food complex include''Boon Tat Street Barbeque Seafood'',''Alhambra Padang Satay'',''Hill Street Tai Wah Pork Noodles'',''Rong Chen Bak Kut Teh'', and''Bugis Street Famous Hainanese Chicken Rice''.''My travel partner and I did a quick round and found too many tempting dishes; we could not choose. Noticing the long queue in front of''Bugis Street Famous Hainanese Chicken'', we assumed that there had to be something special about it so we followed the pack. They offer Roast Chicken and Hainanese Chicken Rice at reasonable prices.''I loved how tender the chicken meat was. It was so soft (but not the mushy-squishy kind of soft) that it easily absorbed the flavors of the spices. The sauce was fantastic. The taste was subtle and it enhanced the flavor of the chicken.\xa0 I don’t know how to describe it. It just tasted really good.''When I saw a dimsum stall at the other end of the food court, I instantly had a craving for siew mai (siomai). Unfortunately, Hannah (FlairCandy.com) and Winston (BatangYagit.com) beat me to it. The stall had only prepared a few and Hannah and Winston got the last pieces. I wanted to steal the plate of siew mai from Hannah and Winston but I figured, what the heck. #Kidding''Hainanese Chicken Rice''The drink we ordered was called''Bird’s Nest Drink''. I must admit that I found the name curious and it was the only reason I ordered it. But it tasted good. It reminded me of our very own gulaman, except paler.''For dessert, I had an''Ice Ball'', which I ordered out of envy. I saw another tourist carrying a colorful ball of ice and I rummaged through the entire food court, searching for the stall that offered it only to find it at the very entrance to the Food Trail. I watched as the Ball was prepared. It was very much like the Philippines’ halo-halo but ball-shaped. At the core of the Ice Ball was a sweet brown, yam-like filling, which I could not figure out. But it really did taste like halo-halo.''Overall, the Singapore Food Trail did not disappoint! We loved the food and the ambiance. It was definitely cheaper than many other food courts in Singapore. We had a terrific time!''How to Get to the Singapore Food Trail''You may take the MRT to get to the Singapore Food Trail. Remember that it is located at the base of the Singapore Flyer. There are two ways to get here via the MRT. You may choose to alight at City Hall Station (North South Line) or\xa0Promenade Station (Circle Line).''If you alight at Promenade Station'', take Exit A and follow the pedestrian signs to Singapore Flyer. It’s a 5-10 minutes of leisurely walk.''If you alight at City Hall Station'', cross the road to Coleman Street. Look for a bus stop beside St. Andrew’s Cathedral. Catch the shuttle bus. There’s one every half hour from 1oam to 11pm. The bus will take you straight to the Flyer.''Note'': This is not included in the regular''Fly and Sail AdvenTour''that Airphil Express offers. But we visited this within the supposed “free time” period that our itinerary allowed.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Pasta de Waraku: Where to Eat at Changi Airport, Singapore (Splurge Option)''Hoe Kee Chicken Rice Balls: Where to Eat in Malacca, Malaysia''Full Circle Aboard the Singapore Flyer''MINT Museum of Toys, Singapore''Sentosa Singapore: Becoming a Kid Again at Asia’s Favorite Playground''Orkid Ria Seafood Restaurant: Where to Eat in Langkawi, Malaysia''The wake-up call came at 6am and my roommate and I were up in no time. After doing the morning rituals, we grabbed a quick breakfast at Fragrance Hotel’s cafeteria, went back to our room to get our bags and by 8am, we were already on our way to the Singapore Flyer. I had tried the Singapore Flyer twice before so I wasn’t really that excited but you know what they say:''Third time’s a charm''. I was hoping it would hold true.''When we arrived, we were greeted by a sea of juvenile bliss. There was an educational tour going on and the young pupils were gathered at the entrance to the Flyer, being briefed by their teachers. Suddenly, I was reminded of my own childhood and how thrilled I was whenever we had a field trip. I felt ecstatic for the kids. It was nostalgic watching them in pairs as they trod, baby step after baby step, to the Flyer. There was just too much cuteness that time.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'The Journey of Dreams''About the Singapore Flyer''When my mom learned I would be going to Singapore for the third time, she handed me a list of things I should buy for her. When I looked at the list I knew exactly where to get them —''Mustafa Centre''. It was not difficult at all to squeeze this quick shopping stint into my itinerary because Mustafa is open 24 hours anyway.''Ten o’clock has already passed when we arrived at Fragrance Hotel Selegie from the airport. After getting my key card, I immediately proceeded to my room, dropped my bags and went out again. It was the perfect opportunity to head over to Mustafa Centre and buy what my mom asked me to get for her, mostly perfumes. Just within the block, I passed by a 7-Eleven store and saw another blogger there — Marcos of Ambot-ah.com. He was looking for a money changer. Minutes later, Hannah and the rest of the group joined us and decided to go to the nearest money changer that was still open at the time — at Mustafa Centre! What luck!''The group (composed of travel bloggers) decided to walk all the way to Mustafa Centre from Fragrance Hotel Selegie. I saw it as my chance to finally see Little India at night. I had been to Little India before but it was day. Although I knew that most establishments in the cultural district were most likely already closed that night, it still excited me. With a camera hanging ’round my neck, I snapped away as we made our way to Mustafa Centre.''It wasn’t long until the obvious dawned on me, that Little India is best seen, explored and experienced during the day. For starters, as expected most establishments were already closed when we were there. Only a few restaurants were still open. And because it was dark, many of the colorful elements around Little India got buried in shadows. Allow me to share a few photos of Little India bathing in daylight, shot in a previous trip:''I guess the biggest disappointment for me that night was that I was not able to fall under the spell of the Sri Veeramakaliamman Temple. Because it was already closed, the temple was dark and we could barely see the intricate design of its majestic exterior. Here’s what we saw:''But during the day, it reveals its beautiful, colorful masterpieces crowning the temple! Here are some photos of the Sri Veeramakaliamman Temple when embraced by the sun (taken 2 years ago)!''Still, I enjoyed our short walk. It was my first time to see Little India at night and since it was more like a sidetrip, I was not complaining. The experience brought back precious memories of my first time in Singapore. Soon, we reached Mustafa Centre and I was able to cross out all the items on my mom’s shopping list while my friends queued to exchange currencies (and shop, too)!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Orchard Road: Window Shopping in Singapore''Full Circle Aboard the Singapore Flyer''Books Kinokuniya: Lost in the Pages of Orchard Road, Singapore''Fragrance Hotel Selegie: Where to Stay in Singapore''7 Heritage Sites in Chinatown Singapore: A DIY Walking Tour (Updated: 2014)''Jewel Box Singapore: Where Everything’s a Gem''Whenever I ask any of my friends who are or have been to Singapore about accommodations, I always see Fragrance Hotel in their list of recommendations. I also receive emails from readers of this blog, asking for my review of Fragrance Hotel but I could not give an opinion because I was yet to try it. The popularity of this hotel chain may be brought about by their cheap rates. In a country where space is limited, it is very difficult to find affordable accommodations in a good location. That’s the edge of the many Fragrance Hotel branches all over Singapore. I had been dying to stay in and write about any Fragrance Hotel and it finally happened on this trip.''You may be asking,''I thought it was a cruise. Why were you staying at a hotel?''Good question. We stayed on this hotel on the first night only. Our cruise officially started on the late afternoon of Day 2, giving us enough time to explore Singapore before the cruise. When we entered our rooms, we were greeted by a cute teddy bear.''This was my third time in Singapore. On my first time here, I stayed at Link Hotel in Tiong Bahru Road. The rooms were great. The restroom was clean, tidy and relatively spacious. The service was excellent. The location was the letdown. On my second trip, I stayed at a hostel — G4 Station Backpackers’ Hostel. The room was really small. The restroom was neat but communal (shared by everyone on the level). The staff was friendly and helpful. The location was strategic.''Now, Fragrance Hotel Selegie is somewhere in between. They offer clean private rooms but they are small. If you’re a bit claustrophobic, you’ll spend the entire night ranting about the space (or the lack thereof). Even the bathroom But if you’re like me who picks hotels just so I could have a place to spend the night in (as long as everything is comfortable), then you’ll love this hotel. It’s clean, close to the Little India MRT station, and surrounded by restaurants. Each room is equipped with cable TV, a water heater, a phone and airconditioner. Basic but completely functional.''There’s also a 7-Eleven convenience store next to the hotel. Many of Little India’s landmarks are within walking distance. In fact, after dropping our things in our respective rooms, we decided to head out and explore Little India.''I don’t usually dine at the airport. I have always had this notion that airport food is ridiculously overpriced. I usually eat first at home or at a cheap restaurant near the hotel before going to the airport to save money. But since this was a sponsored trip, I was not complaining! The group crossed over to the Departure Check-in Hall and headed to a restaurant on the third floor. When I saw the restaurant, I was kind of disappointed coz I was hoping for a Southeast Asian dinner — not Japanese, not Western — and the faux pasta bowls on the walls were not a good sign.''But the dinner would prove to be more than satisfying''!''The restaurant was Pasta de Waraku. This Japanese Fusion restaurant at Changi Airport is one of the several Waraku restaurants throughout Asia: Singapore, Hong Kong, Indonesia and Malaysia. After finding seats, we were handed the Dinner Special menu and placed our orders. A set meal costs S$24.80 and it comes with complimentary soup and salad. There are four steps:''Step 1: Choose a main course.''There are six options:''Ribeye steak with black pepper sauce''Soft shell crab with wasabi mayonnaise sauce''Smoked duck with sweet chili sauce''Salmon steak with teriyaki sauce''Chicken cutlet with red miso mushroom''Fish cutlet with curry sauce''It was a toss between the Soft Shell Crab and the Ribeye Steak for me. I really wanted to have steak that night but I was tremendously curious of what the crab tasted like. When my friend-blogger who was sitting next to me ordered steak, I decided to satisfy my curiosity and went for the crab. By the way, each main course comes with potato salad and fried tofu.''Step 2: Choose a pasta''. There are 13 choices! It was probably the most difficult part. The menu displays really appetizing photos and they made it harder for us to choose. Some of the more interesting dishes are Tomato and Mozzarella, Kimchi Afaglio Oilo, Scallop and Asparagus, Tuna and Corn, Prawn Spicy Carbonara and Carbonara Waraku Style. My choice was the most generic of all — Spaghetti alla Bolognese.''Step 3: Choose a drink.''There are only four choices. Green tea (hot or iced), Coke, Sprite, and Iced Lemon Tea.''Step 4: Choose an ice cream.''Again, four choices: Vanilla. Chocolate, Black Sesame and Green Tea. Because I’m the most boring person on the planet, I picked vanilla.''While our orders were being prepared, soup and salad were served. But you know us bloggers, we just had to take pictures of our meals first! After a short snap-snap session, we officially started dinner!''The soup was OK. There’s nothing special about it. But the salad was great. I could tell they were really fresh.''After several minutes, our main courses were served and we were just so excited to dig in. My seat mate’s order came before mine. He allowed me to try the Steak and it was really lovely. It was a bit rare, which made it more appealing to me. I wanted to eat the whole steak but I realized it wasn’t mine. LOL.''When my Soft Shell Crabs arrived, I was already starved but seeing that there were two crabs (more than I expected), I began to kiss hunger goodbye. The crab tasted good. They were deep-fried, I think. (If not, then they looked like it.) It was very tasty but I realized the serving was too big for me. I only finished one.''The Spaghetti alla Bolognese was phenomenal. The pasta was firm and the sauce was very meaty. The half-cooked egg on top of it made it weird at first. (That was my first time to see a whole egg served on top of pasta.) I loved the combination of the yolk and the meat sauce. It tasted odd but yummy. Oddly yummy.''To me the biggest surprise was the fried tofu. The little tofu cubes lay inconspicuously in one corner of the plate but they were tremendous! They were crisp on the outside but exploded in the mouth as they were really soft inside. I just loved it so much I forgot about the other crab.''The Iced Lemon Tea and Vanilla Ice Cream tasted the usual.''Overall, it was a pleasant experience. I loved the food and the serving was humongous. I could not finish mine. I had always considered myself a glutton but the size of the serving at Pasta de Waraku was too much for me. It’s perfect for travelers with big appetite! Ha!''Pasta de Waraku''Viewing Mall, Departure Check-in Hall, Level 3''Opening Hours : 11.00am -11.00pm''Note'': This is not included in the regular''Fly and Sail AdvenTour''that Airphil Express offers. I’m just sharing all the activities we did and places we visited while on this tour.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Airphil Express’ Fly and Sail AdvenTour Package (Rates and Itinerary) | Singapore – Kuala Lumpur Cruise''The Merdeka Square and the Sultan Abdul Samad Building, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Thean Hou Temple in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Petronas Twin Towers and Suria KLCC: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''KL Tower and 1 Malaysia Cultural Village: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''How to Claim GST Refund in Singapore''I had never been on a cruise before. I had traveled by ship many times — to General Santos City, to Puerto Princesa, to Calapan, Mindoro. Although I enjoyed these journeys very much, I had never experienced being on board a cruise ship, with many luxurious amenities. That’s why I was thrilled when I received an invitation from Airphil Express to try their newest travel package —''Fly and Sail''!''The Philippines’ fastest growing airline, Airphil Express partners with another travel giant — Star Cruises. Together, they created a package that made the “cruise experience” a lot more affordable, thus closer to many people. FLY AND SAIL offers a double adventure! You fly to Singapore via Airphil Express and then hop onto SuperStar Virgo and cruise to Malaysia! You may choose which Malaysian destination to visit — Malacca, Redang Island, or Port Klang (gateway to Kuala Lumpur).''Their lowest offer is only P24,888! ALL IN! Enjoy four days and 3 nights (4D/3N) of island adventure, sightseeing or shopping in Singapore and Malaysia! Here are the other options:''Packages are inclusive of the following:''Roundtrip airfare (Manila-Singapore-Manila) including fuel surcharge''3D/2N accommodation aboard Star Cruises’ Superstar Virgo''Overnight accommodation at Oasis Hotel or Fragrance Rose (first night)''Transfers (Airport-hotel-port-airport)''All access to Superstar Virgo’s facilities and live entertainment''Meals on board (up to 6 meals per day at selected restaurants)''Philippine and Singapore taxes''Travel period:''August 23, 2011 – March 13, 2012''Selling period:''August 10-September 20, 2011''I think it’s a very good deal! Looking at my previous Singapore trip where I spent almost P16,000 for 4 days and 3 nights, I think this package is a steal! Note that I stayed at a hostel the last time I was in SG. APX’s Fly and Sail offers not just stay in Singapore but also Malaysia, via cruise ship! Sweet!''Itinerary''Day 1''Flight to Singapore, passengers check-in at NAIA Terminal 3 via 2P 800 ETD 1650H''Arrival in Singapore ETA 2020H, a Singapore Guide will meet them at the airport and proceed to their transfers''Passengers will be transferred via coach to either Fragrance Hotel Rose or Oasis for their overnight Accommodation''Day 2''Free time in the morning''1200H check-out from the hotel''1230H Pick-Up time for transfers from Hotel to Sentosa Port via coach to await check-in time for the Cruise''Check-in time for Cruise will depend on the destination of the Cruise''Departure of Cruise Ship from Sentosa port''Day 3''0700H ETA at the destination of the Cruise, passengers may avail of the optional tour offered on board. Charges for the tour is on personal account of the passengers.''Should passengers avail of the tour, they have to be on board by 1700H – Cruise Ship leaves for Singapore''Day 4''1300H ETA at Sentosa Port, Singapore''A guide will meet the passengers at the port for their transfer to Airport – Check-in for their flight back to Manila via 2P 801 ETD 2050H''It was my third time in Singapore; I was just there the month before. But I had never been to Malaysia before. And that’s another thing I was really looking forward to. I will be sharing all the fun that I had on this trip with all of you in my next posts! Read on!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Thean Hou Temple in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''The Merdeka Square and the Sultan Abdul Samad Building, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''KL Tower and 1 Malaysia Cultural Village: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Petronas Twin Towers and Suria KLCC: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Pasta de Waraku: Where to Eat at Changi Airport, Singapore (Splurge Option)''Sights and Sounds of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia''Our first day at Anawangin Cove was totally lovely. But the meat of our trip really was the “leaving the cove” part! Murphy seemed to have hopped onto the boat with us. Murphy’s Law was just at work that day, proving just how poor a traveler I was!''On the way to check out nearby Capones and Camara Islands, our boat’s engine just stopped. “That’s nasty,” I thought. But since I was with three of my bubbly friends, we were probably the coolest, most relaxed people ever to get stranded in the middle of the sea. We were laughing, making fun of the fact that sun is turning us into charcoals, and dismissing the probability of the boat toppling.''It wasn’t really scary. First, we had a life vest on. Second, it’s not like we were in the Pacific; the nearest land was still just yards away. Lastly, boats come passing by every minute. We were good. We love misadventures. The only thing we were worried about was our gadgets — cameras, iPods, cellphones.''Our boatmen were still trying to fix the engine and they really weren’t interested in giving up so we told them, maybe it’s time to have our boat towed. We’d been floating for 15 minutes and the waves got stronger. Not to mention it was 12 freakin’ noon.''So we started waving at other passenger boats.''But the passengers just waived back at us.''LOL.''Anawangin Cove''None of the other boats gave a damn. They just passed by us, not realizing we were having some wet troubles. Our boat floated aimlessly for another 30 minutes or so. FINALLY, a boat approached and its boatman offered to drag us along. We’d never been happier. But just as they were tying the boats together, the engine suddenly started. Woohoo! It was working again. Our boatmen decided to just continue with our journey. But just when the other boat left, the engine died again.''“We’re screwed,” we thought.''So now, we had more problems. We were farther from the shore, the waves were stronger and the sun was brighter. It didn’t help that our boatmen were a little too proud, they weren’t happy asking help from others. (But I love our boatmen, they were kind, nice people.)''After another 10 minutes,\xa0 the rest of our group (our friends) finally passed by. (We decided beforehand that half of the group would go ahead coz they were not done with the tents yet.) They waved at us and seemed to be clueless of the predicament we were in. They even shouted, “Take a picture of us.” And I was like, “Err… OK sure.” There we were trying to balance our boat for our lives and they had the nerve to ask us to take a picture of their vain asses. My friends, you’ll never find other people like ’em.''I shouted, “Mga walanghiya! Stuck kami dito, nakuha nyo pang magpa-picture!?!!”''And they were like, “Weeeh? Chos!”''I told myself, “Damn I should stop smiling! They all think we’re not in trouble.”''And then they might have finally realized''why in the hell would we fake getting stuck in the middle of the ocean''. So they offered to tow us. Just when they were about to throw the rope, the fuckin’ deceiving engine started to work again. Wow. So they did not push through with the towing. The other boat drove away. We were okay. Until\xa0 the engine stopped again.''One boat passed by and the boatman on it said that''there were two boats back where he was that flipped upside down because of the waves''. I was like, “Thank you, mister. That made us feel better.”''The boatmen restarted the engine and it worked again. So there we were, finally moving. Yay! Everyone happy.''However, we realized we were heading to this rock islet. I thought, “Maybe we’re stopping over. That would be nice. Maybe our boatmen could''really''fix our boat’s engine here. And I’d rather get stuck on a rock than on a boat.”''But our boat was not slowing down. When I heard one of our boatmen shrieked, “Shet, shet, shet.” I knew something wasn’t right. Apparently, they couldn’t steer the boat. It was the first time I got scared the whole while — our boat crashing into this rock.''The boatmen turned the engine off and we went a little slower but not slow enough.''We crashed into the islet''. Good thing the rock’s shape was boat-friendly. Our boat was not damaged.''We were really scared but it was AWESOME! Loved the adrenaline rush! We ended up laughing it off. We stayed at the islet with our boatmen trying to make the engine work again.''After a few minutes of so, our friends’ boat came approaching us. Apparently they saw what just happened. Right then, we talked to our boatmen and convinced them to just give the fuck up and let our boat get towed. They obliged.''After about an hour in the sea under the high noon sun, we reached the shore alive but a lot more “tanned” than we intended.''It was really fun and unforgettable. After all, it’s not every day that we float helplessly in the sea and crash our boat into a huge rock.''Not that I want that to happen again''.''One thing is for sure though: Because we missed Camara and Capones Islands, we will be back!''View Larger Map''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Anawangin Cove: Overnight Camping in Zambales, Philippines''15 CHEAP BUT AWESOME Destinations Near MANILA''Anilao, Batangas: Above the Surface of an Underwater Eden''Dampalitan Island: Overnight Camping in Padre Burgos, Quezon''Borawan Beach in Pagbilao, Quezon''Puting Buhangin Beach and Kuwebang Lampas: Pagbilao, Quezon''Let me talk about my college friend Mimay. To be honest, it’s weird that I call her a “college friend.” Although we shared the same batch, same college org and even same classes, we weren’t really close in college, looking back. She was busy doing theater while I was busy being emo. It was after graduation that we really became friends. While I was busy avoiding going home — I hated my apartment that time — she was busy stalking a barista at a cafe just around the block. That was when we started hanging out together and got close. A year later, she moved to California for good. Goodbye, cafe buddy.''But last summer, Mimay decided to come home, to the Philippines, with her American boyfriend. As a “welcome back” treat, we planned to spend a weekend out of town with my other college friends. Initially, they wanted Puerto Galera or Batangas, but eventually, we all agreed that Anawangin Cove in Zambales was the best choice since none of us had been there before.''My friends. Puro pa-cute. Haha'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Into the Woods, Up to the Peak''Swimming!!!''Anawangin Cove: View from the Top''Anawangin Cove at Night''A more detailed, updated version of this article can be found here:''Anawangin Cove Travel Guide''Nagsasa Cove Travel Guide''The beaches of San Antonio, Zambales, are a perfect proof of many cliches we’ve heard before — the rainbow after the storm, the light at the end of the tunnel, the Phoenix reborn and rising from the ashes. Cliche but true.''Who would have thought that the beautiful Anawangin and Nagsasa Coves were made by a disaster a couple of decades ago? They say that these beaches used to be rocky but Mt. Pinatubo dumped a good amount of volcanic ash that the place was absolutely unrecognizable. Years later, agoho trees started to grow, creating an evergreen forest of what seems like pine trees.''It’s like Baguio and Boracay in one place. This dark yet inspiring history makes Anawangin and Nagsasa very, very special. It is a reminder to everyone of the sheer beauty — and immeasurable power — of nature.''Nagsasa Cove''View from a hill in Anawangin!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get to Anawangin or Nagsasa''Boat Rental and Tour Rates''Where to Stay in San Antonio, Zambales''Preparing for a Camping Trip''Places to Visit''More Tips''Expenses''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''How to Get to Anawangin or Nagsasa''Barangay Pundaquit is the jumpoff point to the ashen beaches of San Antonio.''From Manila, catch a Victory Liner bus bound to Iba, Zambales, and get off at San Antonio Public Market (P250). \xa0Alternatively, you may also travel by bus to Olongapo City, and then board another bus to San Antonio.''Take a tricycle to Pundaquit (P60 per 2 pax, or P30 per pax).''In Pundaquit, rent a boat to Anawangin or Nagsasa Cove.''Anawangin Cove''Trekking is also a good option. Anawangin Cove can be reached after a 4-5-hour hike over Mt. Pundaquit (Jump-off point: Pundaquit), while Nagsasa after a 5-6-trek over Mt. Nagsasa from Sitio San Martin, Subic.''Boat Rental and Tour Rates''Here are the rates of round trip boat rentals and day tours (as of February 2014):''Anawangin Cove only:''P1000''Anawangin Cove + Capones Island + Camara Island:''P1500''Nagsasa Cove only: P1500''Nagsasa Cove + Capones + Camara Island:''P2000''Silanguin Cove + Capones + Camara Island:''P2500''Note that the figures above are per boat, which means it will still be divided by how many you are in the group. A boat can ferry up to 4 passengers.''Many tour operators also offer''packages''that already include transfers, food at camp, tents, entrance fees, and boat rental.''Where to Stay in San Antonio, Zambales''Check Hotel Rates Here''Camping is the name of the game in Anawangin, Nagsasa, and Silanguin Coves. Unless you’re on a packaged tour, you must bring your own tent.''Overnight camping fee: P100.''Entrance fee (if not staying overnight): P50''If you’re not really the camping type, you might want to consider checking in at a resort or inn in Pundaquit proper.''Preparing for a Camping Trip''If you decide to stay overnight at the beach, here are some tips you might want to consider:''Anawangin Camp Area''Tents.''Ask your friends. One of them might just own a tent that you can borrow. A medium-sized tent can accommodate up to four people. But if you’re the type that protects your personal space so much, you can also limit it to only 3. It is not advisable to rent tents. If you planning on renting a tent for P500 per night, ditch it and just buy one. There are tents available at DIY shops and sports houses for as low as P800. Best part is you get to keep the tent and you won’t have to worry about finding one next time.''Food.''Bring food items that are easy to prepare. Although there are stores on the beach, expect them to be pricier. Cupped noodles, bread and canned goods are good choices. You can try to bring cooked food but make sure they do not spoil easily as you don’t want your buzzkill tummy to ruin the fun. You can also buy fresh ingredients from San Antonio Public Market before the tour and just cook them after. In Nagsasa Cove, paluto services are available.''Water.''In secluded beaches, water is gold.''Can/bottle opener and knife.''You will need these to open stuff. Opening things with your teeth is impressive but…''Rope.''You might need this to create an improvised clothesline so your wet clothes will dry easily.''Flashlight.''No electricity, baby.''Mosquito repellent.''Avoid mosquito bites and all the diseases that might come with them.''Sunblock''. Protect your skin from the sun, of course.''Camera''. Anawangin offers not just a good place to swim but awesome scenery that you WILL want to capture.''Also, don’t try to bring too many clothes. If you’re staying for only a night, bring just enough. Don’t forget toiletries.''Places to Visit''Here are some places you might want to check out:''Anawangin Cove''Nagsasa Cove''Silanguin Cove''Talisayin Cove''Capones and Camara Islands''Casa San Miguel''More activities:''10 Things to Do in San Antonio''More Tips''Here are a few more tips to make your time in San Antonio more enjoyable.''Go to market!''The San Antonio Public Market sells meat, seafood, and other ingredients at very affordable prices. If you’re camping overnight in one of the secluded beaches, this is the best place to get raw or fresh ingredients to be grilled or cooked on the beach. They also have Pinoy kakanin like kutsinta, puto, nilupak, and sapin-sapin.''Have a star guide.''If you have a smartphone, download a stargazing app like Google Sky Map for Android and GoSkyWatch for Apple. Limited or non-existent electricity on the beaches make them ideal places to watch the stars!''Expenses''If you’re planning an overnight trip at Anawangin Cove with your friends, here are some figures (other than boat rentals) that you might want to take note of. These are not exact amounts. I rounded ’em off.''P251''– Bus fare to San Antonio, Zambales''P30''– Tricycle fare (P60 if you’re solo)''P100''– Overnight fee (A friend told me it’s now P150, but I was charged only P100 last time I was there)''P50''– Entrance (if you’re not staying overnight)''Scroll up for the boat rates''Basically, that’s it. To save money, bring your own food or buy from San Antonio Public Market. And as said above, if you’re planning to rent a tent, forget it. Just borrow from a friend or buy one.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''ANAWANGIN COVE ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itineraries''10 Exciting Things to Do in SAN ANTONIO, ZAMBALES''NAGSASA COVE ON A BUDGET 2018: Travel Guide & Itinerary''BIRI ISLAND, Northern Samar: Budget Travel Guide''The Silence of Talisayen Cove, Zambales''CULION, PALAWAN: Budget Travel Guide''A more updated version of this article can be found here:''Singapore Travel Guide''Here’s something I learned in my recent trip to Singapore.''Tourists in Singapore can actually claim refund on GST (Goods and Services Tax) paid for items purchased from establishments that are participating in the Tourist Refund Scheme. Introduced in May 2011, the Electronic Tourist Refund Scheme (eTRS) allows tourists to get back the GST they paid on your purchases when shopping in Singapore, supposing you meet their criteria.''A GST Receipt'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'When Making Purchases…''Claiming GST Refund''Said to be the “world’s first purpose-built museum for toys,”''Mint Museum of Toys''is a wonderland for all toy-lovers out there. It houses over 50,000 pieces of vintage toys from more than 40 countries like the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Japan and Bulgaria! And they’re not just old toys. Many of them are incredibly rare while some pieces are unique (which means, you won’t find them anywhere else in the world)!''The toys here are actually a private and lifetime collection of Chang Yang Fa, a Singaporean toy enthusiast. Pretty enormous (and extensive) for a private collection, huh? Well, that’s what passion does to people — make them do big things. And this museum is testament to that love of toys.''This place is great for children! And PERFECT for adults who want to be reminded of their younger years!''You might be asking, “Why is it called MINT?” Actually, MINT is an acronym and it stands for “Moment of Imagination and Nostalgia with Toys,” which is apt. I just couldn’t help but feel like I was transported to several years back as I look at each and every piece. The museum is like a giant collection of childhood memories. It’s not just about the toys. It’s also about the experiences that we associate with them. I remember Ultraman and how I pretended to be him when I was a child. And Popeye! And Astroboy! The museum is five levels of juvenile bliss.''Overall, it was a nostalgic, educational and enlightening experience for me.''Admission Charges and Opening Hours''The regular rate is S$15. Children 2-12 years old pay only half: S$7.50. There are also special discounted rates for visiting families.''Adult: S$15''Child/Senior Citizen: $7.5''Family Promo:''2 Adults + 2 Children: S$36''3 Adults + 1 Child: S$42=''Opening Hours:''Open every day. 9:30am to 6:30pm''How to Get There: MINT Museum of Toys is located at 26 Seah Street, Singapore. To get here, take the MRT (North South Line) and alight at City Hall Station. Take a 5-minute leisurely walk until you see Seah Street. 🙂''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Universal Studios Singapore: A Journey Through Movies''How to Claim GST Refund in Singapore''7 FREE Things to Do in Singapore''DIY Singapore River Walking Tour: Raffles Place to Gardens By the Bay (Updated: 2014)''G4 Station Backpackers’ Hostel: Where to Stay in Singapore''Orchard Road: Window Shopping in Singapore''Our Day 3 in Singapore started early. We were up as early as 7am. The first item on our itinerary for that day was the Chinatown Heritage Walking Tour, which I was very excited about because I had never been to this part of Singapore before. Note that it is a Do-It-Yourself tour. Even before the trip, I already determined the places to go to so I somehow knew what to expect. Armed with just a map, my mom and I headed to Telok Ayer Street for a relaxing, and hopefully enlightening, walk around Chinatown.''Although part of Singapore Chinatown, Telok Ayer Street boasts of multi-religious buildings and structures. Aside from a Chinese temple, the street is also home to a mosque, a Methodist Church and an Indian shrine. Confused? Welcome to the club. But that’s what makes this place more endearing. It tells you so much about how Singapore values diversity in culture and religion.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get to Telok Ayer Street''1. Telok Ayer Chinese Methodist Church''2. Al-Abrar Mosque (Masjid Al-Abrar)''3. Thian Hock Keng''4. Nagor Durgha Shrine''5. Amoy Street''6. Buddha Tooth Relic Museum and Temple''7. Chinatown Heritage Centre''Finding an affordable place to stay in Singapore can be ridiculously difficult. Accommodations are generally expensive and even if you find a cheap hotel, there’s always that chance that they don’t have available rooms on your desired dates. To be honest, I think finding a place to stay was the hardest part of planning our Singapore trip because I only had a very limited budget yet I wanted a place in good location.''At first, I looked for hotels but I just could not afford their rates. After meticulously rummaging through hotel booking sites, I finally gave up and decided to just settle for a hostel.''I logged into HostelWorld.com, checked their collection of hostels and corresponding rates, and read the reviews posted by users. I also headed over to TripAdvisor for more reviews. Considering the rates, reviews and the availability of rooms, I ended up with G4 Station Backpackers’ Hostel at 11 MacKenzie Road.''It was a good choice. We loved our stay at this hostel. Our room was really clean and well-maintained, and the staff was friendly and helpful. Although the room we booked was small, given the very low cost and its excellent location, we got more than what we asked for.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Rooms and Rates''Toilet and Bath''Features and Amenities''Location''How to Get to There''Expensive. Ask travelers who have set foot on Singapore for adjectives that best describe the city, and “expensive” won’t be absent from any list. True, many of the key attractions here can burn a hole in the pocket. Universal Studios, Gardens by the Bay, and even Marina Bay Sands viewdeck all demand a little finger from the average budget backpacker.''Fortunately, there are many places that are not tagged with a price. If you have enough for accommodation and transportation, here are seven places that allow travelers to enjoy Southeast Asia’s most expensive city for FREE.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Singapore River Walk''2.\xa0Chinatown''3.\xa0Little India''4. Gardens by the Bay Supertree Grove''5. Singapore Botanic Gardens''6. Southern Ridges Trail''7. MacRitchie Forest Trails''If you’ve flown out of the country before, then you’re probably familiar with the whole pre-flight thingamajig. But if it’s your first time,\xa0\xa0read on as I discuss in detail the whole check-in and boarding processes so you could breeze through them.''One of the biggest mistakes that you will make if you’re flying to any other foreign destination is to assume that everything would go well exactly like how it does with domestic flights. Many travelers who have flown domestically before make that mistake and it results in stress caused by trying to beat the time and sometimes missing the flight altogether.''The check-in process for international flights is very similar to domestic in many ways but there are also many differences. For starters, you need to be at the airport at least 2 hours before the scheduled departure time for international flight as opposed to 45 minutes for domestic. This is because there are additional steps and paperwork that need to be done before anyone is allowed to board the plane.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'“Things to Bring” Checklist''What NOT to Bring''What to Do Upon Check-in''During the Flight''Frequently Asked Questions''Frankly, our Tacloban-Marabut trip is probably the most unfortunate of all of my trips. It wasn’t because of the place — Tacloban and Palo, Leyte and Marabut, Samar are awesomely beautiful places. It was the rain. Although from the very beginning we knew it would be a “wet” trip because the weather forecast said so, we still, somehow, hoped for a bluer, brighter, better skies that day.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Creating a 3D/2N Tacloban Itinerary''Day 1 – Marabut Extreme Adventure''Day 2 – Caluwayan Palm Island Beach Resort''Day 3 – Tacloban City Tour''Expenses''Many times, I consider the rain a friend. It helps me think. It makes me feel. It brings inspiration and brings back memories. But during our City Tour, the rain was a complete and utter b*tch. All it did was pour when we were exploring the great outdoors and stop when we were indoors. And then, when we were back outside it will be at it again. Friendship over, rain. Blame your unpredictability.''The rain was the hardest when we emerged from the Santo Nino Shrine (Romualdez Museum). As much as we would have loved\xa0 stay at the museum, we wanted to visit the other tourist spots in the Tacloban-Palo area very badly. That time, we braved the rain and found our way to the Leyte Landing Memorial.''Located at Red Beach, Palo, the Leyte Landing Memorial is a park reminding us of an important event in history — the return of Gen. Douglas MacArthur. This was the fulfillment of his promise to the Filipino people to come back an help free the Philippines from the Japanese. Remember his famous “I shall return” moment? The landing happened on October 20, 1944.''At the heart of the park, by the beach, is a manmade pool with bigger than life bronze statues of Gen. MacArthur, President Sergio Osmena, Jr. and more.''We were only at the park for a brief moment because of the rain, as you can see in the photos. After that, we went straight to the airport.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Tacloban-Marabut Trip: Summary, Itinerary and Budget – Philippines''Santo Nino Shrine in Tacloban, Leyte: Before Yolanda''Planning a Tacloban – Marabut Trip – Philippines''Caluwayan Palm Island Beach Resort: Where to Stay in Marabut, Samar''Marabut Extreme Experience: Marabut Marine Park Beach Resort, Samar''CORREGIDOR DAY TOUR: 12 Historic Sites to Visit''The biggest buzzkill in our Tacloban-Marabut trip was the rain. On our third day — when we were scheduled to tour Tacloban City — it rained the hardest. So hard that we had to spend a couple of hours more at Caluwayan Beach Resort until it became a bit tolerable. When it did, we rode a van to Tacloban City.''But the weather in Tacloban was no better. If anything, it was worse. We had to drop our plan of getting off at the foot of the San Juanico Bridge for a camwhoring session. We went straight to a restaurant for brunch and waited for the skies to get better. It never did.''Braving the rain, we decided to start our City Tour at a place indoor and the first thing that entered our confused heads was the Santo Niño Shrine.''About the Santo Niño Shrine (Romualdez Museum)''The Santo Niño is probably one of the first to come to mind when Tacloban is mentioned. It is the patron saint of the city and many of its people’s religious events revolve around the Santo Niño.''Although the real miraculous image can be found inside the Sto. Nino Church, there is another image that can be found inside the Romualdez museum. This one is made of Italian ivory and is the centerpiece of the altar that welcomes the guests visiting the Shrine. Beside the Sto. Niño were icons of St. Remedios and St. Vincent. Next to the latter is a monstrance, decorated with diamonds. That section of the museum is lit by beautiful chandeliers hanging above rows of pews made of narra.''When we arrived at the museum, we were greeted by the staff member who got so concerned about us dripping from the rain. After a short conversation (where we were from, why we braved the rain, etc), we decided to enter the place and pay. Rate is P200 for a tour (at most 6 people). Since we were a group of 3, we paid around P67 per person. If you wish to bring a camera, you will also have to pay an additional amount.''Guests are required to take off shoes and put on provided slippers. After explaining each items at the altar, we started checking out the 12 guest rooms surrounding the “chapel.”''That is where the Santo Niño connection stops and everything is somehow about another thing that comes to mind when Tacloban is brought up — Imelda Marcos.''The Sto. Niño Shrine and Heritage Museum is one of the many rest houses that the Marcoses had built. It houses 7 bedrooms built for the members of the Marcos family, 13 guest rooms, a ballroom and what looked like conference rooms. Each room is magnificently designed and decorated. Each with a theme. Each with a diorama of the life story of Imelda. The site is also littered with numerous expensive, even priceless, pieces of art that will introduce your jaws to the floor each time. From imported furniture to local artworks, the place just screams magnificence, loud and clear.''After the tour, we did not know how to feel about it. It was amazing to see such beautiful artifacts, such delicate intricacies, such works of art. But the whole place was like a symbol of grandeur, of power, of excess. We left with hearts heavier than the rain outside.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Leyte Landing Memorial: MacArthur Park in Palo, Leyte, Philippines''Tacloban-Marabut Trip: Summary, Itinerary and Budget – Philippines''Planning a Tacloban – Marabut Trip – Philippines''Caluwayan Palm Island Beach Resort: Where to Stay in Marabut, Samar''Marabut Extreme Experience: Marabut Marine Park Beach Resort, Samar''Calauit Safari Park: A Piece of Africa in Palawan, Philippines''Canceled.''That was the fate of our plan of visiting the Sohoton Natural Bridge National Park in Basey, Samar. The Basey Tourism Office said it would be too dangerous to travel up the river to the park. The river current was too strong, they said. You see, the park was somewhere inland and the river provides the best access to it. The Poor Traveler lived up to his name again. Poor me, indeed.''“What’s our Plan B?” my friend Emcy asked. That’s another problem, there was no Plan B. We sat in our beds and tried to come up with something — anything — that would keep us busy for the rest of the day. And then we remembered the day before, the driver initially dropped us off at another beach resort in Marabut. We liked the resort but one of the other passengers burst our bubble instantly. “That’s not Marabut Extreme,” she said. So we climbed back into the bus and they dropped us off at the right place this time.''That resort, the one we initially thought was Marabut Extreme, was actually Caluwayan Palm Island Beach Resort. When we were thinking of another place to see in Marabut, we all agreed to move to Caluwayan.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'About Caluwayan Beach Resort''Rooms and Rates''Enjoying Caluwayan Beach Resort''It was still dark when our Cebu Pacific Air flight landed at the Daniel Z. Romualdez Airport (Tacloban Airport). Quickly we walked through the baggage claim area all the way out of the airport to the parking lot where taxi drivers stood in a straight line while waiting for passengers. Yes, I swear it was a straight line, LOL. Because we did not check in any baggage, we were the first group to emerge from the airport. We had barely stepped out of the building when taxi drivers started walking towards us. I had never felt like a magnet before.''But nothing they said could convince us to take a cab. Even before the trip started we had already made up our minds — we would take a jeepney. We were sure. We had a plan. We had focus. Nothing could go wrong.''Ten minutes later, our jeepney stopped in the middle of the road and the driver asked everyone to get off and wait. It wasn’t until 30 minutes later when the driver finally accepted that he could not fix the vehicle and returned our fares, forcing us to hail another jeepney. Had we known our jeepney would break down in the middle of the road, we would have taken a cab. LOL. Thank you, jeepney, for proving just how poor a traveler I really am.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get to Marabut Extreme Experience''About Marabut Extreme Adventure''Rooms and Rates''Activities at Marabut Extreme Adventure''Leyte and Samar are two of the most underrated provinces in the country. These big islands is home to a number of fantastic beaches, breathtaking rock formations, and glorious waterfalls. The sad part is that not many people know about them. It was not a surprise that during our stay in Tacloban and Marabut, we always found ourselves the only non-locals in the area.''Perhaps one thing that’s going against Leyte and Samar is the weather. Located on the easternmost end of the Visayas, they are at the frontline — almost always the first to be hit by typhoons that get spewed by the Pacific towards the Philippines. On the upside, many of the natural wonders of Eastern Visayas remain pristine, unspoiled, and absolutely enchanting.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Booking Tickets to Tacloban''Creating a 3D/2N Tacloban Itinerary''Budget Breakdown''A more updated version of this article can be found here:''Bacolod Travel Guide''The City of Silay’s love for history and beauty can be traced back to the roots of a tree, the Kansilay, from which it owes its name. Legend has it that the first Kansilay tree grew over the grave of a beautiful maiden who lived during the days of the rajahs and datus, way before the Spaniards arrived.''A''folktale''vividly narrates the events of that fateful day. While the gentlemen of the village were away, hunting, bandits attacked the settlement, burned the houses, and raped the women. Kansilay, the daughter of the village chief, sought the help of a diwata (fairy), who gave her a talibong (sword). She led the people to fight the bandits and avenge the death of some of them. The bandits were defeated, but the princess paid the price with her life. Her body was buried, and on her grave grew the first Kansilay tree.''An ancestral house in Silay houses a bank''In June, the people of Silay celebrate her bravery during the Hugyaw Kansilay Festival, a day filled with street dancing and competitions. On ordinary days, however, Silay is very quiet, relaxed, and laid-back. Its streets, sandwiched by elegant ancestral houses, make for a good sightseeing trail. Thirty one of these houses have been named as historical landmarks, making Silay is the second “museum city” in the Philippines, after''Vigan, Ilocos Sur''.''If you’re bound for Bacolod, there’s a big, big chance that you’ll find yourself in Silay. (The airport is here!) And if you do, here are the five most notable heritage houses and landmarks in Silay City that are worth a bit of your time and attention.''Another ancestral house'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Balay Negrense''2. El Ideal Bakery''3. Bernardino Jalandoni Museum''4. San Diego Pro-Cathedral''5. Cinco de Noviembre''There was a knock on the door. It was Arvee, a member of the Punta Bulata staff, informing us that the boat had just arrived, ready to pick us up.''“Are you sure it’s safe to go now?” The rain seemed to be getting heavier and the waves stronger. Honestly, my two friends Celine and Ronnie and I had been having second thoughts. We were not sure whether we wanted to brave the downpour and the waves to go to Danjugan Island. But we figured that the 4 hours of travel time from Bacolod to Cauayan would be pointless if we chose not to push through with our daytrip. But as it would turn out, we would miss so much had we chosen otherwise. Our visit to Danjugan Island was the highlight and the most memorable part of our Negros Occidental trip.''One of the lagoons of Danjugan Island'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Getting to Danjugan Island''Danjugan Island Learning Center: History and Biological Facts about Danjugan Island''Typhoon Beach Camp''Look, Sea Snake!''Snorkeling: An Explosion of Color''Lunch at Danjugan Island''Sharks or No Sharks?''Turtle Beach''Time to Say Goodbye''A more updated version of this article can be found here:''Danjugan Island Travel Guide''Hidden 156 kilometers south of Bacolod City, Punta Bulata White Beach Resort and Spa is a tropical paradise in Cauayan, Negros Occidental. Cauayan is the municipality just before Sipalay City, which is also very well-known for white beaches. It’s 4 hours away from the city center of Bacolod. You might be asking, “Why do I have to travel 4 hours to go to this resort? Is it worth it?” Well, let this post give you an answer.''Punta Bulata prides itself on its stretch of creamy white sand, clear shallow water, a booming diverse marine life and a magnificent view of Sulu Sea. The place also boasts of an infinity pool and spa. The staff is also very friendly and helpful, a reflection of the people of Negros in general.''When we arrived at the resort after 4 hours of travel, we were welcomed by the resort manager who had been waiting for us at the entrance to the place. The manager kept on apologizing for the bumpy ride from the national highway to their location. (We rode a motorcycle to get here and it was a difficult ride to say the least.) We kept on telling him that it was OK and that we got plenty of warning from their staff whom we had been corresponding with.''We were handed wet towels as soon as we approached the reception desk. They also served welcome drinks! After settling our payment, we were given the key to our cottage.''Punta Bulata Resort in Cauayan, Negros Occidental''Punta Bulata Beachfront'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Room and Rates''Restaurant''There was a drunk man speaking Mandarin seated in front of us while waiting at the Ceres Liner South Terminal and he was talking to us, to my friend Celine in particular. The man didn’t look Chinese at all but he kept on uttering Mandarin phrases.''Apparently, the drunk man thought Celine was Chinese and he must have been enamored by the feminine charm beside me that he felt the need to impress. Unfortunately for the drunk man, Celine was not Chinese and she did not understand a single word he had said. Unfortunately for us, he kept on following us even into the bus.''But we said, “Nah, this drunkard will not spoil our day! We’re going to Punta Bulata!”''Cauayan, Negros Occidental''Punta Bulata is a secluded resort in Cauayan, Negros Occidental. The Municipality of Cauayan is four to five hours away from Bacolod City (depending on how long the bus stays at the many stopovers along the way). We barely remember how this quite remote resort made it to our itinerary. What we clearly remember was that we were looking for a white beach.''Cauayan and its neighboring city Sipalay are well-known for their stretch of white beaches. It was one of the first things we learned when we were looking for awesome places to travel to in Negros Occidental. We saw some photos and we were sold. Never mind that a total of 8 hours of our lives would be spent in a bus going to and from Cauayan.''Despite hours of online research, the only way to get to Cauayan we learned was via Ceres Liner. And that’s exactly the reason we chose to stay at the Circle Inn, it was near the terminal of Ceres buses passing through Cauayan.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Go to Ceres Liner SOUTH Terminal''2. Take the Bus to Hinoba-an, Negros Occidental''4. Enjoy the view.''5. Get off at Barangay Cartagena (at the corner of the road going to Punta Bulata)''6. Take a Habal-Habal (Motorcycle Ride) to the Resort''7. “Hello, Punta Bulata! After that death-defying motorcycle exhibition ride, there had better be a welcome drink waiting for me!”''It was almost midnight and there we were at the Capitol Park and Lagoon in Bacolod City, walking around like excited tourists. Well, that was exactly what we were — excited tourists.''Coming from Calea, we walked a short distance to this park at the heart of the city. Although one of the first things we noticed about Bacolod was that the city was generally darker than the other cities we had visited, we actually felt safe exploring the place. Unlike the rest of the city, the park was well lit and there were a number of people killing time. In fact, there was a group of what seemed like high school students playing patintero somewhere in the park.''We took the Lacson Street entrance and we were greeted by a stunning structure. We didn’t know what it was at first but we easily assumed that it was the''Paghimud-os Monument'', a masterpiece by Eduardo Castrillo. It was one of those moments when we regretted visiting at night. We would have appreciated the sculpture more had it been bathing in daylight. Nevertheless, the monument was still a jaw-dropping eyecatcher.''Paghimud-os Monument''Francesco Ricardo Monti sculptures''There were two other structures around the lagoon. Both were figures of a water buffalo (carabao), one with a naked man and the other with a woman, masterpieces by Italian sculptor Francesco Riccardo Monti, who also worked on a number of buildings in Manila including the Manila Metropolitan Theater. A good amount of yellow light embraced both monuments, making them a standout at night.''Of course, the most easily noticeable structure in the area was the Negros Occidental Provincial Capitol, which houses the Office of the Governor. The building seemed to illuminate when seen from the other end of the lagoon. It was just a great sight!''After spending a good full hour at the park, we hailed a cab, went back to our hotel and called it a night. We would have to wake up early the next day for our trip to Cauayan, Negros Occidental.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''San Sebastian Cathedral from Outside the Gates: Bacolod City, Philippines''Danjugan Island, Negros Occidental: A Back to Basics Adventure''Punta Bulata Resort: Where to Stay in Cauayan, Negros Occidental (Splurge Option)''How to Get to Punta Bulata and Danjugan Island, Cauayan, Negros Occidental, Philippines''The Circle Inn: Where to Stay in Bacolod City, Philippines''5 Heritage Sites to Visit in Silay City, Negros Occidental''“Hello. This is Calea,” said the woman on the other end of the line.''“Hello, good evening,” my friend Celine perkily responded. “Until what time are you open?”''“Eleven, ma’am.” Right on cue, we went hysterical. There we were, all three of us, standing in front of San Sebastian Cathedral, worried as hell that we would not get to Calea on time. It was a few minutes before 9pm and we thought the store would close at around 9:30 or 10. But we were wrong. Thank God we were wrong.''Gâteaux Galore!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Getting to Calea''Cakes, Cakes, CAAAAKES!!!''The facade and exterior of San Sebastian Cathedral in Bacolod City look stunning. I’m pretty sure its interior looks just as amazing. If only we were able to enter.''That’s probably one of the biggest mistakes we made in this whole trip. On the way to Manokan Country, our jeepney passed by the Cathedral. It was a bit before 8pm and it was wide open. We decided to visit the church right after dinner since we were all hungry. FAIL!!! Had we known that the church closes at 8pm, we would have dropped by first and then have dinner. It was a decision that deprived us of a would-have-been awesome experience inside the religious structure. Quel dommage.''History of San Sebastian Cathedral''Built of coral stone from neighboring island Guimaras and hardwood from Palawan, the San Sebastian Cathedral is a standout structure in the heart of Bacolod. Located right across the plaza, this imposing religious tower is hard to miss. At night, the facade is beautifully illuminated.''A statue of Jesus Christ outside the church''The construction of this cathedral began in 1825, under the leadership of Fr. Julian Gonzaga. The original church was made of wood and had one bell. Fr. Roman Manuel Locsin donated a bigger bell. Later, another one was donated by Fr. Mariano de Avila. After undergoing a few reconstructions, Fr. Mauricio Ferrero took over. He wanted to build a church much bigger and made of coral stones. With the help of politico-military governor Roman Pastor, the construction of the cathedral started with prisoners working on the site.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Capital Park and Lagoon, Bacolod: A Late Night Walk''The Circle Inn: Where to Stay in Bacolod City, Philippines''How to Get to Punta Bulata and Danjugan Island, Cauayan, Negros Occidental, Philippines''Danjugan Island, Negros Occidental: A Back to Basics Adventure''Punta Bulata Resort: Where to Stay in Cauayan, Negros Occidental (Splurge Option)''Manokan Country: Where to Eat Chicken Inasal in Bacolod City, Philippines''It seems like “chicken” became a recurring element in our Negros Occidental trip. When we were at the Ruins, there were a few chickens walking around and we even had several photos of the mansion with wandering chickens in the frame. While we were waiting for our next ride, a surprised chicken suddenly flew past us while it was trying to avoid a vehicle. There were many other instances where chickens gave us so much joy during this trip — including our dinner on our first night!''If you’ve read my''previous posts'', chicken inasal was one of the few things we knew about Bacolod. But it was enough for us to book plane tickets. LOL. That’s why we were ecstatic to get to our next destination — Manokan Country!''Chicken Inasal with Isaw'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Manokan Country''Chicken Inasal, Isaw, Atay, Isol, Atbp''When we were planning for this trip, we knew we should visit Danjugan Island in Cauayan, Negros Occidental. Upon a quick online research, we learned that the terminal of buses going to Cauayan was located along Lopez Jaena Street. This weighed heavily in choosing the inn or hotel we would be staying at on our first night as we planned to take the early morning bus to Cauayan — we wanted a hotel near the terminal.''That’s when we came across the reviews of The Circle Inn.''Photo from the official website of Circle Inn Bacolod''The Circle Inn is a budget hotel at the corner of Lopez Jaena and Malaspina Streets. This meant that we wouldn’t have to travel long early in the morning should we choose to stay here. The reviews at TripAdvisor was also very encouraging.''Circle Inn Bacolod'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Rooms and Service''Rates''Location''A more updated version of this article can be found here:''Bacolod Travel Guide''Our boatman said as-a-matter-of-factly\xa0that the name Borawan is a portmanteau, a blend of two words — Boracay and Palawan. The island was named so, he claimed, because it possesses white sand similar to that on Boracay and rock formations reminiscent of Palawan’s limestone cliffs. Sounds like a name and an explanation hacked within the confines of a meeting room in a marketing office, but we took it in the meantime. The question is, is the island worthy of its name?''Well, I’m not the right person to judge''.''Granted, its sand has nothing on the fine and fair grains of Boracay and its cliffs are easily dwarfed by the karst giants of the country’s last frontier, but it could be a great alternative to those who cannot afford to fly to the faraway islands.''Padre Burgos, the usual jump-off point, is just four to five hours from Manila.\xa0But Borawan is actually part of Pagbilao. It glazes just one side of Pagbilao Chica Island. Emphasis on chica, which differentiates it from the much, much more expansive Pagbilao Grande Island, where''Puting Buhangin''is tucked neatly.''A\xa0more believable\xa0explanation for its name, as local folk would tell you, is “bulawan,” Visayan for gold.\xa0And looking at\xa0the number of tourists, its shores might as well be golden.''The first thing that snatched my attention when we arrived on the island\xa0were\xa0the colorful tents on the shore. Apparently, it is a favorite camping place for overnighters.\xa0You can rent tents for P500. But I strongly recommend that you get a tent (or borrow one) before coming here to save bucks. You can get a tent good for 3 for around P1000 at DIY shops (Handyman, Ace Hardware). You will still end up paying P200 for pitching, but at least you could take home the tent and use it again on other trips.''The problem was that the shore was a bit narrow and the beach looked so crowded. It was the third week of May; people were still on a summer euphoria.''My friends on top of a cliff''Another friend, Frances, who climbed to the summit of one cliff''Towering cliffs!''On one end of the beach were giant rocks that block the waves, making this part a favorite among non-swimming beach bums. The waters could get so still, lake-like, that they murky easily. Jellyfish also abound in certain parts of the water, warned some locals. But it doesn’t stop most people from taking a dip.''There’s a restroom made of bamboo in the area but that was the only restroom we saw along the beach. There was also a small store beside it. They were the only man-made structures we found along the coast.''How to Get to Borawan Island'': From Manila by public transport.''Ride a bus to Lucena City. There are many terminals in Metro Manila that go to Lucena. Fare is somewhere between P250-260. Travel time: 3 hours.''Alight at Lucena Grand Terminal.''From the terminal, take another bus to Unisan. The bus is not air-conditioned and fare is around P35-40. Travel time: 1 and a half hours.''Get off at QCRB Bank (Padre Burgos) or ask the driver to drop you off here.''Take a tricycle to Aplaya. Tell the driver you intend to go to Borawan.''There are boats for rent in Aplaya. These boats can take you on an island-hopping tour with stops in Puting Buhangin (Pagbilao), Dampalitan Island and Borawan Island. P2000, good for 10 pax.''That’s it! Enjoy Padre Burgos and Pagbilao, Quezon!''List of Expenses'':''Entrance Fee: P80''Tent Rental: P500''Cottage Rental: P700-P850''Tent Pitching Fee: P200''Shower Use Fee: P20''Restroom Fee: P10''Boat Tour Rates''(Good for 8pax):''P800 – Borawan Beach only (round trip)''P1800 – Borawan + Dampalitan + Puting Buhangin''Budget Tour Packages'':''Rates: Around P2800/person''Contact: Harry Balais +639176274945''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Dampalitan Island: Overnight Camping in Padre Burgos, Quezon''Puting Buhangin Beach and Kuwebang Lampas: Pagbilao, Quezon''Borawan Beach and Dampalitan Island: Budget Travel Guide''Malabrigo Beach: Stoned Solitude in Lobo, Batangas''Anilao, Batangas: Above the Surface of an Underwater Eden''Anawangin Cove: Misadventures in Zambales, Philippines''Camping isn’t really my thing.''Although I was a boy scout back in grade school and high school, I never got used to tents and, well, mosquitoes. I was even an Eagle Scout (the highest rank a boy scout can attain) but really, give me a bedroom with a restroom. So the idea of spending the night in a tent on an island wasn’t really thrilling for me. However, I have to suck it up and enjoy this trip with my dear college friends.''It turned out to be a very memorable experience!''After spending a few hours at''Puting Buhangin'', we proceeded to Dampalitan Island.\xa0As our boat was slowly approaching the island, the first thing we noticed was the\xa0casuarina\xa0trees (sea pines). They are most likely agoho trees, the same species that blanket Anawangin and Nagsasa Coves in''San Antonio, Zambales''. The more I travel and the more beaches I set foot on, the more I realize just how common these sea pines are. Even''Tanjung Rhu''in faraway Langkawi, Malaysia, has these trees.''Dampalitan Beach''Casuarinas of Dampalitan Beach'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Setting Up Camp''Swimming, Sunbathing…''The Restroom Challenge''Staying Overnight at Dampalitan Island''The Poor Traveler''didn’t know how to react when I received the itinerary of our Davao Familiarization Tour from Airphil Express. The fastest-growing local airline is now offering tours and packages for different destinations in the country and they wanted travel and lifestyle bloggers to get the first taste of it. I was glad that I was part of the group. What I didn’t expect was that it would be an extreme adventure.''The Poor Traveler is the kind of traveler who loves to swim at the beach, not paddle in a wild river; get lost in the beauty of the mountains, not zipline my way down. I guess I was not the adventurous type. If there was anything I was really looking forward to in that trip, it was that I would get a chance to see Davao. You see, it was my first time in Davao.''Yes, I was afraid at first. But now that the tour was over and I’m back in Manila, guess what. I LOVED IT. I extremely enjoyed our white water rafting experience and thoroughly appreciated my first time to try the zipline. Even my first taste of crocodile and ostrich meat was not that bad. At the moment, I’m planning to go back to Davao City and do the exact same thing all over again with friends.''Anyway, here’s what happened in our trip.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Day 1 – Hello Davao, Bye Crocodile''Day 2 – White Water Rafting and Zipline''Day 3 – Flying Back to Manila''Expenses''Before this Davao City tour, I had never tried any zip line. I guess I was chicken like that. After all, I am the Poor Traveler, not the Brave Traveler.''But since Zip City is part of Airphil Express Davao Highland Adventure and since we were already there, it would really be a shame to not push through with it. So I mustered all the courage I had and gasped, “Suck it up and just do it.”''Located at Hilltop, Barangay Langub, Davao City, ZIP CITY offers a nice view of Davao Gulf and Mt. Apo. Their zip line is considerably shorter than others, which makes it perfect for younger thrill-seekers and first-timers.''After a few minutes of gearing up, the first five from the group climbed the tower and once we were there, the first thing we noticed was that the view was fantastic. Davao Gulf and Mount Apo were lovelier from the top of the Zip City tower.''But of course, that awesome feeling went away easily when I realized I was next.''It seemed like “Oh My God” was on loop in my head as the staff was busy making sure I was completely ready for it. And when they let go, it began. Despite my fear, I made sure I was holding my camera and put it on video mode so I could document the experience. It was really scary at first but after a few seconds, the fear was replaced by, ah, I dunno. It was FUUUUUN!!!''Final check before flying! Photo by Boom Boncan.''Zooooom! Photo by Boom Boncan.''My friend Andre, ready to go. Photo by Boom Boncan.''When it was over, I was actually pretty disappointed. I wanted more. Lol. I wanted to do it again but I didn’t want to fall in line again so I easily dismissed the idea. I guess it was really meant for first-timers like me. One day, I’ll try a much longer zip line!''Oh, by the way, “ZIP CITY is using the standard equipments approved by UIAA (Union Internationale des Associations d’Alpinisme) International Mountaineering and Climbing Federation.” That’s according to their website. 😀''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Davao Highland Adventure: Summary, Itinerary and Budget''White Water Rafting in Davao, Philippines''Tribu K’ Mindanawan: A Glimpse of Indigenous Mindanao in Davao''Microtel Inn Davao: Where to Stay in Davao City (Splurge Option)''Mitra’s Ranch and Baker’s Hill: Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''How to Get to Disneyland Hong Kong from Tsim Sha Tsui, and Other Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)''White water rafting was something I had always wanted to experience. In our recent Camiguin trip, we tried to spend one day in Cagayan de Oro (since the airport was there) but, unfortunately, we couldn’t find a way to squeeze it in our itinerary so we just let it go and planned to come back to CDO in the future.''When the Poor Traveler found out that white water rafting was part of our Highland Adventure in Davao, I was surprised, pleasantly surprised. I didn’t know rafting was one of the activities the city of Davao had to offer. But we had to wait until the second day for this activity.''The day before, everyone in the group expressed their excitement to finally do this. All of us were rafting virgins (LOL). None of us had tried white water rafting before and none had a clue on what to expect.''On our second day, everyone was up as early as 6am. We had buffet breakfast at Microtel (part of the package) and then prepared our things. At 7:30am, we were all in the van ready to depart for Davao Crocodile Park where the office of Davao Wild Water Adventure is located.''When we arrived, the first thing we did was sign the waivers. Although it’s not really life-threatening because you will be fully equipped, there’s always that risk. (There’s always that risk whatever we do, lol.)''After that, the gearing up began! This is the time to look for and try on the helmets and vests. It is important that they fit perfectly because your life will depend on it. One of my friends actually slammed his head on a boulder accidentally while riding the rapids but he didn’t get hurt because of the helmet.''Evanjohnn’s waiver (Photoblogger, FocalGlass.com)''Find the vest that best fits you.''Important reminder: Bring a cap''because the helmets have that weird, unpleasant smell. So if you don’t want that smell to stick to your hair, bring a cap.''Once the fitting was over, the orientation started. They showed thrilling videos — rafts capsizing, tourists bouncing off of the raft into the water, and more. It was scary at first look but in reality, you’d actually WANT to jump off to the water and just let yourself be drifted along by the waves. I’ll explain later.''After the orientation, we climbed into the jeepney that would take us to Davao River. I wasn’t able to estimate how long the travel time was because I was asleep during the drive. Hahaha. When we arrived in the drop off area, there was another orientation. This time, it was more specific and detailed and you would really want to listen. This was the point when we were told to wear the life vests and helmets and taught some basic rafting and drifting skills.''The jeepney that took us to Davao River.''Orientation!!!''Second briefing! Photo by Boom Boncan.''Ready for the drill! Photo by Boom Boncan.''Note: Buddy system is implemented so you will need to find a partner that will be with you throughout the course.''We were then divided into smaller groups on a per raft basis. The usual number of tourists per raft is 4-6 but on our raft, we were only four. Hihi. Each group was led by a “captain,” who would give orders whether to paddle backwards or forwards, slower or harder.''And then, the drill. Before facing the rapids, you will be taught how to paddle, what to do when you get thrown off of the raft, how to pick up someone who gets thrown off of the raft and more. And then it begins.''The water was brown because it rained the night before.''You will find one guy kayaking all around. He’s called the “spotter.” Make sure you smile when you see him because he takes pics and videos most of the time. He also helps pick up people who falls out of the raft.''Many rapids await those who dare but it was really thrilling and enjoyable. Surprisingly, you’ll find yourself longing for more. And many times, your guide will encourage you to get off the boat into the water and be drifted by the current. Although it sounds scary, it was actually GREAAAAT!''The drill begins! Photo by Boom Boncan.''Game on!''A bridge over Davao River. Photo by Boom Boncan.''Halfway, all rafts will dock at a sandy part of the riverbanks and distribute lunch boxes. Ours were rice, chicken adobo, fish fillet and egg. They will also provide water and orange juice.''After lunch, you will encounter the more challenging rapids. In fact, one raft from our group capsized. It looked fun. LOL. We tried several times to get ours capsized but it didn’t work. However, two members of our group fell out of the raft and were picked up by the raft following us. No, I’m not one of them. LOL. My feet were hooked well onto the raft.''The entire course lasted for 3-4 hours. The funny thing was, during the activity I didn’t feel tired. It wasn’t until we got back at the hotel when we realized we had lost all our energy and our arms, well, we couldn’t feel our arms. Hahaha.''Some Tips You Might Want to Consider''The Photoblogger of FocalGlass.com''was one of the bloggers with us on this tour. On his blog post about this experience, he shared some really useful tips. Here they are:''Don’t bring too many stuff. They may get “donated” to the Davao river''Wear strap on sandals or shoes for wet occasions, slippers may get lost in the process (or you can have them strapped to the boat)''Don’t bother using mobile internet or txting, there’s no signal. Live streaming, or tweeting #hulinghabilin #lastwill #deathwish are futile''Wear long sleeves and hat, (or sunblock). Rafts don’t come with roofs''Learn to swim, it helps when your in a strong current''FOLLOW INSTRUCTIONS- this could determine your chances in a life and death situation, don’t try to be a “hero”''When swimming try using butterfly stroke. Freestyle and breast stroke are slow or almost ineffective.''Learn to breathe properly, inconsistent panicky breathing WILL drown you''– The Photoblogger, FocalGlass.com (''Click here''to read the rest of his post)''Here’s a video of our group braving the rapids. Video by''Yoshke''!''Exhausting, yes, but it was all worth it! Don’t just believe me, though. Try it for yourself.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Davao Highland Adventure: Summary, Itinerary and Budget''Tribu K’ Mindanawan: A Glimpse of Indigenous Mindanao in Davao''ZIP CITY: First Time on the Line in Davao City, Philippines''Microtel Inn Davao: Where to Stay in Davao City (Splurge Option)''How to Get to El Nido from Puerto Princesa Airport, Palawan, Philippines''Big and Small Lagoons: Kayaking Around Miniloc Island, El Nido, Palawan''The first stop of our highland adventure in Davao was Tribu K’Mindanawan. It was the first time I heard of this place so I really didn’t know what to expect.''Just a few minutes from Microtel Davao (and 15 minutes from downtown), Tribu K’ Mindanawan is located in the Davao Riverfront Corporate City (along Ma-a Diversion Highway), which is also home to Riverwalk Grill, Davao Butterfly House and Davao Crocodile Park.''Tribu K’ Mindanawan is a cultural village highlighting the rich culture of the indigenous groups of Mindanao. Situated by the Davao River, the village offers a great view as well as an understanding of how Mindanao’s indigenous peoples live. Around the park were structures and houses that were said to be built by authentic indigenous community members.''Tribu K’ MIndanawan Schedule of Performances''A Singkil performance''A replica of an indigenous house.''Tribu K’ MIndanawan''Tribu K’ MIndanawan Fire Show''Tribu K’ MIndanawan Fire Show''Tribu K’ MIndanawan Fire Show''Aside from these structures, what you shouldn’t miss are the cultural performances every Friday, Saturday and Sunday. They showcase performances of traditional dances of Mindanao like Singkil, a famous Maranao dance.''But the best time to visit this place is 5:30 pm on weekends because they stage not just traditional dances but also spectacular fire shows. And I’m telling you, the fire show was HOTTT in all sense of the word. It just blew us away. It was exciting, gut-wrenching, absolutely enjoyable. Here are some of the pics I took.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Davao Highland Adventure: Summary, Itinerary and Budget''White Water Rafting in Davao, Philippines''ZIP CITY: First Time on the Line in Davao City, Philippines''Microtel Inn Davao: Where to Stay in Davao City (Splurge Option)''Bacuit Grill Bar and Restaurant: Where to Eat in El Nido, Palawan''Matinloc Shrine: The Two Faces of Abandonment in El Nido, Palawan''The Poor Traveler had always wanted to try Microtel. One of the reasons was that most of their branches were newly built and I just love how they position themselves in the market — budget hotels that won’t feel low-end. In fact, when I was planning a trip to Puerto Princesa, I seriously considered booking rooms with them. Unfortunately, they were fully-booked.''I searched''Davao cheap hotels''on line and  found out that we would be staying at Microtel Davao for our Extreme Adventure Tour. I was more than glad. After all, if their tagline is to be believed, it’s “the same great hotel everywhere you go.” But that’s for another story.''Image from their official website''Anyway, we landed at Davao International Airport smoothly. When we emerged from the airport, two Microtel vans were already waiting for us. Since we were a party of 14, 2 vans were necessary. The ride was comfortable. It didn’t take long until we reached the hotel.''When we arrived, we approached the front desk and was given our key cards. (Call me shallow but cards are always a plus for me. Hihi. I love hotels that use cards instead of the actual keys.) We were assigned Room 127, good for two people. There were two queen-sized beds, an air-conditioning unit, a TV set, cable and a personal refrigerator. On the desk were some complimentary durian and mangosteen yema and candies. There were also a pitcher and glasses of water. Cool.''Well-lit rooms! Love. <3''What I liked most about the room was that it was well-lit. Each light has its own switch so you can choose which parts of the room you’d want to light or keep in the dark.''The bathroom was also spacious and exceptionally clean. Four sets of bath towels and face towels were waiting for us. By the sink were single-serving toothpaste, shampoo and soap. And of course, there’s HOT WATER!!!''The staff was also very, very courteous and helpful. On my first night, I was feeling incredibly thirsty, I called for water and it was delivered in no time.''Conference room''The conference room is also ideal for small business conferences. And I’m telling you, their glasses of water self-replenish. Well, not really, but because the crew just keep on filling it with water every time they spot them almost empty, it feels like it.''Airphil Express employees 😀''What I love most was its location. Although many travelers would hate the idea of it not being in the city center or downtown area, it is close to the airport. There are also so many restaurants around the area ranging from McDonalds and Tapsi (across the street), Yellow Cab (beside it) and the Swiss Deli (down the block). There’s also a convenience store nearby.''Part of the package were buffet breakfast for two days. The food was just alright but the service was exceptional.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Davao Highland Adventure: Summary, Itinerary and Budget''White Water Rafting in Davao, Philippines''Tribu K’ Mindanawan: A Glimpse of Indigenous Mindanao in Davao''ZIP CITY: First Time on the Line in Davao City, Philippines''How to Get to El Nido from Puerto Princesa Airport, Palawan, Philippines''Airphil Express’ Fly and Sail AdvenTour Package (Rates and Itinerary) | Singapore – Kuala Lumpur Cruise''For the longest time, I felt like a part of me had been missing. Whenever I come home to my hometown, I’m appalled by how much the place has changed. Even our house is completely unrecognizable. The trees that I grew up climbing, the grass covering our backyard, they are gone. Long gone. What’s there now are pavements. Concrete floors with nothing but dust. Yes, dust is what’s left of my early years.''Last month my friends and I decided to spend a weekend at Casa San Pablo for a brainstorming. “Great,” I thought, “finally, a place to think that’s so different from the concrete box we work in.” So we packed our bags, drove to San Pablo City, Laguna and checked in to Casa San Pablo. We weren’t blown away. No, not blown away. What was there was a whisper, a gentle breath reminding me of the things I had lost.''I went there for an inspiration. It was there. But there was something else.''I found my childhood at Casa San Pablo''.''When we were young, we had a wider, more sensitive perception. We noticed everything that was new, that was strange, that was curious.''But as we grow up, as the world becomes more familiar, we tend to ignore the small things that captured our attention when we were kids. The novelty wears out. The strangeness fades away. The curiosity now has the potential to kill the cat. These small things are exactly what makes Casa San Pablo special. It is not just a place to stay or eat or have fun. It is an ocean. Everywhere you look, your eyes get flooded with memories of your juvenile years and your heart, ah, your heart drowns.''The restaurant is not just a restaurant. It is a time machine. The ambiance takes you on a ride to the moment when you hang at the kitchen while your mother was cooking. And the food makes you remember why you love food in the first place.''And as you walk around the place, you remember the days when a small paper animal was your bestfriend…''And the rain was a welcome playmate, not a buzzkill…''And the sun used to smile not burn…''The days when we first noticed that symmetry is easily broken…''Yet there’s symmetry in things you don’t expect. You just have to look for it.''The days when you could still see oddness in beauty…''And beauty in oddness…''The days when you could spot what made you happy. No matter how far…''No matter how hidden…''No matter how small…''Everything contained a possibility of happiness, of life…''The days when we would dance even when no one was looking…''Especially''when no one was looking…''When the only thing that mattered was that your mother was there…''And the illusion that your dad would never break. Or leave. Ever…''And the ignorance that all homes were never broken…''And the lie that you will never, ever be alone.''How I missed those days.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Palawan Butterfly Garden: Beauty and the Bugs in Puerto Princesa, Philippines''Puerto Princesa Subterranean River National Park: A World Wonder in Palawan, Philippines''Danjugan Island, Negros Occidental: A Back to Basics Adventure''Crocodile Farm: Palawan Wildlife Rescue Center in Puerto Princesa, Philippines''The Best View of the Eiffel Tower: Tour Montparnasse, Paris''Tianzi Mountain: Rock and Lore in Zhangjiajie, China''“Tito, what time are we going to board the plane?” My niece and nephew were getting more and more impatient as we were waiting for our boarding call at the NAIA Terminal 3.''I couldn’t blame them. I was extremely excited myself. Although it wasn’t my first time to travel abroad, it was my first time to travel out of Luzon with my family. When they announced that the plane was ready, I had to literally cover their mouths because the kids won’t stop shouting.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Planning a Family Trip to Hong Kong''Day 1 – Airport, Hostel, Victoria Peak, Avenue of Stars''Day 2 – Disneyland Hong Kong''Day 3 – Going Back to Manila''Expenses''Disneyland was my childhood dream. But because my parents couldn’t afford to take us to Micky Mouse’s little world, I promised myself that I would fly to this place someday. Someday had finally come.''It was the day we had all been waiting for. It was the reason my niece and nephew were with us on this trip. We wanted to give them what we didn’t experience when we were little so we were so happy for them (and for ourselves, too, of course). It was all the kids were talking about from the moment we told them about it. And they couldn’t contain their excitement when we were at the airport.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get to Disneyland from Tsim Sha Tsui''Where to Buy Tickets to Disneyland''What time does Disneyland open and close?''What time does the Fireworks Display happen?''What time does the Disney Parade happen?''Are Food Items Allowed at Disneyland?''Exploring Disneyland''Traveling is hard. Traveling with kids? That’s a different story. Kids can only do so much walking and they can get exhausted easily. That’s exactly what happened to us. My niece and nephew got physically tired after just 5 hours walking around so we had to go back to our hotel in Tsim Sha Tsui to rest.''Instead of staying at the hotel, my sister and I decided to push through with our plan of visiting the night market and leave the kids with our mom at the hotel. \xa0And so we went to Mong Kok.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'How to Get to Mong Kok from Tsim Sha Tsui''Night Shopping in Mong Kok''Our trip to Hong Kong was filled with first times. For starters, it was my family’s first trip abroad. It was also my first time in Hong Kong. It was their first time to ride the plane and first time to stay at an airport. Imagine the excitement of my mom, sister, niece and nephew. That’s why even though our flight was scheduled at 5:40 am, we were already at the NAIA Terminal 3 as early as 3am.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'What to Do Upon Checking In''Travel Tax and Departure Fee''During the Flight''Arriving at Hong Kong International Airport''Hong Kong Tourism Board Visitor Information and Octopus Cards''Exchanging Currencies (PHP or US$ to HK$)''From the Airport to Tsim Sha Tsui''They’re impatient, they’re hard to manage, and they throw tantrums unexpectedly. But seeing kids have fun, there’s nothing quite like it. Especially when it’s you who helped draw that smile on their faces.''Traveling with kids is no easy business. But Hong Kong makes the job much less effortful. While the city throbs with interesting sites and sights for the grownups, there are a lot of places that are especially built and designed for the little ones. Here are ten of the best Hong Kong attractions for kids!'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'1. Disneyland Hong Kong''2. Noah’s Ark''3. Kung Fu Corner at Kowloon Park''4. Tsim Sha Tsui Promenade (Symphony of Lights and the Hong Kong Space Museum)''5. Hong Kong Science Explorer''6. Hong Kong International Hobby and Toy Museum''7. Hong Kong Heritage Museum’s Children’s Discovery Gallery''8. Mai Po Wetlands''9-10. Victoria Peak and Ngong Ping''Many of us have always dreamed of traveling abroad. But before you can do that, you will have to secure a passport. I am summarizing the passport application process and enumerating the requirements listed on the DFA website in this post to guide you and help you avoid the hassles of securing a passport that you might encounter along the way.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Schedule an Appointment''Requirements When Applying for a Passport''Traveling with Minors''Puerto Princesa City, the capital of Palawan, is one of my favorite cities in the world and probably the local city I loved the most. \xa0It is one of the largest cities in the Philippines based on land area. Yet,\xa0it is brimming with countless natural wonders, topped with good food, outstanding cleanliness, and friendly, disciplined people. The best part, the tourism industry here is so organized that exploring is never a problem even if it’s your first time to set foot on this unique paradise.''How to Get to Puerto Princesa''Puerto Princesa is a major tourist destination in the Philippines. Thus, all major airlines — Cebu Pacific, PAL Express, Seair/Tiger Airways, and Zest Air — have direct flights here from Manila. Here are the airlines that fly to Puerto Princesa and from where:''Cebu Pacific Air''– Manila, Cebu, Davao, and Iloilo''PAL Express''– Manila, Cebu, Clark, and Busuanga''Seair/Tiger Airways Philippines''– Manila''Zest Airways''– Manila, Cebu''The airport is also within the city proper and most hotels and attractions are just a tricycle ride away.''Where to Stay in Puerto Princesa: Hotels and Inns''Check Hotel Rates Here''The biggest concentration of accommodations in Puerto Princesa is in the city center. Unless you want to spend the night on an island, then I strongly recommend staying in the city proper so you could also experience the sedated urban vibe. This will expose you to the many restaurants, bars, and shops that the city can offer.''Here are some of the budget hotels and inns that I have already had the pleasure of staying at.''Casa Linda''. A\xa0small family hotel at the heart of Puerto Princesa, Casa Linda’s building and its furniture are built in bamboo and wood. It really has a homey atmosphere. Located along\xa0Trinidad Road near Rizal Ave, it is within walking distance of the restaurant lane which includes''Kinabuch’s''and''Ka Lui''.''P900 per night for a double room''048-433-2606 or 048-433-2309''The Legend Hotel''. They used to have a budget option called''PADS''but it seems like they have stopped it and put it under the Legend banner, too. It looks like the PADS rooms were converted into their so-called Flats and Solo rooms.\xa0The rooms are small but cozy and sleek.''P2100 per night for a double room (with free breakfast)''Marianne Home Inn''. Another homey place to stay in the city proper, it is popular to backpackers. They have family, double, and single rooms. They also have a superior room that can accommodate up to 7 people for only P3500.''P1,500 for a double room. P395 per extra bed.''I’ll be updating the list above as soon as I try more.''Where to Eat in Puerto Princesa: Restaurants''Rizal Avenue in the city center is flanked with a number of must-try restaurants offering a wide variety of cuisines ranging from American favorites to Pinoy delicacies. Here are three establishments whose tables I have sat at.''Ka Lui''Balinsasayaw''Kinabuch’s''Ka Lui''. Arguably the most famous in the city, Ka Lui offers Pinoy seafood specialties. They also give a complimentary fruit salad served on a halved coconut. You need to have prior reservation to secure a seat. Book in advance.''Address: Rizal Avenue, Puerto Princesa''Suggested budget: P250 per pax''Kinabuch’s''. An open-air bar and grill type. This is where you should head for if you want beer to go with your dinner. And in case you miss sampling the notorious tamilok, a mollusk best eaten raw, this is the place for that last chance to try it!''Address: Rizal Avenue, Puerto Princesa''Suggested budget: P200 per pax''Balinsasayaw Restaurant''. An unassuming restaurant offering cheap to mid-range Pinoy dishes. The place has this island vibe, thanks to the nipa and bamboo huts! A value meal costs P79 and a drink P49.''Suggested Budget: P130 per pax''There are more. You’ll find them all lined up along Rizal Avenue. You might also want to try those barbeque stalls along the road and have some isaw!''What to Do in Puerto Princesa: Tours''Most hotels and travel agencies offer arranged tours. While they are convenient, many of them are easy to do on your own, which will bring down the cost dramatically. Below are the most popular tours in Puerto Princesa.''Honda Bay Tour''. Travel agencies and hotels usually offer this tour for P1,100 per person. Pull a do-it-yourself and you’ll end up saving a lot especially if you’re part of a group.\xa0Take a trike to Lourdes Wharf and ask the driver to pick you up hours later. Roundtrip costs from P300 to P500. At the wharf, you can rent a boat for P1,100 to P1,300 depending on the size of the boat and the size of your group. The boatman will take you to at least 3 islands. You can easily split the cost among yourselves.''Underground River Tour''. This tour will take you on a two-hour drive to Sabang Beach, which is the takeoff point to the Subterranean River. Arranged tours cost P1300 to P1600 per person inclusive of a buffet lunch and round trip land and boat transfers. I suggest arranging with a tour operator for this one if you don’t want to go through the hassle of doing the paperwork and securing a vehicle to Sabang Beach and back.''Puerto Princesa City Tour''. A half-day tour that will show you around some attractions within the city. The itinerary usually includes Butterfly Garden, Mitra’s Ranch, Plaza Cuartel, Crocodile Farm, and Bakers’ Hill. Tour operators’ price tag on this tour is at P600 per person but you can hire a tricycle instead for P600 per tricycle, which can accommodate up to 4 peeps.''Iwahig Firefly Watching Tour''. A night of watching fireflies and the stars. A small boat will take you deeper into the mangrove forest in pitch darkness and the boatman will help you spot these incandescent creatures and identify the constellations above. Pre-arranged tours cost P1500 per person. Do it yourself and you’ll end up paying P600 for a boat that can accommodate up to 4 people (including the boatman).''If you have more days, I strongly suggest going even further north to Port Barton or San Vicente. Or even El Nido!''Places to Visit in Puerto Princesa: Attractions''Here is a short list of places I have visited in Puerto Princesa. Give the photo a click to take you to a more detailed chronicling of my experience at each stop!''Honda Bay''Puerto Princesa Subterranean River National Park''Sabang Beach''Palawan Wildlife Rescue Center''Palawan Butterfly Garden''Mitra’s Ranch''Baker’s Hill''Immaculate Conception Cathedral''Plaza Cuartel''Sample Itinerary''Ready to fly to Puerto Princesa now? Not quite. It’s time to build an itinerary. If you’re gunning for only a weekend trip, you’re in luck. Below is my suggested itinerary for a 3D/2N getaway.''Day 1: ARRIVAL, HONDAY BAY TOUR''08:00 am: Arrival, check in at the hotel''10:00 am: Honda Bay Tour''03:00 pm: Rest, freshen up''06:00 pm: Early dinner at Ka Lui''07:30 pm: Iwahig Firefly Watching Tour''12:00 am: Sleep''Day 2: UNDERGROUND RIVER''06:00 am – Wake up, quick breakfast at hotel''07:00 am – Underground River Tour''12:00 nn – Lunch at Sabang Beach''04:00 pm – Back in city proper''07:00 pm – Dinner and inuman at Kinabuch’s''10:00 pm – SLEEP''Day 3: CITY TOUR''06:00 am – Wake up, quick breakfast''07:00 am – Half-day city tour''12:00 nn – Lunch at Balinsasayaw Grill''02:30 pm – Fly back to Manila''Needless to say, please make the necessary adjustments to match your flight schedule. Again, if you have more time, I strongly recommend paying San Vicente, Port Barton, or El Nido a visit, too. 🙂''Budget''To give you an idea on how much you might be spending on your trip, here’s the breakdown of my expenses during my last visit to Puerto Princesa. I can’t promise you that you will be spending as much. This is just to give you an idea.''P900''– Accommodations (Casa Linda, P900/night for a room for two)''P375''– Honda Bay Tour (P100 for trike fee and P275 for boat rental)''P1300''– Subterranean River Tour (inclusive of transpo and buffer lunch)''P300''– City Tour (P600 per tricycle, 2 people per trike)''P1100''– Total food expenses (incuding Ka Lui and Kinabuchs dinner)''P500''– Pasalubong (Baker’s Hill)''P200''– Tips to drivers and other things''P250''– Terminal fees''Php 4,925 – TOTAL EXPENSES''If you can avail of a cheaper fare, do so. Also, you can still bring the cost lower if there will be more of you in the trip. We were a group of 4. Say, if there were 6 in the group, it could have been A LOT cheaper.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''SINGAPORE: Budget Travel Guide (Updated 2014)''EL NIDO, PALAWAN: Budget Travel Guide''CULION, PALAWAN: Budget Travel Guide''Coron and Busuanga: Budget Travel Guide''BORACAY: Budget Travel Guide''BOHOL: Budget Travel Guide''Puerto Princesa City may look vibrant today but like many cities in the Philippines, it also has a dark history. This is most evident in a small park in Barangay Liwanag called Plaza Cuartel.''Plaza Cuartel looks like your ordinary city park with concrete pavements, towering trees and benches. The ruins of an old garrison and tunnels are proof of its grim past. Plaza Cuartel is the site of Palawan Massacre. The tunnels were where 150 American prisoners of war were kept during World War II.\xa0 But on December 14, 1944, the Japanese decided to kill them all by burning them alive. Many perished but eleven prisoners were able to survive and escape the mass execution.''Adjacent to Plaza Cuartel stands the Immaculate Conception Cathedral. During the Spanish era, it was just a small church. But in 1961, it was reconstructed and was made a Cathedral.''My friends prayed for a moment and then we decided to go back to''Casa Linda''to have lunch and pack up because our flight was at 2pm that day.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Mitra’s Ranch and Baker’s Hill: Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Palawan Butterfly Garden: Beauty and the Bugs in Puerto Princesa, Philippines''Casa Linda Inn: Where to Stay in Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Crocodile Farm: Palawan Wildlife Rescue Center in Puerto Princesa, Philippines''Honda Bay Island Hopping Tour: Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Ka Lui Restaurant: Where to Eat in Puerto Princesa, Palawan (Splurge Option)''We started the Day 3 of our Puerto Princesa City Tour with a date with butterflies and crocodiles. After a stop at the''Palawan Butterfly Garden''and the''Palawan Wildlife Rescue and Conservation Center'', we still had four more stops to go to. Bear in mind that we traveled around on a tricycle with Kuya Ding leading us (P300 per tricycle for the whole tour, 09186620495).'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Mitra’s Ranch''Baker’s Hill''When the Poor Traveler was just a young boy, he heard from a magazine show on TV of a child being attacked and then devoured by a huge crocodile in the province. Since then, I had feared crocodiles. I didn’t like seeing them even on TV. Whenever National Geographic Channel would feature them, I’d switch channels. They had been giving me the creeps until our Puerto Princesa City Tour.''After our moment with the caterpillars and former caterpillars at the''Palawan Butterfly Garden'', our driver announced that we would be heading to''Palawan Wildlife Rescue and Conservation Center''to meet some crocodiles. Imagine how I felt when I learned about our next stop. “It’s the end of my life as I know it! I’m gonna dieeee!!!” But of course, I didn’t say it out loud; my friends would have killed me right then for my''kaartehan''. So I flashed a wide, fake smile and held it for the next 20 minutes or so. We arrived at around 8:30 am. Although we were able to enter the place, we still had to wait for the ticket counter to open at 9am so we killed some time by taking photos around.''By the way, here are the visiting hours: Mondays to Fridays, 1:30pm to 5pm; Saturdays 9am to 5pm (lunch break from 12nn-1pm).''While waiting for the ticket booth to open!''Palawan Wildlife Rescue and Conservation Center''Formerly known as Crocodile Farming Institute, this Puerto Princesa destination is not just a popular tourist attraction but also a research center for conservation and further studies of Palawan’s endangered species including crocodiles. That said, crocodiles ain’t the only animals here. There is a mini-zoo here which houses several species of mammals, reptiles and birds.''When the ticket booth opened, we paid for entrance fees (P40) and the tour started.''Crocodile skin and skeleton on display at the building lobby''Sperm whale skeleton on display''A poster clarifying what crocodiles are not and demanding respects for crocs''After seeing the skeletons, the tour guide led us to the Hatchling House where baby crocs are being kept.The Hatchling House is full of white tubs where little crocs are fed. As you walk farther, the bigger crocs are.''There are two types of crocodiles: the Saltwater Crocodile or''Indo-Pacific Crocodile''(Crocodylus Porosus) and the''Philippine Freshwater Crocodile''or Mindoro Crocodile (Crocodylus Mindorensis). Naks, may scientific names pa. Hihi.''More baby crocs!''Baby crocs. Small but still scary.''When we reached the exit, we were led to a swamp like area where adult crocs were. There is an elevated ledge over the area where tourists could walk on and get a better view of these reptiles.''An adult crocodile. Probably the biggest in the Center.''My friend Astrid, croc-happy!''A caretaker at the Center cleaning the area where big crocs were. We asked him, “Kuya, hindi ka ba kakagatin nyan?” The caretaker answered, “Hindi, busog na ang mga yan.”''We then proceeded to a station where tourists can take photos with a baby croc. The fee for a photo-op with a baby crocodile is P30-P35.''The baby croc’s caretaker.''We then walked to the mini-zoo where non-croc animals where caged.''This wild boar immediately walked towards our direction when it saw us. It could be asking for food.''There are also several species of birds and snakes at the mini-zoo. The cutest are the porcupines and the squirrels.''It was an enlightening tour, albeit scary at first. I went in as a scared tourist and came out as a crocodile lover! Kudos to the people operating this place.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Puerto Princesa Subterranean River National Park: A World Wonder in Palawan, Philippines''Palawan Butterfly Garden: Beauty and the Bugs in Puerto Princesa, Philippines''Mitra’s Ranch and Baker’s Hill: Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Honda Bay Island Hopping Tour: Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Plaza Cuartel and the Puerto Princesa Cathedral, Palawan, Philippines''Casa Linda Inn: Where to Stay in Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Our flight back to Manila was scheduled at 2pm so we still had the entire morning to explore Puerto Princesa City. Again, our original plan was to take the City Tour by Casa Linda, which cost P600 per person. That would allow us to explore the city on an air-conditioned van.''But if there’s one thing we learned by then, it was that tricycle drivers always had a greater offer. Once again, we contacted Kuya Ding (09186620495) and asked how much would he collect should we choose to hire him for the tour. P600, he replied. Wow, that’s so much cheaper. Imagine, instead of paying P600 per person, we would now be paying P600 for the entire trip. Who wouldn’t grab that deal? Besides, we could ditch the aircon for a while.''But I realized, the city tour could take hours and I remembered how uncomfortable it felt sitting behind the driver on the tricycle. We asked Kuya Ding to call another driver because we wanted another trike. That would mean P600 per tricycle and since we were a group of 4, we would be charged P300 per person. Still, not bad at all.''At 7:30am, Kuya Ding and another driver arrived. My friend Astrid and I shared a trike and my two other friends climbed into the other. And so the city tour begins.''Our first stop was the Palawan Butterfly Garden. Twenty minutes from the city proper, this butterfly sanctuary lies in the backyard of what seems like an ordinary house. As displayed at the entrance, the Palawan Butterfly Garden “is a private entity whose aim is to conserve native butterflies.” It is open to public so that visitors can have closer observation on these fascinating creatures and to help create awareness in the conservation of nature.''The place is surrounded by nets and screens. There is a P50 entrance fee.\xa0 When we visited, the site was still undergoing a major renovation but it didn’t pose any inconvenience.''Obviously, the place is full of different species of butterflies. It’s much smaller than''Simply Butterfly Conservation Center in Bohol''or the''butterfly garden in Baluarte in Ilocos Sur''. However, Palawan Butterfly Garden also has a few surprises. There are also other species of other animals such as walking sticks and scorpions.''My brave friend Astrid letting a Malay Giant Scorpion crawl on her arm.''Walking Sticks use camouflage to evade predators. Cool trick!''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Mitra’s Ranch and Baker’s Hill: Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Crocodile Farm: Palawan Wildlife Rescue Center in Puerto Princesa, Philippines''Puerto Princesa Subterranean River National Park: A World Wonder in Palawan, Philippines''Plaza Cuartel and the Puerto Princesa Cathedral, Palawan, Philippines''Casa Linda Inn: Where to Stay in Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Honda Bay Island Hopping Tour: Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''The Poor Traveler isn’t really a brave food lover. I’m just a food lover. But I’d rather be on the usual, ordinary, typical, safe, boring side when it comes to trying a place’s delicacy. That explains why''eating sea urchin at Virgin Island in Bohol''didn’t interest me. And why I barely touched the''stingray served at KaLui restaurant''. My tastebuds aren’t bold enough. My tastebuds don’t like anything they are not used to. I always blame my tastebuds, not myself.''Anyway, since Palawan is also famous for several stay-away-from-me delicacies, I dread each time I would dine with my friends during my stay in Puerto Princesa. You see, they love trying new, exotic things. I knew they wouldn’t let the trip end without trying Palawan’s most famous mollusk — the tamilok!''Tamilok, also known as woodworm, is actually not a worm. It is a mollusk living inside the branches of mangrove trees. But because of their long, slender, slimy body, they really resemble worms. They are usually sold in wet markets across Palawan, especially in Puerto Princesa City. Many restaurants serve tamilok. One of these restaurants is Kinabuchs along Rizal Avenue.''And Kinabuchs was where we would have dinner that night.''True enough, when my friends got hold of the menu and spotted tamilok, they decided to order a plate of it. They asked me what I wanted — fresh or breaded/fried. But before I could answer, they ordered fresh tamilok already. I became very vocal about how I feel about it but they asked me to choose between tamilok and crocodile meat. I would have said “neither” but I didn’t wanna come off as a buzz kill so I said, “Fine, tamilok it is.” The things I’d do for friends.''A plateful of tamilok!''When it was served, everyone (but me) got excited. They all sampled it. When it was my turn, I readied a glass of water. Chaser daw.''My friend Astrid posing with her tamilok''My friend Kiko showing off his prey, the longest in the bunch!''It didn’t taste bad. (But I won’t say it tasted good, either.) It had a weird aftertaste. It tasted like, well, wood. I ate a couple more and then started digging in on the more conventional dishes we ordered.''How to get there'': Kinabuch’s is located along Rizal Ave in the city proper. If your hotel is within the city, you can simply take a tricycle. It’s a pretty popular restaurant. I’m sure the driver knows where it is.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Ka Lui Restaurant: Where to Eat in Puerto Princesa, Palawan (Splurge Option)''Honda Bay Island Hopping Tour: Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Puerto Princesa Subterranean River National Park: A World Wonder in Palawan, Philippines''Sabang Beach: A Playful Day in Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Casa Linda Inn: Where to Stay in Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Palawan Butterfly Garden: Beauty and the Bugs in Puerto Princesa, Philippines''After the Puerto Princesa Subterranean River National Park experience, we headed back to Sabang Beach for lunch. We were so tired and hungry so when our buffet lunch was ready, we were more than ready to dig in. Unlimited Filipino food at Sabang’s gorgeous beach — oh life, I love you.''After a few rounds of conversations with friends and almost an hour of rest, we decided to explore the place. Swimming around the underground river site was prohibited so our tour guide was encouraging us to swim at Sabang Beach. We decided to just walk along the shore.''There was a basketball court near the wharf but we didn’t have a ball so we decided to just drop it. We saw another group of tourists from Manila playing patintero at the beach! We joined them of course!''The shallow waters of Sabang Beach, Puerto Princesa''Basketball court at Sabang Wharf''The game is far from over!''Some foreigners walked by and they were like, "What are they doing?" LOL''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''Puerto Princesa Subterranean River National Park: A World Wonder in Palawan, Philippines''Honda Bay Island Hopping Tour: Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Palawan Butterfly Garden: Beauty and the Bugs in Puerto Princesa, Philippines''Mitra’s Ranch and Baker’s Hill: Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Crocodile Farm: Palawan Wildlife Rescue Center in Puerto Princesa, Philippines''Plaza Cuartel and the Puerto Princesa Cathedral, Palawan, Philippines''Our original plan was to take Casa Linda’s Puerto Princesa Subterranean River Tour with buffer lunch at P1600 per person. However, the tricycle driver we met (''Kuya Ding'', 09186620495) referred to us a travel agency that offered the same tour with buffet lunch at a lower price — P1300/pax. We grabbed it.''Kuya Ding gave us the number and we contacted them right away. The woman on the other side collected our names because they said they needed it for tourist registration, which should be completed ahead of time. We agreed that they would pick us up at 7am the next day. After our brief talk over the phone we had dinner at''Ka Lui''Restaurant and slept tight that night.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Getting There''The Puerto Princesa Subterranean River National Park''Ask anyone in Puerto Princesa about the best restaurant in the city and there’s a big chance he or she will point you to Ka Lui.''KaLui is probably the most famous Pinoy restaurant in Puerto Princesa City. It is just 10 minutes from the airport. And lucky us, we just had to walk going there from Casa Linda, where we were staying. The place has that homey feel and very Pinoy since the building and the furniture inside is made of wood. The interior is adorned by artwork pieces — wooden sculptures, ceramic pieces, batik fabric — mostly with fish as their subject. It feels like it’s owned by an art-loving traveler.''What sets this restaurant apart is the excellent customer service. Even before you enter the place, you will be greeted by the staff.''Bear in mind that you HAVE to make a reservation before going to the place, especially in summer. They seldom have vacant tables and that tells you just how popular this resto is. If you fail to make a reservation, you can try and still go to the place and hope that there’s a free table but that would be a big risk. Best to just call them ahead of time.''You will be asked to leave your footwear at the doorstep, where a slipper locker is located.''When we got to our table, we asked the waiter assisting us what their specialty was and the waiter recommended to try their set meal which was good for two (P395). It included clam soup, rice, prawns, veggies, and squid. Because there were only 2 cups of rice and there were four of us, we ordered 2 more cups. We also wanted to try their stingray in coco cream (P150). We also offered buko juice for all of us at P40 each.''Here are some photos by my friend Astrid Alvarez.''Inside Ka Lui Restaurant''Fruit decorations. They’re real fruits, by the way.''After asking the server whether it was endangered or not and he said not, we ordered a serving of Stingray in coco cream. We just wanted to try it but we left it almost untouched. I guess we were not used to eating stingray and we were still a bit weirded out by it.''Squid. Nothing special.''We had no idea what these veggies were but they tasted really good.''Buko juice. Interesting because they just drilled two holes through it.''Prawns are just so-so.''Ka Lui also gives a generous complimentary serving of mixed fruits with mascobado sugar.''We spent a bit over P900 for the dinner including the VAT. But since we were a group of 4, we shelled out around P250 individually.''Honestly, there really isn’t anything spectacular about the taste of the food they serve. But it was still an experience we would never forget. I guess it was the service and the ambiance that make this place special.''How to get here'': Ka Lui is just a trike ride away if your hotel is in the city center. It is along Rizal Avenue where most restaurants are located.''Watch our Latest Video!''Important Reminders''Related Posts''The Tamilok at Kinabuchs: Where to Eat in Puerto Princesa, Palawan''Honda Bay Island Hopping Tour: Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Casa Linda Inn: Where to Stay in Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippines''Plaza Cuartel and the Puerto Princesa Cathedral, Palawan, Philippines''Puerto Princesa Subterranean River National Park: A World Wonder in Palawan, Philippines''Palawan Butterfly Garden: Beauty and the Bugs in Puerto Princesa, Philippines''After checking in Casa Linda, the first item on our itinerary was Honda Bay. We initially wanted to avail of Casa Linda’s tour at P1,100 per person. Since we were a group of 4, that would be P4,400 for all of us. But we had a better option.''Rewind to an hour earlier, on the way to Casa Linda from the airport our tricycle driver Kuya Ding (09186620495) talked us into just getting his services. He offered to take us to the port at Honda Bay where the boats were and take us back to Casa Linda for only P400. Wow, that’s just P100 per person. We liked it, liked it very much and took it. We got his mobile number (09186620495) and promised to call him after settling down.'"WHAT'S COVERED IN THIS GUIDE?"'Getting There''Pandan Island''Snake Island''Starfish Island''Other Islands'