'Nizwa, Oman''Leaving Oman’s glitzy capital, Muscat, into the Hajar mountains things change. Life is slower paced out here. It’s decisively more conservative as well. The small communities that call the Hajar Mountains home are more traditional and are deeply connected to Omani culture. If you are looking for an Arabia that has been lost in neighbouring countries, than this is the place to come. This region is also famed for being one of the most gorgeous regions in all of Arabia, deep gorges cut through jagged black mountains while villages made of stone defy gravity by clinging to the Cliff side. Nizwa and the Hajar are impossibly beautiful.''Driving the Wadi Bani Awf to Hatt Mountain Road''From Muscat you can make it to Nizwa in just a couple of hours via the main highway. There is a much more adventurous route however. The dirt track between Wadi Bani Awf and Hatt will take you across some of the Hajar’s, most beautiful scenery. There is also many small traditional Omani villages that rely solely on farming which is rare these days in oil rich''Oman''.''Nakhal Fort on the way to Nizwa through the Hajar Mountains''Leaving Muscat drive to Rustaq. Before reaching Rustaq you will see signs for the Wadi Bani Awf turn. After turning the road stays paved for another 20km before turning into a rough dirt track. From here on you will need a 4×4.''Following the dirt track you will cross a few smaller mountain passes before you see the pretty village of''Bilad Sayt''before climbing to the Sharfat al Alamayn viewpoint. From here you can see all the way to Rustaq one way and Nizwa the other. From here it’s just a short one hour drive to Nizwa.''Arriving to Al- Hamra''Nizwa Sights''Nizwa is a deeply historic city that is very rooted in Bedouin culture. At first glance you will notice how much more conservative it is here. Most of Nizwa’s sights are located in the walls of the old city. Not many actually live in the heart of the old city, but the ones that do retain the old mud structures that give Nizwa such an authentic Omani feel.''Nizwa Fort''Right in the middle of the Old City is the fortified medieval Nizwa Fort which has long kept the city safe from invaders. The historic fort walks you through several defense techniques the Omani’s used to defeat the Portuguese, including dropping hot date oil on them and using trap doors that drop to a bed of spikes! The best past of Nizwa Fort is climbing to the top walls and seeing the views over the Old City.''View from Nizwa Fort''Nizwa Souq''Nestled in the maze like streets of the Old City is the Nizwa Souq. Many of the shops selling handmade wares have been kept up for tourism, but a large part of the souq is still widely in use. On Sunday’s there is even an animal bazaar where locals haggle over goats and sheep. Beside the livestock market is a large fish market, date market and vegetable market all with plenty of photo opportunities. Nizwa Souq is a great place to soak up Arabia’s atmosphere.''Nizwa Souq''Old Nizwa''Sights of the Hajar Mountains''Al Hamra''Al Hamra sits at the foot of the Hajar Mountains near Jebel Shams. At first glance Al Hamra doesn’t seem like much, but this small oasis town is one of the most historic villages in the region.''Al Hamra’s Old City has crumbly mud brick buildings in Yemeni style, this style of architecture is very rare to''see in Oman''. The old city backs onto a date palm oasis, it’s very picturesque and makes for a great detour on your way to Misfat.''Al Hamra''Misfat''Misfat is easily one of the prettiest villages in the Hajar. The stone and mud brick traditional village clambers down the side of date palm terraces created by villagers centuries ago.''Starting from the top of the village you can see all of the Misfat Valley. From here you can follow the cobblestone path that will lead you through the ancient village and into the palm date oases. Here the lush green scenery and trickle streams are beautiful. Locals adorned in old Omani style are friendly and welcoming to foreigners.''Hiking through Misfat''Misfat, Oman''The Road to The Sun''The road from Nizwa to the foot of Jebel Shams is known as the road to the sun. This epic road takes you high into the Hajar Mountains and provides epic scenic view points and ample room for camping.''Road to Jebal Shams''Jebel Shams''The highlight for most when visiting Nizwa and the Hajar Mountains is ascending to the foot of Jebel Shams 3009m, Oman’s tallest peak, and seeing the viewpoint over Wadi Ghul. This massive canyon is easily one of the world’s most amazing natural wonders.''Viewpoint over Wadi Ghul''The Drive to Jebel Shams is also an experience. Passing by cultivated land and abandoned stone villages until you make the journey up the road dubbed the “road to the sun”.\xa0 There’s ample room for camping here as well, but because of the altitude be sure to dress warm, it can get very chilly at night.''Our Omani Friends''Bahla Fort''Bahla is said to be the third most haunted place on earth. Locals believe that the fort is the home to''Gin'', a mysterious shape shifting spirit that can torment the living. Be sure to look out for cats as this is the favorite form the''Gin''like to take shape as.''Bahla Fort is also one of Oman’s most prominent and well maintained forts. The massive walls give way to a giant open courtyard, you can spend hours wondering its chambers.''Bahla Fort''Bahla Fort''Oman Travel Information''Location:''Nizwa, Oman''Guide Book:''Lonely Planet Oman''Car Rental:''Budget Car Oman''Accommodation:''I used couch surfing''here''Middle East''Nizwa''Oman''Travel Guide''Greenland Travel''Greenland is a destination that many believe is nearly impossible to travel through, but for some time now daring travelers have been venturing into the remote wilderness of Greenland’s Arctic. Those who have traveled here have told me stories of unimaginable beauty, traditional Inuit Cultures and unbelievably raw nature, but the most alluring thing I am told is that Greenland is addictive. This summer I will begin a two-week adventure starting from Greenland’s historic South and heading north by boat to the Arctic Circle.''Why Travel to Greenland?''Many people are asking me “why travel to Greenland?”, Countless times now I have flown from my home in Canada to Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Every trip across the Atlantic I would peer out my window to look down at this magical frozen landscape in awe at the massive icebergs, impossibly blue water and jagged mountain peaks. Seeing this I always wondered “what is life like down there?”''Now, with the power of''Guide to Greenland''behind me I will travel the icy island as an independent Backpacker to investigate the sights, culture, food and epic wilderness of this remote nation. More importantly I plan to show the world that Greenland is ready for you!''Guide to Greenland''Traveling here is unique and requires a lot of extensive planning. Coming here without the help of a company or agency is possible, but will be very difficult and very expensive as tourism is not yet developed. Traveling here is also very remote and there is virtually no “public transport”, making traveling to certain areas impossible.''In this unique travel situation its best to reach out to a travel company that specialises in travel here. The company that I will be directly dealing with is''Guide to Greenland.''Guide to Greenland''and my website Uncharted Backpacker value the same ideas when it comes to travel; We value experiences, cultural interaction, and adventure. Together we will be exploring the potential of new destinations within Greenland and to visit areas known to photograph and explore future possibilities here.''My Greenland Itinerary''Stage 1 – Iceland to Narsarsuaq''Blissfully stunning, The South is known for its dramatic mountain scenery. Archaeological Norse Ruins, steaming hots springs and Fjords filled with blue icebergs. Making my way to Qaqortoq I will hike in Greenlandic Farmlands and culture.''Stage 2 – Qaqortoq to Nuuk''From South Greenland I will be sailing north along the West coast with a stop at Paamiut. Passing by giant icebergs and small remote Inuit Villages. There will be plenty of opportunity to whale watch and observe wildlife.''Stage 3 – The Capital Nuuk''Greenland’s largest community and most cosmopolitan. This is where I will explore the “New” region and what the future holds for this behemoth island. Nuuk plays host to some of the countires best cultural museums. I will also head deeper into Nuuk’s Fjord and gorgeous mountains for more Greenlandic nature.''Stage 4 – Sailing to Ilulissat''Sailing from Nuuk to Ililissat I will cross into the Arctic Circle and into the remote north. Here, life is still primarily based on hunting and the majority of the communities are extremely remote. The icebergs will be getting much larger and the climate harsher. My ship will also stop in the towns of Maniitsoq and Sisimiut.''Stage 5 – Ililissat and Disko Bay''This is the highlight of my trip ,the iconic and beautiful Disko Bay. Here, massive icebergs float seamlessly through the arctic blue waters of the Arctic North. Many Inuit communities here live primarily off hunting. The wildlife is abundant and so is the awe inspiring Greenlandic scenery. I will also delve deeper into North Greenlandic Culture to see how it various amongst the different regions.''Stage 6 – Back to Iceland''Flying from Ilulissat back to Reykjavik, Iceland I will cross the entire country tracing my footsteps from above.''Greenland''Polar Region''Travel Gear Guide''I often get asked what kind of specialized equipment I take traveling with me and after years of trial and error, I can tell you that I have become very particular in what I decide to bring. Apart from my electronics most of my equipment is not that expensive, instead, it is just things that have made my life easier while I travel. I put together this gear guide to show you what I find works best for me and to help you see what kind of gear you need to''travel to crazy destinations like I do''! Get your backpack ready and prepare for traveling’s most important lesson, the essential travel gear guide!''Pick the Gear That Works for You!''This gear guide is what I bring with me on my adventures and for Professional Travel Blogging. Now, depending on where I am going some of these items may change, for example, if I am going somewhere cold then I will bring warmer clothes.''This guide will help you see gear that is tested by me, and''why I choose certain brands or specific items''. Most importantly though, you must decide what gear works best for you! I love this gear after years of using it but be sure to think about whether it will necessary for your travel needs.''My favorite Travel Clothing For Travel Blogging''Fjallraven Jacket''– I am a complete sucker for all Fjallraven’s gear. Its super durable looks vintage and incredibly high quality. Their light jackets are warm when used in layers and have the option to be waterproofed with wax.''Hiking in Tibet sporting my Fjallraven Jacket''Greenland Wax''– This is the Greenland Wax that is used to waterproof the Fjallraven jackets. It can also be used to waterproof any of your other gear, just rub it on and use a blow dryer to melt it in.''Merino Henley Sweater''– Every trip I go I like to wear a Henley style sweater. This sweater works as a long sleeve t-shirt or a sweater when you wear layers underneath.''Merrel Hikers''– Merrel seems to be the only brand of hikers that last for me. They are built to last and come in so many varied sizes. Many of the shoes also don’t look super sporty which can be super useful when you need them for multiple uses other than hiking.''Kufiya Palestinian Scarf''– This is something I never leave home without. The Keffiyeh is stylish yet practical and honestly looks super cool. Its great for conservative countries, covering your head from the sun and keeping you warm. I particularly like Kufiya Scarfs as they are made right in Palestine. They are the last Palestinian scarf makers, if you use the code Uncharted Backpacker on their site you will also get a discount!''Merino Wool Underwear and Socks''– Merino wool is the warmest and highest quality of wool. It is also not itchy letting you wear it at any time! It’s also incredibly warm and super thin making it super lightweight to pack.''My Backpacks For Traveling and Side Bag for Travel Blogging''Domke Side Bag''– I have been through so many side bags, but Domke is my longest lasting and favorite. It’s a camera bag that you wax to make waterproof and has multiple large compartments for all your camera gear. Hands down the best side bag of all time!''Osprey 65l Atmos Bag''– Osprey makes the best backpacks, they are so sure of this that they back this up with a lifetime guaranteed warranty.''Fjallraven Small Backpack''– When I am hiking or walking longer distances I opt for my Fjallraven day pack. Once again, its great because I can waterproof it, its durable, and it looks like a vintage explorer bag… totally my style.''Fjallraven Backpacks are durable and great for the outdoors''The Best Travel Electronics for Travel Blogging''Nomad Solar Panel''– This handy little solar panel has saved my life a few times. It does not need to be plugged in just simply lay it in the sun and plug whatever electronic in through its USB port and it will charge, It’s amazing!''Samsung S8''– I’m a Samsung guy. It works everywhere, and I do most of my photo editing on it! I take my S8 on all my trips. I don’t have an S9 yet, but I hear it’s another great improvement over the S8!''Bluetooth Beats Speaker''– \xa0Every morning I wake up and the first thing I do is turn my music. My beats speaker has lasted several trips and is quite small for easy packing. Did I mention it has great sound quality as well!''External Hard drive''– I cannot stress to you how important this one is. As all my tech friends say, back up your backups for pictures and videos. This way if anything happens you will never lose your precious photos.''Best Travel Photography Accessories for Travel Blogging''Sony A7rii''– I betrayed Nikon and switched to Sony a few years back. Best decision I ever made. My Sony is by far the best travel camera I have ever owned in eleven years of globetrotting. There is also a newer Sony A7 Riii which is supposed to be even better which I do not yet have.''Old City of Sana’a in Yemen taken with my Sony A7rii''GoPro Hero''– GoPro has always been my go-to for video cameras. It’s a tough little 4k camera with tons of fun accessories.''GoPro is perfect for Scuba Diving!''Mic for Gopro''– If you like to record sound like I do the mic is essential for the GoPro. Gopro’s biggest con is its lousy sound quality on videos.''Zeiss 24-70mm f2.8 Lens''– When I travel I only carry one lens. My Zeiss lens is very high quality and performs magically in fast-paced situations. I’ve used it for years now!''DJI Spark Drone''– The newest addition to my line up of professional Travel Blogging tools. The DJI Spark Drone is extremely small and has a huge range when used with the remote. This tiny Drone also packs plenty of power shooting at 1080p and 12mp. I love my DJI Spark and wouldn’t trade it for any other drone for Travel Blogging.''My Favorite Travel Accessories for Travel Blogging''Jade Fish Hook or Maori Pendant''– Since my early days as a backpacker, I have always loved to wear a Jade Fishhook. Jade Mine Canada is a Canadian based company that sells you guaranteed high-quality jade at a fraction of the price! The fish hook I wear in all my photos is from them!''Straight Razor''– I’ve always been into barber equipment and I love to travel with my straight razor. I opt for the one with disposable blades.''Headlamp''– This is not just for camping, in the third world power is not a guarantee meaning rolling blackouts are common. Having light when your cell block hostel rooms power goes out is a luxury worth having!''The World Lonely Planet''– This is the ultimate book to get you inspired for travelling. Complete with maps, highlights and tips for every country of the world!''Blogging Gear''travel''Travel Blogging''travel gear''travel photography''Karakoram Highway''The scenery is indescribable. As we slowly bump down this 1300km road in a colorful semi-truck with Urdu music blasting it’s hard not to get wrapped up in this amazing journey. It’s a difficult, uncomfortable, dusty and at time’s dangerous route, but it’s one that will stick with you forever.''The Karakorum Highway is a classic traveler’s trail that is often referred to as the eighth wonder of the world, The Karakoram Highway. This ancient trade route whispers hints of its former glory with its grand crumbly forts, magical traditional villages and legends of Marco Polo. Travellers who undertake this journey will not be disappointed.\xa0 The Karakoram Highway will change those who dare to undertake its path, venture here and join the elite travelers who have done so!''Kashgar, Xinjiang''The starting point on the Karakoram Highway is the ancient Silk Road Town of Kashgar. Technically Kashgar is in the Chinse provinces of Xinjiang, but very little here beckons that you are in China. Predominantly Muslim, the people of Kashgar speak''Uyghur''a Turkic language. Being in Kashgar you will feel very far from Beijing and you are! Technically you are closer to''Jerusalem''than to Beijing.''Uyghur men in Kashgar Old City''Sights of Kashgar, Xinjiang''Afaq Khoja Mausoleum''Constructed in 1640, the Afaq Khoja Mausoleum is a splendid example of Xinjiang Islamic architecture it is also the holiest Muslim''sight in Xinjiang''. The graveyard is a fascinating walk, many of the tombs date back hundreds of years and are carved from stone!''Afaq Khoja Mausoleum in Kashgar''Kashgar Old City''This is probably the main reason why most come to Kashgar. Unlike many places in China, Kashgar’s old city is still a place where many live. The decrepit buildings make way to bustling street markets and flat bread bakeries. Getting lost you could be fooled that you are actually in the Middle East at times!''Remnants of the oldest parts of Kashgar''Kashgar Night Market''The Kashgar night market is where you can try all the Uyghur delicacies, including noodles, spicy fish, and every part of a goat imaginable. It’s oozing with character giving a real authentic Silk Road feeling.''Kashgar Livestock Market''Nomads from Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and elsewhere in Xinjiang all gather here on Sundays to sell livestock. You can see cows, fat tail sheep, two hump camels, and even yaks from''Tibet''up for sale here. It’s also a suitable place to see all the different traditional outfits worn by the people of this region!''Kashgar Livestock Market''Karakul Lake''Karakul Lake is one of the most stunning high-altitude lakes in the world. Karakul sits at a dizzying 3,645 m and is shadowed by the mighty Muztagh Ata (7,546 m). Small yurt villages dot the shores in the summer and are home to a nomadic Tajik minority who migrate here in the summers for greener pastures.''Road to Karakul''Karakul Lake Sights''Karakul Tajik Yurts''It’s well worth it the stop overnight on the Karakoram Highway and stay in a traditional Tajik Yurt. You can hike, horseback ride, and even rent a motorbike to venture up the mountain passes. Staying with a family ensures a cultural learning experience and you will get to try the Tajik specialities like Yak Butter Tea.''Karakul Tajik Yurts''Tashkurgan and the Khunjerab pass''This is the last stop on the Karakoram Highway before entering Pakistan. Tashkurgan is a small Tajik community with a massive fort that dominates the city. Here you get your first taste of Pakistan as many Pakistani immigrants have opened restaurants here. I have tried to hike around here several times, but because it’s so close to the border I was arrested and brought back to town.''Getting to Pakistan''– Welcome to one of the strangest borders you will ever cross. Tashkurgan is a 125km to the Pakistan border located near the Khunjerab Pass. From Shina’s immigration post in Tashkurgan you must show your Pakistan Visa and Chinese Visa. Your bags will be checked thoroughly and you will have to pay for a Chinese Government issued border transport bus which will drive you to the border. Once you reach the border you will have to be checked at Pakistan Immigration which is very simple and then get on another form of transports into Pakistan.''Sights of Tashkurgan''Tashkurgan Fort''Tashkurgan Fort’s history dates back to the ancient Silk Road times. Guarding the passage between Afghanistan and Tibet. It’s incredibly picturesque and has an almost haunted feeling to it. This is the first of the major forts on the Karakoram Highway.''Tashkurgan Fort''Khunjerab Pass''This is the famous pass along the Karakoram Highway where you will officially leave China and cross into Pakistan. The''Khunjerab pass''sits at 4,693 m and is surrounded by snowy peaks, getting here you will feel like you’re on top of the world. The bus usually stops for a few minutes, so you can grab that ever essential selfie.''Passu and Gulmit, Pakistan''Welcome to Pakistan! Crossing into Pakistan the valleys become greener and the mountain scenery more stunning. This is where the adventure begins! The first valley you enter is Passu, the massive Cathedral Ridge is one of the most stunning ranges in all the Himalayas can be seen here. Continuing another 15 km you enter the small Wakhi minority town of Gulmit. Passu and Gulmit is easily one of the most scenic areas on the Karakoram highway route!''Passu Valley Pakistan''Sights of Passu and Gulmit''World’s Most Dangerous Bridge''This incredible bridge connects the villages across the massive Hunza River Gorge. As scary as this bridge seems it is one of the most vital needs of the village peoples here. Even though it’s dubbed the world most dangerous, if you watch your footing crossing it is exhilarating and safe.''World’s Most Dangerous Bridge in Gulmit''Staying in a Wakhi Village''Climbing high above Gulmit there are small Wakhi villages with home stays. Here the few Wakhi families that host tourists also are experienced mountain guides who can guide you up to glaciers and other stunning villages. Try sending my friend Rehman a message on Facebook, his wonderful family was a highlight of all the Karakoram for me! Check his account''HERE''Hiking to Glaciers on the Karakoram''Passu and Gulmit have several glaciers that take some tough hiking to get to. Push through the breathless high altitude and steep passes and you will be rewarded with some incredible Glacier scenes. You are almost guaranteed to run into Walkhi shepherds who climb to high altitudes for grazing.''Hunza Valley, Pakistan''The Hunza Valley also known as the Land of Immortals. This gorgeous valley is full of apricot orchards, crumbly historic forts, insanely beautiful Himalaya Mountains, and amazing people. Hunza is also known as one of the safest regions in Pakistan, trust me you will never want to leave the Hunza Valley. This stop on the Karakoram has ample activates for the outdoors and cultural activities as well, but the best thing is to just stop and breath in the fresh mountain air!''Hunza Valley Sights''Baltit Fort, Karimabad''One of The Karakoram’s more beautiful forts and a''UNESCO''Heritage sight is Baltit Fort. Baltit Fort sits high above on a hill in Karimabad and can be seen from all around the Hunza Valley. Baltit was the seat of power for the Hunza Empire and its interior shows signs of Hunza’s Buddhist past. The views from the roof are stunning.''Baltit Fort, Karimabad''Hiking the Fairy Meadows''The Fairy Meadow trail starts at Baltit Fort making its way past terraces of apricots and small stone houses. Leaving Karimabad you climb higher into the mountain pass above town. Here the trail follows a water pipeline. Parts of the trail are not for those who have a fear of heights! When you finally reach the Fairy Meadow you are rewarded with yet again more epic mountain views! There’s place for camping or you can day trip it.''Hiking the Fairy Meadows''The Eagles Nest, Karimabad''Located at one of Karimabads more expensive hotels is the''Eagles Nest''View Point. This view point is a great spot for sunset over the valley, there is a hotel café where you can try local food while taking in the views. Try the apricot chicken!''The Eagles Nest, Karimabad''Gilgit, Pakistan''The largest city and commercial capital along Pakistan’s Northern Karakoram Highway is Gilgit. As the call to prayer echoes across the city, the streets fill with colorful trucks and locals wearing traditional clothing begin to appear all around you, Gilgit is a shock for those coming from the north. Famous for its vicious polo games and the first real introduction to what the rest of Pakistan is like. Gilgit is buzzing with energy, has chaotic bazaars and feels worlds away from Hunza even though it’s only a few hours away.''Gilgit, Pakistan''Gilgit, Pakistan Sights''Gilgit Polo''Locals in Gilgit take polo very seriously. Attending a polo match is a quintessential Gilgit experience. Polo here however is much more violent, players use their sticks as weapons and it’s not rare to see players taken away in stretchers! The crowds here sure do go wild.''Gilgit Polo''Gilgit Bazaar''This is where you get the feel of how chaotic and wonderful Pakistan really is. Locals adorn much more conservative clothing while haggling over spices and electronics. The bazaar is also a great place to pick up a traditional Pakistan sherwani outfit. Locals love it when you blend in!''Gilgit Bazaar''Karakoram Highway Travel Information''Locations:''China and Pakistan''Guide Book:''Lonely Planet Pakistan and Lonely Planet China''Top Tips:''Do not rush this journey and plan for things like border closures as it happens often.''Posts:''See more''Pakistan Posts Here''!''adventure''asia''china''Karakoram Highway''pakistan''Travel Safety Tips''When you make the decision of where you want to travel to a large number of people will try to defer you from traveling because of “travel safety” issues. Although these issues may be very real, it should not deter you from doing the trip that you want! My experiences in dangerous countries include Yemen, Afghanistan, Libya, Iraq, Democratic Republic of Congo, Papua New Guinea and many more. This list of safety tips derived from my travels through war torn countries, crime capitals, wild jungles, and the uncharted parts of the world. I have been thrown in jail, interrogated, suffered from tropical illnesses, been shot at and attacked by wild animals and although i wouldn’t trade my experiences for the world, i do want to help my followers avoid these situations. Being prepared for the worst is the first steps!''Researching where you are Traveling''Before any trip researching is a crucial step into having a successful adventure. Planning not only saves you time and money, but it ensures that you know about the sights, food and culture you want to experience while you’re there.''When it comes to visiting a dangerous or unsafe country, the planning can also help to make sure you have a safe trip. It’s important to research current events, other traveler’s experiences, as well as the countries customs and regulations for travel safety. Often before I have left on trips I would have spent years researching! This was the case when I finally made''my trip to Yemen''!''The Travel Safety situation in Yemen required years of extensive research when I went in 2017''Separating Reality from Media''This can be very hard to decipher and to be completely honest its going to be based on your personal opinion of the term travel safety. For example, when I was''traveling to Afghanistan''doing any kinds of Afghanistan media query you will find articles on suicide bombings, war, terrorism and famine. These are the realities of many areas within Afghanistan, but the media generalises the hardships of certain areas into the whole of Afghanistan.''I traveled everywhere in''Afghanistan''independently, apart from two regions that I found out were too dangerous. If I had listened to the media I would not even attempt travel to the region. This doesn’t mean completely block the media out! It just means use the media to help dig deeper into your more defined research.''Media portrays the Travel Safety fro North Korea to be dangerous, but it is a very safe country as long as you follow the rules like anywhere!''Getting a Locals Perspective''This can be particularly hard if you are not in the country, but in my experience living in Canada more than often there is someone who has migrated from the particular country who can give me advice.''Once arriving to the country then you can start asking everyone about security. Be sure to get many different opinions, as just like anywhere their opinions might not necessarily be correct. Try to ask locals advice on areas that they either live in or are directly associated with, this will help keep any negative opinions they have directed at certain areas. For me a local’s advice is quite possibly the best advice and has for the most part been the most helpful on my travels.''Papua New Guinea’s Travel Safety was great when you listen to locals''Not Flaunting Yourself or Nationality''Not flaunting signs of wealth are common sense when traveling anywhere, but often travelers are quite proud of their nationality, so much so that they display it with a little flag on their''backpack''.''In many countries this is not a problem at all, but we are not discussing the “average” travel destination. Displaying your country in some areas while traveling can show the wrong people how much you would be worth if they kidnapped you or how much money you might be carrying on you. Quite simply, your nationality can display wealth as well.''Houthi fighter on the streets of Sanaa''Keeping a Low Profile for Travel Safety''This is a very large topic that can entail many different ways of doing so. Some of the best ways of keeping a low profile that have worked for me are:''Only taking photos when absolutely necessary, try to hide your camera as it gives you away.''Wearing local clothes can help! Especially if you resemble the local people.''No speaking English aloud in non-English speaking countries. Your language brings attention. Besides your traveling, learn some local lingo.''If someone you don’t know or trust asks where you are from (excluding police and security officials!), tell them a country they probably wouldn’t know, example Bosnia.''Avoid hanging out where expats or obvious foreigner like to frequent.''Have a local guide''In Afghanistan I wore local clothing to keep a low profile''Make Yourself Hard to Follow''In many countries kidnapping is a real threat and must be taken seriously. What many do not understand is that kidnappers rarely kidnap people sporadically. There is lengthy planning that is undergone before the actual kidnapping takes place.''As travellers we can use this to our advantage. The key is to be unpredictable. Try not to stay in any one are too long and if you do try staying at multiple hotels. You can also try to stay at smaller hidden hotels that are not obvious targets. Another big tip in making yourself unpredictable is not to frequent restaurants or cafes repeatedly. These are ways that bad people can track your steps. So in a lighter note go out and try different places every day, and don’t always walk the same road!''Getting Travel Vaccines for Travel Safety''Dangerous destinations are not limited just to crime, war and violence, disease is another very dangerous obstacle that often conflict areas are rampant with. Keeping up to date with vaccines and current travel health for the region is essential.''Visit a travel health clinic before going anywhere! Many times even well-known types of disease will need specialised pills or vaccines in these areas. A simple query can also lead to a bounty of helpful information and tips like, not drinking water in the area, or what kind of mosquito net to bring.''Here’s Canada’s Travel Safety Page''Simien Mountains Ethiopia''Keeping in Contact''Even at my age, every trip I undertake my mother says to me “call every day!” Unfortunately faulty internet and a lack of cell signal means I cannot call every day, but when I can, I do! Keeping in contact is a great way to assist in keeping you safe! If you go missing, or in one of my cases get arrested you often will have no way of contacting for help.''Your loved ones will notice you are missing and then can contact the people who can actually help you! If they know you’re most recent location, they will find you faster than you think.''Ghadames Libya''Notify your Embassy''In the past notifying my embassy has not done much to help other than if something bad really does happen it will quicken to process in your government being notified. Depending on your nationality will depend on the amount of “help” you will receive.''We are not all from the USA and won’t get the navy seals landing there helicopters in foreign territory to save you when you break a leg, but notifying your government can potentially help you in a bad situation. It takes five minutes to send an email, just do it.''Lower Omo Valley, Ethiopia''Spread the Word''Now that you have returned home safely the best thing you can do is join the club of travellers who love to travel obscure destinations and give tips to the community. You might think no one has interest in travelling where you went to, but you’d be surprised!''Since my return from Yemen I have received at least a hundred messages a day from travellers wanting to go there! So spread the word and tell others what they can do to keep safe abroad!''Traveling through the Khyber Pass Afghanistan/Pakistan''Travel Safety''travel tips''Yarlung Valley, Tibet''High in the Himalayas I clamber through a dark cavern deep into the mountains heart in search of the Guru Rinpoche’s path to enlightenment in the Yarlung Valley the cradle of Tibetan civilization. The cave opening is barely wide enough for me to squeeze through. A weathered old leather rope was placed here hundreds of years ago by pilgrims to help assist in pulling yourself to the other side, this is not for those who are claustrophobic. Finally, I reach the heart of the mountain. Wafts of juniper incense and the heat from the butter lamps make the air heavy. In the distance you can see Tibetans gathered around a large gold statue murmuring mantras.''For Tibetans a pilgrimage should be a difficult and dangerous event, this way when you finally complete the journey the sense of reward is there. In Tibet’s Yarlung Valley there are many of these karma boosting journeys taking place. Those who make it to the Yarlung Valley will find one of Tibet’s oldest and culturally rewarding experiences.''Getting to the Yarlung Valley''The Yarlung Valley is very close to Lhasa making it very easy to get here. Since you must be on an organized tour to visit Tibet you can easily visit parts of the valley on a day trip, but it’s much better to consider spending a few days here exploring the valleys cultural treasures.''The absolute best way to reach the Yarlung Valley is to do what pilgrims have done for centuries, walk from Ganden Monastery to Samye.''Preparing the Yak on the Ganden to Samye Hike''Looking down into the Yarlung Valley''Ganden to Samye Hike''Hiking from Ganden to Samye is one of Tibet’s classic hikes. The three to four-day journey will take you through several different climate zones, and over a couple of Tibet’s extreme high altitude passes.''Apart from some of Tibet’s most stunning natural wonders you will also get the chance to interact with Tibet’s Drokpa Nomadic minority. They call the valleys in between Ganden and Samye home for the summer months of the year due to their animal grazing patterns.''Hiking to Yarlung from Ganden''If you’re planning on coming to the Yarlung Valley do it right, hike from Ganden to Samye!''Samye Monastery''Sights of the Yarlung Valley''Yarlung Valley’s Incredible Landscapes''Crossing Tibet, you will be dumbfounded by how spectacular the scenery is, The Yarlung Valley has some of the most beautiful scenery I saw in all of Tibet! Shimmering golden sand dunes, lush green barley fields and stark jagged mountains. The contrast of Yarlung Valley’s scenery will make you wonder why more people don’t make it here!''Samye Monastery''Samye is riddled with folklore history and was the first Buddhist Monastery in Tibet. Visiting Samye you immediately notice the temples age with its ancient murals and unique architecture. Samye does not see a lot of tourists so most of the time you will have the entire monastery to yourself.''The inner halls are adorned in hundreds of murals and shrines of angry deities are found everywhere. There is no photography inside and if you try the monks will fine you! Outside the main hall Samye has a large garden which is pleasant to walk around. Her you will also see countless pilgrims preforming kora’s around the main hall and outer shrines.''Samye Monastery''Chimpuk Meditation Center''This was the most exhilarating and interesting sight in the whole of the Yarlung Valley for me. Starting in a remote valley located west of Samye a path leads straight up to the mountain top. The climb is very steep and takes the better part of the day so be sure to be in good health before undertaking this climb.''Nearing the top, the views get more spectacular before you reach the Chimpuk Hermitage cave entrance. It is said that Guru Rinpoche himself came here to meditate. The next stop is where the fun begins! Entering the cave, you first crawl up a set of stairs before you must squeeze through a tiny crack in the mountain. It’s a long 100m tunnel that you must pull yourself through with an old leather rope. Do not attempt if you are even slightly claustrophobic. Reaching the centre of the mountain it opens to a large Smokey cavity with a giant Guru Rinpoche Shrine. The resident nuns take care of the area and you can be blessed by one of them at the shrine.''Climing to the top of Chimpuk''Guru Rinpoche stature in the cave''Yungbulakang Palace''The Yungbulakang Palace is the most iconic landmark in the Yarlung Valley. This small picturesque fort has guarded the entrance to the Yarlung for centuries. These days it has been converted into a small museum in commemoration.''The real draw to coming here is to climb the prayer flag covered hill behind the palace for epic views over the valley. The lush green barley fields below the towering fortress with rugged mountains in the distance make for an amazing picture.''Yungbulakang Palace overlooking Yarlung Valley''Yarlung Valley, Tibet Travel Information''Location'':''Yarlung Valley, Tibet''Recommended Tour Operator'':''Tibetan Highland Tours''How to Travel Tibet Guide''Check out''how to get cheap flights''to Tibet!''More Tibet Stories Here''Adventure Travel''asia''Tibet''Ghadames, Libya''The Saharan mirage gives way to a wonderful sight of a palm fringed oasis, a caravan town of white Islamic architecture that provokes images of a lost ancient desert masterpiece. The shimmering gold sand dunes in the distance add contrast to such a perfect image. This is not a dream, this is reality if you can make it to the far flung capital of Ghadames, Libya. Ghadames beauty if only the beginning, the hospitality and culture of Ghadames inhabitants will be your lasting memory.\xa0 This whimsical desert odyssey is not for the faint of heart as getting here requires a plethora of security issues, but for the jaded traveler this makes the allure of visiting Ghadames even more.''Getting a Libyan Visa''The first issue that you will come across with any journey to Libya is obtaining the Libyan Visa. The situation is constantly changing and so is the security of Libya. The best and safest way to obtaining a Libyan Tourist Visa is to contact your nearest Libyan Embassy. I received my three month Libyan visa from the embassy of Ottawa in Canada.''My Libyan Visa''Your other option is to go through a tour company, its more expensive than going to the embassy directly, but some companies have ways to get the visas for you. Most of the companies however will want you to take some sort of a tour with them. If you decide to go through a company, try''Wadi Tidwa''. When I lived in Libya I became friends with the owner who is now based in Tunisia. In the past he helped a few of my friends get into''Libya for Travel''.''How to Get to Ghadames''Ghadames is 611km south of the capital Tripoli. There are buses coming from Nalut, which is connected to Tripoli. The bus however may refuse you as a foreigner due to security concerns. I highly recommend not using the bus for this same reasons, I have heard stories of fake road blocks that kidnap people on this route.''My guide over looking Ghadames Old City''The best and safest way to''Ghadames''is to fly.''Libyan Air''offers several flights a week which take just over an hour. The planes are new and professionally run. One way tickets start at 150 USD. To book a flight you will most likely have to book from the office directly when you arrive to Tripoli as the website does not take credit cards. Air Libya has several offices in Tripoli and there are many local tour companies that can book for you.''Where to Stay in Ghadames''When I landed in Ghadames finding a hotel was extremely confusing. Since tourism officially ended when the revolution began, the majority of hotels have closed down. Two hotels happened to be open, the Ben Yedder Hotel and the Dar Ghadames Hotel.''You can stay in a traditional family home!''First I checked the Dar Ghadames Hotel thinking they would provide me a discount from the lack of tourism. They only kept three rooms open and no discount was given. They recommend I try the Ben Yedder near the town centre. The''Ben Yedder''was like any budget hotel, decent rooms and only 30 USD per night. It was also conveniently located just two block from the old city. I asked reception if they could get me a guide to show me around and the helpful reception set me up with a great guide!''My view from Ben Yedder''Ghadames Old City''The highlight of my trip to Ghadames was definitely the Old City. My first day in the city I wandered this abandoned and seemingly haunted ancient city.''Ghadames Old City consists of around 1600 buildings, which include 1250 houses, 21 mosques and 17 religious colleges. Although the city has been abandoned and the residents relocated to New Ghadames next door, Ghadames Old City is still in use. The previous owners take great care of their heritage homes and often visit them to relax in the gardens, or do any repairs that the homes might need.''Many of the covered alleyways open up to stair wells that lead you to the roof tops of Ghadames. From here you can further explore the city, crossing from one house to another without leaving the roof. It is said that the roof top gardens were reserved for the women of Ghadames while the men stayed down below. This way the women could watch the men without them knowing!''Fresh camel meat in the Old City''Shoe maker in the Old City''My second day in Ghadames my hired guide from Ben Yedder brought me to his family heritage home in the heart of''Ghadames Old City''. Inside the white mudbrick house the walls were covered in brightly coloured murals and the entire house had hand woven carpets covering every inch of floor space. He also had many family heirlooms like a seven-foot rifle, old brass coffee pots, and art work from his ancestors.''Ghadames Old City Sights''Bab al-Burr''– Bab al-Burr was the main gate to Ghadames Old City. This gate was used by locals only while a separate entrance was used by foreigners.''Entrance to the Old City''Ghadames Doors''– Incredibly picturesque and ornate are the hundreds of stunning brass doors that are located through out Old City.''Ghadames Old City Heritage Homes''– There are roughly ten heritage homes open to foreigners. These homes have been kept in the exact original state. They provide a great insight into how the Old City used to be.''Ghadames Heritage Home''Omran and Yunnis Mosque''– Ghadames has many mosques, but they two with there soaring white minarets stand out from the rest specifically because of there interesting architecture. You must observe from the outside as the mosque are closed.''Tayibiyeh Sufi School''– Worth a visit to learn more about the impact of Sufism in Ghadames. Tayibiyeh also has amazing views from its rooftop.''Gardens and Public Wells''– Nearing the end of the old city are palm oasis gardens and public wells. Here kids come for a swim in the palm tree reservoirs and colourfully dressed women carry water atop their heads from the well. Its natural beautify is worth the visit.''Into the Libyan Sahara''My third day in Ghadames, my guide took us into the desert for some hiking. The barren landscape is stunning. Large rocky outcrops emerge from the landscape, if you climb them you will be provided with views all the way to the Algerian border. Getting around you will need a 4×4, so its essential to hire a guide.''Hiking in the Sahara''Ghadames Rally''After hiking my guide recommended we visit the massive sand sea near the Algerian border as there was Libyan off road rally happening. Arriving to the sand dunes we climbed to the tallest one and watch kamikaze Libyans soar over the dunes in their SUV. Some of which rolled in attempt of miraculous adrenaline pumping feats.''To our luck they noticed me and invited me to join them. There white knuckle driving was fun but intense!''Libya Travel Advisory''At the moment no trip to Libya is without risk. If you choose to travel here it must be understood that there is a high chance of kidnapping, terrorist activity and even arrest as there is no stable government. Take this warning very seriously and if you still decide to choose to travel here then understand what you are getting into.''Libya Travel Information''Location:''Ghadames, Libya''Recommended Libya Guide Book:''Libya Lonely Planet, Arabic Phrasebook Lonely Planet''Tour Companies:''Wadi Tidwa Tours''africa''Ghadames''Libya''Travel Scams''Wherever you are in the world, when a destination becomes popular for tourists, there will be travel scams. These scams range from simple theft, trickery and can even result in much more serious events that can ruin your holiday. After being exposed to almost all of these scams in my eleven years of globetrotting I have created this Travel Scam Guide to help you become a Travel Scam expert without having to actually be scammed! Follow me as I discuss the top Travel Scams I have encountered!''The Rigged Taxi Metre''Hopping in a taxi in Saigon, Vietnam I was in a rush to get back to the hotel. Traveling only three blocks I look at the taxi metre and realise that it was already at 30 USD! When I asked the taxi driver about it he explained that I would have to pay it as that is the standard fare. I refused and the taxi driver got very violent!''Avoiding the Rigged Taxi Metre Travel Scam''Well I never ended up paying the driver and it resulting in a scary experience as he threatened to fight me.''There are many ways to avoid this pesky travel scam. The best is knowing how much a taxi should cost by asking a local, and keeping a close eye on the metre. Even doing that if you get stuck with a rigged taxi metre the best way to diffuse the angry taxi driver is to threaten to call the police. Even if you do not have a phone, just say your calling them now! This worked for me and the cab driver eventually let me go.''Always agree to taxi fares if there is no taxi meter''Broken Taxi Metre''Tired and grumpy I exited the New Delhi trains station from a twenty-hour train ride. Taking advantage of an exhausted traveler is what the looming taxi drivers want. When I approach the taxi he says the metre is broken and I will have to pay a very high price to go somewhere very close. He ensures me this is the “local” price.''Avoiding the Broken Taxi Metre Travel Scam''No matter how tired you are don’t give in! if you do, this''travel scam''will continue to be rampant. After asking the cab driver to please just turn the metre on he refused. Lucky that this being India, and like any busy transport hub in the world, there were hundreds of taxis. If you want the metre just simply say “ok I will get a taxi with the metre”, This is usually enough to convince him too put his metre on. If he still doesn’t turn it on simply go and find another taxi.''Be weary if you do get in the taxi that he does turn it on, more times than often he will forget to turn it on!''Closed Hotels''Arriving by bus into Siem Reap, Cambodia I am attacked by hundreds of unsuspecting hotel touts. Getting off the bus all of them tell me the hotel I want is fully booked. Ignoring them and getting into a taxi to my hotel he stops half way through the journey and tells me “sorry sir, the hotel you booked closed months ago”.''Avoiding the Closed Hotels Travel Scams''Feeling trapped and in the hands of this closed hotel scam I simply say “well I have a booking?”. Yes, the best way around this scam is to just say you have booked ahead of time. Even if you haven’t, just say that you do. This will also fend of the “my brother has a very nice hotel” follow up response from the taxi.''In Siem Reap near Angkor Wat there is many bogus hotel scams!''Closed Attractions Scams''While walking to Bangkok’s famous Wat Pho Temple a friendly local approaches me to ask if I need directions. Simply asking where wat Pho was lead to the response of “Oh sorry, Wat Pho is closed, the monks are praying”. While this might seem logically to the unjaded traveler, in reality the “local” is a scamming taxi driver.''Avoiding the Closed Attractions Travel Scams''“Well I guess Ill take my chances” I respond to the smiling scammer. Even with saying this he followed me all the way to the door of Wat Pho. You see, do not believe these kinds of stories. Massive tourist sights are rarely closed and you should always investigate to see if they actually are closed. \xa0Don’t be rude, just be stern!''South East Asia is famous for the “closed attraction” scam''Free Bracelets or Religious Items!''Entering the Ghats in Pushkar,''India'', a priest approaches me. “you must be blessed and receive a Hindu bracelet when entering here”. While this seems like a legit offering its not. This is not the custom, and this is not even a real priest.''Avoiding the Free Items Travel Scams''Do not accept anything for free! Always except that anything in the third world will cost you. This sounds harsh, but it is reality. Travel scammers are smart and know that being insensitive to culture is something us westerners are very worried of. They use this to their advantage and you are left with a big bill or a bad feeling. Just refuse any Free Offerings.''Although Sadhu’s in Varanasi are legitimate, it doesn’t mean you wont have to pay up for that religious bracelet!''Motorbike Scams''Fresh off the trail from my motorbike journey through Laos central region, my scooter rental company looks at me with a stern look. They circle the bike with a notepad in hand shaking their head as they write down a bunch of random notes. They explain there is a lot of damage and I will have to pay a massive fine to fix the bike.''Avoiding Motor Bike Travel Scams''I was in no accidents and the bike only had the previous damage on it. This is the scam however. The bike owner will try to tell you that YOU did the previous damage and will give you a highly inflated price to fix it and then will not actually fix the bike. Best way to avoid this one? Before agreeing to take the bike tell the owner you are going to take photos and show him that you have photos of all the previous damage. This is usually enough to stop him from scamming.''Always be sure to check your motorbike out before you leave. Leh, India''Fake Police Scams''“Please sir buy me a bag of rice” a friendly beggar asks me on the streets of Nairobi Kenya. I tell him I don’t have the money and I proceed to go to the mall. When entering the mall, the police approach me and tell me I have just aided an illegal immigrant and I am under arrest.''Avoiding Fake Police Travel Scam''First ask for the police badge, more than often they will provide you with an obvious fake, or refuse to give it to you. Next ask to talk to their “chief” at the station. Since there probably is no station they will begin to panic. By now you should know if these are real police. Do not pay a bribe and just simply walk away. A real police officer will surely arrest you anyways right? Well these ones won’t.''The police in Pakistan are incredibly friendly and helpful, not like everywhere!''Fake Transportation Scams''Trying to get from Delhi to Agra in''India''should be simple right? Well not according to the scammers who just approached me at the Delhi train station. You must buy your ticket from the Official Tourist office they tell me.''Avoiding Fake Transportation Travel Scams''Guess what, there is actually an official tourist office. The location however is not where any friendly local is going to take you. In fact, they will take you to an office that will charge you ten times what the actual price is. Instead just say no to these friendly people, and look in your guide book where the official office is. If there is no office, then look online where the cheapest ticket can be found.''Finding decent transport in Mongolia is hard, but when you do find it, its awesome!''The Overly Friendly Beautiful Women''Sitting in a retro pub in Cartagena,''Colombia''I order my second beer. Just then a stunningly beautiful Colombian goddess sits down beside me. With her perfect smile she asks for me to buy her a drink. In Canadian culture this is a common way to flirt so my response should be and resounding yes!''Avoiding the Colombian Goddess (Friendly Women) Travel Scams''Well unfortunately my ego must take a hit here. This gorgeous woman is not here for my dashing good looks, instead she is here to either to try and get me to a hotel where she can sedate me to rob me or more commonly she works with the bar and wracks up an insane bill that I will be forced to pay. Sorry, not this time you beautiful thang!''Sometimes even taking a picture you will have to pay up! Like the fruit women in Cartagena Colombia!''Money Magic''I’m in a rush in Egypt. As I exit my cab I hand him 100 Egyptian Pounds. He looks at me puzzled and say “sir this is only 20 Pounds?”, baffled I try to remember if I handed him the right amount!''Avoiding the Money Magic Travel Scams''This time I refused and the driver got angry, but I learned my lesson from this. Now anytime I take a cab I count my money. If I know the fare ahead of time I take out the money beforehand, otherwise as the metre goes up I take smaller notes out. I also count the taxi fare out in front of him so he sees it, this stops this''travel scam''.''Gemstone, Perfume, Carpet Dealers''Last but not least is the gemstone, perfume and carpet dealer scams. Gemstones being India and Thailand, Perfume being Egypt and Carpets being Turkey. When companies need to do shady business they hire touts, very Sauvé well mannered people to do their biddings.''Avoiding the Gemstone, Perfume and Carpet Dealer Travel Scams''This one is simple, if someone says they know a great place or you need to stop there on your tour just say no. Shops selling good quality products don’t need to hire touts to bring you to them. If you want these products, look in your guidebook or online for reviews. In the end there are many cases of fake gems, low quality perfume and “old carpets” just being dirty new ones.''Afghanistan has plenty of authentic buys!''Travel Scams''travel tips''Harar, Ethiopia''Right as the last bit of light descends below the horizon the Hyena man calls out. Calling the resident hyena’s by name and howling as if he is one of them. The medieval city of Harar in eastern Ethiopia is famous for being the city who became friends with these beasts. As the Hyena man calls out again, large figures begin to emerge from the shadows of Harar’s gates. One by one the Hyena’s begin to reveal themselves. The Hyena man then hands me a piece of meat hanging on a stick and tells me to put it in my mouth and feed the Hyena face to face. Doing so the Hyena starts to crawl closer and my mid races, this is Harar Ethiopia!''Getting to Harar, Ethiopia''Pretty much the only way to get to get here is by bus from''Addis Ababa''. The journey takes about ten hours and depending on what you decide to take will determine how comfortable of a journey it is.''I highly recommend taking one of the private bus companies like Sky Bus found near the Selassie Church in Addis. These buses are comfortable and usually air conditioned. Its faster (sometimes) to take the mini vans, but they are dangerous and very overcrowded.''Rickshaws can get you around Harar''Staying in a Traditional Adare House''Showing up to''Harar''you will realise that this is a very unique destination in Ethiopia. The walled city also has some of Ethiopia’s best accommodation. Many of the traditional Adare houses have been inhabited by the same families for centuries have opened their doors to tourists. Staying in an Adare house is a quintessential Harar experience.''Its easy to just show up in town and walk the streets looking for a house, this way you can shop around and pick the one that best suits you. Be sure to bargain hard as prices vary greatly!''The Medieval City of Harar''From the moment you lay eyes on the World Heritage listed city of Harar you will see what an incredible place it is. Reminiscing a city in''Morocco''rather than''Ethiopia'', this Islamic Medieval City oozes with character. Its crumbly white buildings open up to cobblestone squares with vibrant markets and colourfully dressed locals. Its also intensely exotic feeling making this easily one of East Africa’s best sights!''You can easily spend three or four days here visiting the nearby sights, shopping in the markets, feeding Hyenas or just relaxing in a''traditional Adare Guesthouse''. Its also a great stop over for anyone over landing to''Somaliland''and Djibouti.''Medieval City of Harar''Sights of Harar, Ethiopia''Old Town''The Old town of Harar is the main reason most come here. White plastered Mosques made of mud, crumbly medieval walls, markets selling exotic goods and locals decked out in colourful East African clothing. Its incredibly picturesque and will keep any would be travel photographer busy.''Harar Gate – Entrance to the medieval city''There’s also several Museums and even a brewery you can visit in the Old Town, but for those who want to get a real feel for Harar, visiting a few of the traditional Adare homes is a must. Many are even now restaurants in which you can try traditional Harar food like raw camel kidney!''Markets in the Old City''The vibrant markets of Harar sell exotic spices, animal skins, butchered camel meat, antiques and most of all Khat. Khat is a mild euphoric leaf that is present almost everywhere in Harar. Not chewing this leaf with the locals is considered to be a crime by many people as residents are so fond of it.''If Khat is not on your list, the amazing markets here are enough to keep any traveler busy. The markets themselves are so easy to get lost in and make for an amazing experience.''Vegetable Market in the Old City''Feeding the Hyena in Harar Ethiopia''Hara itself is an incredible sight, but one of the major draw for tourist to come here is seeing the wild Hyenas. Every night the dubbed Hyena Men take to the streets and call out to their Hyena counterparts. Locals leave scraps of meat out in front of their houses as well to lure in the friendly Hyena.''Its said that Hyena were terrorising Harar in the past (they are quite dangerous that is!), and the Harar people decided to befriend the beasts rather than kill them. Now for generations the Hyenas and people of Harar have lived peacefully together because of the scraps of meat left for them.''Feeding a Hyena from my mouth''After watching the Hyena men call the beasts my guide, known as the Hyena whisperer, handed me a piece of meat on a frightfully short stick. He told me to place the stick in my mouth and feed the Hyena face to face. The Hyena came closer and closer before lunging towards me and gently pulling the meat off the stick, it felt as if I had kissed a Hyena.''After feeding a few more we wandered the dark streets only to be greeted by Hyena’s dotted all over the city. There is something eerie about these dangerous animals lurking in the streets at night, but they are friendly like a puppy.''Feeding Hyena’s''Feeding my own Hyena''Jijiga Camel Market''Leaving the walls of Harar you enter the desolate eastern desert that crosses to Somalia. This is one of Africa’s most barren and inhospitable regions. The people who call this region home are of Somali decent and the majority are from Somalia itself.''On the way to the Somalia Border is the town of Jijiga. Here a lively camel market happens every other day with camels and other black market goods smuggled from Somalia. In the early morning you can see the goat and cattle markets as well, but for me the Camels were more exciting.''Haggling for camels in Jijiga, Ethiopia''Watching Somali’s haggle over camels and then walk off into the desert was well worth the trip out to Jijiga. To get here just hop on one of the mini vans in Harar’s main market.''Jijiga Camel Market''Haggling for my own camel, Jijiga''Harar Ethiopia Information''Location: Harar, Ethiopia''Guide Book: Lonely Planet Ethiopia''Guest House:''Anisa Abdella Guesthouse''Check out More''Ethiopia Adventures Here''africa''Ethiopia''Harar''Top Eats Oman''As I roamed the streets in search of antiques, clothing, and trinkets to bring home to my family I was quickly distracted by the distinctive aromas of spices and sweets emanating from the restaurants that lined the streets. Omani cuisine changed the game for me; the unique blend of spices creates a flavor combination unlike any other.''Oman Dishes''The flavours that give Omani Cuisine there delicious taste!''Shuwa''A tender, fall off the bone meat dish that is smothered in a multitude of spices, wrapped in palm leaves and then cooked underground for several days before serving. This dish is typically served on very special occasions (such as meeting with foreign guests) as the preparation is tedious. Shuwa is the most''famous food of Oman''!''Right – Omani Shuwa Left – Arsia''Majboos''An aromatic mixed rice dish often served with meat. The main part of this meal was the rice, which seems a bit boring, right? As a matter of fact, it’s the best part! The rice has bits of cardamom and saffron which really make for a one of a kind taste for your pallet. The Arabic meaning for Majboos is “Be engaged” and it’s easy to see why, the meal is usually served in large quantities and (like many other Arabic dishes) served on a giant platter as opposed to individual plates which helps everyone put down their cellphone’s and enjoy the original form of human interaction, spoken word! Definitely a favourite amongst locals for''Omani Cuisine''.''Arsia''Arsia consists of pounded rice, meat, spices and milk. At first glance this dish resembles soggy oatmeal but let me tell you, the taste is out of this world. This sweet and savory meal is typically served as one of the first dishes during Eid.''Oman Desserts and Treats''Bedouin who served us Halwa in the Sharqiya Sands''Halwa''The translation for Halwa is “sweet”, so you can imagine the intense sugar rush this dessert offers up. But the real draw to this dessert is its unique texture and flavor combinations. If you’re walking down the street you will surely find an entire shop dedicated to this dessert.''Rose water/ Frankincense ice cream''My all time favourite dessert in Oman was Rose water Ice cream! This dessert offers the simple yet timeless classic, ice cream along with a luxurious flourish of rose water. And of course, you can always opt for the more traditional Omani choice of Frankincense Ice cream. It certainly offers a unique flavor combination that Omani’s swear by.''The Hajar Mountain villages are famous for Rosewater''Omani dates''A fruit that has brought great pride the Omani people, dates from this region are said to be the best in the world. This light snack is usually served alongside coffee or tea and with over 250 indigenous varieties to choose from be sure to ask the locals where to get the best of the best.''Selection of Omani Dates''Omani Date Groves''Oman Drink''Laban''The most traditional of Omani drinks is Laban, which means “sour milk” in Arabic, but not to worry as the drink is actually made up of yogurt and buttermilk. Although it is easy to see where the term “sour” comes into play as this drink has a unique salty quality to it. I will warn you that this is not a drink for everyone, but you should at least try it once as I can assure you, you have not tried another drink like it.''Fruit smoothies''Although this is not unique to Oman I enjoyed these every morning with breakfast. There is a wide variety of fruits to choose from including watermelon, mango or peach but sometimes they mix in a bit of mint for a neat flavor combo.''Khawa – Oman Coffee''Omani Coffee that is often mixed with cardamom powder (which I have started to use in my coffees at home). Honestly, I can tell you that''Oman''has some great coffee that will satisfy even the most sophisticated of coffee connoisseurs.''Khawa – Oman Coffee''Karak Tea – Oman Tea''Often referred to as Spiced Omani Milk, this delicious tea is a mixture of cinnamon, cardamom, cloves and ginger that is usually sweetened with condensed milk and served several times throughout the day. Usually if you are invited to an Omani families’ home they will offer you Karak.''Tradition Oman Dining Tip''– Omani table manners dictate that when filling a guest’s glass it should only be filled ¼ of the way full, this way the guest does not feel rushed.''Top Oman Restaurants''Some of Oman’s best restaurants can be found on Muscats Corniche''Ubhar – Muscat'', Oman''This restaurant is located in Muscat and offers a variety of traditional Omani dishes. It is pricey but well worth the cost as traditional foods can be hard to find especially ones prepared as well as they are at Ubhar.''Bait Al Luban''– Muscat, Oman''As you enter this restaurant you will be seated amongst colourful traditional decorum including your seating area, which is on a beautifully embroidered carpet with comfortable pillows. After enjoying your meal be sure to order some Omani desserts, they are sure to quench your sweet tooth.''Nizwa Fort Coffee Shop – Nizwa, Oman''For a quick sip of coffee stop by this little shop and be sure to sample the dates. We almost passed on the dates but the owner insisted we try them. We were certainly surprised at how absolutely scrumptious they were and how well they paired with the Khawa. Also, free wifi which is always nice.''View from Nizwa Coffee Shop''The Leisure Deck Restaurant and Bar – Salalah, Oman''Unwind after a long day with some high quality sheesha in a relaxed and quiet atmosphere at The Leisure Deck Restaurant and Bar. The food is wonderful and if your craving a cocktail or a decadent milk shake you’ve come to the right place.''Camel Meat restaurant in Nizwa!''Author – Chelsea Klapwyk''Chelsea Klapwyk has been globetrotting with Uncharted Backpacker for the past year. Recently she has been to Cuba, Oman, Yemen and South East Asia. She is a talented writer and photographer! You can see more of her work right here on Uncharted Backpacker.''Oman''Oman Cuisine''Budget Travel Tips''The life of a famous travel blogger who gets paid to travel is still just a dream to most of us, we travellers must work hard, and travel cheap. Even though it may seem like all my travel is paid for, its not. In fact, I work six months of the year saving up for travel. For many of us this is still not enough to travel to outlandish and exotic destinations, but there is hope! By mastering the art of budget travel, there is virtually no destination in which you cannot get to. Here are a list of tips that have helped me travel to over ninety countries while working full time.''The Complete Guide to Traveling on a Budget!''Now, I know what your thinking “oh here’s another pipe dream guide that doesn’t work”, but I am telling you, to this day I still work a day job here in Canada and have been able to travel about five months out of the year. Because of my website I do however receive sponsorship or discounts on many trips, but over the last ten years the majority of my travel has been paid for by me.''With this guide you can do exactly what I have been doing. Honestly, you will have to make a lot of sacrifices, but those dreams of travelling around the world could be closer than you think. Trust me, as a lifeguard I do not make an extremely high wage, and I do not come from a wealthy family. All it takes is some strategic planning, strict saving, prioritising and knowledge about how to save money abroad! Check out my tips on''how to travel the world when your not rich''!''Using this guide no destination will be out of reach, Yemen''Budgeting and Planning Your Trip''Before you start saving money and setting goals you need to decide where you are going for your budget travel trip. If you are undecided as to which destination to see first check out travel websites like''Lonely Planet''and travel blogs like erm.. Uncharted Backpacker.''For me once I have a destination or general area picked out I buy a guide book for there, usually Lonely Planet as I am biased and like this series. Then I skim through the pages I am mentally planning my route, how much time I need, and of course how expensive the place is. The nice thing about Lonely Planet is, it gives a realistic and updated approach on accommodation, transport, food, and entry fees or sight prices.''With all this information you can start to make yourself an estimate on a daily budget. Do take into consideration any personal shopping you plan on doing. For me, I like to shop for antique and tribal artefacts. These usually do not come cheap, so I try to put a number into my budget for shopping.''There is a lot of planning and budgeting when travelling to hard to reach destinations. Nagaland, India''Saving Money for Travel''This is the first and biggest step to getting yourself out traveling. Many of us get caught up in life and the money never seems to be there. In order to make your dreams a reality you must make a conscious effort to reprioritize small amount of money from each paycheck towards your travel plans. Maybe it means making your lunch at home instead of eating out during weekdays or skipping out on your fancy lattes.''Open a separate bank account and make a realistic goal to meet after six months. This goal varies depending on the destination you choose, and what you want from your trip. For example, if you are planning a trip backpacking across Europe, the budget will be vastly different from a backpacking budget travel trip across South East Asia.''Once your goal is set, and your travel account begins to fill up you can start estimating a day for your trip to begin. Of course you may have to plan this around your work. My job allows me to take off pretty much anytime of the year and if you would like this then you may have to consider finding a job that will allow for some flexibility.''Finding Cheap Travel Flights''Luckily for you I have written a complete guide for finding a cheap flight already! But Ill give a quick note on what to look out for in finding a cheap flight here as well.''Before anything else set your browser in “Incognito” or “private” Mode. This will hide your IP so that search engines do not raise your flight prices just because you are coming from a wealthier country. Once that is set, use Flight Search Engines like Kayak, Momodo and Sky Scanner. These sites search hundreds of different airlines and websites to get you the cheapest price. They also have Email Price Alerts in which they will send you a reminder if the flights get any cheaper.''The next step is the three-month rule. This literally means that statistically flights are cheapest three months before your departure date. This is the time when airlines play with their prices to see what they should market it at. It doesn’t have to be right at the three marker, but just start searching at this time. I found Wednesday has been the cheapest day of the week, but do search everyday as you never know.''Lastly be flexible, when you search it gives you the option of “exact dates” or “+or- 3 Days”. Choose the plus or minus three days, and pick the days on the calendar that have the little green dots as these are the dates that others have found cheap flights.''Check out my full guide on''How to Find a Cheap Flight Here''!''With the right tools finding a cheap flight to anywhere can happen! Libya''Choosing the Right Budget Travel Destination''Unfortunately, not every where will be within your budget. My goal with this post is to show you that no matter where you want to go, you can get there! But this is unrealistic if your dream is to travel Antarctica for two months with a budget of $1,500.''Most''destinations''in the world are definitely possible! But if a country requires a mandatory tour, or specialized expedition then you may find it hard to plan on a budget. This is where we go back to the planning stages in our trip. Its very important that we do all the research beforehand, this way we don’t end up saving for months for a trip that you may not necessarily be able to afford.''Luckily there is a plethora of budget travel destinations around the globe! Every continent has its cheap regions. More popular regions are South East Asia, Eastern Europe, North Africa, Peru and Bolivia in South America. These are just some examples, but if you look up Budget Travel destinations you can find so much information online!''Cuba was one of my favourite budget destinations!''Finding Cheap Travel Accommodation''In the past I would arrive to a destination, pray to several different gods, and hope that there would be a cheap hotel with available rooms. While this form of budget travel is fun and still prevalent in a few countries, it’s mainly outdated and could end up costing you more.''Hotel Booking Search Engines''For booking hotels, guest houses and hostels you have search engines like Booking, Hostel Bookers, Momodo and plenty more at your disposal! Go online and shop around. I use the Lonely Planet as a reference also as it has great recommendations and will tell you if the hotels are in close enough distance for walking.''I wouldn’t book all your hotels ahead of time. Just book the first one and then play it by ear when you arrive. You never know, you might get a recommendation from the hostel you are staying at. In the past, hostels have given me a discount if I stayed with their sister hostels in other cities. This is popular in South East Asia a budget travel destination.''Couch Surfing''The next tip is something I am actually relatively new to, Couch Surfing. This great app lets you stay with local people free of charge. I used it in Oman, because hotels in Oman are insanely expensive and I plan to use it again in the more expensive destinations. Its also a great way to meet people, and the profiles give ratings to make sure you don’t end up staying with somebody strange.''Staying with a local family is an amazing travel experience! My host family in Yemen''Eating Cheap on the Road''This can be either a blessing or a curse! What I mean by this is not all destinations I have traveled through had delicious local cuisine. If you travel through Thailand you will be blessed with a delicious, spicy, diverse and cheap cuisine. When I traveled through Papua New Guinea cheap food consisted of fried chicken, instant noodles, and street sausages, not the best when you are there for months at a time.''Street Food''Whether you are in Asia, Africa, South America or even Europe, street food is some of the cheapest and tastiest eats you can get. Contrary to what most believe, its also one of the cleanest and safest ways to eat as you get to see exactly what your cook uses to cook with and how they cook it. Be smart, eat street food!''Street Food in Kabul, Afghanistan''Restaurants''When you get your fill of street food or you just want to sit down in a restaurant then there are a few ways to avoid breaking the bank. My first rule is actually a safety rule, but doubles as a budget saver; See who is eating at the restaurant. If its full of tourists its most likely an overpriced buffet that serves bland and unsafe food. If the place is full of locals expect prices to be lower and food to be delicious/clean.\xa0 Guide books are also great help in finding restaurants that are decently priced and high quality.''Eating like a king in North Korea''Getting Around on a Budget''This category changes fast! When I traveled in the past taking train, bus, or shared taxi was always the cheapest way to go. Many third world countries this is still the case, but a growing number of cheap budget airlines are opening up that can even beat the prices of long distance buses. Its always good to look into the price of flights before booking anything these days, although if you really want to get a feel for traveling, opt for overland its much more rewarding!''Train''For me train is the best way to travel. You get to see the countryside, meet friendly people, and often you get a semi comfortable bed. There’s also something about a train journey that is sort of romantic and really adds to the travel experience. Trains are priced based on their class. Countries like India provide good classes for cheap prices, while traveling in''Europe''or''Japan'', its best to look for open tickets that allow a hop on hop off options.''Taking the train in Sri Lanka''Bus''Bus is usually the cheapest travel, although, long distances are uncomfortable. But they are very convenient; in most cases they leave very frequently making booking ahead unnecessary. With roads improving in a lot of third world countries, Buses are often faster then the trains, and offer the same opportunity to see the countryside.''You don’t always have to ride inside the bus, Chitral Pakistan''Hitchhiking''Not always the safest option, but in many countries you will have no choice to stick your thumb out and hope for the best. A great way to meet people as well!''Getting a cheap ride in Papua New Guinea''Finding a Job While Traveling''Work holidays are getting ever more popular and you should definitely consider this if you would like an extended staycation. In my eleven plus years of traveling I have taken two jobs abroad. The first was teaching English in Libya, and the second was teaching Scuba Diving in Thailand.''Teach English Abroad''This is an ever changing industry. Once you obtain a ESL or TESOL certificate you are qualified to work in some countries. Many countries are however changing their guidelines on what level of qualification is required. Some countries like Thailand say that you must have a bachelor’s degree in something relevant, this is not the case. Almost all the teachers I Know in Thailand are teaching on just a TESOL certificate, but don’t assume this is the same everywhere. In my opinion its better too show up and look for work then to sign some sketchy contract before leaving home, but its up to you.''Teaching Diving''This was my favourite job I had abroad. After obtaining my''PADI Dive Master''certificate in Thailand I started working in Koh Phi Phi as a Dive Master, and assistant teacher. I spent my days leading dives through colourful reefs and my evenings relaxing in chilled out reggae bars. This was the travelers dream, only problem is the pay. This industry does not pay well, unless you work at a fancy resort, which can be hard to get. So if you want to work and save up for travel maybe consider the ladder, but if you want a fun dive holiday where you can really learn about the destination you are in, then take the plunge!''Teaching Diving was one of the best jobs abroad I did!''Budget Travel''travel tips''Pyongyang, North Korea''When the sunrises in Pyongyang you are awoken to the eerie morning wake up call. The bleak and empty streets then quickly fill with an ensemble of people wearing 1950’s style clothing and military outfits. No where on this planet will you bare witness to a scene so frozen in time. Looking beyond the streets from your hotel window the colourful skyline emerges from the dense morning fog only to be replaced by a fiery burning orange sun brilliantly situated right over Juche Tower. When the morning call comes to an end the streets are full of life. This is Pyongyang, North Korea.''Getting to North Korea''There is a couple of option to get to Pyongyang. The simplest way is to fly either from Beijing or Shanghai. The flights are super retro and are an experience in and of themselves. Beijing has more flights per day, but in order to get a ticket you must go through a North Korean registered company. Air China and Koryo Air serves these routes.''Soldiers waiting to enter Mansu Hill, Pyongyang''The next option is to take the train from Beijing. Security is much more tight on this route and you will be searched much more thoroughly, but its a great way to see more of North Korea’s stunning countryside and''remote villages''.''Pyongyang skyline from the Koryo Hotel''North Korea Visa''Before you arrive to''North Korea''you will be given your North Korean Visa by your guide. It’s a serrate passport with all your info and picture inside. This is your Identity while you are in North Korea.''Arriving to Immigration you hand your new North Korean Identity to receive your visa. The visa will not be stamped into your own passport, but into the North Korean Identity instead. Unfortunately, when you leave the country you will have to give up your identity card.''My North Korean Visa''Sights in Pyongyang''Juche Tower''Climbing to the top of Juche Tower you are provided with the best views over Pyongyang. Located on the banks of the Taedong River, Juche Tower is 170 m / 557 ft monument dedicated to Juche ideology, seeing how colourful the city really is from here is eye-opening.''Juche Tower''View from Juche Tower''Pyongyang Metro''The real draw to taking the Pyongyang metro is the beautifully decorated metro stops. Each stop has its own theme and the walls are covered in murals of workers/leaders. The Pyongyang Metro reaches 120 m / 394 ft. below ground making it the deepest metro in the world. It is said its depth was created in case of an attack in which the locals can retreat to safety underground.''Pyongyang Metro''Mural in Pyongyang Metro''Metro Guard, Pyongyang''Victorious War Museum''This is Pyongyang’s greatest museum. The Victorious War Museum is home to American tanks, planes, trucks and even a spy ship called the USS Pueblo all taken from the Korean War. Coming here and seeing North Korean’s take on the war is what most travelers to this nation sought out for.''Victorious War Museum. Pyongyang''Mansu Hill''Some would say Mansu Hill in Pyongyang is the soul of the city. Here North Koreans come to lay flowers and bow in respect to their leaders. The Mansudae Grand Monuments two enormous 22 m high bronze statues of North Korean leaders Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il must be photographed in full frame, its up to you but laying flowers here will earn you much respect with the locals here.''The Great Leaders at Mansu Hill''Chollima Statue''The Chollima Horse Statue can be easily missed, but it is located just of the main square at Mansu Hill. The speeding horse symbol can be seen all over North Korea, so seeing the original makes for a quick detour!''Chollima Statue, Pyongyang''Korean Revolution Museum''Kim Il-sung and the Korean revolutionary movement are the main draws to coming to this museum. When it is open you can see items and descriptions of these. The statues and murals in the park outside are also very interesting.''Korean Revolution Museum''Kim Il-sung Square, Pyongyang''Probably the most photographed part of North Korea, the Kim Il-sung Square is the epicentre for all military parades and mass demonstrations commence. The square is massive and very photogenic, come here at sunset for stunning photos!''Kim Il-sung Square, Pyongyang''Arch of Triumph''One of the first sights you will see when arriving into Pyongyang from the airport, this 60 m Arc of Triumph was built to commemorate the Korean resistance to the Japanese invasion.''Arch of Triumph''Train Station, Pyongyang''Serving to most larger destinations within North Korea, this is also the international train stop for those heading to Moscow or Beijing. Interesting sight during the early morning when trains arrive!''Train Station, Pyongyang''Science and Technology Centre''The brand new Science and Technology Museum is a fun place to interact with North Korean Students. Here games are created to enhance the fun in science. There are also great explanations into North Korea’s nuclear, and power programs.''Science and Technology Centre''Ryugyong Hotel''The unfinished Ryugyong can be seen from pretty much anywhere in Pyongyang. Dubbed the Rocket Hotel, it cannot actually be visited and is best left out of conversation with locals. Good views can be had from Juche Monument.''Ryugyong Hotel''Arch of Reunification''Located on the outskirts of Pyongyang the Arch of Reunification was created to symbolize a unified Korea. Leaving Pyongyang, you will drive under its arches.''Arch of Reunification''Monument to Party Founding''This great piece of Communist art work is beautifully located in a part encircled by colourful apartment blocks. Photographing the area is well worth coming to visit this monument.''Monument to Party Founding''Ryomyong Street''The brand new high rises of Ryomyong are built in what some would say modern North Korean architecture. The street is bright, clean and makes for a great night walk to admire this new area of town.''Ryomyong Street''Kwangbok Supermarket''This busy and full supermarket is one of the few that you are allowed to wonder freely. Picking up some North Korean Whiskey or North Korean sweets is fun as the selection is massive! No photography here though.''Pyongyang Olympic Shooting Range''Here you get your go at shooting a number of North Korean Handguns. Beware as North Korean’s are ferociously competitive and if you decide to make bets be prepared to pay up when you loose!''North Korean Hand guns''Pyongyang Shooting Range''North Korea Souvenirs at the Foreign Languages Bookshop''Located just around the corner from Kim Il-sung Square the Foreign Languages Bookshop is your one shop stop to pick up North Korean books in English as well as postcards, flags, pins and my personal favourite, North Korean Propaganda Posters. The propaganda posters are done by the university here in Pyongyang, the quality is high and all come with an official stamp from the government. These are the exact same posters that are used around the country. The posters are also hand painted making each one a one of a kind souvenir.''Some of my North Korean Souvenirs''Bicycle Ride Through Pyongyang''Riding from Science street to Kim Il Sung Square and ending two kilometres east from there is the designated bicycle rout for travellers in Pyongyang. Apart from the lovely trail that follows the Taedong River you will see residential and commercial parts of Pyongyang.''While riding many times I had smiling military men riding along with me ion their way to work. Seeing locals faces as I rode past them was half the fun! I highly recommend the bicycle ride through Pyongyang.''Bicycle Ride Through Pyongyang''Bicycle Ride Through Pyongyang''North Korean BBQ in Pyongyang''Who would have known that North Korea actually has some really scrumptious cuisine! The ubiquitous cold noodles are served alongside the standards Korean BBQ fare that we are all acquainted to. Be prepared that if you are going to be having North Korean BBQ in Pyongyang, you most likely will be given countless shots of Soju, a Korean rice wine which has the alcohol content of something medical like.''North Korean BBQ''Uri Tours''There are quite a few companies out there to choose from when going to North Korea. Luckily I chose''Uri Tours''. Uri is the pioneer in unique travel to North Korea. They try to give you more experiences than just sightseeing. Check out my article on''Learning how to Surf in North Korea''!''asia''DPRK''North Korea''Pyongyang''Travel Packing Tips''Every time I take a new traveler with me on another Uncharted Adventure the first question I am always asked: “What do I bring?”. After 11 years of countless mistakes of over packing, forgetting things, and bringing the wrong gear, I can confidently consider myself to be a travel packing expert. This guide can help you learn the ways of travel packing and avoid all the troubles that go along with what seems like an easy task. So, grab your backpack, and prepare yourself for your next big adventure!''Step 1 – The Ultimate Travel List''My first and most crucial step is my travel list. This list I have created so that I can add things and build my gear long before my trip. Usually, I begin my list one month''before taking off''. This way if at any time while I am at work and I remember something new, I can simply add to it. The one-month bracket gives you ample time to figure your gear out, and if you think it’s not long enough, then simply extend your packing list period. On my packing list, I break things down into these categories:''Clothing''Bathroom Products''Electronics''Special Gear''Travel Health''Extras''Your list may begin to grow fast and seem as if there is way too much stuff on it, and there probably is! Do not fret, we will go over the list again in the future steps with what to do with all that extra stuff you do not need. When you put your categories down simply write everything you think you should bring under each category and keep the list out in the open so whenever you see it, you add to it.''My yak carried my gear hiking in Tibet!''Step 2 – How Much Clothes to Bring?''This is a tough one which has many numerous factors to take into consideration. The first being what is the weather of your destination. Obviously, if it’s going to be cold you will have to pack warmer clothes, which means more space will be taken up.''Washing Clothes Tip:''I bring little packets of laundry detergent that allow me to wash my clothes in the sink or a bucket. Obviously washing it this way doesn’t give the results a machine would, but when you’re traveling to obscure destinations you must make sacrifices.''Next, what is the style of clothes worn in your destination? For example,''Oman''is a hot country, but because of its more conservative culture, it’s best to plan on packing more pants as opposed to shorts. Both these factors take some pre-trip research for you to devise a list of clothes.''Now that we have covered the deciding factors of what clothes you should pack; the next step is to decide how much clothes you should bring. My list goes like this:''T-Shirts x 3 –''For me three shirts is plenty. I wear one a couple of days and then switch and wash.''Khaki Pants (Chinos) x1 – Blue Jeans x1''– I like having two styles of pants to change things up, especially in conservative or colder destinations.''Hooded Sweater x1 – Sweater without hood x1''– If I am going somewhere that is tropical and warm I usually only bring the non-hooded sweater, but if it gets cold or I am camping having a backup is important.''Underwear and socks''– Underwear and socks do not take up much room. Just bring a good amount… I don’t think I need to explain why.''Jacket x1''– If it’s a warm destination I bring a rain jacket, if it’s cold I bring an insulated jacket that is also waterproof.''I like Fjallraven jackets'', they are old school and do the job.''Dress Shirt x1''– Because you never know when you will get invited to a nice dinner with the president of Zimbabwe.''Hiker Shoes x1 – Flip Flop x1''– Always bring a pair of flip flop sandals as it’s nice to kick off your shoes in the hostel and relax even in a cold destination. My hikers are my everyday shoes, so I try to pick something that can work as a street shoe as well.\xa0 Sometimes this is tricky if I am doing a destination with intense hiking. In this situation I bring a street shoe, and a rugged hiker.''Swim Shorts x1''– Even in cold countries there are swimming pools and hot springs!''Packing right for each destination is important''Step 3 – Picking Your Main Bag''Backpack or Roller Suitcase? Back when I was an amateur young traveler I experimented with both.\xa0 Now, a hardened travel extraordinaire, I can confidently tell you to choose the''travel backpack''no matter what. I know what you’re thinking, “But Stephen I am only going to Venice for seven days”. My answer is expect the unexpected. Venice has cobblestone that will make dragging a suitcase a living hell, or how about dropping your suite case as you hop from one gondola to another!?''Ok, now that we got that rant covered and you’re choosing your backpack we must go over what kind of backpack suits your trip. Obviously, the bigger the trip, the bigger the backpack that is needed. Backpacks are categorized in liters. I find an all-around size that meets almost all my trips needs is a 60 Litre size. This size is just enough for all my stuff and a few trinkets I pick up along the way.''Another important deciding factor is to dig into the build of the bag. Some bags have customizable belts that mold to you. These are great, but if they are not comfortable then no means of molding will help. Try a few bags on and see which one just feels right.''Security Tip:''Avoid vibrantly covered backpacks. Apart from looking a bit ridiculous they stand out more to thieves. A more monotone bag that doesn’t scream its high price tag is a much better idea for traveling.''Find out more about the''best travel backpacks with my Uncharted Backpacker Guide Here''!''Hiking in Peru a high quality bag is needed!''Step 4 – Travel Bathroom Products''There’s no way around it, unless you want to be the person who stinks up the hostel and looks like a vagrant, your bathroom products are going to take up a lot of valuable space in your bag. There are many tips to reduce the amount of room however. Here are my best tips for packing the bathroom products.''Bars of Soap take less room then body wash and tend to last longer.''Only wash your hair with shampoo every few days, honestly you don’t need to everyday anyways.''Toothpaste in foreign countries kind of sucks, best bring extra''Deodorant is not sold everywhere, if you’re North American like me then bring extra''Body spray is great for making a couple day old shirt smell brand new!''Face Wipes really do make you feel human again, they also don’t take up much room.''Travel Grooming 101, head to the Barber Shops! Havana, Cuba''Step 5 – The Super Special Bag''I tried to look for a cool name for this bag, but nothing gave it justice accept super special bag which I have called it for years. This is the small bag that if you lose then your travel life is going to take its biggest hit. This bag will carry your passport, credit card, travel insurance, proof of vaccines, money stash and other items you deem very important.''Travel Money Tips:''Mentioning credit cards and money you’re probably wondering about foreign currencies and ATM’s. Don’t worry I have a guide for that too right''HERE''.''Only an amateur traveler would make one super special bag however. In my second special bag I put passport copies, my debit card, copy of travel insurance, copy of vaccines and a small money stash to help me if I need it.''The first and more important special bag I carry with me on my carry on. My carry-on stays with me wherever I go on my voyage. It is like and extension of my body…. OK, well maybe its just exceptionally important to me.''The second special bag I put in my main travel bag in one of the inner pouches where it stays until an emergency.''Step 6 – The Travelers Companion, the Carry On''As I mentioned in stage 5, my carry on is my life.''In my side bag''I carry my special bag, camera, GoPro and''my guidebook''. As you can tell because of the carry-on importance, you need to choose one wisely.''Daypack, backpack, side bag?''Yes, it’s daunting choosing the bag that you will carry for almost every moment of your trip. From my experience the side bag takes gold. Whether you call it man purse, satchel or side bag it is the best companion to any would be traveler. This is because of its easy access, plenty of open room and most important of all, its security.''Having a side bag allows you to carry it, yes you guessed it, on your side. In busy places you can hold it in front of you, or simply place your hand over top of it. Also, because it hangs lower, it is harder for thieves to cut it open while you’re walking. Just make sure you get a side bag that seals shut with a zipper or good Velcro.''My side bag strapped to my camel in Morocco''Step 7 – Organizing Your Travel Gear and Traveling Minimal''At this point we are nearing our two-week marker before the trip. Now I browse through my list and cross off anything I think that I don’t need. I then lay out everything on the floor in an organized manner. If it looks like a lot, then I remove more articles. This is when the fun and excitement begin as I do my first pack!''Fold or Roll Clothes?''This is another question I get asked a lot. It might seem weird, but honestly, if you roll your clothes you magically do have more space in your bag. I am assuming it’s because of Travel Witchcraft, but I cannot say for certain, all I know is roll those clothes!''Once all your gear is neatly organised and displayed in front of you, begin packing it all in your bag. I start with the softer items at the bottom, and harder items up top as they will compress the softer ones below. With this first stage of packing you can realistically see if you have to much stuff or too big of items, this is a great''travel packing hack''!''You never know what you’ll be travelling in, pack minimal! My van in Mongolia''Step\xa08 – Travel Health!''You have everything in order, but there is one last thing to add to your bag and yourself. These are vaccines, medications and first aid equipment. Definitely do not go out and buy a first aid pack equipped with syringes and full cast but do think about where you are going and what you may encounter. For your''travel vaccines''make sure you consult a travel health clinic on what you need and be sure to get''travel insurance''!''Here is a list of the basics I bring with me on every adventure I take:''New skin and bandages''Painkiller like Advil or Ibuprofen''Mosquito repellent''Sunscreen SPF 15''Diarrhea Medication''Medication for heart burn and upset stomach''Travel Health Clinic Prescribed Medications''Everything else you can pretty much pick up along the way as needed. Almost every country I have been too has well equipped pharmacies that are much cheaper then back home.''Step 9 – The Travel Packing Begins!''That’s it you are ready to go, and the final packing stage begins. At this point you have pondered the ultimate packing list and it should look like a scribbled mess and that’s a good thing!''For the last pack I like to have it done at least two days before taking off, this way I can really think about if I have missed anything. Also seeing your bag all packed and ready to go is incredibly exciting!''I hope this guide can help you with packing and turn a potentially nerve wracking experience into something fun that will fill you full of anticipation for your trip!''travel inspiration''Travel Packing''Shibam, Yemen''As the hours begin to lead up to it all, my mind starts to race.''Traveling to Yemen is something I’ve always wanted to do'', but because of Yemen’s war and political strife, it seemed an impossible task. Now, as I sit in a haze of hookah smoke in a Salalah cafe with a shady permission form from one of the governments in Yemen, I am finally going. After all the months of research and bureaucracy that I had to fight through to plan this adventure, the time to cross from Oman to Yemen has finally arrived. Just then, a beat-up van pulls up and a dodgy looking Yemeni driver peers out the window and says with a crazy look in his eyes “ready to go to Yemen!?”''Getting to Hadhramaut from Oman''The far eastern corner of Yemen bordering with Oman is called Al-Mahara. In order to get to Hadhramaut, you must cross this barren desert on a long, pothole filled road. I came to Al-Mahara from Salalah, Oman. My driver, who hails from this region picked me up and drove me across the fringes of Arabia’s Empty Quarter to the northern border of Yemen/Oman.''Crossing the border was sketchy.''I have backpacked across Afghanistan''and''lived in Libya during the war'', and this border had me feeling more uncomfortable than either of those. My driver brought all the necessary documents for me and my travel companions to the dilapidated shed that they referred to as immigration. Waiting in the car, plenty of armed men wearing traditional Yemeni attire passed by us giving as sharp looks. After two hours of waiting, we were on our way.''Waking up in Seiyun, Yemen''The road through Al-Mahara to Hadhramaut is very long. The journey takes upwards of nine hours, contrary to what we were told. You cross by beautiful empty deserts and the odd Bedouin camps. The closer you get to Hadhramaut you pass by more Saudi and Emirati checkpoints that are needless to say, not friendly.''Seiyun, Hadhramaut, Yemen''We arrived very late into Seiyun. At this point, the checkpoints no longer stopped us as they could not see who we were. We stayed in what resembled a hotel, but which was now left to decay and turned into multiple apartments.''Goat Herding women in Hadhramaut''Hadhramauts Biggest City, Seiyun''Waking up in Seiyun and looking out the window to see magnificent gorges and whitewashed mudbrick buildings was spectacular. Contrary to Oman, Yemen is much less developed, it seems as if it was frozen in time from old Arabia.''Leaving our makeshift hotel, we wandered the downtown of Seiyun’s Souq. Here, vendors yell out selling various old electronics, rustic kitchen equipment, and exotic spices. People were very surprised to see us, but friendly none the less.''Khat''–''Khat''is a mild amphetamine that over 80 percent of Yemeni men indulge in every day. The statistics for Yemeni women are lower than their male counterparts but still considerably high. Traveling to Yemen you will, of course, be offered to chew Khat. I gave it a try and the best way to describe it is that it’s like having a strong cup of coffee that lasts.''Overlooking new Shibam and Seiyun in Hadhramaut, Yemen''My favorite part of Seiyun was the Khat Market. Here, Yemeni’s with bulging cheeks full of Khat barter the leaf from small wooden shacks. The scene is quite unique, there’s a mix of local farmers, completely covered women pushing their goats, and armed soldiers fresh from the front line of war all buying up the large bundles of Khat.''The Manhattan of Arabia, Shibam Yemen''Further down the highway from Seiyun the mud skyscrapers of ancient Shibam break through the desert mirage. This 2000-year-old city is home to over 7000 people. It’s dubbed the Manhattan of Arabia as these massive mud structures soar well over seven stories high.''Shibam is what I refer to as a living museum. Nothing has changed within the fortified walls for centuries and life goes on just as it did before. Cars can only squeeze into the main gates, but from there you must traverse the city on foot.''Manhattan of Arabia, Shibam, Yemen''Wandering the narrow alleyways, I got lost within minutes. Every so often the walls would open up to a''beautiful minaret''or a courtyard surrounded by more stunning architecture. On the streets below, kids play soccer and shepherds disappear into maze-like corridors with their flocks of sheep and goats.''Shibam Mud Skyscrapers, Yemen''I am naturally an optimistic person, but Shibam truly is one of the most incredible places I have ever seen. After several hours of exploring,''taking photos'', and chatting with the Shibam locals we visited a tea house that is said to have served tea at the very same location for over 500 years.''Walking the streets of Shibam, Yemen''From here, we ventured across the valley to a hilltop viewpoint overlooking this amazing place. As the sun began to set in an orange fiery glow and the call to prayer beckoned from every direction, I sat there thinking of how amazing it was to be here in Yemen!''Manhattan of Arabia, Shibam''Look up in Shibam!''Clifftop City of Al-Hajarayn''The next day we decided to drive to the remote valleys nearby. Passing by legendary Shibam once again before the valley begins to narrow and become more dramatic. The lush farmed valley below adds stunning contrast to the red cliffs of the Hadhramaut Valleys. Looking up into these cliffs you will notice small communities which seem to defy gravity by clinging to the sides of these mountains.''Al-Hajarayn, Hadhramaut, Yemen''As we drove through the megalith of these cliff towns, Al-Hajarayn appeared in the distance. Al-Hajarayn is much larger and many of the buildings are up to five stories high clinging impossibly to sketchy looking cliffs. There is even a mosque clinging not just to the cliff, but what looks like a 90-degree drop off the mountain.''Climbing up to Al-Hajarayn we passed by structures that resembled the same ancient buildings in Shibam, only these ones are situated in a much more impressive spot. Nearing the main town gates we were rewarded with fine views overlooking the valley below.''The view from Al-Hajarayn''Wadi Dawan and Buqshan Khaila Palace''After the climactic views from Al-Hajarayn, we continued on into the valleys. The further you go, the smaller and more remote feeling the small communities become. The river here also allows for many trees and lush fields to flourish, giving it that feeling of being an oasis.''We stopped in a few of the small communities we passed by to get photos and explore the traditional way of life here in Hadhramaut. Entering Wadi Dawan, you see more of the incredible cliffside towns, but these ones stand high above the green brush and are backdropped by the stark gorge cliffs. The towns here are also much wealthier looking as the structures are freshly painted white, and the farms are well kept.''Wadi Dawan, Hadhramaut, Yemen''Sitting higher than all of the other structures in Wadi Dawan is the multicolored Buqshan Khaila Palace. This former royal palace opens briefly for the odd domestic tourist, but for the most part is closed year round. We were able to explore a few of the main halls after convincing the guard, but could not see the entire thing.''Buqshan Khaila Palace''After lunch in the palace garden, we drove high above the valley to a plateau at the clifftops. The view here looks to be something from a fairy tale.''The Mosques of Tarim''Our last stop in Hadhramaut was the historic city of Tarim. Tarim is more modern feeling than Shibam or the remote communities of Wadi Dawan but is filled with historic sights. It is estimated that Tarim contains up to 365 mosques.''Our first stop was the Al-Muhdhar Mosque. The minaret of the Al-Muhdhar Mosque is 53 meters (175 ft) high, making it easy to see from anywhere in the town. The inner halls are plastered bright white and lined with hand-woven carpets. Here, students of Islam murmur qur’anic verses filling the hall with song.''Al-Muhdhar Mosque is 53 meters (175 ft) high''Nearby to the Al-Muhdar Mosque is the cemetery of Aynat. This is one of the most photogenic parts of Tarim. Women in black shrouds wander past the ancient tombstones of Islamic heroes who are said to be buried here.''Tarim was our last stop before we ventured further into Yemen. Ahead of us were the sands of''Marib''and Yemen’s frontline of the war.''Yemen Travel Advisory''Since I returned from Yemen a few months ago many have been asking me for travel advice to get here. It might seem ignorant for me to say, but I DO NOT recommend traveling to Yemen. Currently, Yemen is in a state of civil war, there are many risks such as kidnapping, airstrikes, and other obvious issues that come with war. Simply put, it is not a place for tourists at the moment. However, Yemen will eventually recover from this war. My posts on Yemen are to show that the future of tourism will come and the war has not affected the many sights and hearts of the Yemeni people.''If you do decide to travel to Yemen please do not ask me for help with your visa, apply to your nearest embassy, and do not trust those who say they can get you a visa without permission from the embassy. When you arrive in Yemen keep a low profile and always keep up to date with the current situation.''Chelsea and I dressed in Hadhramaut clothing''Yemen Travel Information''Location:''Hadhramaut, Yemen''How I Learned To Travel Yemen:''Yemen Bradt Guide Book''Tour Company I used:''Camaleer Tours''See more of my Yemen Stories Here!''Hadhramaut''The Middle East''Yemen''Tibet Travel''High in the Himalayas inside an ancient temple, it begins. The Trumpets commence surging through mountain valley; the chanting of monks mixed in with the scent of juniper incense billows from the wrathful deity’s altar. Then, slowly, drums begin to pound from the tantric shrine only to be masked by the thick, butter lamp filled air. I lose myself in it all. This is a regular scene for those travelers who make it to Tibet. The land of snow is the kind of journey that travelers for centuries have been dreaming of.''A journey to the roof of the world is one of the most iconic journeys for a traveler to undertake. Here you will face the dangers of high altitude, confusing permits, and constant travel bans, but past all the bureaucracy is an ancient land of mystical deities, stark natural beauty and a culture that is so addictive and fascinating. All these reasons make it well worth the difficulties of getting to and traveling through Tibet.''Why You Should Travel Tibet''There are so many reasons why you should''travel Tibe''t, but first, let’s look at a reason I have heard why you shouldn’t travel Tibet. The first and most common I have heard is the fact Tibet has lost its independence to China. Because of China’s political indoctrination of Tibet, many believe that travel here is further encouraging this. This couldn’t be more wrong.''In fact, the Dalai Lama himself has encouraged travel to Tibet. Traveling through the''land of snow''you will show Tibetans that they have not been forgotten. By traveling here, you can talk with and share your ideas and beliefs with the people of Tibet. This is vital to ensure that Tibetans do not lose their precious culture and beliefs.''Tibetans love to see foreigners as well! Often you will be invited in for the ubiquitous Tibetan yak butter tea. The hospitality of Tibetans is quite possibly one of the greatest reasons to visit!''Tibetan culture and history are also very prevalent compared to what many will tell you. Its true that Chinese modernization is creeping further into Tibet, but the resilient Tibetans have maintained their culture amongst these tribulations.''Vast empty valleys, soaring glacier filled mountain peaks, ancient temples that have stood the test of time, Buddhist pilgrimages that even the most jaded hiker will find tough and Tibet’s stunning culture are all reasons that you should consider a trip here. Simply put, Tibet is incredible.''Yamdrok Lake, Tibet''Visa and Permit for Tibet''Tibet travel does require foreign nationals to acquire a''Tibet Tourism Bureau (TTB) Permit'', and countless other permits if you plan to travel outside Lhasa. Because of Tibet’s current situation, you are also required to take an organized tour here. This, however, works hand in hand as your tour company will do all the permit work for you. Simply send them your passport copy and they will contact the proper authorities for you.''The biggest downside to these permits is when you arrive in Tibet you cannot change your itinerary. Coming back from Mount Kailash we passed by an amazing temple sitting on a plateau in the mountains. Because we did not have a permit to see this specific temple, stopping was not an option. It was frustrating, to say the least.''How to Get to Tibet''Tibet is huge! Getting here can seem like a daunting experience, and unless you’re a Chinese National you only have two options, train or plane. This is because China has restricted all other forms of transport including the incredible overland bus routes through Yunnan and Sichuan provinces. The main port is Lhasa where all planes and trains end so that you can enter Tibet’s separate immigration from China.''Tibet Train''– In my opinion, the train is the best option to get to''Tibet from China''. The route starts in Beijing and works its way past the deserts of Inner Mongolia, the Lush forests of Sichuan, and then High into the mountains of Qinghai. You can board from the few stops it makes or you can start the journey from Chengdu rather than Beijing.''The scenery is well worth the 40-hour train journey. The journey by train crosses the world’s highest pass and they pump oxygen into your cabin to help any symptoms of Acute Altitude Sickness.''Train to Lhasa Tip''– Book early! This is possibly the hardest ticket to book as all the tickets will book up in seconds during high season. If you are lucky a company can get you a scalped ticket at a highly inflated price. I paid 170 USD for a cabin with four beds.''Potala Palace, Lhasa, Tibet''Flights To Tibet''– Landing in Tibet on a cloudless day might just be the world’s greatest descent. If the weather permits you can see Mount Everest looming in the distance as you drop into Lhasa’s epic mountain-fringed valley.\xa0 The upside with flying is there are now plenty of flights every day heading to Lhasa. If flights are booked up you can easily fly into Chengdu and then on to Lhasa either same day or next day.''The downside with flying to Tibet is it’s expensive! If you don’t book early enough, prices vary from 300 – 400 USD one way! Seat sales and booking early enough can get you a two-way ticket for 400 – 600 USD.''You also do not get any time to acclimatize to Lhasa’s 3,656 m altitude making the chance of getting altitude sickness symptoms much higher. If you fly in, make sure you have at least three days to acclimatize to the altitude before heading to higher places!''Yaks carrying gear on the Mount Kailash Kora''Costs to Traveling Tibet''There is no way around it, Tibet isn’t a cheap destination to travel. If you are looking for a private customized tour, prices will be extremely high, especially if you want to head to the remote western regions.''Prices for traveling Tibet are high because of the mandatory tour you must take. The average tour will cost upwards of 100 USD per day, plus extra for food and shopping. Joining larger tours will lower the prices, but on many of these tours, you will be crammed in a large bus, sometimes with a group of Chinese tourists.''Namtso Lake, Tibet''With''Tibet Tours'', you really do get what you pay for. I went with Tibetan Highland Tours. They are a budget Tibet Travel Company that is Tibetan owned and run. I did a few customized private tours with them as well and they were very affordable.''Not all tours include food and drinks and the more remote you get in Tibet, the more ridiculously priced the food gets. Keep this in mind for places like Mount Kailash. Shopping is also quite pricey, especially in Lhasa. If you are heading to smaller towns try to pick up souvenirs there as not only are they cheaper, but you’re more likely supporting a Tibetan than a massive Chinese company.''Gyantse Kumbum and Monastery, Tibet''My Favourite Places in Tibet''Jokhang Temple in Lhasa Tibet''– Tibet’s oldest and arguably most special Temple situated in Lhasa is oozing with atmosphere. Pilgrims adorning colorful Tibetan outfits make the pilgrimage from every corner of Tibet to come here. Entering the main hall with the pilgrims you will walk by chanting monks and bright gold wrathful deity statues. The air is thick with Juniper and Butter lamps adding to this incredible place.''Jokhang Temple, Lhasa, Tibet''Mount Kailash''– The holiest mountain in the world is said to hold a secret energy that you can tap into by hiking the 50km circuit around this gorgeous mountain. Kailash is tucked away in the far western corner of Tibet and requires quite the journey to get to. Apart from''giving yourself a boost of karma''on the''Mount Kailash circuit'', you will also join countless pilgrims on a trek that has been happening for centuries!''Mount Kailash at Sunrise''Namtso Lake''– One of the world’s highest altitude lakes, Namtso also takes top for one of the most beautiful lakes in Tibet. The frigid emerald blue waters are surrounded by soaring clouded Himalayan peaks, and fields of colorfully dressed white yaks. The lake is also considered to be very sacred, coming here you will see many pilgrims, and Brokpa Nomads from the northern plains of Tibet.''Holy yak, Namtso Lake, Tibet''Yarlung Valley''– Tibet’s oldest valley, and the cultural hub of the nation. Yarlung is home to Stunning temples, caves that require nerves of steel to crawl into, and fortresses that have guarded the entrance to Tibet against invading forces. The natural beauty of Yarlung is also something to be witnessed. The stark rocky mountains give way to cultivated and green farming valleys making Yarlung easily one of the most spectacular places I saw in Tibet.''Yungbulakang Palace, Yarlung, Tibet''Best Things To Do in Tibet''Discovering Tibetan Buddhism''– Take part in a Tibetan Buddhist Pilgrimage hike. Simply just meander through the halls of one of Tibet’s many Temples. Whichever way you choose to do it, discovering the history of this place and how Buddhism shaped Tibetan culture is an incredible experience. The Tibetan way of life is deeply rooted in a spiritual connection to Buddhism.''Sera Monastery, Lhasa Tibet''Hiking the Tibetan Plateau''– Tibet has so many hiking opportunities it’s hard to choose! From multi-day pilgrimages around Kailash, remote Himalayan valleys home to Nomads or traversing the shores of sacred lakes.''Hiking in Tibet''is one of the few places on earth where you are guaranteed to be above 4000 m almost the entire duration of the hike, making this some of the most challenging, but rewarding hiking opportunities out there!''Ganden to Samye Hike, Tibet''Sipping Yak Butter Tea''– After a long high altitude hike through the plateau, there is nothing better than entering a warm Tibetan tea house and having Tibetan tea. It comes salty or sweet but is always guaranteed to be hot and buttery. These tea houses can be found everywhere in Tibet, and your guide will most likely expect to stop every couple hours for a top up of butter tea. Its also the meeting point for Tibetans to socialize and discuss, making for quite an authentic experience.''Tibetan Yak Butter Tea''Hanging Prayer Flags on Mountain Passes''– “Ahhh Sa Sa Saaa!” our driver yells as we cross yet another 5000 m pass. Mountain passes are not just the place to stop for an amazing photo but are considered sacred places where the colorful prayer flags are hung to gain karma and bless your journey. The harder the journey is the more Karma you attain, meaning save those prayer flags for the hardest pass you tackle! I hung my flags at the Drolma La Pass (5630m) on the north end of''Mount Kailash''.''Putting Prayer Flags on Dolma Pass 5636 m''Staying Healthy in Tibet''Tibet is a safe place to travel, the main issue travelers face here is''Acute Mountain Sickness''or AMS. Pretty much all travelers will experience some form of AMS symptoms on their journey through Tibet. Symptoms Include:''Nausea''Fatigue''Headache''Swelling of Hands''Dizziness''Loss of Breath''Severe symptoms lead to pulmonary edema (fluid in the lungs) and cerebral edema (swelling of the brain). Both can lead to death and must be taken VERY seriously.''The best way to prevent AMS is to acclimatize. Starting at a lower altitude, spend a few days doing mild walks and activities, do not drink alcohol or smoke. Be sure to drink plenty of water at all times. After a few days, you can begin to do higher altitude hikes, but it’s better to return to lower altitudes to sleep for the first while.''Drokpa Merchant, Namtso Lake, Tibet''If at any time your symptoms begin to become sever you must go to a lower altitude, take administered oxygen and consider taking medications like Diamox which can help relieve severe symptoms.''Sand Dunes, Yarlung Valley, Tibet''Tibetan Highland Tours''When I traveled to Tibet I went with Tibetan Highland Tours. I chose this company first because of the price and secondly because it is Tibetan owned and operated. All my Tibetan guides were incredibly knowledgeable, and Tibetan Highland Tours knew about every corner of the country. Check them out''HERE''to see what their next upcoming tours are.''Drokpa Nomad, Ganden to Samye Hike, Tibet''asia''Tibet''Top Travel Destinations 2018''Adventure travel couldn’t be more exciting this year! Plenty of off the beaten track destinations are becoming more accessible for the would-be traveler. If your looking for adventure, then look no further. This kind of travel is not for everyone, but if you enjoy traveling where locals outnumber tourists, and culture is abundant then take a trip to the parts unknown. Uncharted Backpackers top 12 Obscure destinations is your guide to the unusual, but completely enthralling destinations this year. Forget travel trends, and join me on my adventure away from the tourist trail.''Oman''Making the top of my list is the''Sultanate of Oman''. This traditional Arabian land is tucked away near to Iran and Saudi Arabia. As instability surrounds Oman its hard to believe that such a tranquil paradise in the Middle East exists. Here instead of building massive feats of engineering like UAE, Oman focuses its oil wealth on maintaining the culture of its people. This is demonstrated in all walks of life, buildings must be constructed in Omani fashion, and locals tend to wear the traditional Dish Dash and Abiyah instead of western clothing.''Oman’s stunning nature is also not to be missed. Gorgeous dramatic mountains with canyons reminisce of the Grand Canyon in the USA, hidden oasis’s that can be found through epic hikes, and shimmering sand dunes in one of the world largest sand seas! Oman is an adventure waiting to happen.''Nizwa Fort, Oman''Papua New Guinea''When it comes to rough and tough places I have traveled,''Papua New Guinea''takes gold. Tourism has not quite made it to PNG making it one of the least visited countries on earth! When it comes to adventure travel I can honestly tell you Papua New Guinea is incredible!''Think remote uncharted jungles, lost tribes who still live the way they have for centuries and some of the best tribal festivals on the planet. Papua New Guinea rewards those travelers brave enough to venture to this far flung island nation with true authentic traveling experiences.''Papua New Guinea can be visited on a low budget as well. I spent over a month in the island of Papua and I can tell you that there are many ways to keep your costs low and experiences high.\xa0 With a few guest houses opening up, and many churches opening their doors to tourists, budget travel is actually quite simple. Unfortunately, excursions and flights are still pricey, but that just means you will have to endure overland travel!''Huli Wigmen at the Mount Hagen Festival, PNG''Indonesia''Sure''Indonesia''has ultra touristy spots like Bali, and Java, but there is so much more to see! With over seventeen thousand islands its easy to find yourself lost and far from any tourist’s radar. Each inhabited island has its own language, culture and customs making travel through Indonesia feel like multiple smaller countries.''My personal favourite island is''Borneo''. Borneo technically is divided into three smaller countries, with Indonesia taking up the largest chunk called Kalimantan. Here dense jungles are inhabited by shy orangutans and tribal head-hunters known as Dayaks.''I also love traveling to the bizarre funeral processions in Sulawesi, and the culturally rich Irian Jaya for hiking and tribal strays.''Gunung Bromo, Java, Indonesia''Ethiopia''This far eastern region of Africa is home to some of the worlds most fascinating tribes, epic landscapes and ancient sights. Whatever direction you turn Ethiopia provides you with a complexly different experience.''In Northern''Ethiopia''you will find the rock hewn church’s of''Lalibela'', said to have been built by angels. Further up field you will also find the remnants of ancient Axum an empire that once rivalled Egypt.''Head to southern Ethiopia and you will be shocked by the nomadic tribes of the''Lower Omo Valley''. Here, tribes adorn themselves with lip discs, scarification, and preform ceremonies where young ones are required to leap along the backs of angry bulls.''The Eastern Muslim regions of Ethiopia are another complete contrasts. Here fortified towns welcome Hyenas from the desert and befriend them in the city of Harar. You will also find some of the most inhospitable, but geologically amazing deserts here featuring active volcanoes and bubbling sulphur lakes.''Cathedral of Saint George, Lalibela, Ethiopia''Mongolia''The great Steppe, home of Genghis Khan and countless nomadic minorities. Mongolia’s landscape is barren, but the eerie openness makes it decisively beautiful. Life on the Mongol Steppe is hard, with such harsh weather and bleak resources Mongolia’s people have found ways to prosper.''Here you can visit Nomadic tribes that still hunt with eagles, ride reindeer, and make homes in some very remote places.''Travel in Mongolia''is reserved for those travelers who like the rougher side of travel. On the Steppe there’s no sign of western comforts, but those who brave it here will tell you they love it!''Mongolia also has great opportunities for the outdoorsmen. Here you can fish in the pristine lakes, hike with Kazaks in the western mountains, ride horses in the footsteps of Genghis Khan on the Steppe, and off road through the Gobi Desert. Mongolia is for the outdoorsy traveler!''The Great Steppe, Mongolia''Tibet''Tibet, known as the roof of the world. Tibet occupies the highest regions of the Himalaya in China, and features the majority of the world’s highest and most spiritual mountains. Tibet is also famed for its ancient Buddhist and Bon traditions, which can be found in every aspect of Tibetan culture.''Tibet''has an amazing array of rich cultural sights and outlandish outdoor opportunities. Tibet has many fortified cities that will make you feel as if you have stepped back into medieval times. Walk these cobble stone streets to see monks murmuring Buddhist chants, wafting juniper incense filling the air, and trumpets blasting from the nearby temples. Enter the monasteries and see pilgrims from all regions of Tibet coming together and lighting butter lamps, it’s a deeply spiritual experience!''Outside the cities looming in the distance are deserts, emerald blue lakes, ancient forests, and the world’s highest altitude peaks. Head into the wilderness on a traditional Tibetan journey to superfy your Karma, and find inner peace, Tibet really has it all!''See''Tibetan Highlands Tours''for real Tibetan run trips!''Mount Everest Basecamp, Tibet''Uzbekistan''Mention you just came back from Uzbekistan to your friends and you’ll be sure to get looks of confusion. This however should not be the case.''Uzbekistan''is full of incredible cultures, gorgeous scenery, and a rich Silk Road culture teeming with some of the fanciest mosques I have ever seen.''Uzbekistan before was know for its difficulties obtaining the visa, now its becoming easier and easier. The ATM’s now accept foreign credit cards in the ATM’s meaning you do not have to bring in USD or Euros to exchange (you still should bring some!).''The best thing about Uzbekistan is tourism has not quite flourished here yet. The majority of the amazing sights I had all to myself. The Uzbek people are also known for their hospitality. Often you will be invited in for tea or given a free tour!''The Registan in Samarkand, Uzbekistan''Pakistan''Pakistan is now seeing tourists trickle in to its northern areas. With high altitude Himalayan hikes that rival Nepal, and deep rooted tribal cultures hidden in the remote Hindu Kush valleys, Pakistan should be set on your traveler radar.''Most travelers to''Pakistan''focus their journey on the Karakoram Highway. This highway starts from the Northern border with China and cuts through the Himalayas all the way to the capital Islamabad. This highway is popular for its death defying roads, incredible valleys of Passu and Hunza, and Himalayan scenery that is so jagged and beautiful it will keep you coming back.''My visit to Pakistan I followed Karakoram highway and turned off to Chitral. Chitral is for the adventurous. Here tribes of Greek decent occupy the valleys claiming Ancestry to Alexander the Great.''As I travelled through Chitral I ventured into the buzzing bazaar city of Peshawar, the tribal regions of the Khyber, the ancient Buddhist kingdom of Swat, and the Punjab capital of Lahore. Pakistan is one of my favourites.''Hunza Valley, Pakistan''Cuba''Beautiful white sand beaches, colourful colonial Spanish cities, and a cool revolutionary history. The''Caribbean nation of Cuba''makes it on the list for obvious reason. Now with tensions between Cuba and the new president of the USA things are getting more interesting.''Cuba is now restricted for American citizens, but Cuba itself is not implementing any restrictions so travel is not impossible. For everyone else Cuba’s doors are wide open. The country is also a dream to backpack. For such a touristy and resort filled country, Cuba actually doesn’t see much for independent travel. Many places you will find all to yourself.''With Cuba’s government allowing its people to open independent business the nation is going through a culinary and guest house boom. This makes for great home stays, and what used to be known as a country with bland food now has a complete culinary makeover.''Riding scooter is now becoming available in the majority if Cuba’s hot spots. Having your own wheels lets you explore the unknown areas of Cuba, and trust me there is plenty of Uncharted territory here! Get to Cuba before the crowds do!''Tobacco Farmer, Vinales, Cuba''Iran''Iran''has been seeing travelers for a few years now, but with embargo’s making travel bans for American, Canadian and British nationals, Iran has seen a plunge in tourism. Luckily late last year much of these embargos have been lifted as has the ban on tourism, accept Americans, you still need a tour.''Getting a visa is not as complicated as you think. Just go through an online agency or go directly to your nearest embassy. Try''Iranvisa'', I used it to get my visa in Istanbul.''Iran makes the list for its ancient Persian ruins, great outdoors opportunities, and its rich culture tracing roots to its ancient origins. Much of Iran that was closed off to foreigners is now completely open up! Including those erm propaganda based sights.''Yazd City, Iran''North Korea''The''hermit nation of North Korea''is believed to be an impossible destination to travel, this is entirely untrue. Yes, you must go on a government run tour, but these tours are pushing the boundaries more than ever before! No longer do you have to stick to the tourist trail, more and more interesting new places and experiences are becoming readily available making it easier to peer into this closed society.''My latest trip to North Korea I bounced from one beach to another up North Koreas remote Northern coast learning and teaching North Koreans how to surf. We ventured deep into the remote mountains of the Northern regions, stopping in small villages and fabled rivers of stone.''Many opt out of traveling to North Korea due to the ongoing political strife, but don’t let this stop you. The chance to see such a closed nation is not only an amazing opportunity for you, it also breaks the barriers between North Koreans and the outside world.''Check out some of''Uri Tours Trips to North Korea''!''Mansu Hill, Pyongyang, North Korea''Bhutan''The''Himalayan Kingdom of Bhutan''is tucked neatly in between India, Nepal and Tibet. Only opening its doors a few decades ago to outsiders, this kingdom has kept more traditional than almost anywhere else on earth. This is because of the king’s strict rules to outside businesses, and keeping things Bhutanese.''Bhutan has also kept its tourist impact low. This makes things expensive, but great for those who decide to venture here. Bhutan is also the first carbon neutral country on earth, making it one of the cleanest and freshest destinations I have ever been to.''With such a rich and vibrant culture, clean nature and non touristy sights, Bhutan is one of the best destinations for travelers at anytime of the year!''Check out some''off the beaten track tours with Druk Asia'', the company I went to Bhutan with!''Taktsang Gompa (Tigers Nest), Paro, Bhutan''Obscure''Top Travel''Papua New Guinea Budget Travel''Papua New Guinea is the kind of destination travelers dream of, but for many, it seems like a difficult and expensive destination to travel to. If you do not do your research this can definitely be true. With almost non-existent tourism and a major lack of infrastructure, traveling Papua New Guinea can be a very expensive ordeal. Luckily, the island nation is opening up to more budget travelers who brave to come here. Those who do venture here can expect to be met with exotic tribes, lush rainforests, empty beaches, and incredibly hospitable people. After traveling Papua New Guinea for over a month I’ve created this budget guide to traveling Papua New Guinea. Get here before the crowds do, because Papua is a traveler’s paradise!''Cheap Flights in Papua New Guinea''Flight prices vary considerably in''Papua New Guinea''. The first rule of thumb is always put your web browser into the incognito mode when you begin to search for flights. If you want to take this a step further, I’ll give you a bonus tip which you may have never heard before. If you use a VPN service to change your virtual location you can get very cheap deals that are exclusive to certain locations around the world. This is because companies can, and often will, price discriminate based on your location (I’ve heard that Argentina works as a cheap location to book flights from). VPN’s can be purchased online on a monthly basis and can also be used when booking things such as hotels, rental cars, etc. to ensure that you get the best price possible. If you are interested I recommend checking out something like''NordVPN''as they are reviewed quite favorably and have great prices.''Secondly, if you book far in advance with Papua New Guineas two national airlines, Air Niugini and PNG Air you can get seat deals. Last minute tickets in PNG can also be heavily discounted, but you run the risk of not getting a flight.''PNG Air''tends to give better discounts than''Air Niugin''i.''Flights are epic here, Volcano’s, Jungles and stunning islands''International flights into Papua New Guinea are always very expensive. You can follow my''Uncharted Backpacker Guide to Cheap Flights'', but most likely you will pay a lot, and have to get a second flight as the only international airport is in Port Moresby which has no roads to anywhere else in the nation.''Crossing from Indonesia to Papua New Guinea''My biggest tip to get to Papua New Guinea on the Cheap is to fly to Jayapura in''Indonesia’s Irian Jaya''. This is the western side of the Papua Island, from here you can easily''cross into Vanimo''and then take a cheap flight or boat onward into''Papua New Guinea''. It’s a rougher route, but hey that’s why we travel to Papua New Guinea isn’t it?''Villages near the Border of PNG and West Papua''Doing this will save you majorly on the international flight and the flight from Port Moresby. The crossing is also a synch. If you do not have a visa already just come to the embassy in Jayapura with two passport photographs and to be safe a 100 USD. The process takes about three days in which you can explore Jayapura’s beautiful coastline.''Taking Public Transport in Papua New Guinea''Other than flying, there is very little information on public transport in Papua New Guinea. This is because PNG has no government-run buses or transport companies. Instead, you have make-shift bus stations in every town where, if you own any form of transport, you can become the public transit. From the larger centers, there are scheduled buses for example from''Goroka''to Lae. There are never really any scheduled times, but show up in the morning and you will most likely get on something.''Wait times can be very frustrating, and prices are not listed so make sure you shop around. The quality of the transport also varies, and this comes with how long the journey will be. Some buses are barely roadworthy, for your safety you should defiantly check them out beforehand.''Anything can be “Public Transport” in PNG''PMV Travel in Papua New Guinea''PMV or Personal Motor Vehicle is the main form of transport in Papua. They range from a beat-up old bus to a newish 4×4. The better quality the vehicle, the higher the price. Locals tend to cram as many people possible into the old ramshackle buses that blast black smoke from the back. If possible avoid these buses, mainly for your sanity.''Many journeys on PMV can be very delightful in Papua New Guinea. You will meet plenty of locals this way, many of whom will offer you accommodation at their house for a very cheap price, sometimes even free!''To find the PMV ask anyone in town. Towns in PNG are not big so the location can change. Once you know where just show up early in the morning and get on the best valued PMV you can find!''Six hours piled in the back of a truck through jungle and rivers!''Boat Travel in Papua''When it comes to boat travel in PNG they tend to be slower than the PMV, but in many regions like''the Sepik''for example, boat travel is the only form of transportation. Another example is getting from Vanimo the Indonesian Border to Wewak requires a mix of PMV and Boat.''Boats can be hazardous so its best to check them out before accepting any journey. The smaller banana boats are crammed pack full of people and supplies and go very slow. If you get lucky some of the fishermen will be offering transport, their prices are much higher, but they go very fast and are much more skilled drivers.''Travelling the Sepik you have to take boat''Hitchhiking in PNG''This option I would not recommend as Papua New Guinea does have some security issues. It’s not uncommon here for banditry, but travel in Papua New Guinea is unique and you are not always left with many options.''If you do have to hitchhike don’t expect the ride to be free. Many locals hitch, but always pay, and as a foreigner, you will most definitely be asked for money. Agree to a price beforehand, and if it seems sketchy, back out of it!''Renting a vehicle''This was an exhilarating experience for me. For about 50 USD per day, I rented a truck and explored the entire''Upper Sepik region''around Maprik. The roads were quite rough, however, and if you break down there is no help for miles.''Ask at the guest houses and hotels about renting a vehicle as there isn’t much for companies outside Port Moresby that rent cars.''My Papua truck that I rented in Wewak''Finding Cheap Accommodation in Papua New Guinea''This can be the biggest drawback to the budget travel in PNG. Papua New Guinea does have hotels, but they are VERY expensive. Most starting at 150 USD per night for a single. Luckily there are more and more options popping up all the time. Many locals have taken advantage of this new wave of budget travelers as well by opening up their homes to guests.''Sleeping in a Village Home''For the most part, homestays are not listed anywhere. If you are lucky the owners will meet you at the bus stop, but most likely you will have to ask around. Like most small communities, in Papua New Guinea, everyone knows everyone, so this is not as hard as you think.''When staying with locals keep in mind that the quality of accommodation is not always great. Sometimes you will just get a blanket on the floor. Be sure to bring small gifts as well, the kids love them!''Village homes are the best way to meet locals''Church Guest Houses in PNG''This is where I stayed most of my trip while\xa0in Papua New Guinea. From Madang to Vanimo and the highlands, every community has a church, and more than often a church guesthouse. Unfortunately, they are not the cheapest. They range from 25 – 50 USD per night. Vanimo was the most expensive, but they often fed me at night.''Most of the church guest houses gave me a shared twin room. There was never anyone else in the room, however. A few times the church guest house was simply just a hardwood floor… not comfy, but it was the cheaper option.''Eating Cheap in Papua New Guinea''Ok, I am a very optimistic person, but when it comes to food in Papua New Guinea get ready for a culinary disaster. Any decent food here is not cheap. So prepare yourself mentally before you get here, if you are on a budget you will be eating a lot of Maggi Noodles, and canned Tuna. Restaurants are left off the list as I didn’t find a single restaurant to be cheap. Most restaurants you will spend an easy 10 USD for a small meal.''Supermarkets in PNG''Ah yes, the Super Markets in Papua New Guinea. These cram packed facilities have plenty of mismatched overpriced food articles (often outdated) but are cheaper than restaurants in PNG. Cans of Tuna, fake brand Oreo Cookies and Maggi Noodles are affordable and stop starvation, as for nutrition, head to the Public Markets.''Public Markets''Public Markets are your best bet for cheap food. Many of the guest houses and church guest houses provide cooking gear so picking up vegetables and meat at the Public Markets like the locals do is not only cheap but fun! Be sure to bargain hard as when the Papuans see a foreigner they tend to raise the prices.''The biggest problem with public markets is they either don’t run every day, or they only run at certain times of the day. So be sure to ask around when the best stuff is at the market.''Street Food in Papua New Guinea''I warned you in the previous section that food in Papua New Guinea is not great. The street food is also categorized as “not great”. Majority of the hole in the wall vendors, and food shacks serve fried chicken, fried fish, and if your lucky French fries.''The street vendors do serve a Papuan specialty that will most likely become your friend. This is the fluorescent red fried street sausage. I do not know whether it was me getting used to the flavors of Papua, but this little greasy sausage kept me sane. One sausage was 1 USD and kept me happy through the roughest of times. The number one PNG food tip is, eat the red street sausage!''Getting Cheap Beer in Papua New Guinea''What pairs best with a strange fried red tube of meat, Papua’s ubiquitous SP beer. SP beer can be found everywhere! And I mean everywhere, even the smallest of towns usually have an SP dispensary.''Locals pay about 2 USD per SP beer, this price is hard to come by as a foreigner. In restaurants, they can be up to 8 USD per SP. The best place to get SP beer is either from the sketchy alcohol dispensaries in the center of town or the random houses that sell it.\xa0 For the alcohol dispensaries just approach the window during the day (not at night, for your safety), and expect to pay 2-5 USD per SP.''On the hunt for SP Beer''Visiting Tribes in Papua New Guinea on the Cheap''If you want the cheapest you must ask around town. Many locals sell SP beer from their houses at rock bottom prices. You can spot these places by the heaps of SP beer bottles piled beside the house. Otherwise just ask around town.''This is definitely the highlight of anyone’s trip coming to''Papua New Guinea''. Tribes, however, are very remote, and not the most welcoming at times. Often to visit you must first negotiate how much you will pay with the village tribe chief. Bargain hard as they start VERY high!''Sepik Tribesmen in a spirit house''The best ways to visit a tribe on the cheap is to go with a local guide or an organized tour. Many guides will approach you in town and will offer their services. It’s best to go have an SP with them before you agree to anything. More than often they are from the specific tribe you want to visit and know all about budget travelers.''Asaro Mudmen near Goroka''Dropping by a tour company you can often join another group which is going to cut costs or negotiate something else. Tour companies are not used to foreigners showing up and rather the norm is online booking so this gives you an advantage.''Huli Wigmen at the Mount Hagen Show''Budget Travel''Oceania''Papua New Guinea''PNG''Adventure Travel Photography Tips''Alas! The days are gone where only the most skilled photographer would be sent on long drawn out photography missions around the globe. Nowadays, all ambitious travelers can stake their claim in the travel photography world. However, with mass photo sharing applications like Instagram and Facebook, it can seem a bit daunting for the aspiring travel photographer. Uncharted Backpackers Guide to Adventure Travel Photography will help sort out basic questions like how to get your photos noticed, choosing the right travel camera, and how to make use of all those confusing buttons! It’s time to become the travel photographer you always wanted to!''Beginner Travel Photography Tips''Be Unique, and Don’t Get Discouraged''Diving headfirst into the travel photography world is not an easy experience. With so many self-proclaimed travel adventurer/explorer/extreme/whatever, it can seem like an impossible task to get your photos noticed. This is the WORST way to possibly think. It should also be noted that just because you don’t own an expensive camera it doesn’t mean that you can’t take great pictures. Camera technology has gotten so good over the past few years that whatever you own should be capable of some incredible photos.''Your photography speaks for you! Be different, but most of all, be you! There is no exact science to do travel photography, but one thing is for sure. The travel photographers who get noticed, are the ones who shoot for something unique!''Be creative and have fun! Being creative let me take this of the Asaro Mudmen, Papua New Guinea''Never Forget Your Camera''I cannot stress how important this is. Whether I was being lazy, or I felt there wouldn’t be anything exciting that day, the times I left my camera behind at the hotel were the times I missed some of the best potentially amazing travel photography shots.''Leaving your camera behind, you might miss that one of a kind portrait, or an insane sunset. Travel photography is always sporadic, my best shots are usually unplanned, and come out of\xa0nowhere. It’s all about always being prepared, and having your gear with you.''Practice your Travel Photography''As the saying goes, practice makes perfect. Like anything else, this is true with travel photography. Practice helps you create your own style of travel photography just like with any hobby or skill. It develops your techniques and artistic eye.''When you know the ins and outs of travel photography from practice you also begin to enjoy taking photos a lot more. So check out YouTube tutorials, browse Instagram, and read a travel photography book, get inspired and just practice.''Traveling you get plenty of opportunities to practice Like this shot I took in Mazar E-Sharif Afghanistan''Talking with People''I’m sure we can all agree that some of the best travel photography shots are of people least expecting the looming hidden photographer. However, not asking permission of your portrait prospect can result in you being yelled at, having items thrown at you, being arrested, or some other unwanted things.''Best practice is to be respectful, ask permission, and take a chance that your subject will strike that NatGeo-worthy pose!''Usually, the Brokpa in Tibet are very shy. Talking with this Brokpa tribesmen allowed me to take a portrait of him!''Choosing the Right Travel Camera''This topic obviously deserves its own post entirely. Which I will be doing shortly, but for now you will have to deal with this short blurb on choosing the right travel camera.''Most photo snobs will tell you it’s all about Canon or Nikon. They may even tell you it’s about pixels and sensors. APC, Full Frame, doesn’t matter. You need the camera that is best suited for you.''For me, I wanted super high-quality images for my landscapes and portraits. I wanted a full frame to achieve the best quality, and something fast so I can catch the unexpected portrait, but most of all an all-around decent camera. This is why I chose the Sony A7Rii. I know what your thinking… yes its very expensive! Do not fret, I am not recommending it (unless you have the money), I’m just saying it works for what I want.''My best advice is to go into a camera store, not an electronic store that sells tv’s, a store that sells cameras and only cameras. Here you will find people who are passionate about photography and who can help you find the camera that best suits what you are looking for.''Make sure you try out a few before you buy it as well, this is important because you may not necessarily like certain features or brands.''The Ways of the Camera''Like a Jedi Master, your camera is an extension of your arm, your photos are your soul and your techniques are your craft. This all sounds good, right? Well, you still need to know the basic functions of how cameras work before you can really jump into the world of travel photography.''Aperture''Aperture controls how much light will be allowed into your camera and onto the sensor to create your image. It also affects the depth of field that will be in your image or the range of what will be in sharp focus. For all those who don’t know what I am saying, aperture\xa0settings can make those photos where close up images are clear and the background is blurry or vice versa.''Aperture is measured in F-Stops\xa0and displayed as numbers like f5.6, f8, f11, f16, etc. Simply put, the lower the F-Stop number the shallower the depth of field or the smaller the area of the image in focus. Larger F-stop numbers will give you a wider depth of field and allow much more of the image to be in sharp focus.''For beginners, I would stick to f11 for landscape, and f4 – f5.8 for portraits.''Aperture in this shot let me make the main focus the tribesmen in this shot at the Mount Hagen Festival, Papua New Guinea''ISO''Ah yes the confusing world of ISO. For most setting your ISO to auto will suffice. For those who would like to delve deeper into the art of ISO I would recommend checking out some youtube videos on it.''I find the videos by Mike Browne to be quite informative''.''ISO is the sensor in your camera’s sensitivity to light. The lower ISO number the less noise there will be in a picture and the higher the numbers produce more noise. You will want your ISO to be as low a number as possible to get the best quality photos.''When I shoot, I usually set my ISO to AUTO. This changes however if I am doing night sky, and fast moving objects, but for the most part, AUTO is good enough for me.''Shutter''Do you ever see those awesome photos of someone standing in a busy subway station where only they are in focus and everyone moving around them is blurred? This is a product of the shutter.''The shutter speed means how long your camera’s shutter remains open to capture the image. This feature is great for creating a motion blur where portions of the image have movement. A super-fast shutter speed is also great for freezing a scene if you’re shooting out from on a bus or train and want to snap a clear image out the window.''Putting a slower Shutter on made this boat ride photo up the Skrang River in Borneo look fast!''When shooting with a slow shutter you must remember that your camera has to be still, so usually, a tripod is essential.''Using my shutter let me play with the early morning late in Bagan, Burma''Manual''This mode lets you take full control of your camera, and your artistic skills. In manual, you set both your''shutter''and''aperture''separately. You also can adjust your ISO, but like I said previously that I usually let my cameras AUTO ISO help me out a lot.''It takes practice getting used to Manual, but it is definitely the best way to get used to your camera and learn the fundamentals of photography.''My Sony camera has the dials for Shutter and Aperture right beside the grip allowing you to adjust them while looking through the viewfinder. It is quite handy!''Using Manual gave me the exact angle I was going for in Pyongyang, North Korea''Pre-Trip Location and Scouting Resources''Before I head out on my next adventure I always research the potential for great photography in each location. There is a couple of ways that I go about doing this. The first thing I do is Google Image search the location. Searching keywords like''Yemen Travel Photography''will give you the best results. This not only helps me find out the angles I would like to get of specific sites but gives me an overview of what there is to see in the country as well. Of course, to get something that is unique you will have to dig through the most popular tourist locations. For example, if you search India, you will get the obvious shots of the Taj Mahal, but you need to look past those and find a unique perspective.''This is where Instagram becomes my next big inspiration resource. Instagram is a photo app where professionals and amateurs can have their go at photography. You get a good mix of styles. Looking up hashtags like #India will bring up a mix of photos that inspire all types of unique takes on the world.''The last way that I look into getting the shots I want is to buy guide books. I find Lonely Planet has some of the best photography out there, with very unique and gorgeous shots that are often sourced from amateurs. Guidebooks like Lonely Planet also give tips like when to go to certain places to beat the crowds or get the best lighting.''My tour to North Korea didn’t include a visit to the Mansu Hill Grand Monument in Pyongyang, North Korea. Because of my pre-trip research, I got the tour to take me here!''Shooting in the Morning and Late Afternoon''Ever wonder how those travel photos you see have the absolute perfect shades of yellow and blue. Where the buildings are in such high definition, that you can almost feel like you’re actually there! This all has to do with light.''Travel photography is almost always shot in natural light. Being able to harness this light and use it properly is what makes a professional travel photographer.''Depending on the sight or photo you are planning to capture you are going to have to start taking into consideration at what time you should photograph because of the light.''For me, I prefer photographing in the early morning. The air seems clearer, and the soft shades of yellow, blue and purple add so much contrast and definition to the photo. The morning also tends to be calmer giving me better chances of getting more dramatic photos.''Late afternoon gave beautiful colors in the Haraz Mountains of Yemen''The late afternoon is great as well. When the sun begins to drop you get many shades of yellow, orange and red. Usually, my high contrast photos get shot at this time. Sunsets also give you the opportunity to get shots that will obviously score you high on Instagram and Facebook.''Waking up at 4 am at Mount Everest Base camp, Tibet ensured me great lighting''Why is Composition So Important''This is something you will hear a lot about, but probably not take too much consideration into it when you’re a beginner. However, the composition is what truly sets you apart from the rookie travel photographers and makes you look like a professional travel photographer.''Following proper photography rules, you shouldn’t place the object of focus right dab in the middle of your photo. While rules of composition can be broken at times, you must master the rules before you know when it will make sense to break them. When lining you photo up correctly there is a simple method to help you understand how the photo should look.''Using the Rule of Thirds you can match a photo up perfectly!''This method is the rule of thirds. Now imagine your photo is broken into nine individual squares. Many cameras actually come with an option to display this grid over your display. Now basically, the subject or the important aspects of a photo should be placed along these lines.''Now, these are only guidelines developed to help you make a more attractive photo. Some of the most famous photographers do go outside these guidelines to get creative, but when you’re first starting out it’s good to follow these to learn how composition works.''As the street narrows in Herat Afghanistan, it draws your eyes deeper due to its placement''Travel Photography Timing and Patience''Timing is relevant depending on what you are photographing. This means you need to do research if you plan on photographing some places, why you ask? Simply put travel is very popular, and travel photography is just as popular! If you do not time your visits to certain sights you can get overrun by crowds ruining not just your shot, but your experience as well.''Some places you just won’t be able to beat the crowds, so you must make due. Plan your day so you can spend extra time at a sight. Don’t ask people to get out of your shots, they have the right to be there as well, instead politely wait for them to move. Besides, you paid all this money to get here, why not while your waiting for your shot take the time to just truly enjoy where you are!''Photo Editing – Lightroom and Photoshop''Your trip is finished and you arrive home with thousands of great shots! As you start to dig through them you compare them to others and realize, the photos look so dull in comparison. Well, this is when the editing begins.''As my opinion goes, editing is essential, but you should try to keep the photo as natural as possible. Some do like those hyper-vibrant over-saturated photos, but for me, I like natural, sharp and clear.''To get my photos looking professional I use Lightroom and Photoshop. These two programs do very different things, and for the most part, I only use Lightroom, but let’s look into what they do.''Lightroom''is, in my opinion, the best travel photo editing tool out there! It allows you to adjust – you guessed it – the light, but more importantly, you can work your colors, shadows, whites, highlights…. The list goes on. This software is not the best for manipulating the photo, but simply enhancing what is already there!''Photoshop''is what I use to clean up any mistakes in the photo. For example, I used a UV filter on my lens and snapped some amazing photos that left strange black spots on the photo. Photoshop can erase these out without actually ruining the photo. Photoshop has a bit more of a learning curve than Lightroom, but that’s where Youtube tutorials come in handy.''To Bring a Tripod Traveling or Not''This has been and always will be my biggest dilemma. My opinion is always changing. I have a very amazing tripod that I use in Canada, but because it’s heavy and bulky, I DO NOT bring it traveling! Yes, you heard correctly, the Uncharted Backpacker does not travel with a tripod often.''Many times when I wish I had one with me but didn’t, I simply would place my camera strategically\xa0on my side bag and macgyver a shot. This doesn’t mean I am telling you not to bring one. I would just rather save space in my bag for cool things that I buy while on the road.''If you can afford the extra weight and don’t mind, then yes bring one as they can help a lot.''Using a Human Tripod landed me this Shot at Gunung Bromo, Indonesia which was published in National Geographic!''RAW or JPEG''This is a touchy subject where travel photographers alike often get in arguments. Do you shoot in RAW or JPEG? Now, this is just my opinion, and if you are going to get all fussy and upset with what I am about to say then please go blog about it.''When I travel, I shoot almost all of my photos in JPEG, but lets first explore the difference.''RAW''is a setting that is best described as making photos into a dimensional cube. At first glance, these photos are gray and dull, but that is because they need to be edited to reveal the image’s true potential. There is no way getting around it, RAW is far superior to JPEG in terms of quality. Why do I choose not to shoot in RAW often? Because an image that is taking up 8 MB in your SD is now taking up 36 MB. RAW takes up so much room! Meaning you will either have to bring extra cards or shoot less.''JPEG''is what I usually shoot in. It’s a simpler more compressed version of a RAW image. Just because it’s a JPEG doesn’t mean you can’t get a quality shot. With JPEG you can afford to shoot more photos, and not worry about your SD filling up. When you shoot JPEG you also get a clear idea what your photo will look like right off the bat.''Getting Your Photography Out There!''Getting your travel photography noticed can be difficult. With countless travel bloggers and tourism on the rise, it’s an intimidating experience. With the right eye and attention to detail, it’s not impossible. Things like following travel trends, and how the pros edit their photos is key. Most of all, keep doing what you like to do! Here are a few platforms I enjoy sharing my travel photography.''Facebook –''The biggest of them all right now. Facebook gives you the opportunity to share your photos with your friends and family. Joining travel photography-related groups allows you to take those same photos and share them with people who have the same interests as you.''Instagram –''This app is great for photo sharing. It lets you share your photos to different pages using hashtags that are relevant to your photo. It’s also a great place to get inspiration from other photographers.''Nat Geo ‘Your Shot’ –''My personal favorite photo sharing platform is Nat Geo’s new ‘Your Shot’ website. This website lets you make a profile and share your best travel shots. They ask that you keep the photos as original as possible, and don’t use much for editing. You also get the chance to be published in National Geographic!''My Adventure Travel Photography''With over 11 years travel photography experience, I can tell you I have a slug of photos. I tend to only feature some of my favorites. My photography has been featured on some big-name companies like National Geographic, Lonely Planet, World Nomads and Business Insider. You can see some of my travel photography in the following links:''Uncharted Backpacker''National Geographic''Instagram''World Nomads''Get Lost On Purpose and Have Fun!''Taking great photos is not all about the destinations you go to. The old saying “it’s not the destination, but the journey”, pairs well with Adventure Travel Photography. Getting lost in it all is when I get some of my best shots! You never know who you will bump into, or what will happen when you least expect it. Choosing to go off the beaten track you can also discover hidden sights that are not in the guide books and really get a unique photo. These photos are not just some of my best shots, but my best memories as well! So get lost, and have fun doing it!''Backup Your Photos''If you are shooting photos professionally than it is essential that you back up your photos in multiple different ways. Losing important photos on a client could spell disaster for you. Even in travel photography, you still want to make sure that you don’t lose any photos as some shots can be once in a lifetime opportunities.''I recommend that you try to back up your photos every time you have access to a computer. There are plenty of different ways that you can go about doing this as well.''Cloud Storage''– There are plenty of options when it comes to uploading your images for online storage. Dropbox and Google Drive are two simple options that will give you a place to backup photos in the cloud in case you lose any of your storage devices.''Extra SD Cards''– Some of the high-end DSLR’s give you the ability to write your images to multiple storage cards at once allowing you to instantly have two copies of your precious photos. Even if you don’t have one of these high-end cameras I recommend that you still pick up some extra cards in case you happen to lose one. Also, be sure that you buy good quality SD cards. If you are not sure, read reviews online beforehand.''Hard Drives''– It is a good practice to make copies of your images on multiple storage devices in the case that one craps out which is more common a problem than one might think. You can pick up''external hard drives that are very cheap from places like Amazon''which connect to your computer via USB and which are also a more portable copy of your files.''Travel Photography Resources''The Best Travel Photography Cameras''On a budget:''Nikon D5500''Mid-range:''Canon 6D Mark II''High end:''Sony A7RII''or if you want even better, the newer''Sony A7rIII''(linked is the body only)''The Best Travel Drones''On a budget:''DJI Phantom 3''Mid-range and portable:''DJI Mavic Pro''High end:''DJI Phantom 4 Pro''photography''travel guides''travel photography''travel tips''Is Oman one of your bucket list travel destinations? Here are 10 reasons why I think it should be! And for those of you who haven’t ever considered it, here are a few things that I loved about it, and\xa0reasons why it should be an option for those looking for a unique travel experience.''10 Reasons Why You Should Travel Oman''1. Shopping in Arabian Souq’s''Muscat’s Mutrah Souq''Concealed within a maze of narrow streets you will find many treasures to bring home at the Omani Souq. The alleyways smell of oud and frankincense and the shops are packed full of colorful scarves, fragrant perfumes, handmade ceramics and so much more. The further you walk the more immersed you will become in this unique shopping experience.''My favorite place to shop was the Mutrah Souq in Muscat. This particular souq is located next to a beautiful cournish and several mosques which creates an ambiance unlike any other. We spent hours roaming the shops and chatting with the owners. It’s easy to spend the day here as the shop owners are very friendly and will offer you tea and treats on arrival.''2. Following the Frankincense Trail''Frankincense tree’s in Oman’s Dhofar Region''The Frankincense Trail located in Southern Dohfar is a Unesco World Heritage Site famous for its history as the most important commercial trading route in Southern Arabia.''As you enter the site you will find the Frankincense museum on your left and of course a forest of 5,000 Boswellia sacra trees on your right. These magical trees produce an aromatic sap that we in the West often refer to as frankincense. What most of us don’t know is this sap has been used for thousands of years for everything from incenses and perfumes to medicine.''3. Exploring Wonderful Wadi’s''Wadi Shab''After a short hike or boat ride, a sanctuary will appear surrounded by palm trees, rolling mountain views, and freshwater pools and that’s when you know you’ve made it to the Wadi.''Oman''is filled with these Oasis’s that have become very popular with tourists and locals alike. This goes to show that these natural beauties are well worth the visit. Always keep in mind to wear proper shoes and bring plenty of water as many wadi’s require a trek and do not have a canteen for last minute purchases.''My top pick is Wadi Shab, located in Sur. After a short, yet adventurous hike through beautiful mountain scenery we arrived at a stunning blue lagoon tucked between a deeply carved canyon. At the end of the wadi, there is a narrow opening in the rocks which, should you brave the swim, rewards you with a beautiful deep-water cave complete with a waterfall and rope to swing into the plunging depths below.''4. The Amazing Omani People''Omani Fisherman in Sur''Omani’s are humble people who take etiquette and courtesy very seriously. The combination of an ethnically diverse nation mixed in with strong family values and high education standards creates a unique group of people.''One aspect that is sure to stand out about Omani’s is their noteworthy fashion sense. The people have created a style that is somehow both progressive and traditional. Although the culture of Oman is conservative the people are not afraid to show their individuality and encourage tourists to do the same.''5. Haunted Arabian Forts and Castles''Nizwa Fort''There are well over 500 forts and castles in the Sultanate of Oman packed full of history. These architectural wonders can reach alarming heights and come with a unique design, including false doors, spooky haunted tales, secret entrances and traps to pour boiling date syrup on potential invaders.''The current ruler of Oman, his''Majesty Sultan Qaboos'', has worked hard to ensure these glorious structures are preserved and represented with historical accuracy. I encourage you to pick up a leaflet or google some information about each building you visit as the history is truly fascinating and will add a lot to your experience.''6. Discovering Islam''Sultan Qaboos Grand Mosque''Almost all Omanis follow Islam; more specifically Ibadism (Oman’s official state religion), a school of Islam said to be founded 20 years after the death of Prophet Mohammed. Shi’a and Sunni are also practiced in Oman on a smaller but still very relevant scale.''Omani people love to answer questions about their religion and encourage others to discover Islam as they journey through the middle east. Islam’s influence is woven into the fabric of Omani society from its architecture to its traditions and customs, quite simply it is everywhere.''7. Stunning Landscapes''Mughsail Beach in Dhofar''Whether you want to ride camels with the Bedouins across vast desert planes, relax on white sand beaches or hike through jaw-dropping mountains, Oman’s landscape will not disappoint.''Oman’s beaches came with the greatest surprise, they were empty. No tourists, and no locals, just you and the water. It felt as if we had found our own private slice of heaven, not to mention it was a great way to unwind before carrying on with our hectic travel schedule.''I highly recommend spending a day of desert fun with a local Bedouin family. The sand seems to swallow the big cities and leave behind the still, silent, and stunning beauty of the Arabian desert (plus a few camels of course).''8. Smoking Hookah with Locals''The hookah bars are a great way to witness the younger crowds in Oman and enjoy a different way of smoking tobacco (more commonly referred to as Shisha). Choose from an array of flavors such as rose, mint, lemon, or peach and a waiter will arrive back at your table with a large glass contraption topped with hot coals and long hoses to smoke from.''9. Oman’s Food and Drink''Omani mandi''With influences from northern''Africa'', Persia and the Mediterranean,''Oman''has a great selection of mouth-watering cuisines to choose from. I enjoyed Shuwa the most, a traditional meat dish that is coated in oil and spices, wrapped in palm leaves and cooked slowly on hot embers underground.''As for drinks Khawa and Karak are the most common. Khawa is Omani coffee served in a traditional coffee pot called an Ebrik. This coffee typically contains cardamom pods, which adds a unique flavor, that I have adopted into my coffees at home. Karak is Omani tea and is served several times throughout the day. You can find this tea anywhere in Oman, whether your shopping in the Souq or driving through the desert, someone will have it and given the opportunity I am almost positive they would love the opportunity to offer you a cup.''10. Arabia that is Clean and safe''Muscats Corniche''Oman is a wealthy country known for its well-kept streets, efficient police force and low crime rate. Tourists often camp in the desert and walk the streets late into the evenings without incident. The only safety risk I experienced while in Oman (which I take full responsibility for) was attempting to drive without a 4×4, I highly recommend spending the extra for this.''Chelsea Klapwyk – Assistant Writer editor & Photographer''Chelsea is an avid reader, writer, and fitness junky with a passion for travel.\xa0 Starting out as an editor she quickly became enthralled with photography and has recently jumped into the writing arena. Although she is self admittedly a clumsy novice, she is excited to share her stories of how she navigates her way through the difficulties all new backpackers face. Chelsea has worked closely with Uncharted Backpacker for the past year and has added a refreshing new dynamic to the team.''Gulf''Middle East''Oman''Oman, Middle East''Mention Oman and the mind of a traveler will conjure up images of Arabian Palaces, impenetrable forts, stunning mountains, lush oasis’ and hospitality that is deeply rooted in Omani culture. One thing that the average traveler won’t think of is cheap Oman travel. Alas, it is now possible! After spending three weeks in the country in search of cheap hotels, food, and sights I can tell you this. Oman is definitely possible to travel on a strict budget. However, it is a country that takes precise planning ahead to be able to do so. Follow this guide, as Arabia is waiting!''Oman Travel Advice and Daily Expenditures''For my adventure through Oman, I can break my daily travel spending into a few simple categories. Everyone’s Oman''travel budget''will vary, but these are the standard things you will pay for excluding extras. This is also based on driving about 100km per day, and seeing a few sights.''Hotel in Oman''– 50 – 60 USD per night''Camping or Couch Surfing''– Free''Rental Car''– 40 USD Saloon Car – 95 USD 4×4''Food''– 30 USD''Petrol''– 20 USD''Sights –''5 USD''Sultan Qaboos Grand Mosque''Omani Rial''It’s important to know your conversion of the Omani Rial when you pay for everything. This is because the Omani Rial far exceeds the US Dollar. It can be daunting when you go to pay for dinner and the bill only asks for 3 Omani Rial, but 3 Omani Rial is almost 8 USD! The current exchange rate for the Omani Rial is 1 OMR =2.6 USD. But it’s important that you get an up to date rate check using something like''XE Currency Converter''. They have a Mobile App as well.''The Wahiba Sands are where you can meet Bedouins''Getting a Cheap Flight to Oman''These days finding''cheap flights''to Oman is never too difficult. It’s always important to book ahead, and you can look to my guide ‘''How to Get a Cheap Flight Guide’''for additional help in that department. There are quite a few airlines that fly into Oman.''Oman Air''is one of the main carriers and you can visit their''website here''. This is quite a prestigious airline, but it’s also very affordable. The wonderful thing about Omani Airways is that there are no hidden fees.''Oman’s Road to the Sun''The next airline is''Emirates''. This is great if you are flying through Dubai or Abu Dhabi. Honestly, I have never had an issue with Emirates. In my opinion, Emirates is one of the best airlines in the world. The\xa0only problem is that they are not usually too cheap. If you book months in advance though you can land super cheap deals for Emirates.''Muscats Corniche''The third most popular airline is Fly Dubai. They often advertise too-good-to-be-true prices on flight\xa0search engines like kayak and Sky Scanner. Unfortunately, these prices really are “too good to be true”. Fly Dubai adds an extra charge for your baggage right at the end of the booking. Most cheap airlines do, but Fly Dubai tagged upwards of 100 USD on each flight (100 USD per connecting flight). Most of the Fly Dubai flights I looked at ended up being more expensive than Oman Air. Don’t scratch Fly Dubai off completely, just make sure you account for the baggage fees.''Couch Surfing in Oman''Oman is the first place I ever used''Couch Surfing''. I always thought the idea of showing up at some stranger’s house and expecting a free room would be awkward, and it would end up being an odd experience. Couch Surfing in Oman, however, was an absolute delight! I ended up staying at an Expats house in Muscat and a traditional Omani House in Nizwa and Sur. Not only was it a way to lower the cost of travel in Oman, it got me a very good in for seeing true Omani culture. Our Omani hosts also cooked us delicious Omani Cuisine, and when they were not working acted as a free guide for us!''If you’re interested in staying with the Omani’s and the Expat that I stayed with here are their details on couch surfing!''Hilde Aerts''Hilde Aerts is an Expat Living in Muscat''Al Yaqdhan Al Jadidi''Yaq is from Nizwa, he can really help you learn about Oman Islamic culture''Mubarak Mubarak''Mubarak is a Sur native, he’s a bit of a celebrity in Sur''Camping in Oman''One of the best parts of''Oman travel''is Oman’s rules on camping. As long as you don’t camp in the city/town limits, or right beside a Wadi, you are essentially allowed to “wild” camp wherever you want.''This means wherever your 4×4 can make it, you can camp! Make sure to bring your own tent and gear, as buying it in Oman can be very expensive, and quite frankly, decent gear is hard to come by.''Climbing the Wahiba Sands''Camping here is a great alternative to Couch Surfing and expensive hotels. The weather here is mainly sunny and dry. It’s very easy to spend two nights camping, then one night in either a hotel or Couch Surfer Host. This way you get a shower once and a while.''Camping in Jebel Shams''Oman Hotels and Where You Can Find Cheap Stays''Oman hotels''are not usually cheap, and to be honest, apart from the bigger centers you will not find many that fit the bill. I did, however, find a couple sweet deals while in Muscat and Salalah!''For both cities, I used Booking.com as Hostel Bookers doesn’t have a lot of options for Oman, but Booking does. In Muscat, I landed a hotel near Mutrah for 45 USD per night, and Salalah we got a two-bedroom apartment for 30 USD per night! Both of these accommodations were booked just a couple days before we arrived.''When we were in the smaller communities, for example, Nizwa, there was nothing for budget accommodation. The cheapest place we found had ‘budget’ in its name, but cost a minimum of 100 USD per night.''Exploring the Old Quarter of Nizwa''Nizwa Old Quarter''Costs of Food in Oman''This is one of the easiest ways to save money in Oman. There are a few rules to follow, but it’s very simple to cut costs on food here. First thing is to avoid eating in touristy areas like Mutrah. Here the prices are higher because they know that the majority of tourists in''Oman'', are not budget travelers.''Delicious Omani Mehndi''Another great tip is asking the locals. Not all Omani people are extremely wealthy, and plenty will steer you in the right direction. Usually, the restaurants owned by Bangladeshi or Indians tend to offer Shawarma and even sometimes Omani cuisine for rock bottom prices.''If you want traditional Omani food, there is not a lot of option for budget eateries. Muscat has the widest range of Omani Restaurants like''Ubhar''. These two happen to be a minimum of 20 USD per person, but you’re in Oman, and it is definitely worth trying.''For cheap eats, a Shawarma, or Lebanese salad will cost about 1-2 USD at the cheaper restaurants. I even had some delicious Indian curries and Biryani for less than 5 USD per plate.''Entrance Fee’s in Oman''Another remarkable thing about Oman is how cheap the sights are. With the average entrance fee to a fort or wadi ranging from 3-5 USD, you can take in multiple sights per day and not worry about breaking the budget.''The majority of the sights in Oman tend to be free as well! All mosques that I visited had no fee as did many of the Wadi’s.''Exploring the beautiful Wadi Shab''Car or 4×4 for Oman''This was my biggest dilemma while planning my trip to Oman. Every blog and travel website I read said that a 4×4 was a must, but I wasn’t being sponsored so I didn’t have the luxury of being able to have a 4×4 for the entire duration of my trip to Oman.''4×4’s in Oman are very expensive, they cost around 100 USD – 150 USD per day!\xa0 Some cars that I saw, however, were as low as 30 USD per day. Everywhere says you need a 4×4 because of the roads…. but I don’t agree.''Some roads in Oman you need a 4×4''Yes, many of the roads do require a 4×4, but the majority of Oman can be visited by car. The remote dusty roads that need a 4×4 can be rented just for the day. For example, I visited Nizwa and the surrounding area in my Saloon car. For one day I wanted to go up into the mountains to visit Jebel Shams and Bilad Sayt. For this, my Couch surfing host drove us in his 4×4, but I could also have just rented a 4×4 for the day!''My advice, if you’re on a budget go for the saloon car!''Rent a Car in Oman''Renting a car in Oman is a must. If you come to Oman with the idea of taking public transport, think again. Apart from the bigger cities like\xa0 Salalah and\xa0Muscat, Oman does not have a great bus connection.''If you choose not to rent a car you will be left to take a lot of taxi’s, and they are not cheap. A ten-minute taxi ride in Muscat cost me almost 25 USD! Renting a car is easy and driving in Oman is also not difficult.''The next best thing is petrol in Oman is cheap. Filling my car up cost me about 25 USD, the same price as a ten-minute taxi ride.''Renting a car also gives you the freedom to go where you want, when you want. This is important in Oman since everything is very spread out.''Driving Wahiba to find Bedouins''Shopping in Oman''I have read a few Oman Budget posts, but one thing they all leave out is shopping. Now, we are not all shoppers when we travel, but Oman is a bit of a shopper’s paradise. You’ll come across embroidered Kashmiri scarfs, heavenly scented frankincense, and Islamic art well worthy of that empty spot on your wall! Again like other things in Oman, shopping is not cheap.''The coolest shop in Muscat Souq''Mutrah Souq''The best way to save money on buying goods here is to haggle and bring a local with you. You might think that you got a good deal haggling in the Souq, but if an Omani is with you, he will tell you otherwise. When I went shopping with my Omani friend, he would also take me to places he trusts. Usually, I did not even have to bargain at this point.''Omani Dhow in Sur''Visa for Oman''So with most countries, the situation for visa’s does change often. For the majority of nationals now, when you arrive in Oman you will be required to purchase a Visa on Arrival.''The visa for Oman cost me 60 USD. Yes, it’s pricey! If you do not have USD on you the international airport does accept Visa and MasterCard, but you have to beg them to use it.''The Oman Visa gives you thirty days and can be extended.''Becoming Omani in Muscat''Gulf''Middle East''Oman''Goroka, Papua New Guinea''The highland jungle is eerily quiet. A shroud of dense fog rolls over the lush mountains, not even a bird of paradise can be heard. Its as if the jungle knew that the warrior spirits of the Asaro were looming in the distance. As they draw closer, the fables come true. Fear takes hold, and your consciousness becomes a haze. That’s when the first Asaro Mudman breaks through the fog. Equipped with a club, his movements conjure up the feelings that he really could be a spirit from long ago.\xa0 Fixating closer on the haunting movements of the Mudmen you realize that he was only a distraction, as now there are over a dozen Mudmen around you. Luckily for me, these Asaro Mudmen were just displaying their\xa0warrior feats and had no intentions of taking me to the spirit world. Papua New Guinea could not be more enthralling.''Who are the Asaro Mudmen?''If there is one thing that the tribes of Papua New Guinea can agree on, it is their fear of spirits and ghosts. The tribes are very superstitious and perform rituals of cannibalism and sacrifice to fend of these pesky spirits.''The Asaro Mudmen''Legend has it, the Asaro were defeated in battle by another highland tribe and were forced to flee to the Asaro River. Falling into the river, the Asaro warriors were covered in thick white mud. When crawling out from the mud, the highland warriors that were chasing them believed that the spirits of the fallen Asaro had come back to fight them. The highland tribe ran for their lives back to their village to perform special ceremonies.''After this, the Asaro began to create terrifying masks of mud and created movements that spirits are said to have. Whenever enemy tribes would come, the Asaro would adorn their spooky outfits and scare off any threat once again.''Getting to Goroka, Papua New Guinea''Goroka is one of Papua New Guinea’s most pleasant towns. Situated in a lush green valley in the center of the Papuan Highlands, Goroka makes for a great stop for any would-be traveler to Papua New Guinea.''Goroka can be reached in a few different ways depending on the direction you’re coming from.''From Indonesia –''coming from''Indonesia''your first port will be Vanimo. Here you can take the long overland boat and bus trip to Madang, or you can get a flight to Goroka. Most of the flights stop over in Wewak or Madang, but you can easily get to Goroka the same day.''The road from Lae and Madang –''The sealed paved road from Lae or Madang is a very pleasant way to get to Goroka. You can hop on any of the Bus/truck transports heading this way. The journey varies but takes around 5 – 6 hours depending on weather, and the type of transport you get on.''Flight from Port Moresby –''There are no roads from the capital city Port Moresby to Goroka. Your only option is to take a very pricey flight. There are deals, however, so make sure you check Papua New Guineas Airlines Air Niugini and PNG Airlines. PNG Airlines tends to be quite a bit cheaper.''Goroka Market''The road from Mount Hagen –''This stunning road snakes through the highlands and passes by some of Papua New Guineas most stunning scenery. If you’re lucky you can ride on top of the bus to get the best photos!''Goroka Guide''Goroka is one of Papua New Guineas safest and most pretty communities. The leafy streets are full of colorful markets, and plenty of accommodation opportunities. There are even a few tourist shops that sell unique handicrafts from tribes around the area. Here’s a quick guide for Goroka, Papua New Guinea.''Where to Stay in Goroka''When my bus first arrived into Goroka the accommodations looked bleak. Papua New Guineas tourism infrastructure is lacking, to say the least, but the budget travel is almost nonexistent. After exploring the town for a bit, I found that Goroka was one of the first places in Papua New Guinea, that did happen to have a few budget places.''I stayed at the Good Samaritan Lodge, I do believe its also known as the GK Lodge. Regardless the area around here had a few other options as well. I had to wake up the owner in order to get a room, but hey, five of us shared a 50 USD room!''If you want luxury there are a few lodges and hotels near to the center. I checked out the Bird of Paradise Hotel as it had a pizza restaurant, and the rooms looked great. They did start at over a 100 USD though.''Food Options in Goroka''Like almost everywhere in Papua New Guinea, the food options are not great. Most travelers opt for buying food in the supermarkets and self-catering. This is great when you have a kitchen, but you’ll have to get creative as the supermarkets don’t have great options either. One night I whipped up a masterpiece of instant noodles and corned beef.''Goroka has the standard fried chicken and fish restaurants, but it’s also the only place in Papua New Guinea that had Pizza! The Birds of Paradise Hotels serves classic flatbread pizza at an overpriced (yet totally worth it) comfortable restaurant.''Keeping safe in Goroka''There is no way around it, Papua New Guinea does suffer from a high crime rate. The reputation it has been given by the travel community is somewhat unfair though. As long as you practice the obvious measures like not going out at night, not flaunting your wealth, and being respectful, you should not run into any issues.''Goroka has had violent muggings in the past, but these situations can be avoided as long as you play it smart. If you must go out at night, ask the hotel to send one of their staff with you, and be wary of any unofficial guides as they may ask for more money when you least expect it.''Goroka is safer than other cities in PNG. Do remember though that this is still PNG and tourism here is not commonplace unless the Goroka Festiva is in town.''Hiking Mt Kis with our Spirit Guide''Our Mt Kis spirit guide''The next day after arriving in Goroka from Mount Hagen, my friends and I found a small tour company downtown that offered escapes to the nearby tribes. We booked our tour same day and would visit two tribes in the area. First would be the Spirit tribe of Namasaro located at the foot of Mt Kis and in the afternoon the Mudmen of Asaro.''Hiking to the sacrifice cave on Mt Kis''Tours in PNG''-Taking tours in Papua New Guinea is almost the only way to see the tribes. Just showing up at the villages is not always taken kindly. The Asaro definitely need notice if you are coming as it takes time to prepare themselves for the mud ceremony. Make sure you negotiate as prices start high!''The tour started with a quick van ride to the outskirts of Goroka where we walked to a small hut village. Here our “spirit guide” approached us. He was painted in black and white with his stomach reserved for the image of a ghoulish spooky face.''He explained to us the mountain path ahead has many spirits, and we will have to follow his lead, or else suffer the consequences of what the spirits were capable of.''The Fern Key to get in the sacrifice cave''Near the summit, we entered a cave in which a special fern leave is needed to be carried. This cave was used for cannibal ceremonies, and the fern leaf tells the eaten spirits that you are with a spirit guide.''Kuru''–''Dubbed the laughing disease as it left the victims with a grin when they died, Kuru is a disease that affects the central nervous system and can last years before death occurs. It was rampant in the area of Goroka until it was studied in the early 1900’s. The cause was linked to people who practiced cannibalism, more specifically those who ate human brains.''Atop the cave is the summit of Mount Kis. The Christian community desecrated this traditional Papuan spirit sight with a large metal cross placed right on the sacrificial rock, a sore sight indeed. From here, you can see all of the Goroka Valley, the view is spectacular.''Stairs to the cave''Inside the sacrifice cave''Namasaro Spirit Ceremony''Returning back to the villager at the foot of Mt Kis we found that the elders had assembled the Spirit Guides all together for a Sing Sing.''Namasaro Dancer''Sing Sing''–''Anytime Papuans get together to feats, dance or prepare for war they have what’s called a Sing Sing. Attending a Papuan Sing Sing is essential to any trip to Papua New Guinea. Unfortunate with independent travel to Papua New Guinea this can be a very expensive thing to do. It can seem like a game of chance if one is happening when you arrive in a village but for more certainty, ask tour companies if they know of one happening anywhere.''This tribe particular dance is very unique. They cover themselves with white mud and the leader wears a creepy mask made of tar and leather. All the partakers wear a belt made from tied rope and feathers, and apart from the leader wear a mask made from cassowary feathers. Wielding their spears, they stand in a line and bounce up and down imitating a bird of paradise.''Most Papuan tribes have a war cry, but the tribe here in Namasaro use more quite humming noises to resemble a bird spirit. The dance was amazing and when it finished the dancers explained how this dance can ward off spirits and also summon warrior spirits to help them succeed in battle.''The Asaro Mudmen''The Asaro Mudmen Sing Sing''There is no tribe in Papua New Guinea quite like the Asaro Mudmen. Coming to PNG I was destined to see the authentic Mudmen in Asaro. I attended the annual Mount Hagen festival where the Asaro were said to be coming, but another “Mudmen” tribe had come. These ones had much smaller masks and didn’t meet the Mudmen quota I was searching for.''Getting to the Asaro Mudmen''Another short van ride fro Goroka brought us high up into the hills North of town. From here it is a pleasant 30-minute hike to the village. Finding the place without a guide would be very difficult as there are no signs to get you here. The village also looks like any other Papuan Village, accept Mudmen live here.''Asaro Mudmen Ceremony''The village elder escorted us to the creeping jungle on the south side of his village. Here we waited for the Mudmen. A horn sounded in the distance signifying that the Mud Spirits were coming. When the first Mudman broke through the fog wielding a club it was like a frenzy of Mudmen had barraged us from every angle.''From behind a Mudman with sharp long orange fingers grabbed me and, well scared the living crap out of me.''The Asaro Mudmen sneak up on me!''When the Asaro Mudmen/warriors were done immersing from around us they took off their helmets to greet us in the regular Papuan manner, a long drawn out handshake.''Many of the Mudmen were actually quite young to our surprise, their grandfathers were teaching them the ways of Mud. After we talked for some time we shared a drink and of course, were dressed up in Mud as well. To my surprise, these Mud helmets were extraordinarily heavy!''Useful Asaro Mudmen Information''Location:''Goroka, Papua New Guinea''Recommended Guide:''Lonely Planet Papua New Guinea''Asaro Mudmen''Oceania''Papua New Guinea''Tips for Female Travelers, Middle East''The longer I journeyed through this area of the world the more I felt a sense of deep respect, protection and curiosity from the locals. The landscape and climate is pure perfection, mountains, beaches, vast dessert planes and plenty of sunshine. But as I walked through the narrow streets in my hijab and a loose fitting, floor length cloak I became enthralled with the wonders of the middle east. You see, the colourful fabrics strewn in front of the shops mixed with the purifying smells of Frankincense and the distant sound of the call to prayer ringing across the entire city, made it easy to fall in love. Entering foreign territory always seems a little unsettling at first, but, as a female, travelling to this corner of the world is a completely unique experience with plenty of hidden gems.''Keep an open mind''The number one tip I can provide to any traveller heading to''the Middle East''is don’t listen to what the media says. This is especially pertinent to''female travellers''because of how the news reports on the way middle eastern women are treated. For example, are you worried about being groped, harassed or treated poorly? Don’t be, this behaviour is very unlikely, so unlikely in fact that I would say it is more likely to occur in the west as opposed to the middle east. Now this doesn’t mean you should disregard gut instincts and the typical travel tips as you should always take your safety seriously but don’t let that hinder the opportunity to get to know the locals and their customs as this is half of the travel experience.''What to wear in the Middle East''When it comes to''middle eastern fashion''the best advice I have is learn how to wear a hijab ahead of time. I know, it seems so small and so simple, but from personal experience let me tell you, there is nothing more embarrassing then your scarf flying off your head in the mosque and having a 10-year-old girl put it on for you properly. Its not as easy as it looks, and it can get frustrating fiddling with it all day instead of enjoying your experience.''As for clothing, no breasts, butts, elbows or knees should be visible. More specifically no cleavage (scarves help), long loose-fitting pants, and long loose-fitting shirts or cardigans. Your best bet is to head down to the local souq and shop for some local clothes, you’ll fit in WAY better this way and honestly it will be a lot lighter and breezier then anything your bringing from home. While at the souq make sure you shop around a lot, get the best price (bargaining is key), make sure your ankles aren’t showing and that it isn’t dragging on the ground, and lastly, have it fitted to you so you don’t look like your wearing a black garbage bag.''Traditional Yemeni Wedding Outfit in Sana’a Yemen''Lastly the accessories, jewellery is very popular in the middle east, I found beautiful jewels, gold and silver all over the local shops. But you must be careful and know how to tell what is real and what is fake. For shoes, wear whatever you have that’s comfortable to walk in, Arab women wear some stunning footwear but heels are just not a practical choice for sight seeing. Flat sandals and sneakers will suit you just fine.''Adjusting to a conservative culture''This is not just for the way you dress but also the way you act. It goes a long way to behave a bit more reserved in your body language as more outgoing behaviour can very easily be perceived as aggressive or flirty. Another adjustment is the “Touch barrier”. Try to avoid physical contact with men as it can make them very uncomfortable and can be taken the wrong way.\xa0 Women are a bit more open once you become friends, but always gauge your level of reservation based on theirs. Now all of this being said, be yourself and don’t be afraid to make friends with the locals, just be aware that the cultural differences can make misinterpretations happen more easily.''Getting Bedouin Henna in Sharqiyah, Oman''Saying goodbye to Western comforts''This one I found particularly hard at first, western comforts are something we don’t realize we have until they are taken away from us. For example, the first time you walk into a washroom and instead of a nice clean porcelain bowl with a seat you see a hole in the floor with two-foot pads, this majestic beauty is called the squat toilet.''Other comforts you may miss are consistent electricity (some hotels only have electricity for a few hours every day), hot showers (no electricity, no heat for the water), and no toilet paper or feminine products (I recommend buying the toilet paper at a grocery store and carrying it around with you and bringing feminine products from home).''Don’t worry it sounds scary but you get used to these things over time, and getting out of your comfort zone is a great part of the travelling experience, it allows you to grow and when you get home you’ll realise a lot stronger then you think.''Target practice in Yemen''Learn some basic Arabic phrases''This small gesture will really help you make friends with the locals. Even if you mispronounce the words it shows them that you are attempting to understand their culture. Honestly Arabic is a tough language as there are so many different dialects that often sound like a new language all together. So, ensure if you want to do your research ahead of time you search the specific countries dialect. But based on the''Arabic countries''I have travelled to here are the''Arabic phrases''I used the most.''Hello:''As-salām ‘alaykum''Thank you:''Shukran''No Thank you'': La shukran''Goodbye:''Ma`a as-salāma''Yes:''Aywa''No:''La''Family Section at the Restaurant''Most restaurants and public transport in the Middle East will have a family section blocked off from the men’s section. At first, I didn’t notice this custom and would sit amongst the men but noticed a lot of staring and on the rare occasion discreet irritation from the older men. Eventually someone politely informed me that this section is for men only but because I am foreign they are trying to make an exception for me. On the plus side, the family sections tend to be a little more comfortable and creates a more hassle-free atmosphere.''Bring Photos''Save some photos on your phone of your family, children, and hometown as Arab’s will love to see this. They are a very family oriented society so showing them your family and where you come from is a great bonding opportunity.''Boyfriend Etiquette''Now this is only a suggestion, but telling people your married will make things''a lot''easier. It is still not widely accepted to travel with a boyfriend or stay in the same hotel room as a boyfriend in Arab culture, so saying your married will avoid a lot of awkward conversations. Many travellers even go as far as purchasing fake wedding rings, but we found that telling people that “we don’t take our rings while we travel as we are scared we will lose them” was a sufficient enough explanation.''Adjusting to being more conservative''Find a partner in crime''This is a recommendation that I have heard from several solo female travellers. You are more likely to be invited to hangout with locals as a female when you have a friend with you. And let’s be honest, it adds to the experience if someone else is there to enjoy it with you.''Sultan Qaboos Grand Mosque''Khat, Hookah or tea nights with the girls''Typically, at night the women will go into a tea room to enjoy chewing''Khat''and smoking hookah, I highly recommend partaking in the event. This is where I learned the most about the people, the culture and the customs. You are in a private setting so touchy subjects can be explored openly and the women are much more relaxed in this environment and you really get to bond with them on a personal level.''Smoking Hookah in Sana’a, Yemen''Chelsea Klapwyk, Assistant Writer editor & Photographer''Chelsea is an avid reader, writer, and fitness junky with a passion for travel.\xa0 Starting out as an editor she quickly became enthralled with photography and has recently jumped into the writing arena. Although she is self admittedly a clumsy novice, she is excited to share her stories of how she navigates her way through the difficulties all new back packers face. Chelsea has worked closely with Uncharted Backpacker for the past year and has added a refreshing new dynamic to the team.''Middle East''Solo Female Travel''travel tips''Viñales, Cuba''A haze of sweet smoke surrounds me as I begin my journey through lush and pristine scenery in search for the perfect cigar. Eventually the smoke clears and I am back in reality but still, I find it hard to stop myself from reminiscing on Vinales. Even for the most jaded of travelers, this dreamlike destination will not disappoint. When the first tobacco producers began to cultivate this land, I doubt they understood that one day this would be a traveler’s paradise. The sweet smell of cigar fills my nose and I find myself puffing the last of my perfect cigar. My steed takes me back to the tobacco plantations passing by limestone ridges etched with caves, Cuban cowboys rolling cigars, and one stunning vista after another. It was hard to believe that I had never thought of coming here before.''Cuba Visa''Ok so if you’re an American citizen the visa can be complicated because of, yup, you guessed it! Donald Trump. If you are from basically anywhere else, then getting a Cuba Visa could not be simpler.''On your flight to Havana, Varadero etc. you will receive what is called the Tarjeta de Turista which is essentially your Cuban Visa. It is valid for 30 days, but if you’re a Canadian like me then you get 90 days!''Simply fill this card out with your immigration forms and get it stamped. Be wary that if you lose this card you will have to pay a penalty at the airport when you leave. If you run into any trouble in Cuba they also ask for this card so be sure to take care of it.''For American Citizens coming to Cuba, I encourage you to check out the excellent guide my friend Matthew from Expert Vagabond put together called''How To Travel To Cuba: A Guide For Americans''Most of the traffic in Vinales is Ox Cart''Getting to Viñales, Cuba''Getting to paradise couldn’t be easier! Vinales is just a 4-hour bus from Havan or a 6-hour bus from Varadero. Cuba’s main bus line is called''Viazul.''In Havana, they have their very own inconveniently located office, while in cities like Trinidad and Varadero they are located in the bus station itself.''Overlooking Vinales Town''Viazul is a government-run bus line, they are comfortable modern busses, but bring a jacket as the Cubans opt for near arctic AC conditions on the bus. The Viazul bus stops right in the main square of Vinales, where you will be barraged with Casa Particular Touts.''Cigar farm outside Vinales Town''Casa Particular''– Now the Cuban government is allowing Cuban nationals to open their houses to foreigners as guest houses! These are called Casa Particulars. They are the cheapest form of accommodation you will find and often give you a very cultural Cuba Autentica experience. Casa Particulars can be easily recognized by the blue government logo in front of the house.''Check out more on Cuba transport on''Uncharted Backpackers Cuba Guide.''Riding Horse in Vinales, Cuba''Sana’a, Yemen''Nowhere has ever captured old Arabia like Sana’a. The smell of spices and meat cooking over charcoal in the old city souq, the enchanting melody of the call to prayer encompasses you as it rings out in every direction, locals prefer to wear turbans and the''abiyah''compared to western fashion. Sana’a will with no doubt take you to that Lawrence of Arabia dream you fantasize about. A city with such deep historical significance retains all its character despite the current circumstances. Now it’s not uncommon to hear airstrikes alongside the call to prayer, locals swapping their traditional outfits for military gear, and the entire city cut off from electricity and water; but politics and war aside, Sana’a still retains its charming self, a true authentic traveler’s paradise.''Should I Travel to Yemen?''This is a question I get asked often. Is Yemen Safe? Can I travel to Sana’a right now? The answer is probably not one you want to hear, but to put a positive spin on Yemen’s current safety I will answer this with, Yemen is not ready for tourism, at the moment but in time Yemen will be ready. I encourage you to just wait for the right time. Kidnappings, airstrikes, and full-blown war is the reality of Yemen, but all of the historical sights and the hearts of the people are preserved. Yemen is just on hold, and when the time comes Yemen will take hold of its fabulous travel potential.''My amazing friends in Sana’a Yemen''Pyongyang, North Korea''North Korea the next big surfing destination! No, these are not headlines you are likely to hear anytime soon. But the fact is, there is Surfing in North Korea. Not just for those privileged to make their way into the hermit nation of Asia. North Korean’s themselves are beginning to take notice of this sport. Something unheard of in the past. Not only surfing but stand up paddleboards as well! There is so much more to this mysterious country than meets the eye. After two weeks gallivanting around the country, I can finally say tell you that the Uncharted Backpacker surfed for the very first time… In North Korea!''North Korea’s Capital, Pyongyang''From my hotel window, I awoke to the sounds of the eerie morning wake up call. Gazing from the window the sun rises over the fog covered colorful structures that line the city streets of Pyongyang. Locals sporting styles from the 50’s and military workers begin to fill the streets on their way to work.''Pyongyang’s Ryugyong Hotel from Juche Tower''This is the North Korea most travelers will experience. Seeing life unfold from your hotel or bus window. This is not the North Korea I am about to embark on, however.\xa0 Being one of the lucky travelers that will scout out the Northern coastline with a few others on a mission with''Uri Tours''. That mission is to find surfing and water sport culture in North Korea.''Before we head off to North Korea’s remote Northern coastline we will be shown around the capital city, Pyongyang. Leaving the hotel we drive past some of North Korea’s most recognizable landmarks the Arch of Triumph, Ryugyong Hotel and the Tower of Juche before stopping at the Mansudae Grand Monument to pay our respects to the founding fathers of North Korea. I laid flowers at the feet of the leaders not because I have been brainwashed or follow politics here. But in respect for the North Korean people around me.''Laying flowers at the Mansudae Grand Monument''In the afternoon we took the Pyongyang subway, dubbed the deepest underground subway in the world. With the subway, we made our way to Kim Il Sung Square and the Foreign Languages Bookshop nearby to pick up some fantastic North Korean propaganda souvenirs, including flags, posters, and books. We finished our first day with some Korean BBQ and North Korean craft beer… and I must say, it was pretty amazing!''North Korean craft beer is amazing!''Bicycle Trip through Pyongyang''The next morning we drove to the edge of “''Science Street''”, and hopped on a bicycle with my guide. We rode through the streets passing more of the amazing landmarks. Unfortunately, many times I was told not to photograph or take videos during this trip. On route, we stopped by the Victorious Fatherland Liberation War Museum, and seen the USS Pueblo American “Spy” ship.''Riding bikes past Kim Il Sung Square''The afternoon we climbed the Tower of Juche to see the entire skyline of Pyongyang. Although my photography was censored at times, for the most part, I was allowed to photograph whatever I wanted. Military and bridges were the main objects of taboo.''Later we stopped by the Kwangbok Supermarket to pick up some snacks for the journey ahead. Here is a great place to pick up North Korean Ginseng whiskey!''Pyongyang’s Science Street''View from Juche Tower''Pyongyang’s crossing guards are renowned for their beauty''The Nam River and Ulim Waterfall''This day is when the adventure finally began! The day where we leave the “touristy” parts of North Korea. From Pyongyang, we set off North East on the highway that cuts right across the country connecting the two coastlines.''Highway that connects North Korea’s two coasts''Taking photos from the bus was allowed, with some exceptions. For example, I started getting trigger happy and accidentally photographed a military base without knowing. My guide was not too fond of this and instructed that I delete the photos.''Rice Harvest time in North Korea''The further we ventured from Pyongyang, the more remote and authentic the country began to feel. Vibrant green rice fields with ox plows, farmers wearing military gear and rice hats, and stark limestone peaks covered in picturesque clouds, this was the real North Korea that we were all in search of.''Sup on the Nam River''Sup on the Nam River''Our first stop was the Sinpyong Tea House which is located right beside the dam on the Nam River. Here we got our first SUP (Stand up Paddleboard), session. Locals quickly jaunt to the riverside to see such a spectacle, although they were very shy seeing us foreigners here.''From the Nam River, we drove high into the mountains to the Ulim Waterfall. Getting here you cross some very remote villages on rough roads giving you a very off the beaten track feel. The waterfall is reached by a 15-minute walk through the forest. It’s truly a wonderful sight to see in this remote corner of the world.''Ulim Waterfall, North Korea''Wonsan and Surfing in North Korea''Another three-hour drive brought us to Wonsan, a small port city in between Majon and Sajon. Here we had a seafood dinner before exploring the streets of this interesting city. There isn’t much for sights here, but it’s fascinating to mingle with the locals.\xa0 I actually had a Military officer ride by me on a bicycle wielding an AK-47 yelling “Welcome to North Korea! Are you not scared?”''Surfing in North Korea''We drove another hour along the coast towards South Korea to a resort located on the lake right beside Sajon Beach. Here we downed a few bottles of Soju and reminisced about the crazy day we had.''The morning here was beautiful, the soft shades of light over the rolling green hills surrounding the lake were stunning. We took in another SUP session along the shores of the lake. Local fishermen were very surprised to see a foreigner paddling along the waters beside them!''Next stop was Sajon Beach, a long white strip of white sand with a small hotel that clearly doesn’t see too many guests. The turquoise blue water, distant green islands, and old rusting fishing boats on the beach made this a special place to learn how to surf.''Nick our Italian surf ambassador taught me here for two days the ways of the waves. Now the surf wasn’t spectacular, but the fact that I was learning in such a unique place made it pretty extraordinary.''Surf ambassador Nick and I''Surfing Majon Beach''From Sajon Beach, we drove three hours north to Majon following the coastline. We passed by the cities of Wonsan and Hamhung. There were plenty of awesome photo opportunities of propaganda and remote communities on this road!''Majon is, in fact, a beach resort town. Although our resort, which was massive and lavish was indeed deserted. The rooms were spotless and mimicked a resort in any other holiday destination in the world, but there were no tourists to be found.''Nick riding the waves in Majon Beach, North Korea''The private beach was also quite the scene. Being located right beside a military observation tower meant that if you are to take a photo, you had better steer your camera in the appropriate direction, or you could upset the wrong authorities.''Here, the waves were much larger and more enticing to surf. Majon is also the first place where many North Koreans joined us in the watersport fun. This day we finally got some superb surfing action!''Training the North Koreans to Surf''The next day I helped Nick train many of the hotel staff on how to Surf and SUP. It was fun to interact with the Majon residents, and they were very keen on learning as well. We spent the whole day surfing with them before having a beach BBQ including Soju with our new friends for supper. On the menu, giant clams cooked with petrol. A local specialty here in Majon!''Our Guide Park and Surf Ambassador Nick''Day trip to the Stone River and Hamhung''To take a break from surfing we decided to venture into the mountains again to the “Stone River”. This journey takes almost six hours each way! On the way there, we passed by some very far-flung and inaccessible communities. Out here cars are replaced by bicycles and cow carts, and the houses are made of wood in order to better insulate from the frigid temperatures they receive here.''North Korean countryside on our way to the Stone River''The stone river is exactly what comes to mind when you hear it. It’s a large river that has been completely littered\xa0with grey boulders due to a landslide that happened quite some years ago. There happens to be a North Korean Military base located beside the river, so you must take an appointed military guide to show you around, but pictures were not an issue. The river is quite the phenomenon, but to be honest the journey here was much more fascinating as we got a great insight into the parts unknown of North Korea.''Rice is king here… so are bicycles''Cow Carts replace cars out here''The architecture changes at the higher altitiudes''Before returning back to Majon, we made a quick detour to Hamhung which is located only a few kilometers from Majon resort. This bustling city has a few quirky sights to see including the Tonghungsan Revolutionary Site, Hamhung Grand Theatre, and Hamhung Old Royal Palace. Like other places in North Korea, the really fascinating thing is just being there watching life unfold, and finding yourself in a place that most will call impossible to visit.''Our military guide at the Stone River''Why I Enjoyed Visiting North Korea''As you can see, this post is not about politics. If you want to know more about politics than you can Google North Korea and I am almost certain you will find what you’re looking for. This post is to show that behind all the media and propaganda there is a country full of regular people. People who want to live normal lives. People who are just like they are everywhere else in the world.''Instead of focusing on the obvious issues here, I’d like to tell you why I loved traveling North Korea. Firstly, travel here is unique. There is few other places on the planet where people are so curious to see a foreigner.''Secondly, traveling even just slightly off the beaten track here rewards you with the possibility of being in places that not a single traveler or foreigner has ever seen! Doing this, however, takes a lot of planning and money.''Lastly, are the people. The people of North Korea put on somewhat of an act when you first meet them but if you spend any time with them they will open up and show their true selves. These people are educated, funny, and will surely become good friends of yours.''Travel to North Korea is about breaking boundaries, about showing the world that borders, politics, and people’s views should not separate us. In the end, when you dig past all of the problems you will see that travel can bring us together and end the conflict!''Uri Tours''Travel to North Korea is unique. To come here you must have a tour agency. You are probably wondering why I chose Uri Tours? Dig through all the North Korean Travel agencies and you will see they offer tours, the same trail, the same sights. Uri on the other hand is looking to promote North Korean Tourism from a different view. Their vision is to come to North Korea for experiences first! experiences like, Surfing, Skiing/Snowboarding, Marathons, and festivals.\xa0 For this truly different outlook on the conventional tourism idea I chose them. Thanks Uri, North Korea was incredible! If your interested in Surfing in North Korea check out one of their upcoming tours''here''!''North Korea Useful Information''Tour Company:''Uri Tours''Guide Book:''North Korea Bradt''asia''North Korea''Surfing''Sanaa Yemen''What brings a traveler to places like this? Is it the desire to be so far from other travelers and achieve an authentic experience, or is it the thrill of stepping into the forbidden and unknown corners of the world?''When it comes to Yemen, I found my attraction drawn from its plethora of historical sights and its splendid natural beauty. But if I am to be one hundred percent honest with you the tremendous lure in coming to conflict areas like Yemen are the people. Yemen’s people are unlike anywhere I have ever been. Their hospitality is contagious, they smile even when there are airstrikes happening blocks away and no matter who you are, or what you believe in, they will be your lifelong friend.''This is what makes all the pain, all the danger, and all of the after effects worthwhile in venturing into finding the truth for yourself. This is Yemen, true Arabia.''Travel to Yemen Warning''Yes, it is true, I traveled through Yemen this winter for five weeks. Regardless of what you think of my journey here, the one thing you must understand is Yemen is not ready for tourism. I travel to these destinations not as a tourist, but as an experienced backpacker.''Traveling in any conflict zone brings risks, but I have a purpose for traveling to these places, and that is to bring awareness about the situation in Yemen, and help the people of this country in the future. If your reason for coming to Yemen is solely for adventure, then I urge you to consider waiting until the situation improves. Kidnappings, imprisonment, and armed conflict are a reality here. If you do choose to travel to Yemen, please do not contact me for advice until the conflict has ended.''Women heading out to the farms in Hadhramaut''Explaining Yemen’s War''The world has labeled''Yemen’s war as the forgotten war''. After driving across the nation for five weeks observing the countries conflict I can relay to you the Yemeni people’s perspective on the war. During my journey here I stayed with locals, interacted with coalition and Houthi supporters, was jailed, interrogated and witnessed the after effects of the death of former president Ali Abdullah Saleh.''After ousting the ex-president, Yemen began its civil war between the coalition and the Houthis. The situation is not as easy as this however, there are multiple other political groups claiming territory here as well. Here is a quick explanation of the largest groups in Yemen.''The Coalition''Backed by Saudi Arabia, and funded by the United States, the coalition\xa0is the remnants of Abdrabbuh Mansur Hadi’s government. Their territory makes up large areas in Marib, Hadhramaut, and their political headquarters in Aden.''The coalition is backed by Saudi Arabia who supports the war with airstrikes and attacking the northern frontline. Even though the coalition is supported by most western governments, their territory remains the most lawless and uncontrolled.''While driving from Oman to the capital city Sanaa in the coalition held territories I observed heavily armed groups carrying\xa0 ISIS and Al-Qaeda flags. My guide for the area also told me to wear local clothing and to lie about my nationality as our presence in these regions was risky.''Houthis''Emerging from Sa’dah in northern Yemen''the Houthi''are of the Zaidis sect, and are predominantly Shia-led. The Houthi are led by Abdul-Malik al-Houthi, brother of the first leader, who was reportedly killed by Saleh’s forces. The Houthis control the capital Sanaa, and the territories around the Capital including the port of Al Hudaydah.''Ali Abdullah Saleh''The ex-president''Ali Abdullah Saleh''was allied with the Houthi for part of my journey in Yemen, but while I was in Sanaam,\xa0 Ali Abdullah Saleh began making overtures to work with the Saudi Alliance which resulted in armed conflict with the Houthi. During the fighting which ensued, Ali Abdullah Saleh was killed and his son Ahmed Ali Saleh took control of the forces dedicated to the ex-president and continued the conflict with the Houthi.''Other Governments''Many other territories in Yemen are split up. Even entire''cities like Taiz''are controlled by rogue leaders. More often than not, the territories under smaller groups are either working with or controlled and aligned with terrorist organizations like ISIS or Al-Qaeda. Their territories are confusing and hard to follow as they shift daily.''What it’s like to Travel through Yemen''Travelling through Yemen takes years of planning and plenty of obstacles. You cannot simply fly into Sanaa and expect to be let in. All travel here is actually banned, so logistically speaking you cannot travel to Yemen. It took a lot of planning for me to get there and I had to pull some strings to make it happen. With this post, I want to focus on bringing my perspective on the countries historical sights and its people.''The Jambiyah (Yemeni Knife) symbolizes your class in society''Traveling here you must first take into consideration which territories are controlled by who. This is important as the rules change with every new territory you enter. Apart from the rules changing, the security changes drastically as well. For example, the Coalition territory was rather lawless, while the Houthi were more suspicious of me and required more permits.''Knowing the security situation in each region is based on the control each government has. The Coalition being quite lawless allows terrorist organizations to run rampant in their territories. Knowing how these groups think is essential to your safety. Their main goal is no different than the majority of the governments and that is to create a state governed by them. The thing is, they are willing to go to much more drastic measures to get what they want. As a foreigner, you become a target. They can kidnap you for money which will help supply their warfare.''Bab el Yemen, the gate to Sanaa’s old City''Rock Palace on the outskirts of Sanaa''Goat Herders in Hadhramaut''The next factor is knowing the war. Understanding how war works is essential to keeping yourself safe in these kinds of places. Yemen’s conflict is unique, however. Every day I was in Sanaa, the Saudi Alliance conducted precision bombing into the city. Many times these bombs were in close proximity or directed at targets near me. These airstrikes often killed innocent civilians.''Every man in Yemen carries a gun, your gun also symbolizes your class in society''Yemen’s war is also changing fast. While in Sanaa, former president Ali Abdullah Saleh started making overtures to the Saudi Alliance in direct conflict with his previous alliance with the Houthi. The city quickly turned into an all-out war, making our travel plans come to a halt.''The security and combat are definitely big obstacles, but the hardest factor is witnessing the after-effects of war. The ones who suffer the most are the civilians of Yemen. Traveling here, every day you will see people suffering from disease, poverty, and conflict.''Hiking in Yemen’s Haraz Mountains''My Journey through Yemen''Never has a country captured my heart quite like Yemen. Its nature is pristine. Its historic sights are breathtaking. And Yemen’s people are the most hospitable I have ever met. If it wasn’t for all the war, Yemen would be a travelers dream. It is a country like no other! When the war is finished – which I hope is as soon as possible – come here and you too will discover why I am so in love with this place. This is a brief account of my journey through Yemen mainland.''Hadhramaut''From Oman, we crossed the remote northern desert border. Yes, It is one hundred percent possible! I entered with a company as a tourist. I had no special permission at this point. From here it was a long,\xa0nine-hour drive to Seiyun, the capital city of Hadhramaut.''The legendary city of Shibam, dubbed the Manhattan of Arabia''The lush valleys around Seiyun take you back in time. The mudbrick houses line the rivers while superb rock gorges tower above replicating the Grand Canyon. Life here is simple. Most people make their living from farming the fertile valleys. The remoteness has left the region quite traditional.''Cliff side cities in Wadi Dawan''In the valley, we visited a few incredible places. The first was Wadi Dawan. It is famed for its untouched towns, palaces, and natural beauty. The second was the legendary city of Shibam, which is dubbed as the Manhattan of Arabia with its eight-story ancient mudbrick towers. Lastly, we visited Tarim, which has plenty of historic cemeteries and mosques.''the hidden valleys of Hadhramaut are stunning''Marib''Leaving Hadhramaut, you enter the endless sands of the''Empty Quarter''. Here is also the ancient Sabaean kingdom. Hidden in the sands are ancient ruins of the little known Sabaeans they ruled the region for almost 1500 years and the kingdom of Saba’ has been linked with the biblical land of Sheba.''Barran Temple, The Sabaean kingdom in Marib''This region is also one of the most lawless in Yemen. Crossing the vast desert, you come across small communities which exist solely to supply travelers with petrol and food. It is like a scene from Star Wars Tatooine. You will find groups like ISIS and Al Qaeda here, however, and is not a good place to be for too long.''Pushing further on through the sands you pass by Saudi and Emirati oil fields, who of course have ties with the USA ripping the black gold from the land. They create checkpoints that you must go through, and they are not the least bit friendly to foreigners being here as you can probably imagine.''Ancient writing at Marib’s Temple of the Sun''Once in Marib, we stayed with a local Bedouin family, who I am quite sure had more arms than the Coalition themselves. This family who took us in also brought us safely to see the ancient ruins nearby.''Bedouin kids hanging out in Marib''Sana’a''This is where the real journey began. With the highway being closed between Marib (Coalition) and Sana’a (Houthi) no foreigners have been able to cross the region. There is, however, a mountain road that takes you through the back door into Houthi controlled territory.''Sana’a’s Old City''Leaving the Coalition frontline, you pass by lines of tanks, artillery and mountain outposts covered with snipers. It was a scary sight. The pavement ends and you cross through remote mountain villages and plenty of refugee camps. After four hours we finally reached the Houthi line of control. Their green and red flag can be seen from miles away. The checkpoint is filled with rebel fighters adorned with headbands, random camouflaged jackets, and a stern look on their face. They greeted us well however and granted us permission in!''Al Saleh Mosque in Sana’a''Seven more hours of driving finally brought us to the capital city Sana’a. Sana’a is like a dream. The old city brings you back in time to old Arabia, its thousands of mosques blare out the beautiful''Adhan'', and the streets are full of life. Sana’a is by far my favorite place in Yemen.''Busy market in Old Sana’a''Sana’a, however, has faced plenty of the cruelties of war. With countless airstrikes every day, many buildings have been reduced to rubble. Much of the city has no running water or electricity. The resilient Yemeni people have fixed this, however. Solar panels now power the city, and water is brought in every day with trucks. It’s an incredible sight!''Sana’a skyline at sunset''Manakhah and Jabal Haraz''After exploring the culture hub of Yemen we headed off to the Haraz Mountains. Here the rock villages defy gravity, clinging to the sides and tops of 3000 m plus peaks. Nowhere have I ever seen such exquisite mountain communities. Sometimes the buildings reach five stories high meanwhile being situated right on the edge of a cliff. These building can also be over 500 years old!''Medieval mountain village with terraces of Khat''These villages are living museums, and the people who live here keep Yemeni culture at its most traditional. We stayed with a family in Manakhah who treated us with local cuisines, hiking and cultural lessons like how to tie a turban. We hiked here for several days from village to village and were greeted with such amazing hospitality. This seemed like the safest region in Yemen for me. Apart from the steep mountain roads, I felt no danger here.''From Manakhah we drove to Al Mahwit, yet another dazzling mountain community. On route back to Sanaa we stopped at the historic Kaukaban and Shibam.''Chelsea’s showing off her Henna in Manakhah''Unfortunately, because of the circumstances, we could not continue from here. On our fifth week, we caught a flight with the ICRC (Red Cross), to Djibouti.''Hiking in the Haraz Mountains''Medieval mountain villages near Manakha''Our host family in Manakha''Yemen’s Future''Finally, this is where I will give my two cents on what I have seen in Yemen’s war.''Yemen is a unique destination. The people are resilient, and the country will most definitely prosper when the war is resolved. If you read headlines like “Yemen is the next Syria” or “This is the Year Yemen Was Destroyed” ( As Vice so eloquently put it), I encourage you to blatantly accept all of this media as propaganda. I can tell you from experience there were no news agencies on the ground in Yemen, all of their news is provided by sources that have their own agendas.''Who will gain control and power of the nation at the moment is unknown, but talk to any local and they will tell you regardless of the outcome, the PEOPLE will come together to make the country prosper once again.''To simply put it, Yemen is not being divided by its own people, but instead, it is the influence of foreign powers. Even the radical groups coming to Yemen are foreign. Ask the Coalition or the Houthi’s who the real enemy is, and they will tell you it’s the ones dropping bombs and killing innocent people. It’s the ones stealing Yemen’s plentiful resources. Yemen is yet another nation to suffer because of the greed of first world powers.''Enjoying the views near Al Mahwit''Yemen is not lost as the media wants to put it. Yemen is just how it used to be. The country is filled with delightful surprises, charming people, and pleasing natural wonders.''As for Yemen’s future, the war is temporary. When the struggle comes to an end, the country will recover and become just as indescribably beautiful as it was before.''Why I love Yemen''Yemen, like no other country, has captured my heart in this specific way. Even after having to leave due to war, all I think about is going back. Yemen is in a simple way, beautiful. Its remote deserts, sublime mountain scenery, picture-perfect historical sights, scrumptious cuisine, buzzing markets, and most of all, its people who have left an everlasting impression of kindness and hospitality.''My guide and I chewing Khat''I will be going back to Yemen, in fact, I will dedicate every effort I can with Uncharted Backpacker to promote travel to this wonderful nation because the moment any traveler steps foot here, they will be addicted just like I am.''This is a huge thanks to all my friends in Yemen. You are all amazing and I cannot wait to return and chew Khat, eat massive meals, and explore more of paradise with you!''Feast of kings with our Yemeni friends''Yemen is not ready for tourism at the moment, but the future is hopeful. Let this post take you into one of the Uncharted Backpackers favorite destinations so that in the future when the war is over you too can see how special this land is.''Target practise while our guide plugs Chelsea’s ears!''Our guide dresses Chelsea up in Yemeni wedding attire''Our driver and son dancing to traditional Yemeni folk music''Yemen Travel Video''https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=opoN6_bZCoQ''Video can’t be loaded: Travel Yemen (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=opoN6_bZCoQ)''Yemen Travel Information''Travel Company Used:''Cameleers Tours''Guide Book:''Yemen Bradt''Interactive Yemen War Map:''https://yemen.liveuamap.com/''Map App I used for Yemen:''Maps.me''My Route:''Follow me as there will be plenty more Yemen posts to come!''asia''The Middle East''Yemen''Ngari, Mount Kailash, Tibet''A place so tranquil yet powerful, Mount Kailash contradicts itself. As you labour one foot after another, oxygen deprived and lost in a sea of emotions, just as pilgrims for thousands of years have done, in the exact same fashion. This journey will change you, after traversing the entire Kora around the worlds most holy mountain you become a part of it. A chapter of this mountains story. Finally, when the air becomes so thin that I fear I’m at my breaking point, I look up, I have arrived. A scene of what heaven must look like, Mount Kailash’s highest point the Drolma-la pass. Here time stands still, pausing for a sigh of relief, its hard not to connect with it all, never has a moment like this brought me so far into the depths of my mind. This is the Mount Kailash Kora.''Getting to Mount Kailash''Whatever road you take to Kailash you will inevitably pass through Saga. Saga is the midway point for all journeys to Kailash. Getting to Saga will take at least two days from Lhasa if you drive direct. Most however, take the road to''Everest Base Camp''first, and then onward passing by one of Tibet’s otherworldly high-altitude lakes, Peiku-tso.''Peiku-tso sits at 4590 m, and is one of''Tibet’s''most beautiful lakes. Stopping here I took my shoes off and walked ankle deep in the frigid blue waters observing shepherds push their flocks of sheep along the multi coloured shores all whilst''Shishapangma''and the snow-capped Langtang Range loom in the distance beyond. It’s a surreal scene and well worth the stop on route to Saga.''Peiku-tso sits at 4590 m''From Peiku-tso it is another few bumpy hours drive to Saga. Saga is a Tibetan truck stop frontier kind of town. Here there is a small spatter of hotels and restaurants, but not much for the curious traveler. I stayed in a small truck stop hotel which featured paint peeling, ice cold unheated rooms, and a smoke-filled restaurant filled with Tibetans who look as if they had just finished the kora themselves. The meat dumpling soup was rather delicious although!''Lake Manasarovar''From Saga, the road continues west crossing multiple 5000 m plus mountain passes, dozens of Chinese military checkpoints, and the starkly beautiful sand dunes of Zhongba. Zhongba’s sand dunes offer the chance for you to capture white capped Himalayan peaks, bright blue bodies of water, intensely green grassland, and soaring sand dunes all in the same shot. It is a photographer’s dream.''Zhongba’s sand dunes''Continuing west of Saga we reached the days pit stop Lake Manasarovar after about 9 hours of driving. When you finally reach these holy shores, it feels as if you have been traveling for ages, and for good reason as you have almost crossed the entire Tibetan Plateau.''Wild Tibetan Yaks''The Shores of Manarsorovar''Lake Manasarovar is Tibet’s (probably the worlds) most sacred lake. For approximately 1700 years Hindu’s and Buddhists have been bathing, and circling this sapphire blue, mountain fringed lake. Hindus believe that Manasarovar is a manifestation of Brahma, while Tibetans revere it because mother of the Buddha was bathed here by the gods before giving birth to Buddha. It is also noted that Mahatma Gandhi’s ashes were put in the lake.''Lake Manasarovar is Tibet’s (probably the worlds) most sacred lake''Whatever the case is bathing here erases sins of a hundred lifetimes. So even though there was ice on the shoreline, and snow flakes flying in the air, I stripped down and dove into the waters. From the lack of oxygen in the air, and the fact I could not breath after submerging in what felt like the coldest water in my life, I felt blessed and prepared for the next leg of my journey to Kailash.''Hindus believe that Manasarovar is a manifestation of Brahma''Lake Manasarovar Chiu Monastery''In the morning, the ground was covered in a thick blanket of snow. I walked to Lake Manasarovar’s Chiu Monastery for more blessings. Nearing the monastery, you are confronted with Tibetan horns that sounds rang across the valley. Entering the juniper incense filled interior you are greeted by nuns who pour you a glass of warm yak butter tea.''Holy Tibetan Buddhist Scripts''Lake Shore Monastery''As the ceremony proceeds an orchestra of Tibetan instruments are played, including a Kapala drum, which is the tops of two human skulls crafted into a double-sided drum. It was a special feeling to be connected with the Tibetan way of life by partaking in the ceremony. Do not fret if you are unaware of what to do in the ceremony, the Tibetans will guide you through it.''The Mount Kailash Kora''Before you hike the 52km around Mount Kailash there are some preparations you must consider. First is the gear, in Darchen town which is the beginning point of the trek you can acquire plenty of snacks, warm clothing, and whatever other creature comforts are essential to you.''Secondly, understanding the direction people choose to walk around the mountain. Buddhists and Hindus walk clockwise while the ancient religion of Tibet Bon, walk anti clockwise. Tibetans also tend to walk the entire circuit in one day, but this is surely too much for a unworthy low altitude living traveler such as myself. So, three days is more appropriate.''Stage 1: Darchen to Dira-Puk Monastery''The first days 20km is not a hard journey. You only have an ascent of 200m, but the scenery is definitely not lacking. Going in the clockwise Buddhist tradition heading west from Darchen you cross into a large open valley providing you impeccable views of Kailash and the sacred valley that circles her.''Darchen, Ngari, Tibet''First stupa on the trail''Yaks carrying supplies for travellers''Entering the valley your first point is Chorten Kangnyi, a small stupa covered in prayer flags. This is where the roads stop and many Indian pilgrims begin their journey. Nearby is the cliff side hanging Chuku Monastery. Further afield you will be given font row views to Kailash’s wester face.''Pilgrims murmur chants and preform their prostration, juniper incense floats through the cold breeze, yak bells clang in the distance, and mighty Kailash looms high above with a god like status.''The final leg of the journey brings you to Mount Kailash’s North Face. Here you will get your best views of the light changing colour over Kailash’s summit. The north face camp hosts a few small restaurants and basic accommodation, do not come here expecting luxury. South of the camp across the river is Dira-Puk. This monastery provides yet more incredible views of Kailash’s North Face, and a hermit cave where the saint Gotsangpa is said to have meditated.''Mount Kailash North Face''Dira-Puk Monastery''Stage 2: Crossing the Drolma-la Pass 5630 m''I awoke in the early hours of the morning to join the pilgrims for sunrise at Kailash’s north face. As the sunrise the summit turns a bright gold. The air is cold, but the sight of Kailash will warm anyone’s soul.''Sunrise at Mount Kailash North Face''After breakfast we hit the trail. From the North Face camp it goes only up from here. It’s a 600 m ascent to the summit of Drolma-la. North Face Camp is already set above 5000 m so expect symptoms of acute altitude sickness to set in as you climb.''Pilgrims Preforming Prostration''The first bit of the climb was not so hard for me. Many were using oxygen at this time, but I said I would not out of stubbornness. 200 m up you are given a different view of Kailash, this time you are starring her right in the face. From here you cross a snowy valley before the final ascent to Drolma-la.''The steep incline takes every bit of will power to conquer. By this time the oxygen levels are half of what they are at sea level. Every step is agonizing, only to be made worse by watching an elderly Tibetan whizz passed me with ease. When I finally reached the summit, the adrenaline left me to feel the reality of what this place does to your body.''Nearing the Summit of Drolma-la''Pilgrims on the Summit''All the aches and pains aside I tied my prayer flag to the pass, while Tibetans threw mini flags into the air creating one of the most beautiful sights in my life.''Putting my prayer flags on Drolma-la Pass''From Drolma-la you go straight down. The pass is steep so be very cautious. After a few hours of descending you will reach Zutul-puk monastery. Here are more small tea houses offering lodging and food for the weary pilgrim. Its greener here as well, giving a good break from the blinding snows of Drolma-la.''Drolma-la Pass Summit''Stage 3: Back to Darchen''This day is the easiest of the three, but quite possibly the most spectacular as now you have completely circled Mount Kailash. The last 14 km take you through rolling hills and beautiful views of the southern Himalayas.\xa0 Only taking about 3 hours to get back to Darchen, you have plenty of time to reminisce on the journey you have just taken.''Super Charged Karma – Completing the Kailash Kora''After returning back to Darchen I went straight to the Darchen Teahouse. Nothing heals the body better than a warm cup of Sweet Tibetan tea, plus there is wifi! That afternoon we drove to the south side of Kailash to take in a view of how big this mountain really is. As long as the weather is clear you can see the trail that circles the mountain.''Tea in Darchen''Nearby to Lake Manasarova are some hot springs. I highly recommend this after the Kailash Kora, the warm springs defiantly cure all ailments you may have received.''Useful Information''Location:''Ngari Province, Mount Kailash, Tibet''Recommend Books:''Lonely Planet Tibet, Lonely Planet Tibetan Language, 7 years in Tibet''Gear:''Nomad Solar Panel, Sony a7rii, Gopro Hero Black''Top Tips:''Make sure to drink a ton of water, it helps with the altitude. Take the journey slow, if you rush you really increase the chance of altitude sickness.''Tour Company:''Tibetan Highland Tours''asia''Mount Kailash''Tibet''Cuba Travel Guide''Cuba is a country often overlooked as a backpacking traveling destination, ask anyone who has delved into this island nation and you will hear otherwise. From the dilapidated colorful neighbourhoods of Havana old town, tobacco farmers pushing their ox cart and plough beneath behemoth Limestone Mountains in Vinales, the stunning white sand and blue waters of Veradero, or the picturesque hill top colonial town of Trinidad; Cuba is without a doubt one of my favourite travel locations! Never has a destination captured its culture with a symphony of music, artistic style and hospitality quite like Cuba. So if you are ready for something new, surprising and wonderful dive into Cuba, you will not be disappointed.''Why Travel to Cuba''Cuba''has something for everyone. If you are into architecture check out Havana’s old town to step back in time with swashbuckling pirates and colonial explorers. If you’re not a history buff then do not fret, Cuba also is the scene of a massive modern art movement with every 20 something year old reflecting their nations culture, history, and modern world events into some of the best art I have seen. Cuba also hosts some of the best (okay they are the best) beaches in the Caribbean. Whatever the case is, Cuba really does have something for every traveler, and it’s completely unique onto its own! So for once listen to the''Cuba Authentica''adds as they are spot on.''Vinales Beautiful Countryside''Botije Restaurant in Trinidad''Havana’s Famous Malecon''The Basics''Language''– Latin American Spanish''Visa''– On arrival for most nationalities, Americans Visa is complicated''Religion''– Catholic and Santeria Voodoo''Currency –''Cuban Convertibles (CUC$) and Cuban Pesos (MN$)''Cell Phone/Internet''– Very confusing and expensive to get sim cards, Internet is accessible in large hotels and public squares. Internet is accessed by 1.50 CUC$ scratch cards that you buy at Etecsa. Etecsa can be found in almost every place in Cuba. (Do not buy from the guys on the street, they charge double and sometimes the cards don’t work)''Daily Average Budget''– 50 USD per day, Cuba is fairly cheap, there is plenty of budget accommodation and transport. Your biggest expense will be food unless you’re ok with eating fast-food every meal.''Best Time to Visit Cuba''High Season''(Nov – Mar, Jul – Aug) – At this time of year the weather is generally the best in Cuba with little showers, and cooler days. Because its high season expect to pay higher prices in hotels and touristy areas.''Off Season''(Apr & Oct) – Lower prices and fewer people make this time of year one of the best for independent travel. There is the risk of Hurricanes in October. Look for deals at this time.''Low Season''(May, Jun & Sep) – Higher chance of rain and hurricanes, many hotels shut downs as well. It usually only rains for a few hours in the day making this a pleasant time of year to travel as you are often the only person around at times!''Playa Ancon''Vinales Tobacco Farms''Trinidad, Cuba''Arriving in Cuba''Getting to Cuba is becoming easier, but this could change with the current political issues with the United States. As a Canadian although it was very simple.''Flights and Havana’s Airport''Cuba has ten international airports making arriving to wherever you want first a synch. The easiest to book, and often cheapest (unless you are booking a resort) is from Havana’s''Aeropuerto International Jose Marti.''From Havana’s airport you can find a bank and ATM for money and plenty of cabs who can take you to Havana Vieja for about 25 CUC$. The journey will take about 40 minutes.''Make sure you bring a bit of extra cash as often the ATM’s at the airport do not work. In this case you can exchange US Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Euro and a few other currencies.''Taking a Classic Car in havana''Cuba Visa''Read online and the visa for Cuba sounds quite confusing. This is due to the ever changing political situation with the United States. If you are a Canadian like me, or pretty much anything other than an American the visa is very straight forward. For most nationalities the visa is actually free, and is obtained on arrival at the international airport.''The process for the visa is also just like anywhere else in the world. You have to fill out an official Cuba arrival card, customs declaring card, and a visa card. The visa card will be stamped and you carry it with you through Cuba. If you lose it, you will have to pay a 25 CUC$ fine.''If you want to know more about the current situation for Americans check out my friend the''Expert Vagabonds Guide for Americans Traveling Cuba''.''Traveling Cuba Basics''As far as backpacking goes, Cuba is not a difficult place to do so. However with its government and embargo issues it does make a few things that should be simple a bit more complicated here. If you know these few tricks before going it will make your life much easier when arriving to Cuba.''Accommodation''There are two types of accommodation in Cuba. The first and most expensive is the government run hotels. These range from multimillion dollar resorts to beautiful historic hotels. These are great if you have the budget, but those looking for something a bit cheaper must dig into option two, Casa Particulars.''About ten years ago the government allowed private homes to open their doors to travelers. These are called''Casa Particulars''. They range from basic Cuban homes to elaborately decorated historical family homes. The money you spend at them goes directly to the families, and you usually get home cooked meals as well! The best part is Casa Particulars can be found as low as 10 CUC$ up to 40 CUC$ for more luxurious homes.''Casa Particulars''also give a great insight into Cuban culture and life.''Finding Casa Particulars couldn’t be easier as they all display the blue government symbol outside the house. If you just show up to any location there will also be home owners waiting at the bus stop looking for new guests. It’s a good idea to shop around a bit as quality and location can make a huge difference.''View of Trinidad From My Casa Particular''Transportation''Getting from one location to another in Cuba is also quite easy as the country is very well connected. Your best option is to take the''government run Viazul bus''. Every town will have a Viazul bus station either found independently or attached to the local bus station.''Havana’s Bubble Taxi’s''Viazul''buses are large, comfortable, and sometimes freezing from the AC. All of the major spots travelers will want to go are connected by Viazul as well. It is best you show up a day or two before to make sure you secure your bus tickets for where you are heading next!''If Viazul is booked up, or not going to where you need then you will have to take the collectivo taxi. Touts for the collectivo usually hang outside the bus station. Casa Particular owners also usually have a friend who is a collective taxi.''The downside with collectivo’s is that they often won’t leave until they are full, or take an hour just picking passengers up. My taxi connection actually broke down on way to Playa Giron adding an extra hour to the journey.''Collectivo usually cost about 5 CUC$ more than the Viazul, from my experience taking the Viazul is a much better option.''Take a Classic Car in Havana''Cuba’s Country Side you may Have to Ride a Ox Carts''Horse Riding is a Great Way To Get Around''Internet''Cuba is one of the least connected countries on earth! It’s a great destination to get a digital detox. If staying connected is as important to you as it is to me than get ready because it’s frustrating and expensive.''All internet in Cuba is monitored and run by the government company called''ETECSA''. Whether it’s WIFI in a hotel, Casa Particular or Public Park, you will have to use ETECSA. To get internet the cheapest way is to locate the ETECSA office in any town you are in and wait forever in line so you can buy 1 hour scratch cards for 1.50 CUC$.''My biggest tip is to buy multiple cards at once. To find internet spots just look for public squares where many young local Cubans are sitting on their phone or find the biggest most expensive hotel in your area.''If you would like to make a video call then Facebook, Skype, and What’s App will not work. You need to download an App called IMO. The''IMO App''is great however! It’s free, and the video speed is wicked fast.''Money and ATM’s''When traveling to Cuba make sure you notify your bank, as many travelers run into problems here. But as long as you have a Visa Credit Card, and it’s not from an American bank you should be fine. If the ATM declines your card then just head inside the bank and do a cash advance. The staff in the banks are well aware that many of the ATM’s decline cards.''ATM’s are found everywhere in Cuba. The only place we couldn’t find one was in Playa Giron, but they did have a bank that could issue cash advances or exchange money. If the ATM is broken or down, then just ask where the next one is and someone will definitely point you in the right direction.''The official currency is the Convertible CUC$, but the old Cuban Peso often shows up when you buy small things like pizza or water from village vendors. Try to avoid the Peso as people will try to take advantage of the currency conversions with you.''Musician on Havanas Malecon''Cuba’s Amazing Food''No matter what anyone tells you about Cuban food being terrible, they are wrong. My entire trip to Cuba I only had one bad meal. The food is absolutely delicious and diverse. I am sure that during the days of revolution or if you only stay in a resort it’s not great, but Cuba has definitely undergone a culinary revolution! Here’s a list of my favourite dishes.''Garlic Shrimp and Ropa Vieja''Ropa Vieja''Quite possibly the national dish of Cuba, Ropa Vieja is a tomato based shredded beef dish. Usually slow cooked for hours with complex spices and herbs, this savoury dish can be found everywhere! Goes great with fried plantains and beans! Price really varies depending on the complexity and location.''Seafood Pasta''There are so many variations of the seafood pasta in Cuba but the one main idea here is to jam as much fresh crab, shrimp, lobster, and scallops into it as possible. Usually found for under 6 CUC$ this is an amazing cheap!''Cuban Pizza''Ok pizza is from Italy, but Cubans are obsessed with it! For about 2-3 CUC$ you can find it everywhere, just look for the long lines of locals. It’s made from local fresh bread, and usually features an obsessive amount of cheese, fruit and processed meat. Honestly give it a go, you won’t be disappointed.''Pork Chunks with Mojo''Not the most appetizing name, but Cubans are masters of cooking pork. They marinate the meat with garlic and herbs and serve it with rice, beans, salsa, and fried plantains. The best part of the meal is Mojo.''Mojo –''Mojo is a sauce is made from sour orange juice, garlic, oil, lime and onion. It is so incredibly delicious and should be put on absolutely everything! It’s very garlicy and intense get ready!''Check out my favourite Cuba Cookbook for more iCuba''My favourite destinations in Cuba''Havana''Timeless, Havana will change you. From the minute you arrive, the peeling paint, crumbly architecture, locals playing dominos in the streets, warm sea breeze from the Malecon, Salsa music being played on every street corner and the smells of frying pork in the apartments above will dazzle you. You can spend days just getting lost in the labyrinth of life in''old Havana''. Trust me it will get under your skin and stay.''Havana’s Revolucion Square''There’s also a massive array of historical sights, trendy bars/restaurants, and experiences to be had here. Havana is, in my opinion, the most fascinating city in the region! Come here, get lost, and let Havana slowly seduce you into her whimsical beauty.''Vinales''Tobacco and cowboy country, Vinales is where Cuba’s most famous export is grown, harvested and produced. The tobacco fields are not Vinales main draw however, but instead its stunning scenery which reminisces of South East Asia.''Come here, rent a scooter, and glide past farmers pushing their cow operated ploughs through Cuba’s most dramatic and beautiful scenery before stopping and having a Mojito and Cigar with a Local Tobacco farmer. Come to''Vinales''for one of Cuba’s slower paced and relaxing ways of life.''Trinidad''Every country has that one jewel they show off. This is Cuba’s jewel. This colourful hill top filled with historic masterpieces has been frozen in time. The cobble stone streets are lined with Spanish houses of every colour all whilst back dropped by lush green mountains and beautiful whites sand beaches. Trinidad really has it all!''Spend enough time stepping back in time in Trinidad and you will become a part of her, lost in a century long ago. Hosting plenty of great restaurants and Salsa bands crawling out from every crack in the street it’s hard to leave.''Playa Ancon''Veradero''Cuba’s most famous beach! Many will tell you not to come here because it’s too touristy, but let them keep saying this as it keeps Varadero by far one of the best places to hit the beach. The 20km strip of pure white sand and bright blue waters will capture that perfect beach image your soul has been searching for.''The town of Varadero also has plenty of cheap Casa Particulars and restaurants making it a great budget beach destination. It’s a quiet place as well, not quite the massive tourist destination people describe it as.''Favourite Experiences in Cuba''Horseback Riding in Vinales''Vinales is easily one of the most beautiful destinations in Cuba, and to properly connect with the land you must do as the locals have for centuries, riding horseback. Atop of your steed you slowly move across the tobacco fields, rivers, and small villages.''You’ll be joined by plenty of other Cuban cowboys riding their horses to their fields. It’s essential you acquire a traditional Cuban hat so that you blend in of course, oh and puff and a big Cuban cigar as well, it’s all part of the experience!''Vinales Beautiful Scenery''Getting Lost in Habana Vieja''With its historic squares, dilapidated paint peeling buildings, smells of frying food, sounds of roosters and rumba music, Habana Vieja or old Havana is one of the most atmospheric destinations in the world to just get lost in.''Every corner you turn you will be greeted by domino playing men, elderly women with hair curlers, youth blasting reggaeton music, and cigar puffing Santeria practising locals. Wherever you end up it will be a dizzying shock to all of your senses. Be sure to have a day with no plan so you can dive into Habana Vieja.''Smoking Cigars in Vinales''No visit to the most famous cigar making regions of the world is complete without visiting a tobacco farm to see how the famed Cuban cigars are grown, harvested, and processed. It’s fascinating seeing all the tobacco drying in the sheds, and even if you’re not a smoker, it’s well worth understanding the passion that goes into making Cuban cigars.''At the end of visiting any plantation you are offered a cigar to sit back and puff on one of the world’s most prestigious products and share conversation with the men and women who dedicate themselves to making it all possible!''As you leave the plantation you are politely asked if you are interested in purchasing any of the cigars, if you do indulge in the occasional puff I encourage you to buy direct from the farmers. They sell their high quality cigars at a low price and buying direct offers an authentic story to share back home.''If you love Cuban Cigars as I do be sure to read the Cuban Cigar Handbook before going to Cuba so you too can be a cigar snob.''Riding Scooters in Cuba''From Vinales to Cienfuego, through Trinidad, and Varadero we rode scooters through the jaw dropping Cuban countryside. Having your own wheels allows you take Cuba’s parts unknown at your own pace. Costing about 25 CUC$ per day, you can explore remote communities, empty beaches, or farms where locals will wave you in just for a conversation! The roads in Cuba are pleasantly quite as well, making it easy for beginners or those nervous about riding enjoy the scooter at ease.''Valley of Sugar''Watch Towner in the Valley of Sugar''Playa Ancon''Exploring and Shopping in Colonial Trinidad''Trinidad is Cuba’s most beautiful, and perfectly preserved colonial town. Exploring the cobblestone traffic free streets you can step back in time to when the Spanish first came to Cuba. Trinidad is also home to some of Cuba’s best shopping. Here local artist create original art that is deeply connected to the history, and culture of Cuba.''Outside Trinidad is the Valley of Sugar. Here, one of Cuba’s most picturesque valleys you can see where another of Cuba’s largest exports is harvested, or just take in all of the beautiful lush mountains.''Budget Travel Tips for Cuba''Cuba is a fairly cheap destination to travel, but there is defiantly a few tips to keep prices down. Here’s a list of a few items I ran into that could potentially raise the prices of your trip here!''Prices for food vary greatly, for the same dish you can pay 3 – 10 CUC$ depending on which street you are on. Be sure to look around.''Set meals are usually a bargain. For 7 – 10 CUC$ you can get a 5 course meal that usually includes drinks.''Rum, Beer, and pretty much any alcoholic drink is insanely cheap at super markets. I bought a litre of Havana Club rum for 6.50 CUC$''Casa Particulars are a huge bargain, but shop around as quality really varies. I found anywhere recommended in Lonely Planet was overpriced and not worth it.''Only buy internet from the ETECSA office. Its 1.50 CUC$ per hour, hotels and touts charge 4-5 CUC$.''Taxi Collectivo’s are often more expensive and do not save you anytime, not to mention they are not the most comfortable.''Learn basic Spanish, it can really help you negotiate. Cubans are not huge on bargaining, but always try!''Asking for more rum at the bars usually gets you double or triple the rum for no charge!''Renting a scooter will save you a lot as taxis are very expensive, and usually try to rip you off.''DO NOT buy cigars off the street. Anyone who says they have cheap Cohiba’s will sell you fake low quality cigars. Cigars from the farmers in Vinales however are cheap and great!''Lonely Planet’s prices are not correct, always try to get things a bit cheaper. I got taxis half the price that Lonely Planet quoted at.''Useful Cuba Information''Books to Read'': Lonely Planet Cuba, Lonely Planet Latin America Spanish, iCuba Cook Book, Cuban Cigar Guidebook''Documentary and Movies:''The Cuba Libre Story on Netflix, Che Movie''Apps:''Maps.Me''– It’s a free offline GPS.''Imo''– The only video chat app that worked here for me.''Author – Uncharted Backpacker – Stephen Gollan''Cuba''Cuba Guide''Cuba Travel''Ganden and Samye Monastery, Tibet''The high altitude mountain trails bend and twist their way above the clouds. From one vast starkly beautiful valley to another, the trail takes you by frigid glacial lakes and impossibly high mountain peaks. Sometimes the valleys are dotted with yaks and their owners who live in primitive black tents made of yak wool, but for the most part its just you and raw nature. With its deeply spiritual, and intensely alluring culture; this is Tibet at its most authentic. Hiking between these two monasteries is one of Tibet’s greatest passages, a journey that has been preformed for centuries. Prepare to connect deeply with Tibet and its history as you follow in the footsteps of countless Tibetan pilgrims and explorers before you!''Getting to Tibet''There are only a few ways to get to Tibet. With the bus from Sichuan off limits to foreigners you are left to either fly or take the overland''train to Tibet''.''Monk at Ganden Monastery''I opted for the train from Beijing to Lhasa. The journey took a whopping 42 hours, where we passed by shimmering sand dunes, grasslands as far as the eye can see, and stupefying mountain scenery. The railway is a marvel onto itself! Dubbed as the worlds highest train journey, the tracks are heated by a water system so that they do not freeze over. Oxygen is administered into the train as well so its occupants don’t suffer from acute mountain sickness.''The train journey being almost less than half the price of flying is well worth it, and I highly recommend it.''Permits and Restrictions for Tibet''Ask anyone about t''raveling to Tibet''and you are usually left with the answer “the permits are to difficult and expensive”. While this was the case in the past,''the permits''for Tibet have now been relaxed and can easily be obtained from your tour company.''Enjoying the view of Ganden over the Lhasa Valley''Unfortunately, independent travel to Tibet is still currently forbidden by non Chinese nationals. You can be without a guide within the confines of Lhasa, Tibet’s Capital City, but other than that you must be accompanied by a guide at all times.''These permits vary from region to region, but as I stated above your company can arrange all of these with only a copy of your passport, and Chinese visa.''Ganden Monastery''In the early hours of the morning my guide Tenzin met up with me so we could arrange the last tools for our exhibition into the Himalayas. After picking up food and propane we were off to the starting point of the famous hike, Ganden Monastery.''Gelugpa monks preforming chants''Ganden Monastery''Ganden Monastery is huge, and sprawled out over a hill nearby to Lhasa. The countless prayer halls adorned in golden statues of Buddha’s and other wrathful looking deities are a spectacle onto their own.''Follow the wafts of burning juniper alongside countless pilgrims through the maze of cobblestone streets and you can find hidden gems here.''Ganden, founded in 1409 was the first Gelugpa sect monastery. You will instantly notice all of the tall yellow pointed hoods that the monks wear here. The''Gelugpa sec''t is also famed for its deep groaning like chants that the monks preform daily as a ritualistic prayer. If you only have time to visit one of the many monasteries on the outskirts of Lhasa, make it this one due to its historic significance.''Ganden Monastery''Hiking from Ganden to Samye''Stage 1 Ganden to Yama Do – 15km''The hike begins right behind Ganden monastery. As soon as my guide and I were finished exploring''Ganden monastery''we followed the trail up hill to a set of prayer flags high above the monastery. From here the trail continued on alongside a steep mountain trail.''The views were stunning looking down into the valley. You can see many small Tibetan towns and white stupas dotting the country side. This first day’s hike is not to long, for a strong hiker like me it only took a few hours as the majority of the hike is a slight decline in altitude.''Reaching the village of Yama Do we met with our cook, and yak man. We strapped our supplies atop our four yaks, had a delicious Tibetan lunch and continued towards Tsotup-chu.''Stage 2 Yama Do to Tsotup-chu''From Yama-do it’s a very long climb up. Every kilometre we trudged the grade of steepness increased. The steep climbing mixed with the continued lack of oxygen makes for one tough push if you wish to do the pass in one day.''Drokpa Nomad''Halfway up the pass we decided to stop for the night and camp beside some''Drokpa nomads''. The Drokpa live in black tents made of yak wool and reside in this region for part of the year because there is more grazing available to their animals.''Drokpa Yak Hair Tent''After making camp they invited us in for some warm and salty yak butter tea. Having a foreigner in their tent is an immense pleasure to them, we spent quiet a few hours chatting amongst each other in the smoky tent.''In the morning, we tackled the Shuga-la pass (5250m). A few hours in the altitude really hit.''Barely able to walk more than a few steps without pausing to catch your breath made the labour of a slow-paced walk an even greater struggle.''A few hours of pain and finally we reached the summit of the Shuga-la pass. Here you can see all the way down into Lhasa’s valley to the north, and peering down south into the Tsotup-chu Valley you can see a barren land speckled with high alpine lakes.''Summiting Shuga-la pass 5250m''Stage 3 – Tsotup-chu to Chitu-la''From Shuga-la the rocky trail heads down into the valley. Here the views are the best of the hike so keep your camera ready. Another great tip is to let the yaks go ahead of you, the backdrop of gorgeous scenery with yaks ploughing through the mountain side makes for stunning landscape photography.''Climbing the Shuga La Pass''The Tsotup Valley is very dramatic. The barren landscape reminisces of a Martian land. Large boulders of red and grey are strewn about while patches of moss provide the only signs of life for miles to come.''In the middle of the valley near to the glacial lake is an isolated shepherd’s hut. Here we stopped for lunch and were given tea from the lone Shepard.''After lunch, it was time to conquer the final pass of the hike. Chitu-la sitting at 5210 m is smaller than its sister pass, but equally as arduous of a climb. Many hikers tend to camp here before taking on Chitu-la, but as my team and I are quite well-versed in the sport we pushed on.''Stage 4 – Chitu-la to Samye Monastery''Finally, after a few more breathless hours we summited Chitu-la. At the top of the pass is a small pretty lake and a pile of inscribed rocks to inform you of your accomplishment. Peering down south from the pass is an emerald blue lake surrounded by piles of large boulders.''Chitu-la Summit''The trail continues through here making it difficult as our tired legs wobble on the boulders below. Passed the lake we camped on the first flat piece of land we could find. Apparently during the fall many of the Drokpa nomads camp here for grazing.''In the morning, we said goodbye to our yak man, and cook and continued down the steep trail towards Samye.''Heading down to the Yarlung Valley''These days the road from Samye has breached deep into the valley. Most travelers stop at a town about 15km from Samye and hitch a ride from there as the trail has been replaced with a dusty road. We finished at this town as well.''Samye Monastery''Reaching Samye is a breath of fresh air. Samye is located at a much lower altitude making it have a much warmer climate. There is a few decent hotels and restaurants here as well, making it a good break from the camp food we have been eating for the past few days.''Samye Town''The real highlight of reaching Samye is ending your hike at Samye Monastery. Samye is said to be the first monastery in Tibet. Located in the Yarlung Valley which is also said to be the cradle of''Tibetan''civilization.''The monastery itself is surrounded by a beautiful garden. Locals walk the exterior, gaining karma while spinning their prayer wheels. It’s a peaceful place and worthy of the last pit stop of the journey.''Gardens in Samye Monastery''Samye Monastery''Inside the monastery you will find halls decorated with ancient Thangka paintings, and hundreds of deity statues. The halls are thick with juniper and butter lamps and the chanting of monks. At the alters you will find human skull cups filled with wine or barley beer given as an offering to the more wrathful deities.''From the roof of the temple we looked over the lush green Yarlung Valley. This was it, the final sweet ending to our epic journey through the Himalayas of Tibet!''Tibetan Highland Tours''My month-long journey across the Tibetan Plateau was not just made possible, but made incredible by Tibetan Highland Tours. They got me access to sights rarely seen by many. I fell in love with Tibet because of them.''Tibetan Highland tours also is run by Tibetans, and all their guides are Tibetan. This is essential to your trip here. Only Tibetans know this land and culture! They also support many schools in the region for Tibetans. All round they are an incredible company.''Check them out here!''asia''Ganden to Samye''Hiking''Tibet''North Korea''One week into my North Korean journey I have explored Pyongyang’s vibrant districts and small mountain villages in the nation’s interior. Next on our schedule is to drive to Hamhung, Majon, and Wonsan to photograph the remote coastal regions of North Korea. These regions are famed for their deserted white sand beaches, and small fishing communities. From the Coast, my journey took me into the controversial DMZ, and finally back into the mountains to hike to Buddhist temples at Mt Myohyangsan. North Korea is quite the epic adventure!''North Korea’s Remote Northern Coastal Regions''Pulling into Wonsan after hours of driving through the mountains is blissful. The cold mountain breeze is replaced with the warm humid temperatures of North Korea’s Northern Coast. Our bus stopped here so we could explore Wonsan on foot. Locals were surprised to see us here, but everyone greeted us with a smile, I even had a soldier riding a bicycle passed me yell “welcome, don’t be scared”.''Nearby to''Wonsan''is some incredibly remote beaches in which we traveled to try our hand at surfing. Small communities here are very laid back, and gives a great insight to the life a North Korean Fisherman.''About three hours north of Wonsan is Hamhung and Majon beach. This region is relatively close to where''North Korea''tests its missiles, so security is tighter, but no one seemed to mind my presence as a Canadian photographer!''The rugged and mountainous North East coast of North Korea, near Wonsan''Wonsan port, local fisherman casting off the restaurant we ate at''These murals of the Great Leaders can be found everywhere in North Korea – Wonsan''Walking down to the Harbour in Wonsan City, North Korea''Downtown the sleepy fishing city of Wonsan, very few travellers make it here''Wonsan’s Port – Ferries used to go from North Korea to Japan''Elderly men fishing at Wonsan’s Port''Small lake near Sajon Beach, 100km south of Wonson, North Korea''Picture I took while out on the Lake near Sajon, North Korea''Kids crossing the lake at Sajon to get to the nearest school''Abandoned boat/beach in Sajon. Went surfing here!''Surfing at Majon Beach, Yes we went surfing in North Korea!''Crossing guard in Hamhung City''The “Cheerleaders” in Wonson. Most are widows who are paid to cheer.''Great Leader Monuments down town Hamhung, its only acceptable to photograph as long as you get the whole leaders in the photo''Small city on the outskirts of Hamhung''Propaganda in the small city outside Hamhung, truly off the beaten track North Korea''Majon City alongside Majon beach, North Korea’s premier beach destination''The Beach outside our hotel in Majon''Rare look into Majon city, not to many travelers make it this far into North Korea’s remote North East''Me surfing at Majon Beach, we also trained plenty of North Korean’s on how to surf and stand up paddle board''North/South Korea Border – The DMZ''Leaving the coast behind us we headed south to the DMZ (Demilitarised Zone). The''DMZ''is the controversial border between North and South Korea. Having been to the South side I was excited to see the Northern version.''On the DMZ a military escort was given to show you the history and sights on the border. The military escort was very fond of asking me about my thoughts on current politics and what my country thought about''North Korea''. It was refreshing to be able to have an open conversation, even though our opinions didn’t match. We took a photo together and he shook my hand, it might not be the answer to world peace, but at least a Canadian photographer and a Military man in North Korea could communicate with one another respectfully.''We could not stay long on the DMZ as this is one of the areas North Korea doesn’t let you explore too much of.''Photo op with my military escort after a discussion in world politics on the DMZ''A sight you see throughout all of North Korea, pictures of the great leaders.''Our Military escort explaining the North Korean Version of the Korean war''The DMZ border between the split Korea’s''Kaesong City, located a few kilometres from the DMZ. Its one of the most historical places in North Korea and filled with temples and palaces''A traditional North Korean meal in Kaesong''Local in Kaesong City, North Korea''Traditional North Korean wedding in a part of the Kaesong Palace''Hiking to Buddhist Temples at Mt Myohyangsan''From the DMZ we drove back to Pyongyang for the evening. The next few days were designated for exploring''Mt. Myohyangsan''and the Buddhist temples around it.''Driving North from Pyongyang the coast slowly disappears and the lush green mountains emerge once again. We entered the area and hiked through the mountains many trails which lead to various Buddhist temples. These days there are only a few monks left here, and the temples have more of a historical museum feel too them. Regardless, the setting they are in is beautiful.''Nearby to the temples was a museum dedicated to all of the sights that have been given to the Kim family. This massive museum was filled with everything from a train and armoured car from Stalin, to a Golden AK 47 from Gaddafi.''Resident Monk at the largest temple in Mt Myohyangsan''800 year old restored pagoda. suffered much damage during the Korean War''The entrance to the Monastery complex''North Korean monk who takes care of North Korea’s Buddhist heritage''The Bizarre but fascinating museum of the Kim Family Gifts''Who knew such beautiful sights and history could be found in North Korea''North Korea Photography and Restrictions''As in the previous post to this one many of my viewers had some concerns about my travel to''North Korea'', that I fabricate what I say to create a false image of North Korea. In my previous post I left politics out and as you will notice I did on this post as well. That reason is simple, I am a traveler, and I went to North Korea to gain my own perspective of the nation. Many of you will not agree with this decision and that is fine.''My goal with this post is to show people there is another Korea hiding behind all the politics and global issues. Obviously while I traveled in North Korea I wasn’t 100 percent free to do as I wanted, but I did have plenty of opportunities to explore areas that very few have been to.''So in saying this I encourage you to open your mind and hopefully one day we can put all our differences aside and travel together!''Uri Tours''My journey into North Korea was special. Most companies just give you the standard tour, but I chose Uri Tours which for many years has been working with North Korea to expand and show people more unseen parts of this hermit nation. If you want a unique trip to North Korea I highly recommend Uri Tours. Check their''tours out here!''asia''North Korea''North Korea''Landing into Pyongyang airport after all of the hype and nervous tension you abruptly realise where you are, the nation that is constantly flashed in the media, talked about in political debates, and known as the most secretive nation on earth. It’s quite overwhelming finally being in North Korea, but I can quite honestly say, it was one of the most exciting moments in my entire travel career. My goal for the next twelve days was to photograph as much of the people, history, architecture, and culture of North Korea as possible. This post is dedicated to the more unseen sides of North Korea, no not missile testing and dubious media jaunts, this post is for those who seek to see the real and authentic side of North Korea.''Pyongyang – North Korea’s Capital City''My first pit stop on my road trip across''North Korea''will be the capital of the country, Pyongyang. Leaving the airport the first thing you notice is how clean it is. Not one spec of garbage can be seen. Pyongyang international airport is about thirty minutes away from the city centre. Here you get your first glimpse into rural North Korea.''When we finally arrived into the city I was in a photographer’s paradise. Propaganda posters line the streets, the city folk resemble those dressed in the 1950’s, and vibrantly coloured buildings give way to large and powerful communist monuments!''Over the next few days my guide and I roamed the city photographing the real Pyongyang!''The unfinished Ryugyong Hotel dominated Pyongyang’s skyline. Taken from Juche Tower.''Elderly men fishing in Pyongyang’s Taedong River. Perfect way to end an afternoon in the city.''Soldiers pay their respects to the Great Leaders Statues of Kim Jong Il and Kim Il Sung''Pyongyang’s new districts electric architecture''Hair dresser in Pyongyang’s new district, picture on the wall states the 15 designated haircuts''Pyongyang is a retro colourful city that is a photographers dream!''Pyongyang’s urban retro landscape makes for fun photography''All women Military group who by no means were camera shy, outside of the Great Leaders Monument''Day before the military parades and announcement of the missile testing the government was setting up stands for the event in Kim il Sung Square.''Entrance to one of the world deepest metro stations, it connects Pyongyang Cities districts very well, foreigners are only allowed to use the metro with a guide''The\xa0Monument to Party Founding, downtown Pyongyang''Pyongyang’s women traffic guards are famed for their beauty, and abiding to strict traffic rules!''No other sport did I find as competitive as bowling in Pyongyang. North Koreans love to challenge you to a game''On the Science Street, I photographed a car with the license plate 727 which = Victory Day. This car is allowed only for the influential and elite!''Locals transiting to work like anywhere else in the world''Pyongyang’s busy metro system takes you back to the 50 s, super retro! loved it''Elderly man who had zero issues with getting his portrait taken, something that is not to uncommon here''Pyongyang’s public transport is extensive, everything from the Metro to busses and this electric powered tram''Kids playing computer games at the science centre in Pyongyang''Ryugyong Hotel at sunset''Metro Guard in Pyongyang’s deep underground metro system''North Korea’s Revolution Monument at the Great Leaders Statue''North Korea’s Country Side''Leaving Pyongyang behind, our''North Korea''road trip began. As you leave the city rolling green hills appear with glimmering rice paddies and momentous mountains looming in the distance. Every so often small villages peak through the hills showing their traditional architecture, and farming life. Much like elsewhere in Asia, farming is done for the most part by hand. Cows pull ploughs through the rice paddies, and the military rolls up their pants to help harvest rice.''Nearing the mountains the villages change their look. Wood structures replace the concrete ones, and smoke emerges from their chimneys due to the cooler temperatures they receive at higher altitudes. Photographing here is difficult as stopping is not an option. You must take photos from the bus window, but the odd bathroom break gives way to many photography opportunities in North Korea’s beautiful country side!''The rice harvest begins in full blast, everyone comes to help''Crossing the country means crossing many of North Korea’s high mountain passes that reveal the nations incredible scenery''Military trucks often pass by, even in the remote areas''Stunning waterfalls can be found high in the mountains''Beautiful scenes pass by from the bus window, its very difficult for the bus to stop without permission however''Our Military guide at the remote “Stone River”''Often you will only see bicycles and cows in North Korea’s peaceful countryside''Small traditional village near the Stone River''Spectacular scenery throughout North Koreans countryside, small communities hide in the mountain valleys''The Roads are massive and empty. Made wide enough to land a plane!''Mountain village architecture is remarkably different than in the lowlands''The Stone River, located North West of Hamhung, takes about 5 hours to drive from Hamhung''Life is very traditional in the country side compared to the cities in North Korea''Uri Tours''As you can see taking photographs in North Korea is not forbidden. People who say they “smuggled” photos are fabricating the truth about travel here. North Koreans encourage you to take photos. Obviously, some things are off limits like army bases for instance, but this is no different than in any other country. Uri Tours brought me to North Korea and made taking photos here and even better experience! Their guides completely understood that foreigners are naturally curious about certain things while visiting North Korea. They did everything they could to get me the best shots, and let me know when it was not a good time to photograph. See more of their''tours here''!''Interested in seeing more Uncharted North Korea? Stay tuned as I will be displaying more unseen North Korea photos in another blog post!''asia''DPRK''North Korea''photography''Tsang Region, Tibet''Left breathless from the altitude you open your eyes to a surreal scene of rolling sand dunes, pristine blue lakes, and seemingly impossible mountains. As your heart struggles and labours after each beat, and the sky turns black you believe you’ve made it to Shangri La itself. When you come to, and everything becomes clear again its apparent that your still on the road, the long, bumpy, high altitude, and incredibly beautiful road to Everest. A journey to Tibet’s Everest Region is not to be taken lightly however, it’s a rugged exhibition, but those who endure it are rewarded with the riches that Tibet has to offer!''Getting Permits for Tibet''This is what puts off most travelers wanting to come to''Tibet''. There’s the Tibet Tourism Bureau (TTB) Permit, Travel Permits for outside of Lhasa, and multiple other goodies you may need to acquire for traveling here. Luckily the times have changed. Tour agencies within Tibet can arrange these for you with only a copy of your passport, and a down payment on a prearranged tour.''Yes, unfortunately you need a tour. No matter what anyone tells you, if you are not a Chinese citizen you will need a prearranged tour to visit Tibet.''Worlds Highest Train Journey – Beijing to Lhasa, Tibet''I came to Tibet by''train from Beijing''. It’s a long 40-hour journey, but you will cross the rolling green hills and sands of inner Mongolia, the high plateau grasslands of Qinghai and finally ascend the worlds highest train journey to Lhasa. Its an incredible ride and I recommend it as it gives you more time to acclimatise. Its also a wonderful way to meet other tourists, and locals who can give you your first insights into Tibetan culture!''Guard for my Cabin''View from the highest point of the journey''Beijing to Lhasa by train costs about 170 USD. This does not include food which you either must bring with you, or be prepared to eat instant noodles for two days. Another great tip is to get the agency to book the ticket for you. You can only buy your tickets a few months in advance, and the moment they become available they sell out (when I tried they sold out in 2 minutes). Scalpers will sell agencies these tickets last minute, but you’ll pay extra, usually around 210 USD total.''Starting Point, Lhasa, Tibet''Whether you get here by train or plane, your port of entry into the land of snow is most likely going to be Lhasa. All adventurers on the Plateau start here, and end here, so you will get to know this beautiful city well.''Potala Palace – Lhasa''When I arrived in''Lhasa''I was pleasantly surprised to find out that you are allowed to explore the city without a guide. You cannot enter main sights like Potala or Jokhang, but you can explore Barkhor Market.''After four days of roaming around Lhasa and the surrounding areas I set off with Tibetan Highland Tours to Everest Base Camp!''Tibet’s most holy temple, Jokhang Temple – Lhasa''Hitting the Road, Yamdrok Lake''From Lhasa, we drove to the beautiful Yarlung Valley, famed for being the cradle of Tibetan culture and civilisation. After crossing the Yarlung River we began to ascend high up into the Himalayas. This pass is known as the Khamba-la, it sits at 4794 m and provides a stunning view down to Yamdrok Lake.''Yamdrok Lake''is in the shape of a Scorpion and is one of Tibet’s holiest lakes. Tibetans believe that wrathful deities live here, and by walking the entire circumference of the lake you will erase sins, and calm these deities.''Tibetan Mastiff''Shepard on the shores of Yamdrok Lake''Descending into the emerald blue waters of Yamdrok, we made our first pit stop at a tourist view point. The view point is a wonderful place to get photos of or with Tibetan white yaks, and the massive Tibetan Mastiff.''From Yamdrok Lake we climbed higher once again passing by the Karo La Glacier before dropping down to the medieval town of Gyantse.''Gyantse Kumbum''Gyantse is easily one of the most atmospheric, and best-preserved cities in Tibet. Apart from the recently renovated (and Built) Dzong the town itself has been saved from the modernization of Tibet.''The real draw here is the Gyantse Kumbum and the Pelkhor Chode Monastery. The Kumbum is a massive, intricate white''stupa''that resembles a mandala from above. As you circle its interior climbing to the top you pass by countless shrines that all feature beautiful Thangka paintings, butter lamps, and wafts of juniper incense.''View of the Kumbum from Gyantse hill''Beside the Kumbum is the Pelkhor Chode Monastery. This massive monastery houses gigantic statues of the four guardians in its assembly hall. It flows with the ambience of Monks lighting butter lamps as they recite their prayers.''After we left the Monastery we wandered through''Gyantse’s''ancient streets. There are many small shrines and interesting shops here to explore. Outside the Monastery itself there is a small market selling religious items such as prayer wheels and incense. It is well worth a look.''Gyantse Kumbum''Gyantse locals socialising at the Kumbum''Mandala inside the Gyantse Monastery''Shigatse Monastery''The next day we left Gyantse to Shigatse. The road is long and bumpy, but makes up for it in incredible scenery. To your left the mighty Himalayas emerge, the contrast between Tibet’s moon like landscape, and the soaring peaks of the Himalaya’s is jaw dropping.''Shigatse Family bringing monk son back to monastery''When we finally pulled into Shigatse it felt as if we had crossed Tibet, but in actuality we were not even half way! Shigatse town is the last place to truly get a decent meal and good nights sleep. From here Tibet gets decisively remote.''The main reason travelers make Shigatse a pit stop (other than decent food), is the Tashi Lhunpo Monastery. This massive Monastery complex makes for a great afternoon to wonder and explore its many brick shrines, mink living quarters, and cobble stone alleyways. One shrine stands out in particular, as it houses the world tallest bronze structure.''Shigatse Monastery''The Road to Everest''The moment every Everest bound traveller has been waiting for, the final stretch of road before it ends at the foot of Mount Everest! First, we drove to New Tingri, a small trucker town from where we got our first views of Mount Everest. \xa0The vast and empty plains reveal all the massive peaks near to Everest from Tingri. Its well worth the stop here to get a perspective on how big they really are.''Leaving Tingri you ascend in altitude fast, very fast! From just under 4000 m you will climb the 5248-meter-high Gyatso La Pass in just under an hour. From here, you can see 5 of the world’s 15 highest peaks, including Everest, the view point in which all the jeeps stop at is incredible on a cloudless day. If you get motion sickness in even the slightest form I highly recommend brining medication as this is one of the windiest roads I have ever been on.''Shepard in the Everest Valley''The Road to Everest''Villages near Everest''Closer to''Everest Base Camp''we stopped at a small village for lunch. I don’t recall the name of the village, but you must pass through it on route to Everest. Here we sampled some local delicacies like Yak tongue, and Yak curry. It was also a great place to see traditional Tibetan culture as this area is very remote.''Traditional dressed Tibetan Women''Rongphu Monastery''Finally, as you near the beast you get to see how grandeur and beautiful Everest really is. All around you the mountains are dwarfed by this legendary peak. Before we entered Everest Basecamp we stopped at Rongphu Monastery.''View of Everest from Rongphu''Sitting at 4,980 metres, Rongphu is considered the worlds highest monastery. It sits just before base camp and offers dramatic views of Everest. The resident monk will happily show you around during the day, including the alter that has human skulls used as wine cups that are presented to wrathful deities.''Monk writing scripture in Rongphu''Thangka painting in Rongphu''Rongphu Monastery''Outside the monastery is small hill, I highly recommend climbing to the stupa that is set on the top of it for some great pictures of Rongphu with Everest as its backdrop!''EBC (Everest Base Camp), Tibet Side''From Ronghpu Monastery the road continues another 6km to the yak hair tent camp. This camp is where the vast majority of travelers stay. The simple yak hair tents are set out in the traditional Tibetan Nomad manner and offer simple meals.''Everest at Sunrise''From here company transport is not permitted to go any further. To Everest Basecamp its another 3km uphill. You can either take the designated Basecamp shuttle or walk.\xa0 To be honest walking is not great, the road is very dusty and the mini vans only make this worse.''That afternoon we took the shuttle up to base camp. Base camp is simple, it’s a small hill covered in prayer flags and offers one of the best views of Everest. Unfortunately, most people make it here in the afternoon when the views of Everest are blocked by clouds. This was the case for my tour. Disappointed by the clouds, I returned to the Yak hair tent for Yak butter tea, and some rest from the altitude.''At 4:30 am I woke up and set back out towards base camp for sunrise. Even at this early morning time I could see Everest in all its glory. Leaving the Yak hair tents I walked up the road about 1km to a hill as the shuttles to base camp were not going at this hour. Climbing the hill, I found a small temple which offered stunning views and contrasts of Mount Everest. \xa0From here I watched the sun rise over Everest, and I was completely alone! The Mountain changed from blue to pink and finally ended in a stunning gold array. In the distance prayer flags fluttered and I could here monks groaning the morning prayer. This was one of the highlights of my entire trip to Tibet!''Tibet Highland Tours''Tibet is a land many wish to see, but, because of the current political situation travel seems near impossible. Tibet Highland Tours can make travel here seem like a synch. They arranged all my permits, hotels and transport while being here. They also never said no to any destination within Tibet. Another thing I love about this company was that it is a Tibetan company, and run by only Tibetans! My guides were very informative as well, being Tibetan born they gave me the best insight into local culture, sights, history and food!''Check their company out here!''Useful Information''Location:''EBC, Tibet''Costs:''Per Day – 25 – 40 USD (excluding tour costs)''Recommended Guide:''Lonely Planet Tibet''Camera:''Sony A7''Tips:''Make sure to acclimatise well, take Diamox if you get symptoms, drink plenty of water.''Tour Company:''Tibetan Highland Tours''asia''Tibet''There comes a time in every traveler’s story where scooter trips in Thailand don’t cut it anymore, where the average adventure no longer satisfies the thirsty traveler. When travelers open a world map to discuss where they are going next, many quickly disregard many of the world’s most fascinating destinations due to war, politics or simply lack of information. These areas are often talked about with a hush tone over drinks with other travelers.''Many mock those who dare to travel on the edge to these places, but the few who decided to brave the unknown are rewarded with travel at its most authentic and wild. These dark areas on the map are what adventurers are made of. The pioneers of travel did not hold back from visiting these parts of the world, so why should you! This post is my account of dodging bullets, navigating into dictatorships, living in war zones and braving the Axis of Evil!''Afghanistan''Mazar E-Sharif’s Shrine of Ali''In the early days of travel, Afghanistan was considered one of the world greatest backpacking destinations. Known for its authentic tribal warlords, beautiful scenery and incredibly rich history, (Don’t forget its famous Hash). This all changed when the Russians invaded and brought on 40 years of war, political strife, and terrorism.\xa0 Now most only think of war when Afghanistan is mentioned, but even after all of the recent events, Afghanistan’s culture, history, and incredible travel prevails.''I spent just over a month backpacking through''Afghanistan''. Starting from the north, I crossed the Uzbekistan/Afghanistan border to Mazar E-Sharif. Here I ventured to the well-known poppy field growing province Balkh, and into the nearby Hindu Kush Mountains. The mountains were filled with hidden Buddhist relics, and incredibly hospitable villages.''Continuing south I visited Kabul the Afghan Capital, the Panjshir Valley, and then I took a flight over to Herat in the far west. Kandahar was not possible due to instability and road blocks.''While I was in''Afghanistan''there definitely had been issues. Car bombs, Kidnappings, and a high Taliban official was assassinated, but saying all this I felt safe here. The Afghan people went above and beyond to keep me safe, and were extremely happy to see me there!''Check out more of my adventure in''Afghanistan here''!''Danger Rating:''DRC (Democratic Republic of Congo)''DRC is one of Africa’s most misunderstood countries. Hidden uncharted jungles, thick with Gorillas, lost tribes, and puffing volcanoes, the''DRC''has the potential to be Africa’s greatest destination. This has not happened due to the DRC’s horrific history. When the Dutch arrived here to “civilize” the nation it came with a price. Millions were killed and put into slavery and when the Dutch decided to leave they left the country divided and destroyed by tribal warlords who assumed there spot in the government.''The DRC was the very first conflict country that I had been to. I entered from Rwanda into the city of Goma. Goma had an apocalyptic feeling to it. The nearby Mt. Nyiragongo erupted covering the streets in black volcanic lava. This mixed with Poverty, decrepit colonial buildings, and refugee camps, creates a wild and chaotic scene.''Volcanic Crater Near Goma''It can be intimidating at first, but venturing from Goma you enter the unknown. Pygmy tribes can be found in the jungles to the north, jungle river adventures to the west, uninhabited islands to the south, and some of the worlds last gorilla populations in nearby Virunga national park. \xa0I spent about 9 days in the DRC and cannot wait to head back as the situation has improved since I was last there!''Danger Rating:''Iran''Welcome to the Persian Empire. Home to stunningly beautiful blue tiled mosques, exotic bazaars, remote deserts, and a culture older than the history books. Iran is quite simply one of the best destinations I have ever been. To be honest it is also one of the safest destinations on this list! But because of media Iran has been considered a risky destination in which to visit.''Shah Mosque in Isfahan''Iran has gone through some very drastic political transitions. Iran was part of the tourist trail when things began to change with the Shah. During the Shah''Iran''was a American run Liberal Democracy. This sparked the Iranian Revolution lead by Khomeini. The revolution is famed for an American hostage taking in the US embassy. Since then, relations between Iran and the west have not improved much. There is still lots of hostility.''Traveling through Iran independently I was met by some of the most hospitable people in the world. I was never in danger, and even witnessed an anti US/Israel rally. There was one incident where I was picked up by police, only to find out they wanted to show me around town!''Desert City Yazd in Eastern Iran''I spent over a month in Iran, crossing from Turkey to Tabriz and then onto the Capital, Tehran. From Tehran I went to the centre of the world, Esfahan, before heading south to the ancient Persian Capital Shiraz (Persepolis). Then off to the deserts and Zoastrian temples of Yazd.''I love Iran and cannot wait to go back! Check out more of my''Iran adventures here!''Danger Rating:''Iraq (Iraqi Kurdistan)''Iraq has seen some of this centuries most brutal wars. This nation was known for its exotic spice bazaars, lost Arabian cities, and scorching deserts. Now, most people associate Iraq with the Gulf War, Dictator Saddam Hussein, Isis, and Genocide. Unfortunately this is the reality for many parts of the country. To this day suicide bombings and conflict are a daily occurrence. Unlike neighbouring Syria, there is some stability here. In the North, Iraqi Kurdistan has created its own state within Iraq. Here there are modern and stable cities, stunning peaceful countryside’s, and one of the most fascinating cultures in Iraq! Now it’s even possible to visit Baghdad, but extreme caution should be taken.''Sulaymaniyah, Iraq, Amna Suraka Prison''I entered''Iraq''through Iran. This was the Iraqi Kurdistan region. I explored Sulaymaniyah’s buzzing bazaars, Erbil’s ancient fortresses, and beautiful Amadiya up in the mountains. I was also able to travel to Kirkuk in Iraq, and nearby to Nineveh. Unfortunately I did not make it to Baghdad so the danger rating will be based off of my experience to Kurdistan and the small portions of Iraq I entered. Look out Baghdad here I come!''Fairy Tale Like Amadiya, Iraq''In my opinion Iraq will one day become one of the worlds top travel destinations! Check out more of my''Iraq adventure here!''Danger Rating:''Libya''Quite possibly the most exciting, but little-known countries in the Sahara. When people say Libya, most know it for Gaddafi and its recent Revolution. There is so much more to Libya however. Berber Tribes of Yefren, the archaeological masterpiece that is the city of Leptis Magna, Tuareg people deep in the desert, and one of Africa’s most enthralling cultures.''During the dictatorship of Gaddafi, a few tourists could venture into certain parts of the country under organised tours, but after his death and the revolution, the country has seen political turmoil and constant terrorist activity. This has kept Libya far from the tourist radar for years.''Old City, Ghadames, Libya''In 2015, I had the rare opportunity to live and work in''Libya''for six months. During this time I traveled deep into the Saharan cities of Yefren and Ghadames, The Roman cities of Sabratha and Leptis Magna, and the Capital, Tripoli. Because of my journey here, Libya holds a special place in my heart. The people of Libya and their kind nature has remained the highlight of that trip.''Tripoli Bazaar, Libya''Libya is quiet a dangerous destination. Anywhere I went I did so because I had friends who either knew people or had guns to protect us. Often fighting broke out on the streets in front of me putting me right in the middle of the chaos. Libya is far from ready for tourism, but when it is get ready to dive in!''Check out more of my travels within''Libya here!''Danger Rating:''North Korea''The most secretive nation in the world. North Korea also known as the DPRK (Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea) is one of Asia’s last impenetrable destinations. No traveler can make it here without a hugely overpriced tour. These are the rules determined by the government of North Korea.''Talking Politics on the DMZ, North Korea''Of all the countries on this list this destination has captured the most headlines in recent years. Tensions between the comical Donald Trump and Dictator Kim Jong Un are heating up quickly. The threat of nuclear war is often thrown between these two, and Sanctions continue to be thrown upon''North Korea''.''This year I got the opportunity to visit parts of this country very few have seen for 2 whole weeks! Exploring the capital Pyongyang by bicycle, hiking to Buddhist temples in the mountains, surfing on the eastern coast, and braving the DMZ during Trumps visit to South Korea.''Kim Il-sung Square Pyongyang''North Korea was quite fascinating to say the least. This retro nation is one of the world’s last destinations that has remained authentic to its roots. I highly recommend visiting here even though you must be on a tour and will remain under constant (and I mean constant) supervision! I give it a low danger rating as there is very little threat of your safety when you are constantly being told what to do.''See more of North Korea’s wacky and wonderful on my''North Korea Trips here!''Danger Rating:''Pakistan''Pakistan really should be better known. Visas are easily obtained and the majority of the county is stable. The north is home to the incredible Himalayan mountain scenery, and the cities are oozing with exotic atmosphere. There is also an abundance of hidden mountain valleys that are home to lost Greek tribes who claim their ancestry to that of Alexander the great! Put this altogether with Punjabi, Pashto, and Tajik populations and you have one of Asia’s most fascinating destinations.''Posing Like a Local in Chitral, Pakistan/Afghan Border''Pakistan''is plagued by an image problem. Often being blamed for many of the world terrorist attacks, and having plenty of its own issues close to home which get plastered all over the world’s media. When it comes to travel, Pakistan is actually quite a safe destination!''Hunza Valley, Pakistan''I crossed from China into Pakistan Northern frontiers a couple years back. I explored the valleys of Chitral staying with Kalash tribes, and then went into the Khyber Region via Peshawar before crossing into India through Lahore. I also got the opportunity to be one of the few who have visited the SWAT Valley! I never really felt in danger here, and when there was any form of a security threat the government issued me a heavily armed escort, for free! The Khyber was dangerous, but I had to sneak in here as the government forbids travel to this region.''See my month long adventure into''Pakistan Here!''Danger Rating:''Papua New Guinea''Looking for a jungle adventure that includes cannibalistic lost tribes, primeval jungles, and uncharted lands, well look no further! The island nation of Papua New Guinea has plenty of adventures to be had. To this day there are news headlines telling stories of cannibal tribes, tribal war over women and pigs, and new species of animals being found in this lost Eden. Adventure here doesn’t come easy however!''Huli Wigmen, Mt Hagen Festival, PNG''Papua New Guinea has always been split by the hundreds of tribes who call this place home. As history shows these tribes have never quite “got along” with one another. Taking this into account with the fact that Papua is one of the least developed nations on earth and you have a bit of a risky destination to travel.''Many come here with a packaged tour which is heavily organized, but I came here independent for one month. Travel here is hard! There is no internet, barely any accommodation, and little to no information for most remote areas.''Spirit House in PNG’s Sepik Region''I crossed from the Indonesian side of Papua and visited the Mount Hagen show, mud people in Goroka, beach paradises in Madang, and rented a truck which I drove straight into the remote upper Sepik regions. Papua is wild, but with the right planning you can get here safely, but not comfortable!''I gave it a fairly dangerous rating as my truck was almost high jacked twice and while in Vanimo a tribal man speared a police officer at the market…. I told you, Papua is wild! Check out more of these''adventures here!''Danger Rating:''Pyongyang, North Korea''From the minute I decided to travel to North Korea, to the moment I returned from it, people have looked at me with concern. Before I left, my sanity was questioned by many, people believed I had a death wish, or I was looking for my next big thrill. Now that I have returned they think I may have been brainwashed or manipulated by the nation.''After two weeks in North Korea I can tell you this, it is indeed an incredible place to visit. Everything from the interesting people, stunning nature, and glorious monuments make it simply awe-inspiring. Obviously travel to North Korea has its concerns, and I will cover these stereo types and issues in this post. I will also show you a side of North Korea that most have never seen before, as I traveled overland to the north-east coast from Pyongyang.''Talked politics with this guard on the DMZ''The truth behind my choice to go to''North Korea''is because I didn’t want the media to dictate what I thought about this country. I was quite frankly sick of the cliché’s, the hate, and how close-minded people are when it comes to North Korea. With this post, I have no intention of changing anyone’s political views, starting arguments or instilling any negative notions towards North Korea and its amazing people. This is my unbiased guide/story into the most secretive country on earth, North Korea.''Photos – Off the Beaten Track North Korea''Pyongyang City view from the Koryo Hotel''Wonson Harbour''Photo''– While walking around Wonson, North Korea. I got the chance to hang out with some local fisherman to see what they were catching. Locals here were very friendly!''Photo''– In the remote North East Corner of North Korea near Majon, you can get a taste of rural North Korea. Here towns are made in traditional Korean style, and ox carts replace trucks!''Photo''– In Central North Korea, tunnels are decorated with flags and serve as the only way to pass through the counties beautiful mountains.''Photo''– North of Pyongyang a North Korean monk poses at the entrance of a 1000 year old temple.''Photo''– In North Korea’s remote northern mountains Buddhist temples can be found. This temple undertook many renovations after it was bombed during the Korean war.''Photo''– Surfing in Majon, North Korea’s North Eastern coastal regions.''Photo''– While crossing North Korea we stopped at this beautiful remote waterfall in the central interior.''DPRK or North Korea?''When you first arrive, you will hear your guides referring to their country as the DPRK. This is a question I often get asked, why do they call it DPRK and not''North Korea''? To North Korean’s their country is called the DPRK, The Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea. This is referring to their desire to have a united Korea, which includes South Korea. North Koreans believe that the war is not over, and the South is still a rogue state that belongs to them, so there is no North or South Korea just one united Korean nation.''Pyongyang’s busy metro''If you don’t want to offend the people while traveling in North Korea, then I highly suggest you get in the habit of referring to their nation as the DPRK, and not North Korea. My opinion on this is, why not? It’s their country and they can refer to it however they choose to, we don’t live there so why are we deciding on their name?''Statues dedicated to the warriors of the Korean War''Dos and Don’ts''While in North Korea there are some obvious dos and don’ts. But just because some things are obvious to some, doesn’t mean they are to all. So, for your convenience I will cover a few things you should do, and of course a few things you most definitely should not.''The Ryugyong Hotel in Pyongyang’s Centre''Dos''Bow with your guides in front of the leader statues''Refer to the country as DPRK and not North Korea''Tip your guide and drivers''Answer questions honestly – locals want to know your opinion!''Talk with everyone''Challenge locals to bowling matches''Learn basic Korean''Buy propaganda and other fun shit''Offer your guides Soju (Rice Wine)''Take photo of leaders in full frame i.e. Don’t cut them in half''Don’ts''Talk ill of the leaders''Talk about the “Rocket Hotel” in Pyongyang''Leave your hotel without a guide''Take photos of any military or police''Wander off from the tour''Tip in front of others (do it in private)''Fold the face of the leaders on a newspaper''Steal (we all know why I put this)''Take photos of people without their permission''Say bad things about DPRK while phoning home (common sense)''Widow/Cheerleaders in Wonson''Are You Free There?''This sounds ridiculous, but many people ask me how much freedom you have there. The honest answer is as much as your dollar stretches. While traveling in the''DPRK''you really can go and do whatever you feel, but for this you will need a''specialized private tour.''On basic tours you will be given options like bowling, BBQ dinners, and theme parks. If you get your own private tour you can go and do whatever you please!''Pyongyang’s war Museum''Our military guide at the war museum''While I was going solo in the''DPRK''I was able to drive out to the mountains and visit Buddhist temples, bicycle around Pyongyang, and go bar hopping at night. In a nutshell Tourism in North Korea doesn’t mean you’re in prison! The only one rule that is very apparent is you must be accompanied with your guide at all times. Your guide will translate, give history and cultural information, and probably be a life long friend.''Wonson’s remote coast''Can You Take Pictures?''This is a subject that can be very frustrating to answer. People ask me this and I tell them yes! But not of everything. People look at me like they just caught me defending some crazy dictatorship. But here’s the truth behind why you cannot take photos of everything. North Koreans know that they have a bad image, and a photo regardless of what it might be, can be used to negatively portray their nation, even if it looks harmless!''Pyongyang’s famous crossing guards''Here is an example. In the photos above you saw an image of a farmer with a wooden cart being pulled by a cow. It took a lot of convincing my guides to get this photo, why you ask? Well in most of Asia a cart being pulled by a cow is very common, but in a nation that is constantly being accused of not having enough food or money, this could look bad.''You see no matter what it is, in the wrong hands an image of a farmer taking produce to town can be twisted into an image of an impoverished nation on the brink of severe poverty. Be smart people, open your minds.''Statues symbolising a united Korea''Leader Kim Il Sung, and Kim Jong Il''Is It Safe?''Ok here we go, this is where I will get bombarded with “haven’t you seen the news?” and “They imprison and kill tourists you lunatic!” Well the facts are yes, they have indeed imprisoned a tourist who did die. But I am not here to argue facts or talk about previous events, I am just here to give you my honest opinion.''Retro apartments in Pyongyang''Socialist Monument downtown Pyongyang''North Korea''is a safe country to travel! There it is, I said it. This statement is only true however if you understand where you are traveling. Do the research, and know that North Korea is one of the most secretive countries in the world, this is not the place to play around and test the government on what you can and cannot do. Its simple, know the rules, follow the rules, and listen to your guide. Do this and it’s a fun and safe place to travel to.''Is there internet and how to contact home?''This was the biggest surprise for me, yes there is indeed internet! While I was in Majon I not only accessed internet, I got on Facebook and made a 30 minute phone call home! Now during my two weeks I only saw internet in two hotels, but hey it’s a start.''Apart from the two internet access points I found the only other way to contact home is from the hotel phones. These however happen to be incredible expensive ($5 US per minute!). So unless you are some sort of millionaire, or you have a family emergency, I would recommend trying to do the Facebook call like I did!''Brand new district in Pyongyang''Final Opinion''North Korea was one of the most fascinating, and culturally beautiful countries I have been to. I entered the nation with an open mind, and yes I most defiantly did leave with a new understanding of the DPRK.''I, like all people, have my opinions about the country, but I can tell you this; Many (not all), of my opinions have changed after visiting the county. Once I spoke with the locals and saw how the media had portrayed them so.''North Korea is a good country, filled with intelligent, and amazing people. If you have not been there I encourage you to do so before you form any opinions. Governments do not always speak for their people, a lesson we should all know from the course of history.''Travel free, and open minded, don’t let the hypocrisy of our ignorant leaders limit you. Travel without borders!''North Korea Travel Video''https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3lfODxSBJZQ''Video can’t be loaded: A Look into the Real North Korea (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3lfODxSBJZQ)''Uri Tours''When you finally make the decision to travel to the DPRK you will be left to the mercy of Google search to find you a company. Traveling here with a company is mandatory and there aren’t many that specialise in DPRK travel. Thankfully for Uri Tours they specialise in only one thing, and that is in travel to all corners of the DPRK. If you are looking for a unique “unseen” trip here then tag along with Uri tours as I did!''Check them out here!''Useful Information''Location:''North Korea, DPRK''Tour Company:''Uri Tours''Currency:''Use Chinese Yuan, it is the most widely accepted''Tips:''Always ask permission before doing anything in North Korea! Remember where you are!''Guide Book:''Bradt North Korea''asia''DPRK''North Korea''Wewak, Papua New Guinea''As we delve deeper into the unknown we lose ourselves. Every kilometre, every hour everything changes. What were once paved roads become bumpy dirt tracks, manicured forests grow wild like a scene from the prehistoric era. Even the looks the locals give us when they notice a truck full of foreigners driving into the unknown are unnerving. Papua New Guinea’s Sepik region is not for the faint of heart, it is a raw, lawless, tribal land that explorers dream of. As the jungle gets thicker, and the sun begins to set you can almost hear the beat of the tribal drums along the Sepik River. Welcome to Papua New Guinea and the Sepik River.''Wewak, Getting to the Sepik River''Open any guide book and it will tell you that Wewak is the entry point for those looking to venture into the Sepik region. This is correct! However, the guide books forget to mention that coming to''Wewak''to travel the Sepik independently is a logistical nightmare.''The Sepik River snaking through the lush Sepik Region forests''Wewak is a small community located on the coastal northern regions of Papua New Guinea. From Wewak, there are roads to''the Sepik'', but almost zero public transport, and little to no information on the region in between Wewak and the Sepik. Guide books will also tell you the only way to reach these regions is to join a pricey packaged tour, usually costing about 2000 US for only a few days on the Sepik.''Landing in Wewak my backpacking crew and I were destined to travel the Sepik independently just as adventurers before us had. We checked out different options at Sepik Adventure Tours, and the Boutique Sepik Hotel, both of which offered overpriced tours that only the truly wealthy could afford.''Stopping for Beers (and a photo!) near Warihe''Wewak is a small town and being turned down by the main tour operators was disheartening. It was getting late so we checked into a guest house called Warihe. Rooms were cheap and decently clean, but nothing to get excited about. Little did I know that this ramshackle guesthouse would be my key to unlocking''the Sepik''!''Hitting the Road to Maprik''In the morning, the owner of Warihe, Anton, Introduced himself to me. I explained how my three backpacker friends and I were wanting to get to''the Sepik''on our own. Anton suggested driving there. Perplexed with this suggestion, I instantly became intrigued, and asked Anton to elaborate this idea.''“The roads are decent, if you can drive off-road then you can drive to Pagwi, and get a boat from there” Anton said.''After some negotiating, and a few SP beers we agreed to 100 US per day for a 4×4 truck, and a security man named Stan to tag along with us. We had only the map in the Lonely Planet, and our sense of adventure to guide us.''Sketchy bridges you must cross on way to Pagwi''Luckily for us a local Sepik man named Leo approached us while we prepared the truck. Leo was an elderly man who was from a region called Wamerak which was near''Pagwi''and the Sepik River. Leo had been a tour guide for many years. He offered to guide us wherever we wanted in the Sepik region for 20 US a day! And would help us stay with locals.''In Wewak, we picked up food and water from the grocers, and gasoline for the truck. Leo also told us to get machetes. I asked him “will we be cutting through the jungle?” Leo exclaimed we will need machetes for protection, the Sepik is lawless, if you have machete no one bothers you, if you don’t, well… With that my crew and I each bought our own machete that called to us, and of course we named our new blades as well.''From Wewak, the heavily potholed road winds through the mountains south. You must drive very slow as the potholes are deep, and more than often there are people or livestock on the roads here. After an hour, we arrived at a small market town, here we picked up sausages and bananas for the long bumpy road ahead.''Locals Near Maprik''Maprik’s Haus Tambarans''Maprik is the first stop along the way to the Sepik from Wewak. From Wewak, it is about a 2.5-hour drive to Maprik. There isn’t much in Maprik itself apart from an ATM (doesn’t work often, don’t depend on it) and a few hardware stores.''The real reason to come to visit Maprik is the villages around the town. The towns of Apangai, and Lumi both have some spectacular Haus Tambaran unique to this region of the Sepik to visit.''Haus Tambarans''– The Sepik region is famed for its spirit houses, these are known as Haus Tambaran. These tall huts tower over the villages and work as a spiritual meeting centre. The outsides are decorated with natural paints, and statue effigies. Inside are traditional gowns for ceremonies, and more statues that are considered sacred to the locals. Each region’s spirit houses are completely unique.''Apangai’s Haus Tambarans''In Maprik, Leo talked with a few locals at the market from Lumi and Apangai and arranged us to visit them. A young boy hopped into the back of our truck and guided us on a dirt track up into the nearby hills. We cross muddy trails, shallow rivers, and climbed higher into the hills. Driving here takes some experience, but its incredibly fun!''The first stop was the village of Lumi. The chief met us at the entrance to his village and agreed to show us around Lumi, and Apangai for 50 US, which included both spirit houses, and anywhere within the village.''The local diety of the Haus Tambaran''Spirit protectors of the Haus Tambaran''Lumi’s Haus Tambaran was very tall. The chief told us it was relatively new, as the old one was falling apart. The spirit house had red and white faces painted all over it, along with bird sculptures, and other regional deities. In the distance rolling hills of jungles, with the odd town poking out from the brush could be seen. The scene was beautiful.''After wandering the village, we drove to Apangai which was about 20 minutes away. Apangai Village is not as picturesque as Lumi nor it he outside of its Tambaran.''The real gem to Apangai is what lays inside it’s Haus Tambaran. Inside its sacred spirt house is an assortment of costumes, statues and masks all heavily painted in vibrant colours. Delve deeper into the house and you will crawl into a room dedicated to the local god. He stands six feet tall with his palms stretching forward. His eyes and face are brightly coloured and is surrounded by shell jewelry.''Staying with Tribes in Wamerak''From Apangai we dropped the Lumi chief off and headed towards Wamerak. Wamerak is not on the map, but if you would like to come stay here its easy to get to. From Maprik, take the beautifully new paved road to Pagwi. About 20 min in you will see a radio/phone looking station on your left. Take the dirt road to the right from here. When you cross a super sketchy bridge that my trucks wheels fell through twice, you have arrived in Wamerak.''Warihe Village''The eagle we smoked and ate''Wamerak is famed for its art carvers. When tour groups visit the Sepik river to buy art, often the art they are buying is from Wamerak. Leo brought us to his cousin Markus’s house in Wamerak. Markus’s house was by far the nicest house in the village. Most houses here are huts made from natural materials. Markus’s house was on stilts and made from bamboo.''Markus was an interesting man, he was a strong believer in local folklore, but well educated and spoke impeccable English. He welcomed us into his home and his wife cooked us a great meal of sago, noodles, boiled spinach and the eagle I ran over a few hours earlier…. Yes, I am not kidding we smoked and ate road kill eagle.''Lucky for us we were also able to get some SP beer. A tip out here, always buy enough for your new''Papuan''friends, they will become your best friends and protectors for life because of this!''In the morning, Markus arranged all the local artesian to show us their work. They displayed colourful masks and weapons made from cassowary bones. My favourite purchase was one of the old shell currencies they used to buy wives with!''The possessed spirit protector of Wamareks Haus Tambaran''After we haggled over the stunning collection of art Markus brought us to the local spirit house for a ceremony. While driving here men wearing large masks covered in a sago leaf grass skirts emerged, these were the protectors of the spirit house. We had to ask their permission before entering the house. The man inside the outfit is believed to be possessed by spirits that protect the area.''Getting to the Sepik River – Arranging a Boat for the Sepik''In the morning we loaded up the truck and followed the newly paved highway to Pagwi. From Wamerak the drive takes one and a half hours before you pull into Pagwi.''When you arrive to Pagwi you quickly realise that coming here without a local who can translate and negotiate a boat would surely end in a disappointing waste of time. Pagwi has one guest house (was closed while I was there), a few shops selling snacks and whiskey, and a muddy docking area for all of the wooden banana boats.''Locals adorn themselves with scarification to look like crocodile skin''Our guide Leo talked with a man down at the docking area about renting a boat. After one hour of intense negotiating a large man covered in the''scarification crocodile skin''approached us saying he would take us for roughly 80 USD per day, and extra for gas if we go past Palambei.''Read any guide book or website and it will tell you this price is impossible. I am telling you if you bring a trusty local, and drive yourself, it’s very possible to get local price.''Our boat driver left for his boat and after about two hours showed up with a shiny new metal boat with two big engines strapped on the back. No primitive banana boat for us!''First look at the beautiful Sepik River''Middle Sepik – Pagwi, Korogo, Yentchen''We were ecstatic to be on the river! We cheered, danced, and sang strange Papuan Songs with Stan and Leo. We did it, we made it to the Sepik, on a budget!''The engine of the boat hummed as we pushed further into the remote wilderness of the''Sepik region''. Every so often small villages would emerge from the densely forested jungle river banks.''“Look, Crocodile!” Stan would called out as he almost loses his hat in the winds''Deity of Korogo''One hour in we pulled up to our first destination, Korogo. Korogo’s small community has the remnants of their great haus tambaran and the giant haus tambaran which has eagles on top of it.''A local man approached us while we docked and welcomed us to the village. Leo arranged a visit for 15 USD and our tour of Korogo began. Korogo’s old''haus tambaran''was massive, the remnants left are of the massive carved pillars. The town is also a pleasant walk, locals will invite you in to see their homes and show you their art.''First night on the Sepik River''After a few ours exploring Korogo we continued down river to Yentchen. Like Korogo, Yentchen has a similar Haus Tambaran that has recently been restored. Visiting the area can be done in an hour or less as the more interesting communities are further down river.''Landing in Palambei''Palambei, and Kanganaman''Leaving Korogo behind us we continued further down the snaking river a few more hours before docking at a small village. From here, we walked two kilometres into the thick brush. As the dense jungles of Papua’s Sepik region eventually open we could hear drums beating, and every so often we would see a glimpse of a tribal Papuan wearing traditional grass skirts peering out at us from the brush.''Sacred Pillars guarding the Haus Tambaran''There is a small skinny bridge made from a single palm tree that you must cross before entering the village of Palambei. After crossing we were awestruck by the massive Haus Tambarans. Palambei is actually two communities, with two different chiefs who keep their secrets from one another. We entered one of the main Haus Tambarans to find the drumming noise we had heard was actually a ceremony taking place.''Exploring Palambei is fascinating, you will pass by sacred stones that were believed to be fallen warriors, climb up the giant Haus Tambarans to peer out over the traditional village, and talk with locals covered in scarification to imitate crocodile skin.''Palambei was defiantly the highlight of the entire Sepik region for me! Palambei is also a great place to pick up Sepik art, as the artists here are renowned for their artisanal skills in painting and wood carving.''Palambai’s massive Haus Tambaran''Secret stones of Palambai''Art for sale in Palambei''Kanganaman is located adjacent to Palambei across the river. Like Palambei it also houses a very large and well intact Haus Tambaran. Kanganaman is where we stayed overnight before heading back to Pagwi. The locals put on a show for us (for free!), and we spent the evening sipping on Sepik beer whilst creating friendships with our hosts. Oh, and don’t forget to go for a midnight swim in the Sepik!''After a few nights exploring the Sepik River we headed back to Pagwi. Our bouat guide made a few stops to show us crocodiles, and we were back to the truck. The Sepik region is by far one of the most diverse and incredible regions of Papua New Guinea. A visit to this amazing nation would not be complete without visiting the Sepik River!''Sepik River Travel Video''https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hwxj9lvmHJw&feature=youtu.be''Video can’t be loaded: Sepik River (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hwxj9lvmHJw&feature=youtu.be)''Useful Information''Location:''Sepik River Region, Papua New Guinea''Mode of Transport:''Boat, and Truck''Tips:''You will save massive amounts of money by driving yourself to Pagwi, the roads are decent but defiantly bring a guide!''Guide Book:''Lonely Planet Papua New Guinea''Costs:''50 – 100 USD per day''Accommodation:''Guides will take you to their families huts to stay in… don’t expect luxury.''Gear:''Nomad Solar Panel, Lifestraw, Domke Shooters Bag''Oceania''Papua New Guinea''PNG''Gunung Bromo, Kawah Ijen, Java''In the far eastern regions of Java lie two extraordinary sites. The first is the massive volcano named Gunung Bromo. The second is the sulphuric crater lake of Ijen. These are two of the most impressive sites in Java, not to mention the whole of Indonesia. Sounds amazing, right? Well like most amazing places it comes with a catch. Bromo and Ijen and very remote places, making accessing here quite difficult and tedious. Transport from Yogyakarta can take up to twelve hours to Bromo and eight or nine from Bali to Ijen. The weather is also a major factor here, as clouds often cover up Bromo and heavy rains make Ijen hazardous. Apart from all these factors, witnessing sunrise at Bromo and the miners of Ijen will be an experience you are unlikely to ever forget.''Gunung Bromo''Reaching and altitude of 2396m,''Gunung Bromo''is, quite possibly, Indonesia’s greatest attraction. The landscape, resembling the surface of the moon, is unlike anywhere you have ever seen. Nearby is Gunung Semeru, Java’s highest peak, and one of the most active volcanoes in the region.''Visiting Gunung Bromo''is a must when traveling through Java. Seeing the volcanic clouds twirling around Bromo, while the sunrise streaks shades of orange and blue across the horizon, is stunning.''Getting to Gunung Bromo''There are a few ways to get to Gunung Bromo. Most travelers begin their journey from''Yogyakarta''in central Java. From Yogyakarta, your options are to take a train, plane or tour.''Flight''–''Obviously the most expensive option, but also the fastest, is to fly. You can fly to Surabaya then take the train or bus from there to Probolinggo. Lastly, it’s another few hours from Probolinggo to Cemoro Lawang (Gunung Bromo).''Train''–''Probably the best option is to take train. From Yogyakarta, there are now direct trains all the way to Probolinggo. It’s comfortable, but still takes around nine or ten hours. Once you reach Probolinggo, you will most likely get forced into taking a tour up to Gunung Bromo, although it is possible to take public transport all the way to Cemoro Lawang and arrange the rest there. This option is great if you have lots of time and are not on a tight schedule.''Tour option''–''The most popular option, and most convenient, is the tour. Just because it’s popular and convenient does not mean it’s the best option. The tours usually make promises of an AC bus, hotels with hot showers and great food. I can promise you this is not the case. The air-conditioned bus is actually a small, hot and sweaty minivan that crams tourists in like sardines. The hotels are usually cold, dirty, unfriendly shacks. The tour is not all bad, however. It’s cheap, usually starting at about $60 US, and you get to meet tons of other travelers. I recommend the tour if you are pressed for time, or a solo traveller who wants to meet others.''Top Sights in Gunung Bromo''Bromo is not just a volcano, there are many things you can do here as well. If you have time you can easily spend two or three days here, exploring some of the unknown parts of Bromo that very few people actually see.''Sunrise View Point''–''Witnessing the sunrise over''Bromo''is breathtaking. The shades of pink, yellow and purple slowly crawl down the majestic volcanic peak. Below in the crater, fog rolls in, creating a mystical scene. This is all seen at the Sunrise View Point, a designated, well known spot that you will see advertised all over the Indonesian Tourism industry. Some people walk here from Cemoro Lawas and others take the Jeep, which charges a steep 15 dollars per person. I highly recommend you take the jeep as it’s a steep, seven kilometer walk through the dark.''The jeep picks up passengers around 3:30 am and gets you to the view point at about 4:30am. From the drop off point, it’s another kilometer walk to the top. During high season, don’t expect to have the place to yourself. When I was there, I saw about three hundred people fighting at the view point.''Sunrise View Tip''–''When you reach the view point platform, go directly to your right. You will see a small wire gate with an opening near the cement wall. Crawl through here and there is a small, bush covered trail that will take you down through the forest on the hill side. Just a few minutes’ walk down will bring you to a big opening that reveals the same view as the platform, but with no noise and no other tourists.''Bromo Crater''–''The dusty crater resembles an apocalyptic scene. Almost no vegetation grows here. Often, the crater is filled with thick fog in the morning, really giving you that zombie-apocalypse feeling. Walking around here is a great experience. In order to get up to the volcanic crater, you will be required to cross the dusty plateau either on foot or by horseback.''The climb up to the volcanic crater is not difficult, but be careful as it can get slippery when it rains. Once you reach the lip of the crater, you will be in awe. Smoke billows out from the deep, powerful, vibrating crater. If you are feeling adventurous, you can climb around the rim of the smoking crater, but be warned it is very dangerous.''Trekking''–''Gunung Bromo area offers some great trekking opportunities as well. Small villages dot the lush countryside out of the Bromo Crater. You can see potato and cabbage farms, unique houses built specifically to retain heat, and beautiful vistas overlooking the valley. There are also plenty of other viewpoints that you can hike up to see different angles of Bromo.''The Sulphur Mines of Kawah Ijen''Kawah Ijen, also known as the Ijen Plateau, is the most volcanic region of the area. This boreal forest region is unlike anywhere else in Indonesia. The climate is chilly, and the vegetation resembles that of western Canada’s forests. The majority of visitors to the region are here to visit Gunung Ijen. Gunuig Ijen, which is Bahasa for “Lonely Mountain,” is an inert volcanic crater. Deep in the centre of the crater is an acidic blue lake that contains a large concentration of sulphur deposits. Paired with Gunung Bromo, these two sights are, quite possibly, the main draw of Java.''Getting to Kawah Ijen''Most people do a tour from Yogyakarta, combining both Gunung Bromo and Kawah Ijen, in a rushed, three-day blast. Coming here on your own time is a much better alternative, and will give you a better perspective of this natural wonder.''Getting here on your own really isn’t that difficult. There are two towns from which you can access Kawah Ijen.''Bondowoso –''Getting to Bondowoso is a cinch. After getting to Probolinggo from Yogyakarta, you can take the three-hour bus to Bondowoso. Once in Bondowoso, you can take public transport as far as Sempol, and then hire a private vehicle after that. Or, just take a private hire right from Bondowoso for about 750 000 Rp.''Banyuwangi –''Getting to Banyuwangi is also very simple. You can either take the train or bus from Probolinggo. Once in Banyuwangi, you can take the newly paved road by Ojek for 200 000Rp (drivers wait by the ferry harbour), which will require a few hours wait for other passengers to fill up the vehicle. Or, you can hire a private vehicle, which will cost 650 000Rp for the few hour journey.''Tour Option''–''Tours from Yogyakarta make the journey to Gunung Bromo and Kawah Ijen all the way to Bali in a two-night stressful run. The tour vans are usually crammed to the max, and will drop you off at less than appealing hotels. They also only give you a few hours to spend at each destination.''The up side to the tour is that, if you are on a time budget, as most travelers are, then you can see the both these amazing places, and be in Bali in a fashionable timeframe. You can also get the chance to meet some amazing people who have joined you on the tour! Lastly, taking the tour is considerably cheaper then doing it yourself. I have seen tours in Yogyakarta offering both Gunung Brom and Ijen together for 800 00Rp. This does not include entrance fees, or the jeep at Gunung Bromo''Top Sights at Kawah Ijen.''Kawah Ijen’s obvious highlight is the crater itself, but there is much more to do and see in this beautiful region of Indonesia.''Kebun Balawan Coffee Plantation''–''This semi jungle region offers great opportunity to grow grade A Arabica coffee. A visit to the Kebun Balawan Coffee plantation will give you a whole new perspective on the work that goes into producing some of the highest quality coffee in the world.''A tour will consist of visiting the coffee plantation, and watching the field workers harvest the beans. Then you can see the factory that roasts and manufactures the coffee into a sellable product. Nearby are some thermal pools and waterfalls that are worth visiting.''Hiking/motor biking in Kawah Ijen –''Kawah Ijen region has plenty of paved and unpaved roads. These roads give some great opportunity for hikers and motor bikes as there is very little traffic up here. From Sempol, you can ask about scooter rental, and hiking trails. By spending a few days exploring here you will get to do what very few tourists do. Visiting the Indonesians that actually live here is a unique cultural experience. Most tourists just see the crater and ship out.''Kawah Ijen Crater –''The''Crater of Kawah Ijen''is why everyone comes here. Its emerald blue lake is picturesque and stunning. To get to the crater, you will be required to do some strenuous hiking. From the trail head, it can take anywhere from 45 min to 2 hours depending on your physical capability.''As you climb up the steep trail to the crater you will be offered to buy masks by locals. If the crater billows out sulphuric smoke it can irritate your eyes and cause respiratory problems. If you suffer from any respiratory illness I would highly recommend these masks. If you are in great shape and have no issues you can hike right up to the crater rim in almost 30 minutes as I did.''At the crater rim you can go one of two ways. You can continue up the rim to the “view point” which will give you a different view of the crater. Or, you can head down to the bubbling blue acidic lake. If you have limited time, then I highly recommend you head down the crater to the lake.''Visiting the Sulphur Miners''– This was my favorite thing about Kawah Ijen. Deep in the crater there are large yellow Sulphur deposits. This is where all the sulphuric clouds originated from.''Brave miners''walk into these clouds and dig large chunks of this sulphur by hand. When the sulphur has been dug out, they haul it up the dangerous steep path up to the crater rim using wicker baskets that are placed upon their shoulders.''The miners''put themselves at much risk doing this. They ruin their lungs from the sulphuric gas, and have deformed shoulders from hauling up to 80kg of sulphur per trip up the mountain side. Witnessing these incredible hard workers is an amazing sight.''The workers get a real kick out of watching tourists try to pick up the baskets they almost seemingly barley even notice lifting. When I lifted, it I could walk, but definitely not climb up a mountain! Many of the miners are used to tourism, and will pose for a picture or two, but they are expecting something in return. A small monetary tip or a cigarette or two is fine. Think of it if it were the other way around. You would want a tip from gawking tourists as you labored away!''Blue Fire''– In Yogyakarta, you will see many signs at the tour agencies advertising the''Blue Fire''! What they are referring to is one of the processes the miners do in Ijen to mine Sulphur. In the early hours of the morning (usually 3am!), the miners light the Sulphur on fire,making the extraction easier for the day workers. The fire creates a beautiful blue blanket over the sulphur mounds.''This is a great option, but if you’re on a tour there are some issues. The first being that after being rushed and sleep deprived from Gunung Bromo, you will be required to hike up a mountain and down a crater on three hours of sleep. The second is that its quite dangerous to do this as you cannot see the clouds of sulphur smoke and you cannot see the trail in the dark.''On your own time this can be a valuable experience, but otherwise I would skip the blue flames and focus on the crater and miners.''Useful information''Location:''Gunung Bromo, Kawah Ijen, Java, Indonesia''Daily Costs:''30 USD''Tips:''Really think it over whether you want to take a tour or not, going slower here in my opinion is worth it!''Recommended Guide:''Lonely Planet Indonesia''Mount Hagen, Papua New Guinea''In the middle of it all, I pause. The hypnotic, rhythmic tribal war calls, the impossibly vibrant tribal warriors adorned in paint and birds of paradise feathers, and the incessant heat of the midday sun. In this moment of calm, you realize where you are, amidst this dazzling spectacle unfolding around you. I am so happy in this very moment. I spend my life in search of moments like this. As I begin to smirk, the pause ends and I am brought back to the present. Maybe you understand this, maybe you don’t, but all I can tell you is that at that very moment, in the middle of the tribal Mt Hagen show, I have never felt so happy to find such a raw example of human nature and being, here in Papua New Guinea.''How to Cross the Indonesian/ Papua New Guinea Border Guide''With four days until the Mt Hagen show was to begin, I sat in an overpriced, dirty hotel in''Jayapura'', a city in Indonesia’s West Papua region. The plan was to fly here, get a visa at the PNG consulate, and cross to Vanimo, the border town in PNG. From there, I would find transport to Mt Hagen. The only problem was that the consulate hadn’t guaranteed when my visa would be processed, and I had no idea what the transport situation from Vanimo would be like.''Near Sentani Airport''Crossing the Border Into PNG''Two days before, I went to the PNG consulate in Jayapura. I filled out the form, paid the fee, gave two photos, and provided a letter describing why I didn’t have an ongoing flight out of Papua. The women at the embassy said this would be sufficient and that the visa would be ready in two or three days.''PNG Embassy:''PNG Embassy is in Jayapura, Indonesia, JL Kelapa Dua Entrop, Ruko Matoa Blok 6/7. TELEPHONE (+62) (967) 531 250. The visa service is open Monday-Thursday 0900-1200 and 1300-1400, Friday 0900-1200.''Lucky for me, when I checked in at the embassy after two days, my visa was ready and I was on my way that same day to PNG. From the hotel, my travel companions and I arranged transport to the border for 40 US dollars. Considering it is almost a two hour drive, the price wasn’t bad.''Vanimo from our Guest House''Crossing the PNG/Indonesia Border''Upon arriving at the border, we were ushered through an iron gate into Indonesian Customs. The''Indonesian''guards here are very intrusive and search your bags. The customs officers were also a delight. They threw the customs form at me and refused to let me use one of their multiple pens. After crossing into PNG, we instantly felt calm. The constant beeping horns and pollution of Indonesia lay behind us. In front of us were swaying palms, white sand and friendly smiling Papuans. We had to wake the border guards up from their nap to check our bags and stamp our passports.''Vanimo from the Hill''Getting Supplies in Vanimo Town''Outside of customs, there were multiple mini vans waiting for people on their way to Vanimo. The bus cost $4 US and took about 45 minutes to Vanimo. The bus crossed many rivers while following the stunning coastline. Our fellow local passengers offered us beetle nut and were delighted to see travelers coming to PNG and riding the bus with them.''Vegetable Sellers, Vanimo Market''Vanimo, Papua New Guinea''Arriving to''Vanimo''from Indonesia is a bit of a shock. The hustle and bustle of Indonesia’s chaotic streets is replaced with the slow paced, chilled out South Pacific vibes of Papua New Guinea.''Vanimo is famed for its surfing, but for majority of the year there isn’t much going on. Apart from an outdoor market, grocery store, hardware store, airport (which is only a shack and landing strip) and a few seriously''overpriced hotels'', there isn’t much here.''Papuan Dinner with the Guest House Staff''Our Chariot to Mount Hagen''Quick Stop in Beautiful Wewak''We went directly to the airport to find out what our options were to get to Mount Hagen. A friendly Papuan worker at the airport named Marco explained we had two options. The first would be to go overland. If we were to choose this option we would definitely not make it in time, as it would involve bumpy long roads, multiple banana boats, and the chance of possibly getting stuck at any point of the journey.''The second option was to wait two days in Vanimo and pay $300 US for a connecting flight to''Mount Hagen''through Wewak. Because of the show starting in a few days this was the option we had to choose.''Tip:''The bank in Vanimo is very unreliable; it took us almost the two full days to withdraw the money for the flights form the ATM. You can only pay in cash for the flights here.''Marco showed us to the Lutheran Church guesthouse which he ran with his son. The guest house costs $50 US per night per room. Each room comes with two beds so if you’re traveling with someone you can split the price.''There isn’t much to do in Vanimo outside surfing season. If you happen to be stuck here for a few days, as we were, don’t worry. There are a few hotel bars, a local SP beer dispensary, and a lovely little beach where you can drink the beer.''Preparing for the Mount Hagen Show''Getting to Mount Hagen''Two days relaxing in Vanimo was plenty. The day of our flight to Mount Hagen had finally come. Marco woke us up at 4am to get ready. We had coffee in the Lutheran guest house with the workers before Marco lead us down to the airport.''Here we waited until 7 am until our flight arrived. Waiting for our flight was quite the experience itself. Local Papuans piled''Billum bags''full of potatoes, and leafy greens on top of heavily taped cardboard boxes on the runway. There was no security, only a scale to weigh the luggage. After your bags are weighed you can stand on the runway and watch the plane arrive.''Our first flight was aboard an old twin prop plane which took us to Wewak, another coastal city a couple hundred kilometres east. We had six hours until our Wewak – Mount Hagen connection flight, so we decided to head into town for something to eat.''Wewak is much busier than Vanimo, but its still relatively low key compared to any other city in Indonesia’s West Papua Province.''Wewak''also has a lovely strip of white sand right in front of the airport. It’s a great place to chill, have a beer and go for a swim while waiting for your next flight.''Mt Hagen and the Highlands''My Favourite Dance Crew the Huli Wigmen''From Wewak, our next flight left the emerald blue coastline and climbed higher into Papua New Guinea’s remote highlands. Flying over any other mountain chain you usually see signs of civilization, but in Papua New Guinea all you see is dense forest- covered mountains. Not until you enter Mount Hagen’s remote valley do you see deforestation and roads.''During the flight, two Papuans who had never flown before sat beside me. They asked for help with their seatbelts, and I had to calm them down during takeoff. It was incredible to see these humble people peer out the window with excitement as they experienced this for the first time.''Finally, after two flights and a six-hour layover, we arrived into''Mount Hagen''. Mt Hagen’s airport is much more developed than the other communities we had visited. Hopping into a shared minibus with four other travelers to the downtown of Mt Hagen also revealed how much more developed and busy it was here.''The streets were covered with people. Women carried vegetables, babies and pigs on their backs with string Billum bags. Men wielded machetes and pushed their livestock through the streets. The air is also quite smoky from all the houses burning wood, as the climate here is much cooler than the coastal towns.''Our mini bus dropped us off at the main market in town. It was incredibly busy, and many of the locals took notice of us. Large groups of Papuan men approached us and followed us around, making many in our group of travelers a bit on edge.''At this point, a white 4×4 pulled in front of us. A Papuan man exclaimed that it was not safe for us to be walking around town, and he would take us to a cheap guest house as he worked for the Mt Hagen tourism council. We were a little leery about this man as well, but decided to take his advice, as walking around with it getting dark did seem like not the best idea.''The Papuan did in fact bring us to a cheap guest house nearby which had 24hr security, and only cost us $15 US per night. Unfortunately, I do not know the name of the guest house, as it was unmarked and, for the most part, only available during festival times.''The Mount Hagen Highlands Show''Early the next day, we hitched a ride with a truck full of Papuan dancers heading to the festival grounds.''The Mt Hagen show''takes place 8 km outside of town centre, so you must either arrange transport or easily hitch a ride, as we did.''The outside of the festival can be visited without a pass. Here you can watch the''Sing Sing''dancers paint themselves, and warm up with their war dances. If you have not purchased your VIP entrance tickets you can do so at the main gates. Beware that there are fake officials going around at the main gate who will sell you a fake pass for a reduced cost that will in fact not allow you access to the festival. Make sure you buy the original pass which will cost 300''kina'', which is about 100 dollars.''Proud Huli Wigmen''At the entrance to the grounds there is a open field on which the tribal dancer groups enter in a confusing order. Most of the time the dancers just come in when they please and there can be up to thirty different ethnic groups dancing at once. With your VIP pass you can enter the field and photograph as you please.''Many of the tourist treat this beautiful spectacle as a photo shoot. Don’t get me wrong, I took my fair share of photos, but if you spend time watching the dancers and talking with them you will learn so much more than just taking photos. Because I took the time to learn about each individual group, they would welcome me in to dance and talk with them. Many of the dancers offered me cigarettes and even food at times. It was a great experience to be a part of.''Two of my favourite tribes were the''Enga''and''Huli''tribes. Both tribes hailed from Papua’s highland region. They also have some distinctly similar features. They both create giant wigs made from human hair, which they wear as a proud decorated hat.\xa0 The Enga dance in a uniform line, beating their drums in a hypnotic rhythm. The Huli are much more colourful, imitating the famed Birds of Paradise that are indigenous to this region.''The Huli''also have a much more war like cry to their call. Its masculine scream can be heard over many of the other tribes.''The Asaro Mudmen from Goroka''The Mount Hagen Festival truly is one of the most stunning and incredible sights I have ever seen. Papua New Guinea is very remote. Seeing the tribes here is a difficult process, but the Mt Hagen Festival allows travelers to witness all of them at once in their most glorious state.''The festival itself also brings up Papuan pride. The dancers compete with one another. This is an amazing thing unto itself, as many of the tribes, still to this day, participate in inter-tribal warfare with one another.''I spent the entire day listening to the chants, beating drums, and cheerful calls of celebration. Many times, I had to pause to take in the absolute beauty and serenity of these people, and the far-flung country of Papua New Guinea!''Festival is Finished, Time to Party''Mt Hagen Show Video''https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZmmS5uAZaiI''Video can’t be loaded: Mount Hagen Show – Papua New Guinea (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZmmS5uAZaiI)''Useful Information''Location:''Mount Hagen, Papua New Guinea''Daily Costs:''50 USD per day, plus up to 200 USD for Entrance.''Tips:''Papua New Guinea is not a cheap destination due to the remoteness, and lack of infrastructure. Travel with friends and ask locals where local guest houses are. Eat at the fried chicken and sausage booths on the streets to cut costs. Avoid faux ticket sellers at the Hagen Show.''Recommended Guide:''Lonely\xa0Papua New Guinea''Official Mount Hagen Show Website:''http://www.papuanewguinea.travel/eventscalendar''Airline to get here:''http://www.apng.com/en/bookings/''Adventure Travel''Oceania''Papua New Guinea''Travel Insurance''Travel insurance can be a confusing part of travel. Is it expensive? Is it necessary? These are a few of the million dollar questions everyone asks. Search online whether you need it or not and you will get multiple yes and no’s and numerous insurance companies trying to lure you into their grasps. With 80 countries explored and ten years of travel experience, Uncharted Backpacker can give you an honest opinion on whether or not Travel Insurance is really necessary!''What is Travel Insurance?''Long gone are the days where you could just hop on a plane and go. With a fast-changing confusing world, there are many questions to be asked. One of the most important of these questions is: What do I do if I get hurt traveling?''There is no way around it, traveling will put you at all kinds of risk. Your life will be put in the hands of a taxi driver who drives a 100km an hour through traffic, that cute baby elephant in Thailand might have an angry mother, or you may stumble down the wrong back alley only to encounter some questionable looking characters. The lesson is, things can happen, especially when you least expect them to.''Luckily for us, travel insurance is available. But, what exactly is travel insurance? Travel insurance is your guaranteed safety net that is ready to back you up when you get in trouble. For the most part, travel health insurance will completely cover you in all forms of accidents that can happen abroad!''For example, travel insurance covers:''Injuries and Hospital Visits''Medical Evacuations''Baggage/Property Theft Claims''Trip Cancelation''Prescriptions from Hospitals''Why I choose to Buy Travel Insurance''As the Uncharted Backpacker, I have been in plenty of situations where travel insurance has come in handy. I’ve had an Australian motor biker hit me head on in India, got kicked by a horse in India, and contracted Rubella/ Tuberculosis in Papua New Guinea.''After these mishaps and countless others, here I am! Alive and well. When you travel to these kinds of places, especially if you do the amount of traveling that I do, travel insurance is essential. Without travel Insurance, all those visits to the hospital could have been very expensive, and the experiences may have been made worse than they were to begin with.''I tend to travel to quite outlandish destinations these days, and you’d be incredibly surprised at which countries travel insurance companies will cover, such as Afghanistan, Libya, and Iraq! I am heading to North Korea in the near future and was even covered for there!''Avoiding Travel Scams''Every country has its list of travel scams. When it comes to visits to hospitals and clinics, many of these scams infiltrate the healthcare system. A visit to a hospital can be extended for more money, faux doctors can prescribe more expensive medications and treatments, and I have even heard of doctors working with criminals to get you to them.''If these scams make their way to you, then do not fear, as travel insurance will cover you. Even with travel insurance, you should still be on high alert, as scams can do much more harm than just draining your bank account.''Travel Insurance is a must for anyone traveling to destinations with health fraud scams!''Do I need Travel Insurance?''I constantly get asked this question, and the answer is''Always YES!''Travel insurance really isn’t that expensive, and it will save you so much money in the long run! I am a hypocrite as I have definitely traveled without it in the past, most of the time because I was rushed, or unsure if I would be covered. Now I always try to get it.''For most people, travel is not just a spur of the moment thing, giving you lots of time to prepare, but even if it is spur of the moment you should invest time to consider travel insurance. In the end, it’s a personal decision whether you get it or not, but coming from ten years of experience, I highly recommend it.''You’re thinking to yourself “I am a safe traveler,” or “I am only going to the Bahamas.” What if your airport shuttle gets in an accident? What if you trip on the sidewalk and break your ankle? What if you get altitude sickness in the mountains!! These are all real things that happen to even the most cautious of travelers… Be smart, get Travel Insurance!''What Kind of Travel Insurance is the Best?''Every traveler has their opinion on this. On my website,''I recommend World Nomads Insurance''. I like Nomads not just because I make money from them, but because they cover a large variety of destinations, and their no-hassle website is super user-friendly. Honestly, check them out. You simply enter your planned destinations, the length of your stay and they’ll shoot you a quote; easy as that. Their prices tend to be lower than any other company I have used!''For some destinations, Nomads won’t cover. For example, they won’t cover my trip to North Korea. So, I went with a local bank here in Canada called RBC. I would have much rather went with Nomad as I am used to using them, but remember that there are always other options.''There are also several options to consider when buying insurance. For example, there is travel specific insurance like photographer’s insurance, which covers expensive equipment that a pro photographer might have.''When it comes to backpacking, I always just go with the generic insurance, however, as its affordable and covers pretty much all my needs.''Check out World Nomads Here''!''Here’s a look to what World Nomads Insurance Covers:''Worldwide Health Coverage:''Yes.''Theft/Damage Insurance:''500$ Per Item''Coverage at Home'': No''Medical Evacuation Insurance:''Yes''Trip Cancelation Insurance:''Yes''Making a Claim''No matter what the incident, the first step is always to contact your insurance provider. With any insurance company, there will always be the fine print.\xa0 Nobody is going to remember all the details, and that is why first thing is to contact them!''The company will always help with the paperwork as well. Upon arrival at a hospital, the staff there will ask you to fill out forms. These forms may or may not make you liable, so be sure to talk them over with your insurance. Paperwork is important!''When having any conversation with your insurance company, a hospital staff member or the police, make sure you record the conversation. This way, you will be able to review what happened. During an incident, you may be in shock and the adrenaline rush might make you forget fine details that may be important later on.''Travel Insurance Tips''When an incident occurs, the main thing is to remember everything that happens…. Everything! Read the fine print, take photos of all the documents. Write down names and details of all of those who get involved.''When accidents happen, it’s also important to remember to keep calm. This is easier said than done! To help with this, a good idea is to get educated. Start with an advanced CPR, First Aid, and AED course. This will help you manage stressful situations. It’s also a good idea to have basic knowledge in first aid, as you may not be able to get to a hospital right away.''Be prepared mentally, and have travel insurance in place! Be a smart traveler!''travel guides''travel insurance''travel tips''Lower Omo Valley, Southern Ethiopia''The sharp look of a war paint covered Ak-47 wielding tribesmen enters my gaze. The deep blast of horns fill the air as women beg to be whipped with tree branches. The dust rises as the hypnotically chanting tribal groups continuously jump up and down. It’s an absolute shock to the uninitiated, a scene from National Geographic documentaries that you watched as a child playing right before your eyes. It takes time to take it all in, but when you do you are filled with a whirlwind of emotions. Who knew such a place on earth, so beautifully primitive and culturally shocking still existed in this day and age. This is the Lower Omo Valley, in Southern Ethiopia.''Getting to the Lower Omo Valley''Is it easy to get to the''Lower Omo Valley''? This is a question I am often asked, and the answer is a matter of money. With a large budget, getting here is as easy as joining one of those safari packed overpriced exhibitions that usually leave you with a sour taste in your mouth.''If you don’t happen to have a large sum of expendable cash to blow on a pricey tour, there does happen to be realistic alternatives for you! With this guide, not only the rich and famous can have a complete, tribal, immersive experience.''Entertainment while we were broken down''Public Transport –''From''Addis Ababa''you can catch one of the 12-hour public buses to Arba Minch from the Autobus Terra near the Merkato. Once in Arba Minch, you can either spend a few days (which I highly recommend!) or hop on another connecting bus to Jinka from the Sikela bus station. This part of the journey will take you around 6-9 hours, depending on stops and road conditions. Once in Jinka, you can take minibuses to the major market villages Konso, Omorate and Turmi. If you would like to visit some of the nomadic Mursi tribes or a remote bull jumping festival, then ask at any of the hotels or speak with one of the freelance guides that approach you, as the big guiding companies can be very overpriced.''Hitch Hiking –''I personally took public transport all the way to Jinka, but from Jinka I hitchhiked all over the Lower Omo. Finding rides is usually quite easy, but I did have to wait a few hours a couple times. Hitching to''Jinka''from Addis Ababa is possible, but there is plenty of more room for problems as well. In the Lower Omo on the other hand, hitchhiking is a way of life, and your fellow hitchers tend to be tribal groups on their way to market.''Tour''–''This is the most expensive option. Tours can start from''Addis Ababa'', Arba Minch, and Jinka. The closer you are, the cheaper the tours can become, but also harder to arrange if you are alone. If you are dead set on taking a tour, I recommend you take the public bus to Jinka, and ask around there. There are plenty of freelance guides in Jinka who would be more than happy to arrange a short tour for you.''Hamar Village Entrance''Arba Minch and Dorze''Arba Minch is a great half way point stopover on your way from Addis Ababa to the Lower Omo Valley. Arba Minch itself has very little to offer other than overpriced tourist agencies, but the sights surrounding Arba Minch are great!''Nechisar National Park''To visit Nechisar you will have to pick one of the local tour agencies in''Arba Minch''. With a days’ notice, they can arrange the mandatory armed scout and guide to take you into the National Park. Our guide met us the day after we arrived at 8 am. We got into an old 4×4 and drove to the plains of Nechisar. Here we saw plenty of zebra and gazelle as well as an array of different kinds of baboons.''The “Crocodile Market” in Arba Minch''The highlight of Nechisar is the dubbed “Crocodile Market.” After visiting the Nechisar Plains, you will board a boat and head out on the lake. The locals know exactly where the crocodiles like to hang out in the midday sun. Once you arrive there, you can see why they call it the Crocodile Market. Tons of these guys are basking in the sun, swimming, and posing for pictures. I saw one croc about 5 meters long! Nearby, we also saw plenty of hippos.''Dorze –''Hayzo Village''From Arba Minch you can board the bus heading up to Dorze in the Guge Mountains. The hour long journey goes straight uphill into a misty, forested region. Here you can see the village of Hayzo, with its two-story grass huts.''It is mandatory to take a guide here as well, but it’s actually quite a pleasant experience. The guide keeps the children and souvenir sellers at bay while he shows you around the village. During one part of the tour, you learn about the arts and crafts locals do, and then you bake''Kocho,''a flat bread made from fermented sawdust.''Hayzo Village in Dorze''When the tour finished, we were invited into one of the local’s houses for coffee, local whiskey, and a''khat''chewing session that went on for hours!''Khat''– You will see Ethiopians everywhere chewing these green leaves.''Khat'', which is a mild euphoric narcotic, is chewed by the majority of people in the Horn of Africa. The effect is mild, but the chewer usually gets chatty at first before they begin to taper out. Often it is paired with coffee or alcohol.''Visiting the Tribes of the Lower Omo Valley''There are many tribes in the Lower Omo Valley, but these are the ones I visited. Most travelers come here for these tribes. Some of the more remote tribes will take much more planning and money to visit.''Ari Tribe''–''The Ari are the Lower Omo’s largest tribe. The Ari are very industrious blacksmiths, farmers, and potters. Most these days wear western clothing, but during special occasions, they don grass skirts and beads. Most of the Ari reside in and around Jinka.''Hamar Tribe –''Famous for their bull-jumping ceremonies, the''Hamar''are one of the largest tribes in the valley. They are easily recognizable from the red clay they put in their hair and the animal skins they wear. The men also wear a clay bun atop of their head, usually symbolizing a kill from a hunt or tribal warfare. Most of the Hamar tribes reside near Turmi and Dimeka.''Hamar Dancing Before Bull Jumping Ceremony''Karo Tribe''–''East of Turmi are the Karo Tribes. Their numbers are quite small in comparison to the other tribes. The Karo cover themselves in white body paint, creating fantastic designs all over their bodies. While you visit a Karo village, locals will grab their guns and proudly pose for photos (for a fee, of course!).''Karo Posing Above the Beautiful Lower Omo Valley''Mursi Tribe''–''The Mursi live a semi-nomadic life in Mago National Park, west of Jinka. They are the most famous tribe, and probably the main reason most travelers want to visit the Lower Omo Valley. This is because of the lip disk that the Mursi wear.''The Mursi''are also one of the most aggressive tribes because of their popularity. Regardless, they are a fascinating people and a highlight of any visit to Southern Ethiopia.''AK-47 Clad Mursi Women''Photographing Tribes the Lower Omo Valley''I am a traveler, but I am also a passionate photographer as are most people in my industry. With my love of photography comes a desire to get great shots, but in the Lower Omo Valley, you must be conscious about this.''The people of the Lower Omo Valley have been getting visitors for quite some time now. When they see cameras they are not shocked, in fact they know exactly what they can get out of that mysterious little machine, and show very little respect to those carrying them. This unfortunate reality is because of snap-happy tourists who have little to no respect for the people here.''Visiting one of the Lower Omo’s Amazing Markets''If there happens to be a tour group when you are visiting one of these tribes, you just might get to witness how awful things can get. Tourists rush off their mini buses wielding their camera like a firearm and blast away. With zero appreciation of where they are and what incredible people they are visiting, they shove their cameras in the local’s faces and demand National Geographic quality photos!''Clay Bun Hamar Men Wear''How can we avoid this and still get great photos? Some travelers will tell you not to take photos, others will say, “Who cares? Do what you want.” To break it all down is simple. The tribes in the Lower Omo are people, so treat them like it. If you talk to them, interact with them, and treat them like human beings, they are much more inclined to let you photograph them. Not only will you get a great photograph, you will get a memory that will last you for your life.''The moral of the story is to be sensitive with your camera. Do not endorse the horrible ways of those disrespectful tourists who care only about photos. At the end of the day, we came here to experience the tribes, not photograph them.''Lower Omo Valley Markets''Visiting the markets in the Lower Omo Valley are a great way to see many tribes all at once. Jinka and Dimeka have the largest markets on Saturday, while Turmi is on Thursdays. You do not need a guide to visit the markets so it can turn into a great way to interact with the different tribes.''These days, a few of the tribes have caught on to the popularity the markets have with tourists. The Hamer especially are keen on selling products geared to tourists. This isn’t a bad thing in my opinion. Most of the products are handmade, some of them are even antiques. Each tribe makes their own unique items as well. I see it as a great opportunity for the tribes to make a bit of money, and provide tourists with a great insight to local arts and crafts. Be prepared to bargain hard!''I visited all of the markets while in the Lower Omo Valley. Jinka’s market was a highlight as many Mursi came to buy supplies, many of whom were actually wearing lip disks. Some of the Mursi that I interacted with even showed me their scarification!''The Dimeka market had the most crafts to purchase. Most of the crafts were Hamer made products. Some interesting buys were the leather marriage neck hoops, spears, beaded jewelry, and the odd old artifact.''If you’re looking for a more off the beaten track market, then time your stay for Turmi’s Thursday market. There were only a handful of travelers at this one, and a lot fewer tourist vendors.''The Lip Disked Mursi Tribes''While in Jinka I stayed at the Goh Hotel. Arriving here later in the evening gave me time to plan to visit the Mursi the following day. The receptionist recommended her friend from the Goh hotel who was a freelance guide and also happened to be half Mursi. For $75 US our guide arranged transport for me and three other travelers.''The next day, we visited the Jinka Saturday market first. Here our guide introduced us to a few Mursi people who came into town to buy machetes. Communicating with the Mursi would normally just be with hand signals as English is not widely spoken here, but our guide spoke the local Mursi dialect so we could communicate freely with them.''We left the market early so we could spend the rest of the day in Mago National park visiting several villages of the Mursi. We drove for several hours over bumpy, sandy roads. Several times, we had to get out of the van as it crossed over shallow rivers.''Deep in the thick brush of the Lower Omo’s prickly Savanah, we came to a fence made from intertwined tree branches. A man wielding an Ak-47 approached us, and our guide calmly asked us to wait in the van as he negotiated a visit.''The man brought the chief who agreed to let us stay for as long as we liked…. For $30 US of course.''“This is how the laws work out here” our guide exclaimed to us!''We paid the chief and he led us into the village. Upon entering the village, small children ran up to us trying to happily hold our hand while their other hand tried to dig around in our bags and pockets.''The chief brought us to one of the small grass huts and our guide translated that if we wanted to take photos then to just pay the individual. At that point, the locals grabbed their most traditional looking gear. Some wore leathers while holding Ak-47’s while others had Hippo tusks on their head… or just a basket.''After explaining that we wanted to take photos, but first we wanted to just talk and learn about their culture, the attitude changed very quickly. The women smiled and touched out hair, while the men let us play with their fully automatic rifles!''Many of them were exhilarated at the opportunity to talk to us and ask us why we do some of the things we do. It was one of the best cultural experiences I have ever had!''At the end, we said our goodbyes and they wanted to pose for photos… for free! They didn’t just pose, they were proud to do so.''Bull Jumping Ceremony of the Hamar Tribe''From Jinka, we hitchhiked down to Dimeka where we met a couple who were heading out to a bull jumping ceremony. After talking with them they agreed to take us there as well.''We drove for several hours on roads made of red sand. The jeep struggled at many points, especially near the river crossing where we got stuck multiple times.''Hamar Women Begging to be Whipped''Nearing the ceremony, we followed the countless men donning animal skins and war paint on their faces. Many of them had a clay bun atop their head, and a long feather sticking out from it. Arriving at the village where the ceremony was held, we could hear the horns, singing, and drums of the''Hamer''in the distance.''Preparing the Bulls''It was a swarm of painted people dancing, singing, and creating as much noise as possible. The locals here took very little notice to us, as they were much too focused on the celebrations. The air was thick with smoke from the recent hunting kills cooking in the huts.''Hamar Women Preforming Pre-Jumping Dance Ceremony''Suddenly all of the celebrations stopped. The men created a circle and began to dance with their firearms. The women then proceeded to line up and beg the men to whip them with a tree branch. It was a painful scene to watch as the tree branch dug deep gashes into the women’s backs. One by one the women begged for more of this.''We learned that the scars on their backs from the event demonstrated their love for the boy who would be becoming a man!''After the beatings, we all left the village and walked to a hill nearby. This is where the actual bull jumping would take place. The young boy who was to become a man this day emerged and was ushered to pick the bulls he would jump. He selected around 20 bulls and they were put into a line. The naked boy then jumped up and ran across the backs successfully.''Picking the Bulls Out''If the boy is successful he will become a man, to fail is absolute humiliation! Everyone cheered as the boy successfully ran across all the bulls back without falling.''The Boy Becomes a Man!''Masters of Body Paint, the Karo''The next day in Dimeka, we arranged a ride to one of the Karo Villages. The village was only a few hours north and the drive was very scenic. The Karo village was located on a cliffside overlooking a beautiful river valley. The houses were much more condensed here. The walls were built from mud and the roofs were pointed and made of grass.''The Proud Painted Karo''As with the other villages, we were approached by the appointed leader who we once again had to negotiate a price with to enter and stay in the village. The Karo wanted significantly less money and were much more willing to show us into their homes.''After they showed us a few of the local customs and their fully automatic weapons, they walked us over to their favorite hangout spot. This very spot provided one of the most stunning views we had in the entire Lower Omo Valley. Here they posed for photos and enjoyed a few laughs with us.''Useful Information''Location:''Lower Omo Valley, Ethiopia''Daily Costs:''50 USD per day''Tips:''Travelling here on your own is not for those who enjoy comfort, be ready for hitchhiking, insects, bargaining, and less than appealing accommodation, but in exchange get ready for the trip of a lifetime!''Recommended Guide:''Lonely Planet Ethiopia''Recommended Gear:''Nomad Solar Panel'',''Spare Camera and GoPro Batteries'',''Lifestraw''africa''Ethiopia''Gilgit and Chitral, Pakistan''When your mind finally clears, you feel it. It’s a feeling deep inside. It’s a feeling of excitement, nervousness, and a strong desire to delve deeper into the unknown. Here Jacob and I were, experiencing this very feeling, riding atop an old, rusty bus, crossing the remote Shandur pass In North East Pakistan. Our destination is Chitral, a series of mysterious valleys located deep in the Hindu Kush. As the warm apricot scented wind blew across our faces, and we marveled at the impossibly beautiful mountains, the feeling only intensified. “This is exactly where I want to be.” It’s not often I say this to myself but, being in such an incredible moment, it seems plausible. This is Chitral, in North Pakistan.''Polo in Gilgit''From''Hunza'', the road winds through mountain valleys that travelers have been passing through for centuries. Marco Polo and Chinghis Khan passed through these very valleys. The scenery is incredible; fluorescent blue lakes below, black mountains towering high above, and massive glistening glaciers of blue and white.''In the olden days you would cross one of these lakes via an old ferry. Those days are now gone, however. The ferry sank a few times, making this journey dangerous for the locals. Recently, the Pakistani government issued''China''the rights to blast tunnels through the massive Karakorum Range to connect these remote valleys.\xa0 A journey that once took seven or eight hours can now be completed in just under two.''Gilgit Bazaar Area''Jacob and I arrived into Gilgit at midday. It was quite the contrast from upper Hunza and''Gulmit''. The streets were bustling and loud. The locals here dress much more conservatively as well.\xa0 We found a cheap hotel named Horizon Guest House right next to the Gilgit Bazaar.''The first thing we noticed as we walked the streets of Gilgit was the military presence. Often, whole streets were closed down without notice. Heavily armed soldiers guarded intersections alongside tanks, and snipers on the rooftops. Gilgit defiantly felt “tense”.''There’s not a whole lot to see here, as Gilgit is a transit town between northern Pakistan and the south, as well as our destination, Chitral, to the west. The one thing that Gilgit is famous for is Polo. Gilgit’s locals are renowned to be some of the fiercest and finest Polo players.''After exploring the Bazaar, we walked to the Polo pitch. You have to be lucky to catch a game as they are usually seasonal, being played in the spring or fall. We just happened to be that lucky. Tickets were only cost us a few dollars. Seating is up to you. There are indeed VIP sections, but these don’t offer as good of views as the pitch side seats do (nor do they offer the thrill of almost being run over by a horse!).''In the Midst of Battle, Gilgit, Polo''After''Adhan''played, the game began. The players raced their horses into battle, often falling off their steeds as they collided. The Polo sticks were used to hit opponents as the ball. Players would hit each other and do whatever it took to drive that ball forward. At one point in the match, a player actually flipped his horse which landed on top of him…. Needless to say I don’t think he survived the ordeal. An ambulance came and removed the player, and the battle continued on.''Crossing the Shandur Pass''From Gilgit, the road climbs gradually to the''Shandur Pass''. This 3810m high pass separates the Gilgit and Chitral regions. After you cross it, you officially start descending into the Hindu Kush. The entire journey is a little under a few hundred kilometres, but because of road conditions, security checkpoints, and the quality of transportation, you can expect the journey to take anywhere from 18-24 hours.''After the Polo match we found the small Chitral transport hub in Gilgit. It’s little more than a small shop with one bus, and it is quite difficult to find. We asked around and eventually the locals pointed us in the right direction. Tickets were bought for fewer than 20 dollars for the whole trip. The bus was to leave at 6 am.''Nearing the Shandur Pass''Locals Joining us on Top the Bus''In the early hours of the next day, we arrived to the bus office. The bus was old, but had very rugged tires on it, indicative of the journey were about to take. The bus depot employees spent the first few hours piling everything from sheets of wood, satellite dishes, and food products in and on top of the bus.\xa0 We used this valuable time to have Chai, and various deep-fried breakfast goodies across the street with the other''Chitral''bound passengers.''The seating arrangement was cramped, but not terrible. Many of the locals introduced themselves to us in the first few hours and wanted to hear our story, they seemed particularly interested in why we decided to''travel to Pakistan'', and Chitral.''The hours passed by and the scenery only got more magnificent. The valley opened up as we followed the roaring blue rivers up hill. As we rolled on through, the mountains showed there true dominance over the region. This is defiantly some of the best Himalayan mountain scenery I have ever seen.''The first town we stopped at was Gupis, a small bustling market town. Here we had lunch and were allowed to continue the journey riding atop of the bus. Many of the other passengers joined us on top smiling and taking in the beautiful scenery.''Every hour we would have to stop at a military checkpoint. Some would initiate a small interview with Jacob and I. Others would photocopy our passports.''Shandur Pass Tip:''Bring at least 20 copies of your passport; some of the checkpoint took over thirty minutes to photocopy our passports. If you have a copy in hand you can just hand them to them and be on your merry way.''Nearing the pass locals would see us and yell out “Chitrali, Chitrali!” One of the passengers explained to us this was solely because travelers never make it this far, and Chitrali people tend to have coloured eyes and light hair. They were mistaking us for Chitral locals.''Ascending Into Chitral Province''When we finally ascended the Shandur Pass it got cold… very cold. The bus had picked passengers along the way so it was too full for us to get back in. After 18 hours and riding in the dark, our bus pulled into Mastuj and told us that they will not be going any further due to the roads not being in good enough condition for the bus to finish the journey. Jacob and I stayed here in a government run guest house, which the local police authorities escorted us to.''Sketchy Roads to Chitral Town''Chitral and the Hindu Kush''In the morning, the police escorted us to the Jeeps that plow through the last remaining roads to Chitral. Now I am only going to say this once, do not attempt this journey if you are scared of heights, or death defying roads that barely cling to the side of mountains.''Our Jeep struggled as it pushed through tire high mud, sometimes within inches of a 1000m drop to the bottom of the valley floor. Often we would have to get out of the Jeep as we crossed the bridges as they might collapse if there was too much weight.''Chitral Town looking at the Hindu Kush Range''Four hours passed and we reached the opening of the valley, and final exit point of the Shandur Pass. Here we spent yet another hour being interrogated by police, and government agents, questioning how we made it here. Eventually, they let us into the Chitral Zone.''We arrived early enough into Chitral town.''Chitral''has a very exotic feel to it. Most locals wore the pancake flat hat, and it’s not uncommon to see brightly dressed Kalash tribe’s people, with their striking blue eyes, shopping in the local bazaars.''Our Jeep dropped us off at the Bazaar where yet another police escort was waiting for us. The checkpoints must have called ahead to tell the others that two adventurers were on their way. We were escorted to the police station where we were issued a Chitral Zone Permit. The chief of police then issued us our very own police escort who was to follow us until we left the Chitral Zone. I will leave his name out for his safety; I will refer to him as George from now on.''The Rumbur Valley''Police Escorts:''In all of the dubbed''“''dangerous” areas of Pakistan, the government will issue you a police escort. At first this will seem very intimidating but, in fact, not only do they provide security, they make great translators, bargainers, and essentially act as local guides. The Pakistan government does not charge for their services at all! They make traveling to these regions a lot easier. Thanks, Pakistan!''Our Police Escort/Guide/Translator/Wine Finder''We left the police station and went straight to the bank to get more Pakistan Rupee. George showed us the way. We slipped pass exotic spice markets and butcher shops displaying their fresh meat. The people’s faces displayed the diversity of this region.''Money Tip:''Do not arrive here without money to exchange. We did, and almost had to leave as all the ATM’s were not working. Luckily one of the bank tellers escorted us to all the ATM’s he knew. The very last one allowed my card to withdraw money, but not Jacob’''s.''Money attained, George and his machine gun in hand, we set off to the transport hub that climbs the mountain passes to Kalasha!''People of the Kalasha''The Kalasha (also known as Nuristani), are a Indo-Aryan Dardic group who reside in the lush valleys of the Chitral region near the Afghanistan border. Their culture, language, clothing, and way of life is very unique compared to the other tribes of Pakistan.''The Kalasha people speak their own language called Kalash, it is completely different from the local languages Chitrali and Urdu. Along with their language, the Kalash people are easily identifiable amongst there Pakistani counterparts. Most''Kalash''still dress in coulourful traditional clothing, but men often wear the traditional Pakistani Shalwar Kameez.''Another distinct feature you will notice is how the Kalash people look. Their eyes are piercing, usually bright blue or green. They trace there looks and culture back to Alexander the Great, who they all believe they are decedents from. It is believed that Alexander left part of his army here in the mountains when he conquered the area.''Our Kalasha Host Mother''The Kalash have their own religion. It’s slightly confusing at first, but is based on spirits, nature, and animistic beliefs. There is a creator god and he often appears in many forms, It actually resembles Hinduism in many ways. This is very unique compared to the rest of Pakistan, which is strictly Muslim.''Traveling to the Kalasha Valleys''From the Kalash transport hub near the main bazaar in Chitral town we hunted for our ride into the valleys. Finding a ride isn’t that difficult, just look for the colourful clothing of the Kalash people or the bright green eyes and ask them for a lift!''Young Girls Sporting the Traditional Kalasha Hats''Our police escort helped us with translating as many of the Kalash these days can converse in Chitrali and even Urdu. Our new Kalash friends told us that they were just picking up a few more supplies and then they would be more than delighted to give us a lift up the mountain passes of the''Hindu Kush to Kalash''.''When visiting the Kalas,h you must know that Kalash refers to a few remote valley high in the mountains that connect into Afghanistan. There are two main valleys, however, the first is Bumboret.''Bumboret''Bumboret is the most developed of the valleys. There is comfortable accommodation and easy access to many sights here. The downside is the culture has largely been affected here, and many of the Kalash have converted to Islam, abandoning their own culture and beliefs. At the time, there had been much flooding and the road to Bumboret was also largely damaged, making access here very difficult.''Rumbur''The second valley is known as Rumbur. Rumbur is the most traditional of the Kalasha Valleys. Between the two main villages of Grom and Balanguru more than 70 percent are distinctly Kalasha who follow their unique culture. Rumbur is also the best place to find homestays and stay with a traditional''Kalash family'', who will give you an in depth look at their ways.''Our new Kalash friends happened to be from Rumbur, the valley we had decided to head to. They told us the journey would be dangerous as the floods have affected the roads ahead.''Grom Town in the Rumbur Valley''Getting to the Rumbur Valley''We loaded supplies onto the rusty 4×4 and set off into the Hindu Kush. Our driver was a young man whose eyes were such vibrant green color that he stood out in any crowd here. Accompanying us was also is younger brother and an elderly women dressed in the traditional black and orange colours of the Kalash.''As we climbed high into the mountains, the roads became less than appealing. The flood had wiped out most of the bridges and softer parts of the roads, so make shift bridges made from large fallen trees replaced the missing road. Jacob and I rode on the roof of the jeep at this point to help ease the nerves of crossing some of these horrific roads.''After four death defying hours of bouncing along crumbly roads, we arrived into the Rumbur Valley. As our bus pulled up to the main town locals began to emerge to see the two new foreigners who have arrived. It really was quite the sight arriving into a valley full of traditionally dressed local tribal people all curious and excited to see us. This is what real adventure is made of!''Staying with the Kalash People''Our driver showed us to the Kalash Home Guest House on the outskirts of Grom town. The owner, Engineer Khan, is a delightful man who is always pleased to see new guests. Engineer has been house travelers and adventurous alike for over 30 years. His guesthouse has a few brightly coloured rooms for around 15 dollars a night, including all meals. He also provides free accommodation for your police escort.''That evening, Engineer brought us some local wine (alcohol cannot be found anywhere else in Pakistan!). We drank wine, shared stories of our adventures, and learned about these unique people’s culture.''Cooking Naan with our Host Mother''The next day, Engineer’s son took us around Grom town. We visited a few other houses and hiked to the top of Grom hill, where a Kalash religious monument is placed. Here, he explained more of the religious customs of their people. He also told us stories of how their language and culture is all derived from Alexander the Great. The Kalash are truly a lost and mysterious tribe.''Locals Hanging out at UN Relief Centre''Hiking to Afghanistan''From Grom, George walked us along the road towards Afghanistan. We bypassed more small villages along the way, some of which had no names. The villages were stunning. Fields of vegetables were being ploughed by buffalos driven by beautifully adorned Kalash women. It was like stepping back in time.''Locals Covering Their Face from Camera''The further we traveled towards''Afghanistan'', the more remote it felt. George started to shows signs of being nervous as this is quite a sensitive area. George handed me his AK 47 and told me maybe I could carry it for a while… of course this turned into a photo op.''My Photo Op at the Afghan Border''We arrived to a military checkpoint and had to ask for permission to continue on, as at this point we are technically in Afghanistan. Not too many foreigners make it here, so the police were actually quite relaxed with our presence. They allowed us to continue on for a small bit to a view point where we could take photos, displaying how we walked''straight into Afghanistan''. They told us not to go further than this view point, as security past there could potentially get very dangerous.''Trekking Supplies''The Kalash Valley and the Hindu Kush''We left the stunning Afghan scenery and headed back to Grom town. When we arrived, there was a large market with grain trading going on. Many of the women had come out for the market, making this colorful spectacle a photographers dream. Do take note, however, that the Kalash people are not too fond of having their photo taken. If you come here and decide to take photos, do so delicately.''The Stunning Hindu Kush''Over the next few days, we ventured off around town visiting locals who were more than happy to bring us into their homes and serve us tea and food. Our police escort became more relaxed and often stayed at the guest house while we ventured out.''We spent a total of four days in the Rumbur Valley. There is plenty of hiking opportunities here, but the highlight was definitely mingling with these incredible, diverse people. Engineer made everything possible for us here; he was a translator, a Kalash food expert, and the man who got us the forbidden wine we had been craving. When it came time to leave, Engineer arranged for another 4×4 to take us down the Hindi Kush to Chitral Town.''The drive back to Chitral was beyond breathtaking. As we descended into the Chitral valley, the sun was setting of the massive Hidu Kush Range. The mountains glowed bright orange and the deep valley a mysterious blue. I sat atop the jeep with my eyes glued to this incredible sight. My heart filled with excitement, my head swimming with thoughts of the road that lay ahead!''Useful Information''Location:''Kalasha Valley’s, Chitral, Pakistan''Daily Costs:''50 USD per day''Tips:''Use your free army escort as a guide/translator. There is wine in the Kalasha Valley’s, find it!''Recommended Guide:''Lonely Planet\xa0Pakistan''Adventure Travel''asia''pakistan''So, you’re not a superstar blogger who gets paid to travel, and you didn’t win the lottery or be given your grandma’s million-dollar inheritance. You work full time and have a deep passion for seeing the world. How do you manage to do this with a limited budget?''This is a question I get asked all the time. When I tell people I have traveled as much as I have, they automatically assume there is some secret bank account full of money that I don’t mention. The truth of the matter is that I work hard and limit myself from spending too much on material items. However, there are definitely some tips on how you can travel as much as I do with a limited amount of money. I have worked as a Lifeguard for ten years now to afford my travel!''#1 Budget and Put Away a Certain Amount of Money Every Pay Cheque''Once you finally decide, “Yes! I am going to''take that trip''I have always wanted,” the first thing you’re going to need is money. Traveling can be very cheap if you are willing to make sacrifices. You must ask yourself if you are comfortable staying in a dingy hostel dorm, or if you would like a bit of comfort. It’s a good idea to also consider the costs that go into seeing the destination you’re going to, such as transportation and possibly tour fees.''Once it’s all clear what the approximate costs for your trip will be, then it’s time to put away money every paycheck. That probably means less eating out, shopping at the thrift store, and less beer money… oh, I am hurting with you, don’t worry.''#2 Keep Positive''Having your financial issues figured out, the next thing you’re going to have to face is keeping positive. Nobody saves up enough to travel in a week, more than often it took me upwards of six months to save up for a trip!''Time can really kill your dream of travel. As the months go on, it seems like it takes forever for the trip to come, but you must learn to stay positive. Watch travel television shows (“''Departures''” and “''Parts Unknown''” are my favorites), or buy an international cookbook and cook the food of your destination. Whatever helps keep you focused on the trip, do it!''#3 Buy a Ton of Guide Books''This one is one of my favorite things to do to keep positive between travel times. Guide books give me new trip ideas, teach me about the country itself, and they are filled with beautiful images to inspire me to get there. They are also quite cheap! Depending on where you shop,''Amazon''tends to be the cheapest option (often cheaper than the guidebook company’s sites themselves).''My two favorite Guide books''are''Lonely Planet''and''Bradt''. Lonely Planet books are a great source of up to date information and are filled with stunning photography. Bradt guides are best for the more off the beaten track destinations. If you’re looking to travel to say Mali, Iraq or Sudan, then check out Bradt.''#4 Take Leave or Find a job with high Turnover''So now you must figure out your work situation. This can be easy if you decide on a two-week trip, and work gives you two weeks’ holidays. More than often this is not the case. In the past, I have planned a one month trip, only for it to turn into a three-month\xa0multi-country extravaganza after I bought a new guide book.''How do I deal with this''?''I have always worked in industries with high turnover, meaning that certain times of year they need employees, and other times they don’t. This is a perfect situation! Unfortunately, this may not be the case for you. Not everyone wants to be a Lifeguard like me.''In the past, some of my friends have traveled with me. They would get leave from their jobs for about one or two months. Again, this might not be your situation. In the end, you must decide how much traveling means to you.''I can go on for hours about why you should quit your job and find a new one because life without travel is not life at all, but I won’t. Instead, I will simply leave you with this: If you are fortunate enough to live in a country where jobs are plentiful, and quality of life is high, then take this advantage and use it to see the world, as there many others who want to and cannot.''#5 Don’t Buy Materialistic Items''This doesn’t mean cut out all you’re shopping, you do not want your life between trips to suck all together. Once you’ve decided you want a life of travel, you just give up on wanting expensive things.''When all my friends graduated from university, they got great jobs. With these jobs, they bought apartments, cars, expensive clothes, and other items which they flaunted with pride. For them, this was what they wanted, so good for them for buying this stuff. I wanted to travel. So, I gave up wanting that new car, paid rent to my parents, and gave up a lot of what makes some people happy. In return, I got new experiences, new languages, new friends and an appreciation of the world!''#6 Plan Trips Around Weekends''This one goes for those who must work with meager holiday time. When it comes to planning trips, time is usually always the issue. If your work likes to treat you like their slave and won’t give you time off, then you either quit, or you’re going to have to plan better.''If you get two weeks’ holidays but don’t work weekends, then take that into account. Even better is to plan your trip based on weekends and stat holidays. Sometimes this can add a week or more into your trip! Traveling during holidays can be great as well. Many countries celebrate the same holiday or have a different kind of festival during this time. Going on trips during holidays like Christmas can also be a great way to get away from the cold of winter if you happen to live in freezing ass Canada, as I do!''#7 Get Creative''You’re probably saying, Stephen, you’re off your rocker. Seriously, though, my creativity has made me lots of money to help with traveling! When I was 19 years old, I started a small business for fun. I had recently visited India and brought back some whole spices. I ground the whole spices into blends which I learned while traveling in India, and I sold them at a local market.''After eight years of doing this, it has turned into a profitable business which I do in my spare time. It’s helped me pay for so much traveling, and gave me something to keep busy with while I am home. Find something you’re excited about, whether it’s a hobby or a real passion, and give it a go. You never know what it might turn into.''#8 Strategic Planning''How much planning do I, the Uncharted Backpacker, put into a trip? The answer is – a lot! Literally, from the day I decide I am going somewhere, to the day I arrive there, I am planning. I plan accommodation, transport, locations, festivals, you name it.''Planning in this detail can help you with knowing the exact amount of time and money it’s going to take to do the trip without any hiccups. Without this planning, you are going to run into many issues. With it, you will be able to plan a daily budget, know when embassies or certain sites are open and figure out if the holiday time you have will be sufficient. Start planning!''#9 Get a Job Abroad''Not everyone can get time off from work and not everyone has the money saved up to travel. If this is your case, then why not consider working abroad?''A working holiday can be a great way to truly see a culture. You get fully immersed in the way of local life, you meet new friends and more than often you get to spend a sizable amount of time in the country.''The most common of these jobs is''teaching English abroa''d. For the most part, all you need is a cheap ESL or TESOL certificate which can be obtained usually in just a few days at a college or institute near you. You definitely don’t need to speak the local language, and there are thousands of jobs online! I did my TESOL certificate and had a job in Libya within three weeks!''#10 Be Smart when Buying Flights''Your flight alone is going to be one of your biggest expenses when it comes to your trip. If you know the industry, however, you can avoid paying absurd prices to fly!''Flights change price almost every day. The first time you look at them they could be double what they will be in a week! If you are going to be able to afford traveling, then you’re going to have to master the art of getting cheap flights. The biggest thing of all you must realize is that flight companies want you to pay the max\xa0amount that you will pay. They use cookies, advertisements, and sly marketing techniques to lure you into paying more than you should. To avoid this, you must educate yourself in the fine art of searching for bargain flights.''I have written a full detailed article''HERE''for this very thing. Check it out!''#11 Start a Website''Many bloggers have written about how to make your own travel blog and make millions of dollars… well, this isn’t reality. Making a travel blog that makes you money and gets you free travel is entirely possible, but it’s also incredibly hard. It takes years of good writing combined with advanced marketing techniques and quite honestly it is an incredibly saturated market!''So why am I recommending this idea? I created my website to keep me motivated! A place where I can be proud of my traveling, from where I have been, to where I will go next. To quite simply put it, making your own travel blog is fun, and will help you plan trips, and connect you to others doing the same.''#12 Be Realistic About Where You Travel''Be realistic when you travel? Well, I want to travel for six months through Europe and then fly to Tahiti via a shopping trip in Dubai! For some, this may be realistic, but if you’re still reading this post, I am assuming that the trip mentioned above is probably not the most likely trip for you to undertake.''Traveling Europe for six months is possible! With advanced planning, a bit of extra cash, and a keen sense of budgeting. Hell, shopping in Dubai and sleeping on a beach in Tahiti can happen as well! But you must do the research for this to happen.''Understanding where you are going, when you are going and knowing your budget will ultimately get you out the door sooner. If you follow the previous 11 steps, then you will be well on your way to being realistic of what is possible for you, and traveling sooner!''motivaiton''travel''I began traveling with the GoPro in 2013 on my second trip to India. Ever since then I have fallen in love with this mini action packed camera. Throughout my years of travel I have enjoyed using many of GoPro’s accessories, however, not all of them are created equal.''As a professional travel blogger, I can honestly tell you that the world of travel pairs incredibly well with this powerful little cam. I never leave anywhere without my GoPro anymore. Currently, I am using the''Hero 4 Black Edition'', GoPro’s top end model. But in the past, I have used many other of the models which also worked great!''During my travels, I have recorded awesome videos of''diving with whale sharks in the Philippines'',''rock climbing to the rock-hewn churches in Northern Ethiopia'', and motorbiking across the Himalayas over the world’s highest pass.''The GoPro is simply unmatched by other travel video cameras!''This is a list of GoPro Accessories that I have found incredibly useful while traveling! Don’t waste your time trying out other accessories, just check out my GoPro accessories I take along with me when I travel!''The Pole''There are many versions of the pole, but “''The Pole''” is the original, successful brand that has created such huge success amongst GoPro travelers alike. This durable GoPro pole Extends to 28″ (72cm) for that perfect shot and then Retracts to 9″ (22cm) for easy storage. The Pole is made exclusively for GoPro.''Using The Pole in Papua New Guinea While Hitchhiking''The Frame''The easy clip-on basic Frame for the GoPro is quite possibly my most used accessory. The Frame reduces the size of the GoPro and allows for better sound quality. It is also essential if you are going to clip add-on like the GoPro Microphone. The Frame comes with a glass protective lens and an ultra-light frame that clips on and off fast for when you need to put your GoPro in a different housing.''I use''The Frame''more than any other housing because of the sound quality. When traveling there will be many scenes that you want to video whilst catching sound in high quality. The Frame is not good however if you are in bad weather conditions, as it does not protect the camera from the elements.''I find with the Frame because it is not in a bulky housing the video quality is usually a bit crisper.''HD Microphone''The perfect add on to anyone wanting to film those moments where the sound is key. There have been countless times where I wish I had the GoPro Microphone but hadn’t. My most recent times that The Microphone come in handy is when I filmed Mongolian Throat Singing in Western Mongolia.''The HD sound capabilities really added to the videos quality.''The Microphone''easily clips on through the side of The Frame, making it quick for those spur of the moment videos. As for traveling, HD sound has become an almost necessity nowadays.''I find that the GoPro camera itself does not have the best sound recording capabilities. So adding on this mini Microphone makes for a perfect HD video with HD quality sound!''https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gbKrYFkyuXE''Video can’t be loaded: Mongolian Throat Singing – Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gbKrYFkyuXE)''Dive Housing''Designed specifically for Deep Sea Scuba Diving this Ultra durable and waterproof housing is good to 197’ (60m). The housing allows you to catch all those fish and shots you wanted while still being small and discreet. The Flat glass lens delivers maximum image sharpness above and below water.''I use to travel with a Fuji Camera and special housing. It was big and bulky. Now because of the GoPro, I never have to worry about this.''The GoPro Dive Housing''pairs great with the Red Diving Filter. Take your GoPro to new depths and record every part of your adventure!''Dive Housing Down at 30 m''Red Diving Filter''Designed to use with the Dive Housing, The GoPro Red Dive Filter provides color correction while capturing footage in the Ocean at water depths of 15′ to 70′ (4.5m to 21.3m). Its scratch-resistant, optical-grade glass to ensure optimal image clarity while diving in the tropics.''The Red Filter really makes diving videos and pictures more vibrant and colorful. Without the Dive Filter, many of your videos/pictures come out looking very blue. Even correcting the shots with editing programs will not come out looking as good as with the Red Diving Filter.''It clips on and off easily with no extra tools.''The Dive Filter''is a must for any traveler who’s planning to plunge into the depths of the Ocean.''Great for when heading to any warm tropical destination like, South East Asia, Caribbean and anywhere else in the tropics!''Blackout Housing''There have come many times while traveling when filming or photographing needs to be low profile, like in museums, or sensitive areas. Thanks to the Blackout housing this can be accomplished by making the GoPro camera much more discreet.''The sleek matte finished''Blackout Housing''and LCD concealment stickers help eliminate light reflection from the housing’s LCD window while still keeping it waterproof to 131’ (40m). Perfect for those “Special Opts” filming times during traveling.''Go undercover with the Blackout housing!''GoPro Chesty''I prefer the Chesty over the head mount because your chest tends to move a lot less than your head. This makes for some extremely stable high-quality filming while you’re on a motorbike, Sky Diving, Scuba Diving, Cycling, and many other sports activities.''You’ll end up capturing more of your arms and feet while''filming with the Chesty''giving the video a more real first person view of whatever you’re doing providing an ultra-immersive perspective.''GoPro Tripod Mount''This compact mount allows the GoPro to be compatible with almost any tripod on the market. This is fantastic for traveling because you will be able to mount it to the same tripod you use for your camera. You can also mount it to those funky bendy tripods that wrap around poles or other items.''The Tripod Mount''is small and easy to pack. It has been an essential tool in my line up of GoPro travel accessories.''GoPro Smart Remote''This Smart Remote has come in handy many times. More specifically when I am filming myself from a distance or when I want that cheesy selfie.''The Smart Remote''allows you to control some of your GoPro’s setting from a distance of up to 600’ (180m) with this wearable, waterproof remote. The remote allows you to film those trick shots, like riding a motorbike past it or swimming around the shot while diving.''The remote also allows 40% increased battery capacity compared to just using it without it.''GoPro Hard Case''The GoPro Hard case is specifically designed to take a beating. No longer will you have to worry about your GoPro and accessories after you checked them in your luggage on the plane, or put them in your backpack under the bus.''The Hard case also comes with hidden slips''to store SD cards and other important GoPro tools. If you are willing to push out the notes for the GoPro and its accessories than make sure it’s protected with this sleek hard case on your next adventure. The Hard Case is also water resistant in the event of unexpected weather conditions.''LCD GoPro Touch BacPac''Unless you have bought the Hero 4 Silver Edition, then your GoPro has no LCD screen. This detachable LCD screen is a must for anyone who takes taking videos and pictures serious. As you video, you can watch it frame by frame.''The LCD also allows you to review your videos/pictures afterward. The touch LCD backing does, however, kill your battery fast. So it’s best to come with a backup. Nowadays when you purchase a new housing it usually comes with the extended backing for the LCD.''All the settings including brightness can be set through the LCD as well making it much quicker to change settings for that unique shot. \xa0When reviewing videos, the LCD has built-in speakers and headphone jack so you can hear the sound as well.''Grenade Grip''When you are not needing the extra length from The Pole, then this rubber gripped short handle will do the trick. It’s smaller and more compact than the pole making it better for packing. The rubber enforced grip helps reduce the chance of losing it whilst flailing your hand out a car window, or clinging to the side of a Tuk-Tuk for your dear life.''For a different, smaller alternative to the Pol check out the Grenade Grip made by the same company as The Pole!''GoPro Travel Tips and Tricks''Make sure to bring an extra battery or two. The GoPro is notorious for its battery dying right when you need it. The average life of the GoPro battery tends to be around only 30 min, even less than that if you are using the LCD or another add-on.''Don’t move around too much. The GoPro is a small camera, meaning the video will come out shaky even with lighter movements. Accessories like the Chesty and Tripod mount can really help reduce the shake in the video.''4K and ProTune mean less space. When you are using features like the Protune and quality setting 4K you will get a lot less video. When I say a lot less, I mean cut your 32GB down to about ten minutes of video time.''My GoPro Video’s''Want to see some of my GoPro Footage? Check out my Youtube channel''HERE''to see where I have taken the GoPro to.''gear guides''gopro''photography''products''travel gear''video''videos''Paro, Bhutan''As you climb higher, past the ancient weeping cypress trees, across the bubbling stream that powers the giant prayer wheels, ascending into the clouds, you realize why this place is so sacred. Getting to Bhutan is a journey unto itself, but to take the trek up to Taktsang Gompa transports you to another world. Maybe all the talk about finding “enlightenment” or “oneself” has some credibility after all. This place would seem to indicate just so. Taktsang Gompa is an incredibly special location. As I climb through the clouds to a mystical Buddhist temple, I can’t help but thinking: This is Bhutan, at its most glorious.''Destination Bhutan''I have always wanted to''visit Bhutan''. This little Buddhist Kingdom, tucked away in a remote northeast corner of the Himalayas, has always been a bit of a mystery. This is because of the challenges associated with getting here. These days, the only real obstacle is the very expensive daily tariff imposed by the Bhutanese government. Luckily for me, I had an opportunity to explore this country for free with a company called''Druk Asia.''As I sat in the Singapore Airport at 5:00 am, waiting for my flight I am full of anticipation. When the flight finally boarded, I was instantly immersed into Bhutanese culture. My fellow passengers were wearing the traditional''Gho'', a Bhutanese garment that everyone wears, and the airline that flies to Paro is named Druk Airways.''Paro Dzong Overlooking the Valley''After four hours and a pit stop in Kolkata, we got our first glimpse of the Himalayas.''Kanchenjunga'', the third tallest mountain in the world, looms high above the clouds. When we descend blow the clouds, green mountains covered in untouched forests emerge.''The plane takes a massive left swerve, flying in between two mountains, before descending towards one of the most dangerous landing strips on earth. Looking out the window, you feel like the plane is nearly touching the mountains.''When you finally land, and you exit the plane you hear it: Silence. Only the chirping of a few crickets, and the mountain breeze can be heard. The first impression you have is how peaceful and serene this nation is.''Looking down at the “Tigers nest” aka Taktsang Goemba''The Paro Valley''Exiting the airport doors, my guide Sonam Wangchuk greeted me. Sonam, who had been a guide for almost 8 years at the time, was to be my new guide/friend with whom I would explore Bhutan for the next two weeks. Leaving the airport, we immediately went to our first destination in the Paro Valley: The Paro Dzong.''Paro Dzong''A Dzong is a Bhutanese fortress or castle that would guard Bhutan’s hidden valleys and trade routes. They are easily noticed when you arrive at any valley. You will also see these powerful structures towering above most of Bhutan’s towns and cities. All the town’s politics, religion and municipal laws are governed from within these buildings. They still govern Bhutan’s provinces, just as they have for centuries.''Bhutan’s Version of the Castle, the Dzong''Paro Dzong''is a great example of a Dzong, and awesome first sight to see in Bhutan. Red robed monks walk around, chanting, while the locals don their coloured sashes that indicate their status in society, all within giant white and red stone walls. Inside, we saw the temple and a few government offices. For me, the real draw was just watching the people go about their daily lives, here in the castle of Paro.''Wandering the Courtyards of Paro Dzong''Monk Chanting in Paro Dzong''National Museum''Perched high above the Paro Dzong, in what used to be the watch tower, is the National Museum. Recently, there had been an earthquake that caused damage to the infrastructure of the watch tower. As a result, the Museum artifacts are now being held in a building nearby.''Earthquake Damaged Watchtower''The museum provides a great insight to Bhutanese way of life, culture, and festivals. There is also a section of the museum that shows the diversity of wildlife in Bhutan with a few taxidermy models, including those of the takin, and snow leopard. My personal favourite section was the hall of masks. In this hall, they have all the masks used in Bhutanese Cham Mask Festivals.''Apart from a look at Bhutanese history, the Museum provides fantastic views over the beautiful valley. There is a two-hour hike from here up the mountain, but I opted out as I would be hiking to the Tigers’ Nest the next day.''Kyichu Lhakhang''Just outside of Paro Town is the temple of Kyichu Lhakhang.''Kyichu Lhakhang''is one of Bhutan’s oldest and most beautiful temples. The temple is believed to have been built to pin down the leg of a giant demon in 659 by King Songtsen Gampo of Tibet.''The Temple is situated near a small community surrounded by yellow barley fields. Often, the roads are being used by more cows than people. The mountains tower over the valley, making it very picturesque.''The Temple Holding Down the Demon, Kyichu Lhakhang''Entering the grounds, the first thing you will notice is the red robed monks, of all ages, walking around, grunting prayers and spinning the giant prayer wheels in the back. The setting is beautiful and incredibly peaceful.''During ceremonies, you will hear the deep bass from the drums, the grunts of chanting monks, and the loud blasts of the trumpets and conch shells. Being here for a ceremony is great, but keep in mind you will not be allowed inside the temple itself during this time.''Giant Prayer Wheels at Kyichu Lhakhang''Inside the temple there is a 5m tall statue of''Guru Rinpoche'', and some incredible wood work. A unique statue within the temple is the Red Tara holding the bow. Be sure to check this out.''If you happen to be staying at one of the resorts/hotels nearby (which most tourists end up doing), then you can easily walk here in the early morning or late afternoon to hear the monks pray. It also will give you a valuable insight into how the monks wake up and preform their morning tasks.''Shopping for Antiques in Paro Town''Paro is a small town, but one thing it has many of is souvenir shops. Luckily for Bhutan, the shopping here is exquisite. China’s influence has not made it here with its cheap lifeless souvenirs. Instead, Bhutan has set up many “antique shops” along the main street in Paro.''While I was in Paro I bought a 150-year-old trumpet from one of the temples here in the Paro Valley. The trumpet came with a red sealed government stamp which allows you to take it out of the country. The trumpet is incredible! It has no welds, just interlocked metals.''My favourite Antique Shop in Paro''Other items of interest could be traditional Thangka paintings, instruments made from human bones, flags, conch shell trumpets, and various other antique items.''Prices are high, but so is the quality of the items. Check out the Bhutan Made shop where I bought my trumpet. Their selection was fantastic.''Paro Nightlife''Such a peaceful country based on farming and a Buddhist life might give you the impression that there is no night life here… well that thought would be wrong. When the sun sets, the neon lights turn on, calling in everyone to switch their traditional''Gho''for jeans, and tea to beer. This is a great chance to see the Bhutanese let their hair down!''A warning: the Bhutanese can drink, and drink a lot they can! Don’t try to drink them under the table, because they will most likely win.''The night life starts off with Karaoke, but not the kind you and I are used to. At Bhutanese Karaoke, “professional” singers wait on stage, calling on the audience for tips to initiate whatever song you want them to sing.''After Karaoke is when you head on down to the dance clubs. Usually underground and not signed, these places are a sight unto their own. They blast western music mixed with Bhutanese/Indian melodies, and the locals dress in western clothes. Its not too far off from a dance club in the west!''Paro Dzong''Crossing the River to Paro Dzong''Taktsang Goemba''After getting a great feel of''Paro Valley''the previous day with my new friend Sonam, it was time to see the main sight in Paro, and the most well-known sight in Bhutan, Taktsang Goemba.''Waking up and leaving at 6 am gave us the upper hand, as we were trying to make it to Taktsang before any other tourists. We arrived at the trailhead by 6:30 and began the hike. The hike is 8.5 km roundtrip, and takes the average hiker 3-4 hours, including stopping to see the temple.''The first bit of the trail enters a misty forest. We walked past some giant prayer wheels that are powered by some small, bubbling streams. Shortly after this, the trail starts to have a steep grade as it climbs up the mountain. Sonam and I were both quite fast hikers. We climbed to the teahouse, which is the halfway point, in about 30 minutes.''Trail head to the Tigers Nest''The teahouse is where you get your first look at''Taktsang Goemba''. As you sip on tea during the chilly hours of the morning, the misty clouds swirl around the gravity defying temple, high above in the mountains. Often, the temple is covered up, but if you wait long enough, it reveals itself like a water colored painting. It is truly beautiful.''Tea finished, we set off. The climb from here gets very steep. If you are a strong hiker it will only take 15-20 minutes to reach the next viewpoint, but most can take up to an hour with frequent breaks. When you finally reach the top, you walk to a platform which is famed for having had the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge take a selfie here. You can see why!''Water Powered Prayer Wheels''Buddhist Stupas to keep Demons away''It is hard to peel yourself away from the view point considering from here you must go down a few hundred steps, and of course straight back up those few hundred steps on the opposite side of the valley.''When we finally arrived to Taktsang we were rewarded with being one of the few to make it this early in the morning. We could hear the monks chanting from the inner halls of this vast and mysterious temple. Upon entering, you must leaving your camera and bags with reception, as no photography is allowed inside the sacred site.''Sonam lead me through the different corridors of the temple. Many of the rooms still had monks chanting their morning prayers as juniper incense billowed out of the large ornate brass doors. Sonam explained the significance of why this temple is known as the “''Tigers’ Nest''.”''Taktsang Goemba breaks Through the Clouds''“''Guru Rinpoche''came here in the past to meditate. To get here, his wife turned into a flying tigress, which he rode to here. Now, when tigers fly they become like a bird, and birds nest. That is why the nickname “Tigers, Nest” stuck!” exclaimed Sonam.''We visited one of the portions of the temple where there is a small cave that is said to be where''Guru Rinpoche''meditated, and the chamber where his powerful dagger-like weapon is held.''Guru Rinpoche''–''Padmasambhava, also known as Guru Rinpoche, was a Buddhist master hailing from India. He is the most depicted figure within Bhutan and has had more impact than any others here. Most guides refer to him as''“''second Buddha,” as he is widely believed to be the reincarnation of Lord Buddha. He is easily recognized, just look for the curly moustache and piercing eyes!''Heading back down from the temple takes significantly less time, but with the clouds clearing it is hard not to look back at this beautiful, and sacred place. As the morning mist was almost gone, the Tigers’ Nest loomed high above once again. This time, I could see it every step I went down the mountain. Here you can feel it: this place is special. It contains something that we can’t understand as simple travelers!''Travel Bhutan Video''Druk Asia''Bhutan is a unique destination to visit. One of these reasons why is because it is so remote. Entering Bhutan, you are required to be on a tour. Most travelers will not like the sound of this, but depending on the tour company, traveling here won’t feel like a “tour” at all. Druk Asia did everything for me to feel as if I was still traveling independently. Their tours offer a private car and guide for a similar price to a bus packed full of tourists. they are flexible and designed for those of us not looking for the regular “tour” experience. In my opinion, Druk Asia is the best company out there for anyone who is looking for a unique experience to Bhutan!''Check out DRUK ASIA Here!''Useful information''Location:''Paro Valley, Bhutan''Daily Costs:''Bhutan has a daily tariff of 250 US per day which is all inclusive.''Tips:''Start the trek to the Tigers Nest\xa0early to beat the crowds.''Recommended Guide:''Lonely Planet Bhutan''Tour Company Used:''DrukAsia''asia''Bhutan''Paro''Iraqi, Kurdistan''For almost my entire life Iraq has meant war. From the so-called threat of weapons of mass destruction to the media constantly reporting about Bush senior’s gulf war grudge against Saddam. What the media and all those with preconceived notions of the country tend to leave out is the history, Iraq’s incredibly diverse people, some of the most beautiful landscapes in the Middle East. As I looked down a snow capped mountain valley from a medieval castle, it’s hard to believe everything I have heard and seen about this stunning nation. This is Iraq!''Traveling To Iraq: From Iran to Iraq''Tucked away in a mountain valley in Iran is the capital of Kurdistan,''Sanadaj City''. The Kurds are ethnically different than the rest of Iran’s citizens. Their culture, appearance, and history are all unique. Sanadaj is also the jumping off point to Iraqi Kurdistan. Iraqi Kurdistan is a new state within Iraq which is also made up of Kurdish people, they are fiercely independent of the rest of Iraq.''I set off from my hotel in Sanadaj in the early hours of the morning. From the capital, it takes only a few hours by minibus to reach the border. The mini bus crosses the Iran/Iraq border and drives directly to''Sulaymaniyah'', Iraqi Kurdistan’s second-largest city and the first city I encountered within Iraqi territory.''Crossing the border was quite pleasant and simple. Leaving Iran is a cinch. On the Iraq side, you will be interviewed and if there are no issues, most nationalities will receive a 10-day visa on arrival. My last, name having originated from''the Middle East'', prompted a few extra questions of concern, but ultimately, I was let in.''The first thing I noticed about Iraq was how green it was. Leaving the border, I could see beautiful, green, rolling hills, and flocks of sheep being herded across them. In the distance, large mountains dotted the skyline. After another hour, we were dropped off in Sulaymaniyah.''Iraq,Iran Border''Cosmopolitan Sulaymaniyah''Sulaymaniyah is defiantly not what you expect the first city you see in Iraq to be like. Sulaymaniyah is modern, clean, and relatively quiet. I met an Iranian, who was working in Sulaymaniyah, named Mohamed. He said he would show me the local nightlife that evening. I checked into the Hotel Mazy Plaza and headed off for shisha with Mohamed first.''The shisha bar was lit by disco lights and pumped Kurdish trap music… it was incredible. After shisha, Mohamed took me to an expat bar where they did indeed serve beer. The customers were a mix of westerners and Kurds, while the waitresses were Filipino. Mohamed explained that this is where he would come to compete in Michael Jackson Dance competitions. Iraq, so far, was quite odd and strange.''Amna Suraka (Red Security)''The next day, I visited the Amna Suraka which was a torture facility that''Saddam Hussein''used against the Kurds. Now it’s a museum that displays the horrors of Saddam’s torture.''The first part shows some of Kurdistan’s colorful culture, with textiles, weapons, and jewelry. You then get lead through an artistic garden and into the torture facilities, where life-sized sculptures of Kurds being tortured are displayed. Following this is a room filled with photographs of prisoners and war, finally, there is the hall of mirrors, which commemorates all those who were killed during Saddam Hussein’s reign.''life-sized sculptures''The hall of mirrors''Outside the museum in the compound, there are plenty of Iraqi tanks and missiles for you to explore.''Sulaymaniyah’''s Grand Bazaar''Tucked in the heart of Sulaymaniyah is its wonderful Grand Bazaar. It is a sight that finally gives you a true sense of being in Iraq. It contains freshly butchered goats, piles of green produce, and exotic spice vendors.''Sulaymaniyah’''s Grand Bazaar''You literally can spend an entire day exploring the nooks and corners of this lively market. My personal favorite spots were the blindingly bright jewelry and gold shops and the vendors selling spices and nuts.\xa0 The Grand Bazaar is also a great place to spot Kurdish farmers decked out in traditional outfits. You can see plenty of locals in town, but seeing the elders in full Kurdish garments bartering over hunks of lamb makes for a great picture.''My favorite purchase at the market was an Iraqi and''Iraqi Kurdistan''flag from a little shop that makes them by hand!''Slemani''Museum''Sulaymaniyah’s incredible Slemani museum takes you straight back in time to ancient Mesopotamia. This fine museum’s highlights include a 6000-year-old skeleton which was buried in a clay egg, fine Islamic gold and coins, and plenty of Greek statues dating back to the time of Alexander the Great. The Slemani museum is a great way to kill an afternoon and get some insight into Iraq’s incredible history, which has mostly been destroyed by looters and extremist radicals.''6000-year-old Skeleton\xa0found near Dohuk''The Road to Kirkuk, Iraq''Next stop in the Iraq detour was Erbil. The transport situation in Iraq is a little confusing. The guide books will direct you to the Erbil Garage, which is a smallish compound filled with taxi’s waiting passengers heading to Erbil. The guide books will also tell you not to take the taxi that goes through Kirkuk, which happens to be outside of the Kurdish borders.''When I arrived at the station, the drivers explained to me that the north passage would take too long and that I must rent a private taxi which would be expensive. They said that the road through Kirkuk was safe. So, after waiting for thirty minutes or so, a few passengers wearing red checkered head scarfs joined us and we were on our way to''Kirkuk''.''Leaving Kurdistan Iraq into Iraq''The whole journey takes about 2.5 hours. After an hour, you arrive at the Iraq Kurdistan/Iraq Border. The landscape really changes here from green hills to the harsh sandy desert. At the border, heavily armed Iraqi coalition forces pulled me out of the cab and looked at my passport. They were not satisfied with me being there, but after telling them that I was going to Erbil, they let me through.''Nearing Kirkuk, you feel as if you have entered another country, far from Kurdistan. The towns were made up of sun baked and bullet ridden buildings. Kirkuk itself had many oil barrels filled with burning garbage. Anytime our cab stopped in the streets locals gave a sharp look towards me.''The roads often had Iraqi military road blocks. The road blocks are heavily armed and would aim their guns directly at the oncoming traffic. On the highway, I saw a few American armored trucks, but apart from that, all the forces were Kurdish/Iraqi-led coalition forces.''We stopped for tea at a truck stop somewhere in the Iraqi desert. Upon entering the tea house, the locals here stared intensely at me, but I did receive a few smiles.''Getting back into Kurdish Iraq was easy. The guards were happy to see that I arrived safely through Kirkuk.''Kirkuk Region''The Capital of Kurdish Iraq, Erbil''Often labeled as one of the oldest inhabited places on earth, Erbil feels very different from Sulaymaniyah. The streets are older, and many of the shops are set up in ancient buildings. I often saw shepherds herding their sheep through the streets here on way to the market.''Erbil feels exotic''and is a great taste of what Kurdish Iraq is about.''The Citadel in Erbil’s Centre''The main draw in Erbil is the Citadel. The citadel is perched 32 m over the city and is Erbil’s heart and soul. It is said that people have been living inside its walls for 8000 years! You can freely walk through the neighborhoods within the Citadel. The narrow alleyways make for a great setting. It feels as though you have gone back in time! Keep note that much of the Citadel was under renovations while I was here. Even so, it was an incredible place.''Outside the Citadel, near the new age water fountains, is Erbil’s oldest Bazaar, the Qaysari Bazaar. Here, there is plenty of pro-Kurdish memorabilia to buy, and some other interesting shops to browse. Near to the bazaar is my favorite spot in Erbil, the Mam Khalil tea house. This tea house oozes with Kurdish authenticity, and many of the occupants were fully decked out Kurdish farmers, sipping on a glass of chai before heading to the bazaar.''Kurdish flag atop the citadel''The mosque in the Citadel''Erbils main square''From Erbil, my next destination would be Dohuk, the largest city in Iraqi Kurdistan’s north. Leaving Erbil from the Taxi Garage lead to another issue. Drivers did not want to take the mountain roads, and if they did, they wanted an expensive private hire. This left me with one option: take the road to Mosul.''Mosul these days is no place to travel. The threat of Al-Qaeda, ISIS, and plenty of other extremist’s groups was high. The drivers assured me we would not enter Mosul, but take the ring road far outside the boundaries of the city itself. So, trusting their word, we set off once again across the borders of Kurdistan with Iraq.''Erbils Square in front of the Citadel''The journey was indeed very pleasant and very scenic. We came close to Mosul, and Nineveh, but did not enter any towns. At one point, Iraqi coalition forces stopped us and checked my passport. They were very upset that a tourist was here and threw my passport at me saying, “Not worth my time.”''Apart from this one off-putting experience, the journey was fine. We arrived in Dohuk after a few hours.''Erbils core''Eagles nest in the main square''Dohuk and Fairy-tale Amadiya''Dohuk is a very pleasant city. Being close to Mosul and the Turkish border, there is a heavy military presence, but it seemed safe. In the distance, you can see the mountains that border Iran and Turkey. This was my reason to''come to Dohuk'', to venture into Iraq’s famous mountains.''The next day, I hired a private cab to the ancient city of Amadiya. Amadiya is perched up atop a hill 1200 m above sea level, deep in the mountains northeast of Dohuk. There is public transport, but it is not reliable. Renting a car for about $50 US is an easy alternative.''Fairy-tale Amadiya''Driving from Dohuk, the road twists and turns into the mountain valleys. Red and purple flowers blossomed all over the green hills. In the distance, you can see waterfalls and white-capped peaks.''Finally, after a few hours, we turned the corner and had our''first look at Amadiya''. The town resembles a medieval castle. Its tall fortified walls circle the top of a steep, rocky hill in the middle of this outstanding mountain valley. The scene is surreal It is hard to believe where you are!''The Minaret in Amadiya''Downtown Amadiya''We drove right to the top of Amadiya via a very steep and winding road. The driver left me and said he would pick me up in a few hours so I would have time to explore the town.''Wondering the streets was incredible. The crumbly buildings had small cobblestone alleyways connecting different districts just as any medieval city in Europe would have. Every corner you turn, you are presented with stunning mountain vistas, creating a picture-perfect backdrop for this fairy tale scene.''Iraq Beautiful North East Valley''The local Imam found me near Amadiya’s oldest mosque and opened it up for me to climb to the top of the Minaret. The view was great! After thanking him I had tea with some locals in one of Amadiya’s traditional teahouses.''I spent the whole afternoon in''Amadiya'', but I highly recommended spending a night here. I, however, returned to Dohuk and departed the following day to Turkey.''Travel Warning''Traveling in Iraq''brings up the obvious issues''. This country has been at war for quite some time. There are bombings, kidnappings, random IED attacks, ruthless extremist’s groups, and plenty of other problematic issues. In this post, I traveled the Kurdish portion of Iraq. It is completely under their control. This is not me saying it is safe, however. There are still attacks and many issues to be had. Taking the roads through Kirkuk and Mosul are also risky. Now, with the emergence of ISIS, there much more of a threat then when I was there. I would highly recommend renting a private car and taking the mountain roads. By no means in this post am I saying Iraq is safe, I am just stating that maybe one day travel to this incredible place can happen again! Thanks for reading.''Useful Information''Location:''Iraq, Iraq Kurdistan''Daily Budget:''Not cheap, about 45 – 70 US per day.''Recommended Guide:''Bradt Iraq, Lonely Planet Middle East, Lonely Planet Middle East Language''Top Tips:''Read the Travel warning and keep up to date with the current security situation.''Adventure Travel''Iraq''The Middle East''Marrakesh, Morocco''Chances are you have heard the name “Marrakesh”. Chances are when you think of this name images of a legendary Saharan oasis filled with chaotic bazaars, camels, and snake charmers appear in the back of your mind. If this is what you imagine it to be, then you will not be let down by Marrakesh. Marrakesh has been a traveler’s haunt for many generations. Luring adventurers, explorers, and those who genuinely want a different, more exotic experience. Marrakesh is everything alluring, everything you dream of finding on a true adventure. Marrakesh and Morocco, in general, is a travelers dream.''Getting to Marrakesh''The Muslim call to prayer reins over''Marrakesh''. The warm air begins to have a slight chill to it as the fiery orange sun sets beyond the nearby mountains. I sit atop a café balcony overlooking Djemaa el-Fna, sipping my mint tea and reminisce about my journey here.''Djemma El-Fna at Dusk''I was living a few countries over in''Libya''. Having to leave the country without notice because of rebel fighting, war, and political issues that could result in me losing my life. I choose to come here. Marrakesh one of my most favorite cities in this world. I decided to come here to reflect on my life and the future.''I have been here in the past. My first trip here I flew directly from Paris via''Ryan Air''who made this flight easy and accessible. But this trip I came overland from Casablanca. From here it was only a few hours by bus to Marrakesh. The bus’s these days are quite different than the bus’s in the past. Goats on the roof, chickens under the seat, packing passengers like sardines, have all been replaced with a sophisticated bus that offers AC and even WIFI.''Staying at a Riad in Djemaa el-Fna''I arrived at the inconvenient north terminal in Marrakesh. From here it is a ten min taxi ride to Djemaa el-Fna. Be ready as taxi men wait outside the terminal ready to prey on the unsuspecting tourist. My driver, a man named Ali, was incredibly pleasant, as are most of the people of Morocco.''Riad in the Backstreets of Marrakesh''Ali dropped me of near the''Koutoubia Mosque''just on the outskirts of Djemaa el-Fna. It has been several years since I have been here. Not much has changed here, and that’s a good thing. One thing that has changed, is me. Since my last visit, I have traveled five continents and numerous countries. I have lived in Libya and experienced what most don’t experience in a lifetime. Whether the change in me is a good thing, I don’t know. One thing I do know is the sound of Moroccan music nearby, families playing games, and the smoke from Kebabs wafting in the air. I was back, and it felt good.''I walked into the Djemaa el-Fna back to my favorite Riad, only to find it was completely booked up. Luckily I have another place in the Djemaa el-Fna I adore. Ducking down an alleyway filled with spices, snake skins, and pointed hoods, I arrived at the Hotel Sherazade.''Labyrinth of Alleyways Near Djemma El-Fna''Why do I love this Riad you ask? Walking into the Sherazade brings you back to another time. Its traditional courtyard is surrounded by it’s few rooms which to enter you must go through a Moroccan keyhole doorway. The rooms are lit by lanterns, and the call to prayer can always be heard. Walk outside the Riad and your right in the madness of Djemaa el-Fna''Riad:''A traditional Moroccan style hotel. Usually made from mud brick, these structures have housed Moroccan families for centuries. Rooms are centered on a garden courtyard which most times includes a fountain. Many Riads are equipped with a basement Hammam (Moroccan Steam Room).''Djemaa el-Fna''There I was. Checked into my Riad, and finishing my mint tea looking over the main square of Djemaa el-Fna. With the sun setting, and the final Adhan called, I went to explore the Medina.''There are three parts of''Djemaa el-Fna''. The first part is the main square’s entertainment. During the day this part is filled with snake charmers, acrobatic musicians, street dentists, witch doctors, and of course carpet sellers. When night falls, these are replaced by games in which you can bet money, and live musicians playing the beautifully entrancing music of Morocco.''Night Food Market at Djemma El-Fna''This is the first part of the square I came to. Many tourists get overwhelmed in this part as the constant harassment to buy a carpet or take a photo with a snake is present. Show respect to them however and you will receive it in return. A simple “As-salamu alaykum” will suffice. I sat down and talked with the snake charmers to learn how they tame the cobra, and how it actually doesn’t listen to the music they play. Then I entered a carpet shop, where after many cups of tea I was shown how much effort is put into making these exquisite pieces of art.''Taking over for a Fruit and Nut Seller''The second part of the square doesn’t show its true colors until nightfall. It is why travelers are drawn here. This is, of course, my favorite section, the food stalls. Here you can find all the delicacies of Morocco. Fancy some bubbling sheep head stew? Why yes I do! How about kebabs, tea made from many exotic spices, salty snails slurped out of the shell, sweets made from dates, and my all-time favorite Mishwee (Lamb cooked deep in a fiery hole in the earth for many hours)? All great choices.''The Third Part of Djemaa el-Fna cannot be seen from any rooftop, or from the main square. It’s the Medinas back alleyways that spread like a network of interlinked spider webs. These alleyways are filled with the handicrafts and wares of Morocco. Carpets, incense, leather products, banging copper into cookware, antiques from West Africa, tea, Moroccan lanterns, djellaba’s (Moroccan pointed hood long shirt), you can find anything you wish here.''Delicious Mishwee and Lamb Head… How About Lamb Brains?''After hanging out with the local artists, and stuffing my face with lamb head stew I entered the back streets of Djemaa el-Fna. You get lost here. The kind of lost you want. Time ceases to exist. The colorful lights of lanterns and smells of sweet perfumes take you to another world. A world in which you become a child again. Curious about all the new sights and smells you are encountering for the first time. You can spend hours here without even realizing it.''Sights of Marrakesh''I woke up early to the alluring sounds of the call to prayer. Being familiar with this city, I wanted to revisit my favourite landmarks here. All of them are within walking distance of the Djemaa el-Fna. I strongly encourage you to walk to them, as it gives you a more expansive look at how amazing this city is. It takes you the whole day to walk to all these sights so it’s best to start early.''Bahia Palace''In the''heart of Marrakesh''near to the Djemma El-Fna is the Bahia Palace. Set up in the late 19''th''century by Si Moussa, this palace is a great place to spend an hour or two admiring the Islamic Moorish architecture.''I came early in the day so there were little to no tourists, only a few stray cats which really added to the spooky empty corridors. It was great to just chill out here in the lazy hours of the morning.''Koutoubia Mosque''On the South end of Djemma El-Fna towering over the square is the Koutoubia Mosque. Marrakesh’s largest mosque was completed by Berber Almohad Caliph Yaqub al-Mansur between 1184 and 1199.''Unfortunately, it is closed to all non-Muslims, but traversing its exterior is well worth leaving the market for. During evening prayer, Koutoubia shows its true magic. Hundreds fill its halls usually spilling out into the main square so they can pray. While the exquisite Adhan calls out, watching the faithful pray in a uniform order is quite the sight.''Saadian Tombs''Built between the years of 1578-1603 by Sultan Ahmad al-Mansur, the''Saadian tombs''were not actually discovered until 1917. Now, these tombs are one of Marrakesh’s greatest monuments. Beautiful hand painted tile work, intricately carved stonework, and some of Morocco’s most stunning Moorish architecture make up these tombs.''The most well-known tomb is the room with the twelve columns. This tomb contains the grave of the sultan’s son, Ahmad al-Mansur. Visit here early in the day or during lunch to beat the crowds!''Marrakesh Museum''Housed in the Dar Menebhi Palace and built at the end of the 19th century by Mehdi Menebhi the Marrakesh Museum is less of a “museum”, and more of a glimpse into Marrakesh’s royal past. There are plenty of old artifacts to be found here although. Old Berber coins, weathered Qurans, and a few other antiquities depicting Marrakesh’s history as one of Africa’s main trade hubs. The main draw for the museum is the giant chandelier decorated with fine geometric metal plates.''Shopping and eating in the Djemma el-Fna''When all the sights have been seen there is one last thing to do. Shop, eat and get lost in the labyrinth of alleyways in the Djemma El-Fna. On my last evening here, which also happen to be the final day of Ramadan, I waited until the last''Adhan rang out''and joined the hungry locals in a feast of snails, lamb head, and Kebabs. Of course, after finishing the meal I washed it all down with a glass of mint tea.''When dinner was finished I spent the rest of the evening in the market shopping for a Djellaba to keep me warm for tomorrow’s journey into in the Sahara!''Useful Information''Location:''Marrakesh, Morocco''Daily Budget:''30 – 50 US''Recommended Guide:''Lonely Planet Morocco, Lonely Planet Arabic''Tips:''Just Get Lost! Marrakesh is one of those cities where every corner can reveal something new.''Getting Here:''Bus from pretty much anywhere in the country, Flights from Europe.''Must Eats:''Lamb Tagine with Prunes, Spiced Tea, Pastilla (Pigeon Pie)''africa''Marrakesh''morocco''The continent of Asia is big; from the steamy jungles of South East Asia to the snow-capped peaks of the Himalayas, all the way to the scorching deserts of Arabia. The world’s largest continent is quite possibly the most diverse and interesting destinations to travel. Most travelers have heard of Asia’s more popular destinations such as; Thailand, India, China, and Vietnam. But Asia has many secret destinations that retain traditional cultures, incredible food, and are virtually tourist free! Here are a few destinations in Asia that I the Uncharted Backpacker recommend to truly feel like you’ve stepped into another world.''#1 Iran''Yazd, Iran''Iran, also known as Persia, has always been known for its beautiful blue-tiled mosques, ancient cultures, and a way to step back in time to the traditional''Middle East''. Why isn’t Iran as popular as its neighbor Turkey?''Travel to Iran''comes with a lot of headaches and confusion. The visa for Iran changes constantly, often banning or putting severe restrictions on certain nationalities. The country is also very strict,''enforcing Sharia laws such as making women cover their heads and banning photography in certain areas''; capturing a photo in the US Den of Espionage could land you in prison!''Visiting Iran you will see untouched deserts filled with mud-built towns, ancient Persian cities that rivaled Alexander the Great, all while puffing on a Hookah and watching the sun set over the most beautiful Persian blue-tiled mosques you’ve ever seen.''If you can figure out all the red tape, and follow the rules, Iran will reward you with traditional Persian culture that has barely changed and local hospitality that extends from the heart of every Iranian.''Tombs of Persian Kings in Shiraz''Esfahan Iran''#2 Sarawak, Borneo''Riding Longboat Down the Skrang''The island of Borneo in South East Asia is divided by three countries. The oil-rich southern half resides in Indonesia while the north is cut into three sections. One of the three sections is the''Kingdom of Brunei'', and the two provinces of Sabah and''Sarawak in Malaysia''.''Sarawak province in Malaysia tends to be the most traditional of all the areas in Borneo. While the other nations and provinces boast of their nature, and oil built cities, Sarawak shows its pride through the exotic cultures of its Dayak tribes.''Dayak* Borneo has a magnitude of tribes across it massive interior. The term Dayak refers to these tribes, but each tribe has its own unique name and culture of its own.''Visiting Sarawak you will feel as if you left the modern nation of''Malaysia''and have become an explorer in search of tribes who live deep in the jungle.''The Iban''are the most famous of these tribes for their headhunting, Longhouses sporting human skulls, and tattoo covered tribesmen.''Forget major sights! The draw of visiting Sarawak will be riding a motorized skinny boat up a jungle-clad river into the heart of Borneo to laze around and drink with the tattooed head-hunters of Borneo!''in the heart of Borneo''Skulls hanging from the roof of a Iban Longhouse''#3 Bhutan''Bhutan s Most Famed Sight the Tigers Nest''Known as the''Land of the Thunder Dragon'', this mystical''Tibetan''Buddhist Kingdom has been tucked away in the northeastern corner of the Himalayas and out of tourist reach for years.''Now with the country beginning to modernize, traveling to this remote corner of Asia is becoming more accessible'', but because of this ease of access, the King has enforced a heavy daily tariff of 250 US to keep tourist numbers low so that the culture is not greatly affected.''The daily tariff is well worth the cost although as you get to be one of the very few people on earth who can witness a''Himalayan kingdom''so untouched from the outside world. Even the infrastructure here cannot be built any other way than the Bhutanese way by law!''Bhutan''is also known to have the highest gross happiness out of anywhere in the world, perhaps this could be due to the country being the only carbon neutral nation.''So if you can gulp down the expensive daily tariff then don’t miss this mystical magic kingdom that will remain in your mind for many years to come!''Check out tours that''Druk Asia''has to offer to Bhutan.''Brokpa Nomad near Merak''Ceremony in Thimphu’s Dzong''#4 Uzbekistan''Samarqand, Uzbekistan''Look at a map of Central Asia and you will see many countries that end with Stan. It can be quite overwhelming to remember them all. Each of these “stan” countries is however very unique and different from one another.''Uzbekistan''is one of my favorite of the stan nations, this is because of its grandeur mix of mountains, deserts, historical cities, colorful people, and in-depth culture''. With historical figures like Alexander the Great, Genghis Khan, and Marco Polo leaving their marks here and adding to the complex mixed''Silk Road culture''.''Uzbekistan''happens to also be incredibly safe! Very few tourists here ever report even the smallest of crimes.''Wondering why more people haven’t told you to travel here? Well, it could be because''Uzbekistan is remote''; it’s wedged deep in the middle of Central Asia. There is also quite a bit of red tape involved with Uzbekistan. Until recently visas were very hard to obtain, and even today currency has to be changed on the black markets making costs of traveling here very hard to gauge.''If you’re looking for a true taste of traveling on the Silk Road, then look no further, head to the buzzing historic cities, and bubbly bazaars of the little-visited country of Uzbekistan.''Khiva City''Locals in Bukhara''#5 Mongolia''Mongolia’s beautiful Orkhon Valley''When Genghis Khan left the Steppe on his venture to conquer Asia he probably never knew what mark he would leave on the''country of Mongoli''a. Today if you mention Mongolia the only thought you will receive is that it happens to be the home of this former warlord.''Mongolia''has so much more to offer than reminiscing on the Golden Hordes of Genghis Khan.\xa0 Mongolia is home to some of the last remaining Nomadic peoples on earth! In the far west, you can see Nomads who still capture baby eagles to train them and hunt fox from horseback while in the scorching desert of the Gobi camel herders roam from green pastures to mountain valleys depending on the seasons.''Mongolia is quite possibly one of the last Asian adventures that remain on this planet. The majority of the country is not even inhabited making nature excursions at their most prima''l.''Travel here is rough! Be prepared for harsh weather, terrible or non-existent roads, and plenty of areas to which there is no knowledge of travel ever happening before. Meeting with Nomads can be just as difficult, as the Nomads tend to be very remote requiring an expensive tour or transport to be the option.''Even with all the pain and suffering, you must go through to see Mongolia, it’s well worth the effort to see it. Whether it’s the Nomadic Tribes,''deserts'', mountains, or horseback adventures,''Mongolia''will not leave the adventurous disappointed.''Dunes in the Gobi Desert''Mongol Nomad Host in Central Mongolia''#6 West Papua, Indonesia''Dani Local in Baliem Valley''The island of Papua is split between the Oceanic Continent and the Continent of Asia.''West Papua being in Indonesia''allows it to be part of this list!''West Papua is where adventurers and researchers go to make a name for themselves. With so many lost tribes and remote jungles filled with unknown plants and animals, Papua takes the cake. Papua’s mountain interior is the most accessible part of the Island. Making adventures to remote tribal communities affordable and accessible to the inexperienced travelers. Head into the steamy jungle river areas of Asmat or the tree house''villages of Korowai''and it will take much planning and time.''Much of West Papua is completely undiscovered, and it’s not hard to truly feel like you are in one of these areas.''The downside to traveling here is the cost. To really get off the beaten track you will be required to join a tour or expedition. These trips usually end up costing thousands and can take weeks of hiking!''Choose to brave the Papuan wilderness on your own takes some serious planning, and courage, but the rewards to venturing into the unknown are plenty.''If cutting a trail with your machete through uncharted jungles to tribes who until recently stopped practicing cannibalism interests you then it’s time to look at coming to the beautiful island of Papua!''Baliem Valley''300 year old Mummy''#7 Pakistan''Crossing the Valley of Passu and Gulmit''Since the paranoia of 911 and terrorism took hold of the world, Pakistan dropped off the list as one of Asia’s ultimate tourism destinations. This is sadly one of the results of bias media, and false accusations of the west. Pakistan today is still a safe destination in which travel is not only possible, but I would strongly recommend!''Pakistan is a hidden gem. The hospitality of its people is remarkable, the mountain scenery is majestic, and the culture here remains true and authentic. The days where travelers can ride atop a bus into the''Hindu Kush''in search of Alexander the Greats lost tribes still remains.''Climbing some of the world least summited mountains or just sipping tea in a Peshawar bazaar with Pashtun locals, it’s a travelers dream.''The visa may seem difficult to obtain when you search it, but it could not be easier. Just apply at the embassy in your home country and they will gladly help you through the steps to get a visa for here. The borders between China and India are open, even though rumors will tell you they are not.''No more excuses it’s time to put the effort in and make your''next trip Pakistan''!''Chitrali Locals''Hunza Valley''#8 Sri Lanka''This beautiful Asian island nation has been out of the travel radar for decades due to its violent civil war. Now with the civil war gone and finished Sri Lanka is ready for travel once again. Few signs of its terrible past remain, nowadays locals will greet you with warm hospitality and curiosity.''Apart from''Sri Lanka’s''incredibly diverse culture, it also has perfect white sand beaches, remote hidden jungles, and mountain scenery that will shock your friends back home. Sri Lanka also served as a viable trade route for the Dutch and Portuguese who left their mark there with beautiful architecture, and a railway system that has not changed since they built it.''I’ll never forget sipping on''Sri Lankan''tea in a beautifully built Colonial house in the mountains of Kandy'', all while giant vampire bats flew above me screeching for the oncoming dusk. Sri Lanka’s festivals also left an impression on me; they dazzle you with an eruption of colors and maddening sounds. These intriguing spectacles are not to be missed on your journey here.''Sri Lanka is definitely an adventure waiting to happen, but don’t hesitate because this is no secret, Sri Lanka has already been topping the charts in Lonely Planet’s top countries to visit!''Sri Lanka’s Tea Fields''Sigiriya Rock''If you liked this post, please help share it on Facebook!''asia''Borneo''Iran''travel lists''Kabul, Afghanistan''Paint a picture. Paint overtop all the military checkpoints, violent past, and whatever else the media has filled your imagination with about this place. Paint locals whose''smile''s speak for their overwhelming hospitality. Paint clear, blue skies, bourn by one of the most dramatic mountain vistas''imaginable.''This place is what fairytales are made of. As I open my eyes and remember where I am, it all sets in. Reality is what you make of it, but finding the truth to reality is a traveler’s fortune. Here I am in the Panjshir Valley, Afghanistan; what an incredible place I have found myself in.''Getting to Kabul from Mazar E-Sharif''After a week of''jumping around Afghanistan’s''north near''Mazar E-Sharif'', I was south bound.''Travel in Afghanistan''is almost completely non-existent, due to the country’s ongoing security situation. From Mazar, I would head to Kabul, the country’s bustling capital city. The only thing that stood in the way was crossing the Hindu Kush mountain range via the Salang Pass.''Entering the Hindu Kush Mountains from Mazar''The Salang is a 3363m high pass. It consists of decaying roads, a 10 km collapsing tunnel built decades ago by the soviets, and regions that are known for faux Taliban road blocks. If you want to get to Kabul however, this is the only viable route that connects the capital to the north.''Kabul City''In Mazar E-Sharif, you can purchase bus tickets for this dangerous route. Near the Shrine of Hazrat Ali on Darwaza-ye Balkh Street, you will find an assortment of small ticket booths that belong to a few individual private bus companies. Some of the vendors even speak broken English.''The ticket costs around 30 US dollars. There are two options for time of departure; the first being at 4 am, and the second is a night bus that leaves at 4 pm. The night bus has been attacked numerous times, so this is not a wise choice. I opted for the 4 am departure and was told the bus would leave from a compound outside the city limits of Mazar E-Sharif.''Crossing the Salang Pass''At 2:30 am, my alarm went off. It was pointless, as I was already awake, pacing back and forth in my dimly lit room. My mind was racing. Thoughts of what dangers lay on the road ahead filled my mind. My travel companion, Matt, was also awake, in the same dilemma as I was.''At 3:00 am, our friend Mohammed’s cousin, or uncle… doesn’t matter, arrived to pick us up. He was the taxi driver who would take us to the compound at this potentially hazardous hour.''Faroshi Bird Market''When the taxi arrived, we had to creep past the armed sleeping guard and out the iron gate that blocked intruders from entering the hotel. The relative of Mohammed greeted us and quickly shuffled us into his cab. He, too, was aware that driving two foreigners at this hour was not advisable.''Upon arrival to the compound, we were pleasantly surprised on how well organized the temporary bus station was. It was guarded by tall walls topped with barbed wire, men in black wielding large machine guns and friendly ticket men who did, in fact, speak English.''Mohammed’s relative brought us to our seats and, after a few selfies, we said our goodbyes and departed.''For the first few hours, it was pitch black. We passed through multiple military check points, making us feel like we were undercover spies, as the soldiers did not notice two foreigners decked out in Afghan attire. When the sun began to rise, the silhouette of the massive''Hindu Kush Range''was on the horizon. By 9:00 am, we began the steep ascent to the Salang Pass.''Friendly Locals in Kabul''The scenery was outstanding. We passed by small villages where the structures defied gravity by clinging to the side of sheer cliff faces. Every so often, the bus would stop for nomadic herders to push their herd of goats across the steep mountain road.''When noon struck, we entered the''Salang Tunnel''; a 10km long poorly lit, dingy, scary decaying tunnel. At times, while driving through collapsed sections of the tunnel, stunning mountain views were revealed. It took thirty minutes or so before we burst from the exit of the tunnel, like a bat out of hell.''The Salang Pass was in the midst of a blizzard, blanketed with snow and ice, a stark contrast from the beginning of the tunnel, which only showed early signs of the temperature decrease. The bus navigated its way through the snow storm and slowly descended the icy cliff side. It was defiantly a white-knuckle ride.''Kabul Ghetto’s''The Hectic Streets of Kabul''From the Salang, we followed the dirt road through a dramatic looking mountain valley. Our bus stopped for tea in one of the quaint villages along the way. I’ll never forget stepping off the bus in this remote corner of''Afghanistan''and thinking to myself, “Where are all the bad people?” A few of the passengers offered us to join them for tea and wish them we shared stories of our journey up until now.''A few more hours passed before we could finally see the outskirts of Kabul. From the beautiful, remote Hindu Kush Mountains, we entered the dusty, bustling city of Kabul. Our bus stopped at an old garage, in a part of town that I still have no idea where it is. Luckily, a cab driver noticed us and took us into his care.''Where to Stay in Kabul''The cab dropped us off in the downtown at the Mustafa Hotel. I am warning you now, do not stay at the Mustafa. This old Journalist hangout is now a dusty, decrepit, dark hole in the wall. The owners were shocked to see us there, in fact.''From Mustafa, we tried the Golden Star Hotel which had three security checkpoints to get past. The 140 US Dollar price tag sent us running from this place. After a few more hours searching, we found two decently priced guest houses on the street in front of''Chicken Street''.''Ancient Mughal Walls Separating Neighbourhoods''One was the Marco Polo Guest house and the other was in the back of a pop up fast food restaurant. We ended up staying at both while visiting Kabul. They both came equipped with security and great rooms for under 20 US per night.''Chicken Street''Near our guesthouse was the famed “Chicken Street.” This old hippie hangout is the last remnants of Kabul’s old Backpacker days. The street is lined with shops selling handicrafts from around Afghanistan.''A few of the shops here are more like museums for those curious of what Afghanistan’s antiquity market looks like. You can find antique rifles/pistols, hand forged opium scrapers (yes, I bought one), the highly-sought after blue Afghan stone''Lapis Lazuli'', and pelts from rare species like the snow leopard.''Chicken Street has survived because of the demand for souvenirs is still alive and well. What has changed is that these days, the hippie backpackers have been replaced with soldiers and NGO workers.''We spent that evening browsing and bartering for unique souvenirs (antique opium cutters and pistols). One of the shopkeepers brought us in for tea and told us we were the first “tourists” to visit his shop in more than thirty years. Many of the other Afghan shop keepers even applauded us for being here just to visit.''Faroshi Bird Market''The next day, another one of Mohammed’s distant relatives or friends or something picked us up to “hang out” with the foreign tourists of Afghanistan. Our new friend, Farwad, brought us to the''Faroshi Bird Market''.''Seeing this Bird Market is like stepping back in time. The crowded, narrow alleyways weaved through the densely-populated maze of Kabul’s medieval core. Shops selling colorful, chirping birds can be found alongside basket makers, copper banging, metal forging, and traditional cloth stalls. This medieval spectacle is a must-see for anyone visiting Kabul.''Once again, the Afghan hospitality brought us into numerous shops for tea and storytelling.''Baburs Gardens''From the busy Faroshi Bird Market, we took a cab to the Babur Gardens near the outskirts of Kabul. These 16''th''century gardens, constructed by the Mughal ruler Babur, are a peaceful getaway from the hustle and bustle of Kabul.''The trees and shrubbery are neatly pruned and placed alongside ancient marble tombs, signifying Afghanistan’s imperial Mughal past. Walking through the gardens, you notice that these days they are used for smooching teenage couples to get away from the conservative culture that doesn’t allow them to see each other elsewhere. It’s a great place to chill out, none the less.''Remnants of War''Over the next few days, we visited the ancient walls that seemingly crawled over the mountains in the Kabul Valley. They also separate parts of the slums near the river.''Farwad also brought us to numerous buildings that were destroyed in the past 30 years of war. One that I really enjoyed seeing was the Darual Aman Palace. This palace was sacked by the Soviets, then the Taliban Regime, leaving it mostly in rubbles.''Battle Stricken Darual Aman Palace''The inside of the palace is covered in graffiti. Some of it depicts Taliban victories, while other art symbolizes negative feelings toward the Taliban oppression. Exploring the hallways has a creepy, haunted feeling. There are plenty of hidden rooms and sketchy stairways to keep you feeling like you are in an episode of “''Ghost Adventures''.”''War Ruins of Mausoleum of Nadir Shah. Nadir Shah''Another great memorial affected by the war that we visited was the Mausoleum of Nadir Shah. Nadir Shah, who was assassinated in 1933 had his tomb erected here atop the Teppe Maranjan hill, one of the oldest inhabited spots in Kabul.''The mausoleum has suffered airstrikes and Taliban Bombings. Large portions of it are cracked, bullet-ridden and downright unsafe. The views from the hill over Kabul are worth it, and if you love taking photos, this blown apart monument screams authentic, war-torn Afghanistan.''Other Sights in Kabul''A few other sites that we visited to note are dotted around the city. One of my favorites is the Shah-e Doh Shamshira Mosque. This Mosque looks like it could be placed in Venice, as it’s oddly crafted to look European rather than other typical Mosques here. Surrounding it are millions of pigeons who wait for the impending Afghans who feed them for fun.''European Looking Shah-e Doh Shamshira Mosque''Just outside the Shah-e Doh area is a lively market selling everything from used electronics to military gear and Burqas.''If you’re into museums, the OMAR Land Mine Museum is worth a stop. The museum displays more than 60 odd types of Landmines and shows how these malicious tools of war work.''The Panjshir Valley''The remote Panjshir Valley has been one of the most impenetrable places in the world for the past thirty years. The valley’s massive mountains act as its fortified walls. The Mujahedin who call the Panjshir home closely guard their homeland with pride. First the British, then the Soviets and finally the Taliban/American war all failed to make it into the Panjshir.''The leader of the Mujahedin, and hero of Afghanistan is Ahmad Shah Massoud. His face can be seen on billboards all over the country. Known as the Lion of Panjshir for his heroic victories against the Soviet Occupation, Ahmad Shah Massoud is remembered for fighting the Taliban and keeping his home the Panjshir out of their reach. He was assassinated in 2001 and his tomb can be found in the Panjshir Valley, on a remote hill overlooking the beautiful landscape.''Entrance to the Panjshir''Getting to the Panjshir''Seemingly an impossible task was penetrating the remote Panjshir Valley. It was a challenge that I had promised myself I would attempt. Farwad arranged for a taxi driver, who we had met a few days ago, to help us. Our driver had been there before but had been turned around in the past.''We left early in the morning. The drive was pleasant. We passed by farming villages and an increasing number of roaring blue rivers the further we went into the mountains. The valley walls began to enclose as we approached the entrance to Panjshir.''At the entrance, there was a military post that stopped us and asked for our papers. The leader of the post interviewed me, asking me why I was coming to Panjshir and exactly who I was. After some deliberation, we managed to convince the military leader that we were not a part of the CIA or any form of spy agency, we were allowed to enter Panjshir for the day.''Exploring the Panjshir''The first thing you notice when entering the Panjshir is the line of broken and blown apart tanks. Some are British, some Soviet. The army told us there are even a few American ones. We clambered our way into a few and found old Soviet hats and odd pieces.''We drove for a few hours into the Panjshir. The Panjshir’s scenery is breathtaking. Mudbrick villages surrounded by emerald green field’s dot the landscape. The valley is bordered by soaring white peaks of mountains well above 3000m.''Towards the end of the valley, we arrived at the Mausoleum of Ahmad Shah Massoud. Soaring high above in the middle of the valley, this beautiful mausoleum protrudes over the valley and can be seen from miles away.''Mausoleum of Ahmad Shah Massoud''The Mausoleum is a quiet and peaceful place, old tanks and artillery litter the hill around the Mausoleum itself. Taking selfies with the tanks in this amazing backdrop is half the fun.''From here, we stopped in a few more villages to chat with locals and enjoy the crisp clean mountain air before we headed off; back to the chaotic city of Kabul.''Travel Afghanistan Video''https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ijkpP4gSVpo&feature=youtu.be''Video can’t be loaded: Travel Afghanistan (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ijkpP4gSVpo&feature=youtu.be)''Afghanistan Travel Security Situation''Mention traveling to Afghanistan and you are likely to get looks of concern. “You’re mad?” or, “You must have a death wish.” These were some of the things I was told. The concern you receive from others is not without reason. Traveling here does come with some risk, and without in depth planning, travel here can be downright volatile.''The major issues and concerns with Afghanistan have to do with the current political situation. The military and government are often battling it out with terrorist organizations like the Taliban, ISIS related groups, and armed drug dealers. This violence often spills out into the streets and civilian casualties are very common. NGO’s, military, and any other foreigner based programs are often targeted by these groups. Kidnappings and killings do happen.''This all sound quite scary, and it is, but if you plan accordingly and do not attract attention to yourself, then travel here is very possible. My biggest tips for keeping safe would be:''Wear local clothing''Learn basic Dari''Act like you are being followed, don’t be repetitive''Don’t tell everyone where you are staying''Always ask locals if it’s safe''Check online travel security warnings''Know where you are and if there have been recent issues.''Plan extensively''Obviously, there is a lot more to traveling here, but these are some things I did to keep safe. Whatever you choose to do, your trip will be unique and you should plan as much as you can beforehand. Try to get some local knowledge before you head over!''Useful Information''Location:''Kabul and the Panjshir Valley, Afghanistan''Recommended Guide Books:''Lonely Planet Afghanistan, Farsi Lonely Planet''Daily Costs:''35 – 55 US Dollars Per Day''Gear:''Local Afghan Clothing, Herbawi Arabic Scarf, Pashto Hat. Nomad Solar Panel – Afghan Outlets are Shady. Non-Flashy backpack.''Learn:''Basic Pashto and Dari, Security Situation''Tips:''Always listen to locals. Book air tickets from local Afghan Agencies (They are Cheap)''Afghanistan''Backpacking''Central Asia''People always ask me how I can afford to travel so much, all of the time. It starts with hard work, dedication, and priorities but I definitely have some tricks up my sleeve that have saved me tons of money in the past. Knowing how to get cheap flights has been one of the things that has enabled me to see so much of this world. There are countless airlines, flight companies, and travel agencies out there that persistently fill up your inbox with what they claim are the latest deals. It can be incredibly difficult to differentiate between which of these are real bargains and which ones are just another marketing scheme to get you to pay full price for a flight.''After eight years of traveling, I can tell you that finding a cheap flight is just a matter of knowing a few simple rules and being patient for the right time. The global economy, overall, has not been great lately, which can result in incredibly cheap flights. If you don’t know where to look, however, you risk missing out on a great deal!''Flying tends to be the most expensive part of the trip! So why should you pay more just because you are new to traveling? In this post, I explore all of the tips and tricks that I have learned over the years to get you the cheapest price possible for flights. Follow these tips and you too can travel more for less!''Where Can You Find Cheap Flights?''Finding cheap flights can be a daunting task. Go to any travel agent and you’re guaranteed to pay top price and a hefty commission. Look online and there are thousands of airline websites, package deals, and biased opinions, all intent on someone else making a quick buck. Not all websites charge large commissions. Instead, they have secret, hidden fees that sneak up on you right before you enter your credit card info.''Airfare Search Engines''So you have decided that you want to take that next trip! Where should you start looking for flights? Airfare search engines are the new way to get flights. They are incredibly easy to use. I have used these for every flight of mine, even in Afghanistan!''How do Airfare Search Engines Work?''Airfare search engines work by taking the destinations and dates you have typed in and searching through hundreds of airline sites at once in order to find you the best deal. Most airfare search engines charge a small commission of around 20 – 50 Dollars US on top of the price of the flight they find you.''Not all airfare search engines are created equal, though. Some sites don’t show you the taxes or hidden fees. They do this to entice you to buy the flight, but then, right before you pay for it; Bam!! They spring the taxes and hidden fees on you. Some sites also won’t search the cheap budget airlines. They will only look at the more expensive airlines.''Here is a list of a few airfare search engines I frequently use and why. (I set up bookmarks for each for easy access)''Momondo'':''This is, quite possibly, my new favorite search engine. I love this website because of the monthly breakdown of which days are cheapest, quickest, and most convenient. They give you an honest answer about flight duration and prices. Taxes are included in the price as well. The search engine is easy to use and efficient. It searches a broad range of budget airlines.''Sky Scanner'':''In the past, I never really used Sky Scanner. Recently, however, this site has really stepped up its game. I have snagged some really sweet deals on here. Sky Scanner searches a huge variety of budget airlines giving you better options for price and departure dates.''Kayak'':''Old faithful, Kayak. This is the go-to search engine for most people. The range of airlines it includes in its searches has really increased over the past few years. Kayak tends to send you to other sites that will include taxes in their displayed prices as well. However, I have had some issues in the past with Kayak showing one price, but then changing it to another when selecting that flight.''Cheap Tickets'':''I used to use this search engine quite a lot. I have not in a while now. Since''Momondo''came out and Kayak improved, I have tended to stick to them. Despite this, this site is definitely worth mentioning. It has snagged me tons of cheap flights.''Three Month Rule''This rule was shown to me by a man in the travel business at the Beijing airport. Booking three months before your trip turns out to be the best time to do so in order to get a deal! But why is this?''Flight tickets are sold like this: When the flight is first created, six months to a year before departure, the seats are at their most expensive. This is because there is no rush to sell the seats, so the airlines figure they might as well charge the full dollar for them. After seats begin to sell and the departure date gets closer, the airline drops the price so that the flight will fill up, and thus the airline will make more money. At the three-month marker, the airline panics when there are still seats left. So, they advertise the seats at rock bottom prices for the three-month, and sometimes two-month marker, in order to sell as many tickets as possible.''What happens if you wait too long? At three months before the flight, ticket prices get cheap and they tend to sell fast. If you wait too long after the three months, however, then there will only be a few seats left. The sneaky airline companies tend to sky rocket the prices for these last few seats because they know there will be a few people willing to pay whatever it takes to get on that flight.''In conclusion, the three-month mark is a safe time to bet on. Anything past that and will likely be gambling. In the past, I have waited and watched a $400 return flight from Vancouver to Beijing turn into a $1400 flight overnight.''Why Wednesday is the Day to Book''So now you know the time-frame you should buy your tickets, but does the day of the week matter? The answer to this is:''Yes''! Airlines love to inflate the ticket prices during peak booking times.''It works like this.''Airlines show their top prices on weekends because people are more likely to book a ticket on a Saturday or Sunday, when they are planning their trips with their friends. On the weekend, many people are not working and have time to search tickets as well. These prices can sometimes roll into the start of the week.''During the middle of the week, airlines try out different prices to see if anyone will bite. This is how they test the demand in an attempt to determine what their prices should be during the weekend when most people are buying. This means that cheaper prices are often offered on Wednesdays and Thursdays.''In my experience, booking''late at night on Wednesday''has always given me the cheapest deal!''Tuesday and Wednesday are Typically the Cheapest Days to Fly''While Wednesday is typically the best day to search online and book your flight the cheapest days to actually fly out are Tuesday and Wednesday. These are the off-peak days of the week for traveling and will almost always give you the cheapest flights.''Momondo''has an excellent flight insight tool that I have been using lately to get even more info on optimal flights details. Below you can see the cheapest days of the week for someone to fly from Vancouver to Honolulu.''Momondo''flight insight tool''The flight insight tool also gives tips on seasonality, days from departure to book, time of day, and more. The info is gathered from thousands of people that have done the flight in the past, so it is accurate to your specific needs. I highly recommend checking it out when looking for a cheap flight.''Fare Alerts''Most search engines offer a''Fare Alert''you can sign up for with your email. The search engine will continue to monitor the flight you have selected. When The search engine determines the flight is at its lowest, it will send you an update.''These work incredibly well! You can sign up for as many times and dates as you want. The airfare search engines I listed above all offer the''Fare Alert''feature. Just punch in all of your destinations, dates, and preferred times and leave the rest to the site.''It’s a good idea to check up manually on your own every once and a while. Sometimes the flights change completely, and the''Fare Alerts''get confused.''Cheap Flights Flexible Dates and Airports''When you’re plugging in all your preferred dates, locations and times you will be given the option for “Flexible Dates”. This tab is''essential''to finding a great deal. By clicking the plus or minus three days’ tab instead of looking at just one day, the search engine will search the day you chose, plus three days before and after, making 49 different possibilities!''This really does matter. As I said above in the Wednesday rule, the time of week can really change the price of a flight. This option will allow you to do a mass search over many days, making you the all-knowing''master''of flights.''Kayak Flexible Dates Feature''When you do the three day before and after search, you will also begin to see patterns. If you look at a graph of flight prices, you will see that some days are cheaper than others, and this continues for every odd day or every new week. The graph will also highlight whether the price is considered low, or high.''Knowing the Hubs''So you have your trip planned, and you know how to get the best price. But what if you could still get a cheaper price on top of that!''It is actually quite possible to do this by knowing the world hubs. But what are Hubs?''Hubs are cities that host a major international airport that many airlines fly out of. The size of the city or airport sometimes does not matter. For example, when I fly to Asia, Beijing tends to be the cheapest hub rather than Seoul or Tokyo. This can just be because of the availability of airlines there, making for more competition and therefore, lower prices.''Hubs are very important when you want to fly to somewhere remote.''For example, if you want to go to Nepal from North America, it would not be wise to book tickets directly to Kathmandu. Usually, these tickets will be heavily inflated because of the search engines not using the appropriate hubs. Making sense now?''Instead, try looking at flights to Delhi, or even Beijing, where you can switch to a cheaper budget Airline. By connecting the two you can save yourself tons of money!''How do I know where the Hubs are?''This is mostly knowledge gained from experience, but could also do your research online beforehand. Hubs change all the time, but if you’re new to traveling, try looking at a map of nearby places close to your destination. Then try selecting separate flights in and around there. Watch the prices change immensely!''Hubs can also connect countries that have better relations. For example, if you want to fly to Kabul, Afghanistan, then you need to find out which hubs connect to this city. Istanbul, Dubai, and Delhi are all good options. If you search all of them, you will find that Delhi tends to be the cheapest because of the amount of airlines connecting the two.''Incognito Mode''When you search flights, airfare websites put cookies in your computer. These cookies monitor and remember what you searched, and what the price was. This can be a bad thing for finding deals. These same cookies tell the site to show you prices that you already looked at so you just pay that price. I have even heard that some of these cookies are smart enough to look into your personal information to see how much they should charge you, depending on your income and country.''There is a fix for this! Most browsers offer a way to get into “Incognito Mode”. This mode prevents old cookies from affecting your new searches and prevents new ones from being stored once you close the browser. You essentially show up as a new customer to these search engines. By doing this, you ensure that the search engine will show you the lowest prices.''Google Chrome Incognito Mode''For Google Chrome use these steps:''In the top-right corner of the browser window, click or tap the Menu.''Select New Incognito Window or New Incognito Tab.''A new window will open with a gray figure in the top-right corner''Should I get the Flight Insurance?''Personally, I have never used this option. It usually costs around $50 and it will cover any unexpected troubles like weather, disasters etc. This option can be a good idea if you are really uncertain about the dates, and you may have to change them.''If you have already made it to your destination and you decide to change your return flight to a sooner or later date, most of the search engines now offer the ability to do so for about $250 US. It’s a small price to pay for lengthening your trip, rather than buying a whole new flight. This option makes the flight insurance kind of a waste of money if you are dead certain about the first departure date. If something happens to the flight, the airline that the search engine booked your flight through will be responsible for you. So it’s best to look into that airline’s fine print to see what exactly their rules are.''In the past, many of my flights have changed, been delayed or canceled. The airline has always been very accommodating to me. One time, while on my way to Bangkok, I was even given a fully paid for, four-day trip to Seoul, Korea, because my flight was delayed there for those four days. Not saying this will always be the case, though.''So, if you choose to not get the insurance, come with an open mind, and you never know what might happen.''Flying with Budget Airlines''Budget Airlines are popping up everywhere. They are incredibly cheap but can be super uncomfortable, and have tons of little fees that will catch you if you don’t have everything right in order. If you can master all the little things about budget airlines, then you can save huge amounts of money traveling.''Tips for Budget Airlines:''Always fill out information properly, they charge you if you fill out anything wrong''The price never includes baggage, depending on the airline it’s usually about''$25 US for 15kg''Don’t expect luxury; many budget airlines will not even provide water for free''Don’t take budget airlines for long distances; the seats are usually painfully small and cramped''Book far in advance; these airlines get more expensive closer to the date. The hints mentioned before for booking tickets can still apply.''List of Budget Airlines''Indonesia/Oceania''–''Jet Star''Europe/North Africa''–''Ryan Air''Asia''–''Air Asia''Indian subcontinent''–''Indigo''North America/Caribbean/Central America''–''West Jet''Central Asia/Middle East''–''Spice Jet''Booking Separate Flights''The last thing to remember is that airfare search engines do not always get you the better deals. Sometimes, it’s better to figure out the hubs and book separate tickets from different airlines for each connection on your own. This can help you get cheap flights to multiple destinations.''You can do this by simply mimicking the routes that airfare search engines use. After you see that path, try breaking up each layover using budget airlines. If you manage to do everything smoothly, you might just save yourself half the cost of the regular price flight.''This option is tricky to do. It takes a lot of travel experience to go this in depth with booking tickets. This option can also get you into trouble, as you are booking with multiple airlines. If you miss one flight, it will ruin the others. You might end up losing money this way.''So, it’s best to be careful when doing this. But if you manage it right, you can also find yourself in some pretty awesome destinations for your layovers!''cheap flights''how to get cheap flights''travel deals''travel info''Gobi Desert, Mongolia''The silence of the desert engulfs me as I sit alone, atop the highest sand dune I could find. Shades of gold, purple and black paint a picture across the dunes as far as the eye can see. As the sunset unfolds, the picture begins to change, but the silence remains.\xa0 In the distance, herds of Bactrian camels graze on the vibrant, desert grass. Beyond, more massive towers of sand and black mountains dominate the darkening, blue sky. This place, so remote and so silent, etches itself in my mind forever. Suddenly, I am consumed by thoughts of the arduous journey that lays ahead. It will test all my skills and experience as a traveler. I am about to cross the Gobi Desert in southern Mongolia.''Guide to Traveling the Gobi''Planning Where to Go''The Gobi is really big! Planning on where to go and how long it will take can become very confusing. It’s best to do lots of''research on the Gobi'', and decide what areas interest you the most. The Gobi has everything from motor sports and dinosaurs, to hiking and camel riding. Uncharted adventure will be had. So spend the time before you go to plan things properly, as visiting the Gobi is a unique travel destination unlike anywhere else.''Getting Transport''There are a few options for''traveling through the Gobi''. The first, cheapest option is to take public transport. This isn’t the best idea. Because of the Gobi’s size, public transportation is unreliable and destinations are limited (not to mention its time consuming!).''The second choice is to rent a car and drive yourself. This option is great and will give you the freedom to do whatever you wish. The downside is that road maps are not very detailed (including GPS), making navigation difficult. Very little English is spoken here, so finding accommodation and food can be difficult.''Our Old Soviet Van Named Machina''The last option is to rent a van with a driver. This is, by far, the best option. Our driver served as a guide, cook, and translator. We were able to do things no other travelers have done before! Our guide provided us with an inside look at Mongolian culture. Obviously, this is the most expensive option, but with some hard bargaining and some willing friends, you can cut costs very low.''Should I Take a Tour?''Tours are a little misunderstood in Mongolia. They range from full blown, all-inclusive GAP tours, to private, customizable backpacker ventures. Most hostels in''Ulaanbaatar''act as travel agencies as well. If you are traveling alone, then you have the option of joining other groups to cut costs. However, you might not necessarily get to see everything you want, because you’ll be traveling with strangers. My friends and I used a tour agency to rent our van and driver/guide/cook/translator.''The Most Amazing Driver – Jugga''How Much Does it Cost?''We paid about $60 US per day for our''Gobi experience''. This included the van and all the petrol, as well as an awesome local man named Jugga, who was to be our guide/driver. We drove 200-400 km per day. Aside from the van and driver, we paid, on average, $10 for local food per day, and $10 to stay with local families. All said and done, splitting costs between the three of us, we spent about $30-50 US per day.''Accommodation''Finding accommodation was incredibly easy. Most towns have some sort of a guest house that always has rooms available. They are not luxurious by any means. All of the other sights have''gers''* for rent, and usually a host family will cook for you. Tour companies will tell you that, without a tour, you will not be able find any of this for yourself. This is, of course, not true, but, it would be more challenging.''*''Ger:''This circular house is quite possibly the one thing that you will remember''most about your trip to Mongolia. Today, most of the population still lives in this fashion. The round, wooden frame is covered in felt and wool. The top of the ger is left open for smoke to escape. These houses can be seen all over the country as they are very transportable. This is essential, because most of the population in Mongolia still lives a nomadic lifestyle.''Many times throughout our journey, when we were in very remote areas, our only option was to stay with local, nomadic families. Thanks to Jugga, we were able to arrange this very easily. Staying with families can be very rough, however. You will sleep on the floor, usually next to curing meats. After the fire burns out, it gets very cold. On the upside, every ger doubles as a distillery, so you usually drink yourself asleep and stop caring about the ger’s cleanliness.''Sample of a Remote Ger Home stay Option''Food''Now I am about to get very real with you.''Mongolian food''was, by far, the highest hurdle to overcome. Mongols have primarily survived on livestock and hunting. They consume copious amounts of meat and milk.''All beverages, including alcohol and tea, are made from either goat, camel, or horse milk. If you are lactose intolerant, like my friend Adam, then life will be a constant struggle.''As for eating with the locals, the usual meal consists of cured goat meat, and usually fried noodles or rice. Every so often, we would see dumplings or empanada-like things filled with goat fat…. Yes, I am warning you, the food here is something else. The odd time we would find spicy ketchup; that was an absolute treat.''“''What’s a vegetable? It’s like a goat that grows in the ground.” –''Adam Delman''Entering a Ger''The first thing you must know before entering a ger is that you must be wary of the dogs. Yell out for residents to hold the dogs before leaving your vehicle. When it’s safe and you are ushered to enter the ger, the first thing you should do is greet everyone in''Mongolian''by saying “''Sain Bain uu.''” The elder will usually will break out the''snuff''bottles – powdered tobacco which you snort up your nose. It gives you quite the buzz!!''The next step is to eat the dried meat they hand you. It’s usually goat meat or organs that have been fermenting. If you cannot do this, then I suggest you don’t visit Mongolia. Respect the culture. Next, tea is served and food will be cooked. Sometimes the tea is left out and instead hard alcohol is substituted. Getting extremely intoxicated with your host is not just good manners, but is expected!''Getting to the Gobi''From Central Mongolia’s Orkhon Valley, the dirt road winds through the sunlit, bare, green hills south. My crew which consisted of my two friends, Jacob and Adam, from British Colombia. Our driver Jugga, a Mongol crazy enough to tag along for the epic journey that lay ahead, was gearing up in the early hours of the morning.''Our plan was to drive our old Soviet van through the Gobi desert, all the way to Western''Mongolia''. This is not a journey that is to be taken lightly. After the first part of the journey the road ends abruptly. So does all forms of modern civilisation.''Van fully loaded, we said goodbye to our Nomadic home stay in the Orkhon and headed south. As the hours passed by, we forded rivers, twisted along muddy roads in dense forests, and eventually came to a bare, lunar like landscape. The road ended. Every so often, some horses could be seen; grazing on the shrubs that miraculously grow in this inhospitable place. Four hours of being thrown around like a rag doll in the van passed before we finally found the tarmac.''It wasn’t even an hour after that before we hit the first city, Arvaikheer, en route to the Gobi. Arvaikheer consisted of a few restaurants and hotels, but the rest of the city was made up of groupings of family gers.''Heading south from Arvaikheer, the roads quickly became very rough. The landscape flattened out and was completely bare. Abruptly, we entered the Gobi Desert. Atop a hill that overlooks a sandy plain as far as the eye can see, there was a white Buddhist Stupa. This Stupa signifies the beginning of the Gobi.\xa0 The desolate plain looks endless. Seldom grows or lives here. The real adventure was just beginning.''Welcome to the Moon''Many hours passed by as we drove through the nothingness. Time ceased to exist here. Everywhere we looked was flat, desolate plains. The sand and dust filled the air inside the van. Every so often, we saw the skull of a lost horse along the dirt tracks that made this “road.”''The heat waves intensified in the late afternoon, creating false mirage images in the distance. How our driver, Jugga, kept his cool, I am not sure. All of us were hungry and exhausted from the day.''Just then Jugga said, “Here Is food, we stop here.”''Milking the Horses for Tea and Airag''Bizarrely enough, we pulled over to a ger in the middle of nowhere. This ger’s isolated location makes one wonder how people can reside here and still be sane. Entering the ger, we found a family of four, which consisted of a young man, his two parents, and their grandmother.\xa0 The ger’s smoky interior had strips of goat meat hanging to dry, and a corner full of mysterious, white jugs.''Jugga requested that the father cook us some of the goat meat, while the son and mother brought my friends and I out to get milk. To our surprise, we were to get the milk ourselves… from the horses the family owned.\xa0 If you are wondering, yes, milking a horse is just as strange as it sounds. Even stranger was drinking the milk in the ger, while waiting for our fried strips of old goat meat.''After we choked down more horse milk and our host’s generous goat meat, we were given''airag*''. When the''Airag''began to take effect, we were served its stronger, distilled cousin. This clear, petrol-tasting version of airag brings a surprisingly comforting effect. It helped take our minds off the fact we just milked a horse in the middle of nowhere.''*''Airag:''Fermented milk alcohol that is created in the ger. Every ger doubles as a distillery and can make Airag from many kinds of milk: goat, camel, and horse being the most popular. Airag has a frothy, fermented taste and is usually no more than 5% alcohol. There is also a distilled version of Airag that is clear and tastes like petrol. Its alcohol content is a mystery.''From the strange, horse milk nomads, we continued into the flat, sandy, never ending abyss. When the town we were to stay in finally emerged from another heat wave, we were all in disbelief (we were all kind of drunk as well).''This town, which I still don’t know the name of, was another a strange experience. Jugga brought us to the local gym where we were forced into playing the local women’s volley ball team. After these women massacred us, we were brought to the ger in which we were to sleep. This ger was used for fermenting cheese balls. So there we were, beaten from the roads, airag, and women’s volley ball team, laying cuddled up, surrounded by fermenting cheese.''Herding the Camels 21st Century Mongol Style''Ongiin Khiid Monastery''The next morning, we drove to the two Buddhist monasteries of Ongiin Khiid. The two monasteries, Bari Lam Khiid and Khutagt Lam Khiid, are collectively known as''Ongiin Khiid''. Built in 1760, they were once the largest Buddhist monasteries in all of Mongolia. In 1937, the Soviets came and levelled the complex, killing over 200 monks. These days, a small community of monks have begun piecing the temples back together.''Entering the grounds feels a bit spooky. Mounds of rubble are strewn about all over the hills and valley bottom. Looking closer at the broken stones, you will find Sanskrit script,''swastikas''*''and other Buddhist symbols. Its best to delve deep into the remote valleys near the monasteries, as there is plenty of hidden treasures here.''*''Many people don’t know that the swastika is actually a Buddhist symbol that means “wellbeing.” The ancient symbol was corrupted by the Nazi party in the 1930’s.''The museum here is also worth a look. It houses some interesting artefacts that survived the communist purge. My favorite was the wine cups made from elder monk human skulls!''Hunting for Fossils at Bayanzag''The strange''hills of Bayanzag''are famed for the discovery of dinosaur relics. It was here that palaeontologist Roy Chapman Andrews first started excavations, searching for dinosaur bones and eggs in 1922. Today, you can see many of his findings in museums all over the world!''The Flaming Cliffs of Bayanzag''If you’re not into dinosaurs, Bayanzag is still worth the visit, as its natural desert beauty is unlike the rest of the Gobi. Vibrant colours swirl around the cliff side, and tall peaks provide views of amazing desert vistas.''Approaching the fiery hills of Bayanzag is an epic experience. From the flat, sandy, desolate desert, giant red, orange and yellow hills emerge from out of nowhere. Getting here from Ongiin Khiid took several hours, but it was well worth the stop.''We spent several hours hiking around the cliffs, exploring new, exciting angles of the rock formations. In the belly of the valley, we found several potential dinosaur bones and eggs. There were plenty of interesting rocks for us three geeks to collect. After three hours of dinosaur hunting, we drove to the nearby ger camp for the night. At night, the stars here are amazing!''Dalanzadgad and Hiking through the Yolyn Am Valley''The next day, we drove to the capital of the Gobi region. After about a week of sleeping in gers and not showering, we were looking forward to some civilization. Unfortunately, we didn’t find it here. Dalanzadgad’s dusty, barren streets are home to a few restaurants, broken ATM’s and 70’s era dinosaur statues. It resembles a ghost town.''We did, however get to finally shower. The “showers” are located in a public bath house. Even though it was dirty and felt a bit like a brothel, I will never forget the feeling of that hot shower and being clean once again.''Fresh, and plenty excited to leave Dalanzadgad, we ventured into the mountains of the Gobi.''Hidden deep in a canyon is Yolyn Am. Originally created to protect wildlife, this park has now become famed for its hiking and ice filled caverns. From the entrance, you can hike deeper into the canyon. You will have to cross frigid rivers, crackling ice, and beautiful fields of green grass surrounded by the tall, black mountains of Yolyn Am. The full circuit is about 10km and takes 5-6 hours. We spent about 3 hours just walking about halfway through and back.''Hiking Deep into the Icy Gorge of Yolyn Am''Outside of Yolyn Am is a taxidermy museum. I know what you are thinking; who wants to go see some stuffed animals? But, this sight is a must! The animals are very poorly stuffed, giving them an almost comedic look to them! You also can get a close up look at some of the rarer species here without having to spend weeks looking for them (they might not look quite like what you were expecting!).''Nearby to the taxidermy museum is a group of gers owned by an elderly Mongol women. She was the only person in this country who provided us with something other than goat meat. She made us elbow pasta with Russian goulash; it was a gift from God.''Stepping Into the Past – Khavtsgait Petroglyphs''On the way to Khongoryn Els is, quite possibly, the highlight of the entire Gobi. Hidden high above in the hills are the Khavtsgait Petroglyphs. Finding them was not easy. Our driver stopped at another nomadic family home. Here, we had the ubiquitous Mongolian milk tea, snorted some snuff, and ate a few goat made products. After conversing with them, they agreed to show us were the Petroglyphs were located.''Carvings of Ibex and Other Animals that Used to Live Here''We drove for about one hour, high into the hills. These roads look as if they have not been used in years. Our new guide directed us through they hill valleys up onto a desert plateau. Odd piles of black rocks dotted the horizon. Our guide brought us to different groups of these rocks and then we walked up onto them.''Walking off alone, I stumbled across a few scratches in the rocks. I followed these to larger ones until, finally, I was confronted with an entire boulder covered in stories of the past. The desert wind blew across my face, whispering with ancient voices of the people who were here long ago. The rock carvings depicted ancient homes, hunting, and the people who once called this place home.\xa0 There are plenty of ibex and deer carvings, but the best one is of a two humped camel. These petroglyphs date back anywhere from 3000 to 8000BC!''Further along from these carvings were more recent ones done by Buddhist monks from Tibet traveling through here. They carved Sanskrit, the language of the Buddha, onto the rocks; to guide future monks on their rite of passage.''Bactrian Camel Carving''The Sands of Khongoryn Els''Blown away by the Petroglyphs, we pushed on towards the heart of the Gobi. It doesn’t take long traveling on this road for you to realise its remoteness. Here, Jugga asked if we could pick his brother up. It was a strange question, as we were in the middle of nowhere. Sure enough, the exact DNA copy of Jugga was standing on the sand road in the middle of the desert. Adia, Jugga’s brother now joined our motley crew.''Taking a break Atop the dunes''Sand dunes in the distance grow larger and larger as you approach''Khongoryn Els''. These are not the sand dunes you picture from the Sahara, they are very different. Fluorescent green pastures of grass sit at the foot of these massive, golden dunes. Behind the sand are large, black mountains of jagged rock. The scene is beautiful and surreal.''As we approached our ger camp, hundreds of Bactrian (two humped) camels appeared. They grazed in the fields of grass, adding another element to this fairy tale like picture. When we arrived, the first thing my friends and I did was run to the dunes.''Climbing them is a brutal task. For every step we took up towards the summits, we sank back a few inches. It takes lots of stamina to finally ascend these monsters. After the first summit, you see an even bigger one in front of it. It became an obsession of ours to climb the biggest ones. When we finally found the biggest one and summited it, we sat down and everything became silent.''The setting sun dropped shades of purple and black, pairing with the golden rays bouncing off the dunes. In the distance, a man walked with his camels through the sand, painting a picturesque scene. The silence took hold of us. Nothing on this earth will ever compare to the silent beauty of this place.''The Mongol Sand Sea of\xa0Khongoryn Els''The next day, we donned our''Mongol Del jackets''and climbed aboard our ships of the desert (camels). A local guide took us deeper into the''sands of Khongoryn Els''. We drifted past wild Mongolian horses, though sandy, trickling streams, and traversed more massive dunes; a true nomadic experience of the Gobi.''Friendly Smiling Local of the Gobi''That night, we ascended another massive dune and star gazed into, yet again, one of the most amazingly lit skies I have ever seen!''Crossing the Beast''This is what we came for. Take any tour into the Gobi and they stop at Khongoryn Els. The roads go no further, only the emptiness of the desert lies ahead. This is exactly where we intended to go. Our plan was to put the van into 4×4 and cross the entire uncharted section of the Gobi to Altai in Western Mongolia.''We equipped our van with plenty of food, tools, and petrol for the long desert journey. Jugga had never been through here before either, so it was to be an adventure of a lifetime.''300 m High Sand Dune''The roads ended at the tallest dune in the area, which was 300 meters high. As my friends and I had now become dune summiting junkies, we could not resist the urge to climb this one. It was a long, 1 hour sweaty climb up the 90 degree side of this monstrous sand dune.''At road’s end, Jugga looked nervous. He slammed the van into 4×4 and we pushed onwards. We used GPS, maps, and local mountains as landmarks in an effort not to get lost. The landscape changes quick the further you go; from deep sand, to shrubs and then barren, cracking earth, covered in glass like rocks.''It’s an eerie feeling, not knowing what lays ahead. Everyone stayed fairly silent, giving me time to think and gaze out into the emptiness.''Our first stop was a nomadic ger in the middle of nowhere. We stopped because we were curious the people who would try to make a life out in this place. As it turned out, the family who resided here has been raising camels for generations. They were almost completely cut off from the outside world. That is, until we showed up.''After a camel inspired lunch with the family, we continued on into uncharted territory.\xa0 The sky was a shade of blue I have never seen. The eerie, translucent moon was in front of us during the middle of the day. In the distance, black, tall mountains with flat peaks soared above the shifting desert sands, from which rose heat waves that played tricks on our eyes. Ahead was only emptiness. Our van left tracks that cut into the earth for hundreds of kilometres.''After seven hours of driving, we entered the black mountains. We followed an ancient, dried up river bed that led us higher into them. The black cliffs closed us in. They created fortress like walls high above.''After climbing for a few hours, the mountains opened up into rolling hills as far as the eye could see.\xa0 Here, the first signs of life emerged. The odd ger was erected in the crevasse of the hills. It was at one of these gers that we approached and asked the residents if we could stay. Our new host family was delighted to have us. We spent the night drinking and laughing about this chaotic adventure we found ourselves in.''In the morning, our host family directed us to some ancient caves. They were hidden in a valley, but there were signs that were possibly as old as the caves themselves that helped guide us. Cavemen used to dwell in these caves 25,000 years ago. Deep inside the cavern, you will find a crude statue of one of these cavemen and discover a cavern in which the walls are covered in clear crystals. The place’s history, beauty and remoteness gave it a somewhat magical feeling.''Remote Nomadic Gobi Desert Dwellers''After five hours of driving through the rolling hills, the desert began to change. Bodies of water appeared and the desolate, dead land began to change into one dotted with grass and flowers. The black mountains of the Gobi loomed behind us in the distance. It was here we found a dirt track that lead us to a small, name-unknown town. Here we found a guesthouse – in an actual house!''The entire town came out to see the crazy five who just drove across one of the most remote corners of the planet.''We awoke early in the morning. We had an approximately nine hour journey left before we would find the tarmac and drive into Western Mongolia. The further we pushed on, the less the landscape looked like the merciless Gobi desert. Right before we found the highway, two large, red mountains emerged, as if signaling the end of the Gobi. We hit the tarmac shortly after these landmarks. The thrill of surviving this journey brought an incredible cheer into the van! Vodka was consumed, packaged noodles were eaten, and we all had the biggest grins, realizing the difficulty of the task we had just completed.''The second leg of our Mongolia journey was now finished, Western Mongolia lay ahead.''Useful Information''Location:''Gobi Desert. Mongolia''Daily Costs'': 40-70 dollars per day, if sharing costs''Recommended Guide Book'': Lonely Planet Mongolia''Gear'': Mongolian Del, Life Straw, Nomad Solar Panel, Sony A7, GoPro Hero 4 Black. Bring warm clothes as it gets very cold in the desert.''Adventure Travel''asia''Mongolia''Jerusalem and West Bank, Israel/Palestine''High above, the church bells begin ring from the Holy Sepulcher. “Allahu Akbar,” blares from the hundreds of loudspeakers throughout the Muslim quarter. Jewish Rabbis glide in-between alley ways, on their way to the Wailing Wall, singing hymns from the Tora. The air fills quickly with the scent of the thick perfume of''frankincense.''I stand in the middle of all this, not a Jew, Christian or Muslim. Just a traveler, an observer of culture and life. The energy buzzes though the air like a summer wildfire. This place is special. There is no place like it anywhere else in the world. The dream comes to an abrupt end when you see the heavily armed military police, standing on every street corner, watching the people, watching you. This is Jerusalem. It can only be described with one word: I''ntense''.''Getting to Israel''Today,''Israel''is a “hot spot” in the''Middle East''. In North America, talk of Israel inevitably pertains to politics, human rights and conflict. I, however, am not here to discuss any of this. I was a traveler of Israel. I went there to objectively observe another culture and learn about another place.''Visiting Israel is a popular topic among travelers as well. Is it safe? What about receiving that scary''Israeli passport stamp''*? In fact, many travellers opt to skip Israel entirely because of the difficulties that may arise before, during and after visiting here.''The Old City of Jerusalem''Israeli Stamp:''Let’s clear one issue up quickly. If you receive an Israeli stamp in your passport, you indeed will be denied access from the following countries: Syria, Lebanon, Libya, Kuwait, Iran, Iraq, Sudan, and Yemen. People have also said they have had issues getting into:''Malaysia, Pakistan, Algeria, Indonesia, U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia.''The notion that Israeli border guards will stamp a separate piece of paper other than your passport is completely unreliable, to say the least. Even if you can convince them to do this, other countries will notice your exit stamp from Jordan or Egypt. There is almost no getting around this problem. If you plan to travel to any of the countries listed above, consider visiting Israel last.''My story begins in Amman,''Jordan''. After my mother and I had backpacked through Egypt and Jordan, we were looking forward to the seeing the epicentre of all Middle Eastern culture – Jerusalem. We were unsure of what the day would bring us. We climbed aboard a mini bus from the Amman central bus station that would take us to the Allenby/King Hussein Bridge border crossing between Jordan and Israel.''Dome of Rock Overlooking the Holy Sepulchre''Our bus finally arrived. Exiting Jordan was simple and easy. On the other side of the border, things were very different. Heavily armed military police were everywhere. Tall, barbed wire fences surrounded the desert post. There were attack dogs and counter terrorism units right in the open, sending a clear message to everyone not to mess around here.''They shuffled my mother and I into a separate line from the Jordanians. We were asked many questions about our previous travels in the Middle East and where in Israel we intend to go. After that, they herded us into a device that blew shots of air on us, testing for trace amounts of narcotics and explosives.''After we made it through this section of security, there was more. Our bags were pulled apart and every single item scrutinised. I had an antique knife in my backpack that the border guards did not take kindly too.''After one hour of all of this, we were finally through. We were in Israel. Another minivan waited for ongoing passengers to Jerusalem. It filled up fast, and we were off.''The Holy City of Jerusalem''Upon entering Jerusalem, you quickly realise how modern this city had become. Western food chains and glitzy shopping areas are everywhere. But when the bus pulled up to our arrival point at the''Damascus Gate'', we left the modern world behind.''The Old City of Jerusalem''Just like in ancient times, this gate is the main entrance to Jerusalem’s Old City. When you pass through its tall arches, you step back in time. The honking of car horns are replaced with the calling of street hawkers selling their wares. Air pollution turns into the thick waft of frankincense, and concrete buildings turn into soaring, ancient structures. The abrupt change is shocking.''The Widest Selection for Kippas in Jerusalem''We found ourselves in front of the''Hashimi Hotel''in the Muslim Quarter. This hotel has a great atmosphere. Inside is a mix of old domes and traditional Middle Eastern architecture. The rooms make you feel as though you have travelled back in time.''We checked into our rooms and were immediately off to get lost in the labyrinth of alleyways of this ancient city.''Heavily Armed Security Roaming the Old City''Jerusalem’s Four Quarters''Walking through this city, you begin to see that there are four very distinct areas. One of these is the Muslim Quarter. This area feels like you’ve stepped into a Middle Eastern souq. Arab men call out, trying to sell unique and beautifully crafted products, including hammered copper, mother of pearl, frankincense, and Muslim art.''The next Quarter is the Armenian Quarter. I found that the Christian and Armenian Quarters sort of blend into one. As you walk past the countless churches, you will notice Ethiopian Orthodox Christians''carrying crosses''in remembrance of their savoir.''The Medieval Wall Surrounding the Old Quarters''The last Quarter is the Jewish Quarter. The heart of this area the Western Wall. Within this quarter and you will find many ancient Synagogues.''Guardian of the Location of the Last Supper''The Dome of Rock – Haram ash-Sharif/Temple Mount''Probably one of the world’s most easily recognised structures is the Dome of the Rock. This was the first place I had wanted to see in Jerusalem. Muslims revere this site because they believe that this is where Mohammed ascended to heaven to be alongside God. This place is also significant to the Jewish people, as it was the location of the first and second temple.''Dome of Rock, Islams Holiest Sight in Jerusalem''We entered into the grounds of the Temple Mount through the''Bab al-Silsila'', just as pilgrims have for thousands of years. There was a peaceful calm in the air. Cyprus trees are scattered throughout the plaza. Worshippers ponder at the beauty and significance of this structure. So much history is here.''I tried to enter the Dome of the Rock but, as I am a non-Muslim, I was not allowed in. Wandering around the Temple Mount was, I imagine, an equally satisfying experience. The pilgrims here are very pleased to see you. Without a doubt, they will eagerly tell you a little about this place.''I highly recommend staying here for Adhan/Call to Prayer. The''beautiful Adhan''is called out from The Dome of the Rock, and you really get to witness the passion the Muslim people have for this incredible place.''The Western Wall – Wailing Wall''We headed southwest from the''Temple Mount''to find the Western Wall. As you approach the wall you will be required to wear a''Kippah''– the small, flat round, cap that Jewish people wear. Do not worry if you do not have one, as an attendant at the wall will hand you a paper one.''Devotee Praying at the Wailing Wall''Paper''Kippah''atop my head I, walked up to the Western Wall. Jewish pilgrims, Rabbi’s and other devotees sing hymns, cry and worship towards the wall. The scene is absolutely spectacular. So much energy, passion, makes for one intense experience. You can stay here for hours, observing this wondrous spectacle.''Massive Crowds Gather at the Wall''To the north side of the wall is the Western Wall Tunnels. I entered here alone, but was quickly picked up by a friendly Rabbi who wanted to show me around. Even though he asked for''baksheesh*''afterwards, I still appreciated the tour. It was informative, and gave me a greater insight to the deep spiritual importance of the wall. He also showed me the deepest and oldest section of the wall, which is usually closed off to the non-Jewish.''*''Baksheesh:''Learn this word fast as it is used by everyone in the Middle East. The word translates to “tip,” which travellers in the Middle East will be expected to give for anything from getting directions, to someone lifting your bag onto the train. This word will drive you crazy by the time you leave the Middle East.''Deep Inside the Wailing Walls Chambers. One of the Oldest Sections of the Wall''Church of the Holy Sepulchre''The Dome of Rock’s Gold hemisphere glistens over the entire city, the Western Wall is a dominant fixture of Jerusalem’s streets. But the holiest site for the Christians sits humbly atop the hill, where it is said that Jesus was crucified.''The''Church of the Holy Sepulcher''is quite underwhelming at first sight. Tucked in between a few other stone structures, the church can be a bit difficult to find. Ask any pilgrim or local and they will point you in the right direction.''Entering the Holy Sepulchre''Heading northwest from the Western Wall, we followed the parades of Ethiopian pilgrims carrying the cross to the hill. Just following these pilgrims gave me a glimpse of the passion these people have for their religion.''Entering the Church with the many pilgrims was incredible. You will go by the places where Jesus was nailed to the cross, died and laid to rest on the slab of stone that is still here. Lastly, you will see the place where he rose from the dead.''The Location Where Jesus Christ was Nailed to the Cross''After wandering the halls of the Church, we walked back down the hill to the Hashimi Hotel in the Muslim Quarter. Visiting all three major sites in one day is exhausting, but it is one amazing experience.''Eagles View of the Holy Sepulchre''The City of David''Over the next few days, we explored more of the many religious sites in the Old City of Jerusalem. We saw the Citadel – a huge crusader citadel which contains Herod’s Tower and the Tower of David. There was the Room of the Last Supper – where Jesus is said to have had his last meal with his disciples before being arrested. Lastly, we saw the Mount of Olives which is a pleasant walk from the East Gate up to a hill, covered in olive trees, surrounded by one of the world’s oldest cemeteries.''The last place we covered was the City of David. From the Dung Gate, we headed east downhill to the entrance of the City. This massive archaeological site will take you deep underground to the remnants of King David’s city, founded 3000 years ago.''It takes quite a bit of time to see everything this site has to offer. A guide is highly recommended, as they will inform you on the area’s many historical findings. Much of the site is still under excavation, meaning that more and more will be readily available to see as time goes on. At one point of the tour you will even walk over an old aqueduct system, roaring water below that supplied the ancient city with running water.''The West Bank – Palestine''When entering Israel, it is best not to mention that you will be going to the West Bank. Journeying here will give you a good look at some of the major underlying issues that this part of the world faces.''Palestine'', which is enclosed by thirty foot, barbed wired concrete walls, is located here.''Modern Art Painted on the Palestinian side of the West Bank Wall''As I approached the giant walls that separate the West Bank from Israel, I began to feel uneasy. The area is frequently in spotlight for tragic reasons. As a traveler, I was mostly ignored.''The process to get across the wall was actually quite straight forward. The Israeli Army quickly checked my passport and waved me onwards to the West Bank. The modern buildings and amenities of the Israeli side are replaced by poor infrastructure and dusty streets on the Palestinian side.''The Beautiful West Bank''The Wall itself is covered in anti-war graffiti. The graffiti is a great representation of the realities of what is happening here. Both sides have their own unique style.''As I exited customs, many smiling Palestinians offered me a ride to the first major sight here, Bethlehem. I wanted to walk, but they didn’t want to take no for an answer. After some laughs, and sharing of stories, the drivers pointed me in the direction in which I had to walk.''The West Bank is such a beautiful contrast to Israel, you really do feel like you have entered a new country. Palestinian people are some of the friendliest and most helpful people I have ever met. The walk to Bethlehem was incredible. Bazaars line the streets, selling minty tea and smoky kebabs. The 2 km walk took about an hour, with frequent stops for tea and delicious Palestinian food.''Manger Square and the Church of the Nativity – Bethlehem''Entering Manger Square is exhilarating. Vendors yell out in a symphony, donkey carts carrying supplies kick up dust into the air. Motor bikes roar through the centre. The scene will make you feel as if you are seeing the Middle East as it was long before all the modern developments.''You can spend hours wandering through the shops selling exotic items in the Old City. At the centre of it all is the Church of the Nativity.''The Location of Jesus Christs Birth''The Church of the Nativity is the birthplace of Jesus Christ. In a predominantly Muslim area, this Christian church is located on the east side of Manger Square. Visiting the church will teach you about on some of the area’s history and, of course, take you to the exact spot where Jesus is said to have been born.''Bethlehem provides great insight into''Palestinian culture''and history. A trip to the area is a must for anyone who is in Jerusalem.''Just when things had all gone well, something began to happen in the square. People gathered and talk of riots and fighting were spreading. We hopped into a cab and drove back to the Israeli border to avoid all of this. On way to the border, things got sketchy. Many crowds gathered along the streets and our driver took a different path back to avoid the crowds. While driving down one of these alleyways, someone threw a large rock that smashed our front windshield in the cab. Our driver drove faster now, in a panic.''This is the reality of traveling to this part of the world. There is a lot of tension to say the least. Do not let this deter you from coming here. Traveling to Jerusalem and the West Bank is an incredibly rewarding endeavour. Apart from this incident, we experienced no dangers or issues. We arrived back to the border and walked back into Jerusalem with no quarrels.''Useful Information''Location:''Jerusalem and the West Bank – Israel and Palestine''Daily Costs:''Hashimi Hotel – $20 US per night. Average Cab ride – $5 US, Street Kebab or Bagel – $3 US.''Tips:''Be very cautious when photographing here. Many of the Rabbi’s will not appreciate you flaunting you camera in front of them. Remember where you are, do not leave your bag unattended, or talk about the problems here. There are free walking tours in Jerusalem that are operated by young Jewish people that offer a great look into Jerusalem’s history and culture.''Recommended Guide Book:''Lonely Planet Israel and the Palestinian Territories''.''Lonely Planet Middle East Phrase Book''Recommended Gear:''GoPro Black out Housing''makes the cameras more discreet.''GoPro HD Sound Microphone.''GoPole''.''Keffiyeh Scarf''.''Fjallraven Rucksack No.21''.''Fossil side bag''.''israel''palestine''The Middle East''travel guides''travel journal''Baliem Valley, West Papua''As the fog clears, steep,''jungle''-clad mountains loom in the distance. Clouds descend into the valley as they are pierced by the rising sun, painting a picture of solitude and serenity. Up until now, I had believed places of such remote and indescribable beauty only existed in fairy tales. As I crawl out from my smoky hut in the early hours of the morning, it takes an enormous effort to convince myself that this place is even real. This is the Baliem Valley in West Papua’s remote hidden interior, a place where true adventure can''still''be had. A place where travelers earn their stripes and become explorers; leaving all that they thought they knew behind them. Papua will change you; come prepared.''Getting to the Baliem Valley''The Baliem Valley is located in the central region of''West Papua''. The task of getting here can be incredibly intimidating, due to remoteness. Do not fret, however, the journey is not as hard as it may appear. With a little patience, getting here can be fairly pain free and exciting.''Jayapura, the Gateway City''Jayapura is the capital city of Indonesia’s West Papua region. Getting here is just a matter of catching a flight from one of Jakarta, Manado, or even''Makassar''. Usually, the cheapest flights can be found with''Lion Air’s''“Batik Air.” Flights from most other Indonesian cities, apart from Jakarta, usually connect through Sorong, another city located in the far west of West Papua.''Eagle Eye View of Jayapura City''Jayapura itself does not actually have an airport. Instead, you will land at''Sentani airport'', which is about a 35 km taxi ride to Jayapura city itself, a journey that takes about an hour. Travelers arriving from backpacking in Indonesia will be in shock, as prices here are much higher than elsewhere in the country. Just ask the taxi to drop you off at JL Percetakan in the centre of Jayapura. Here you can find a few hotels for under $25 US per night.''Small Papua Village Near Sentani''Wamena, Baliem Valley''Wamena is the main “town” in the''Baliem Valley''. It consists of a few overpriced hotels, a church, military base and a fairly modern airport. Getting to Wamena from Jayapura is not hard at all. On Jayapura’s JL Percetakan Street, you can find many travel agencies who can book you a ticket for next day flights to Wamena from Sentani. There are now several airlines making the trip to Baliem, so getting on a next day flight is a cinch. Again, Lion Air still tends to be the cheapest option for this.''Flying here is an exhilarating experience. The twin prop plane that makes the journey climbs up the mountains,, through puffy clouds over incredible scenery. The turbulence can be pretty intense, so get ready!''When you land you will right away be greeted by the police so they can issue you a''Surat Jalan''.*''*''Surat Jalan:''When visiting anywhere in West Papua you will require a Surat Jalan. This travel permit will allow you to access the many regions of West Papua. In Jayapura, you will very rarely be asked for one. If you plan on doing any hiking in Baliem, however you will defiantly need one. The good news is that they are free and easily obtained upon''arrival''at the Wamena airport. All you will need is a passport photo and thirty minutes of your time.''From Wamena’s airport, you can just walk as the town is very small. If walking is not your thing, hop in one of the many cycle rickshaws for about $2 US.''The Dani''The 30 clans that reside in the Baliem and its tributary valleys are known as the''Dani.''The Dani population consists of around 200 000 people.''These days, most of''the Dani''speak''Bahasa Indonesian'', but they also speak their own dialects amongst each other. In the more remote corners of the valley, you will be greeted with the phrase “Wa, Wa,” a common greeting showing respect.''Locals Display there Cultural Outfits in Jwinka''In Wamena, very few of the Dani still wear their traditional outfits, apart from a few elderly men who hang around tourist hotels; selling trinkets and posing for pictures. In the villages scattered around the valley, you can still find elder Dani men donning their penis sheath; made from a gourde. The men also wear a traditional headdress, usually made from either cassowary or chicken feathers. Along with the crown, the men pierce there septum with a pig tusk. Very rarely do you see women in the traditional grass skirt and bare chest apart from in Jinka, where they pose for pictures. On the trails in the highlands you will still see women carrying babies, pigs and sweet potatoes (usually all at once!) in a woven bag known as a''noken''that is carried with a strap braced on their forehead''.''For the most part, the Dani and the rest of Papua have converted to Christianity. Cannibalism, nudity, and culture in general have greatly been affected because of this. One thing that still often happens is clan warfare. Villages have started conflicts with one another over wife and even pig stealing. This practice has been happening here for centuries, although it, too, is starting to die out.''Many Dani still practice polygamy, a tradition they have been practising for centuries. Another odd thing you will notice, while hiking in the Baliem, is that many of the elders are missing fingers. The reason for this is that, in Dani culture, when one loses a child, they bash a finger off with a stone to show that they have lost a loved one.''Fingers are Bashed Off With a Stone as a Display of Grief for Lost Ones''Many of the Dani still choose to live in huts, known as''Honai'',''in closed family compounds. The Honai consists of a large grass roof and usually two levels. The top level is for sleeping, while the bottom is where the residents cook and visit together. One of the best experiences I had in the Baliem was eating sweet potatoes with the locals in a Honai.''Exploring the North Baliem Valley''Traveling in North Eastern''Baliem''is a great way to experience Dani culture without without having to put in a lot of effort. All the sights can be reached by local bus, or hiring a taxi. I ended up hiring a taxi as it was Sunday, which meant that none the bus’s would be operating until after church in evening. Hiring a taxi for the full day taxi cost $40 US, which I split with three other travelers. We ended up stopping at four different places in the North East.''White Mountain''The first stop was the so called “White Mountain.” This “mountain” is merely a hill that has white ocean sand running down one of its sides. The sand comes from the bellies of birds that have been migrating here from the sea for centuries, slowly building up sand deposits. To be frank, it’s an underwhelming sight. Not to mention that the local chief will demand around $15 US to enter.''Jwinka Village''Further up the valley is the village of Jwinka. Many travelers have labelled this as a “tourist trap,” as locals here dress in traditional clothing mostly just for the benefit of snap happy tourists. All locals will ask for a fee before you can take their photo, but it’s still a great way to see how the Dani here used to dress. There outfits are not just for tourism, however. Most of the men and women who are in this clothing are elders, and have just not transitioned to wearing modern clothing. The elder women will be happy to show you there, amputated fingers as well, an indication of how authentic Jwinka still is.''Wimontok the Mummy of Jwinka''Upon arrival to the village, you will be greeted by the chief. You then will have to negotiate a price for photography, seeing the village and, of course, visiting the Wimontok Mabel Mummy. Wimontok Mabel was a powerful 18''th''century warlord in the valley. His body was smoked and mummified and has been kept in the village since his death. Nowadays, his mummified corpse can be seen for a small fee of 150 00 RP.''Personally, I loved seeing Jwinka Village. The mummy here was in incredible condition and the locals were very friendly… once we agreed on a price that is. As I am an avid photographer, Jwinka was an opportunity for me to get some great shots. Once you pay, the locals will proudly pose for you and then explain why they wear the jewelry and outfits they do.''Gua Kotilola''North of Jwinka, high up in the hills is the cave of Gua Kotilola. The cave is accessed by a somewhat muddy foot path that climbs up into the hills from the village near the highway. The local chief takes you up here (for a fee of course) and shows you the different caverns.''Local Guide in the Caves''One of the caverns is particularly fascinating. As you crawl past large stalagmites, heading deeper into the cavern, it gets darker and noisier. The noise comes from the thousands of bats who call this cave home. The floor gets slippery from all of the g''uano'';''so be careful!''At the end of the cave, you will reach a shallow pool of water. Beyond here is where locals keep the bones of warriors from the past. The chief will not allow you to continue any further, as the spirits of these warriors guard from here on.''Aikima Village''Heading back to Wamena, our last stop was the small village of Aikima. Relatively hard to find because of the lack of signage, Aikima is home to the oldest mummy in the valley.''The Werapak Elosak mummy was a powerful chief who was mummified by smoking to keep some of his powers in the village. This mummy is famous for how well it was preserved. Werapak Elosak was also mummified with his penis gourde and shell jewellery. It is now approximately 300 years old! The local chief will usually allow you to see the mummy for around 150 00 RP.''I actually preferred seeing this mummy versus the one in Jwinka. The more challenging journey of getting to Aikima made it feel a lot less touristy than Jwinka. The chief had to climb to the top floor of his Honai and drag down the mummy for us to see.''Hiking in the Baliem Valley''The engine sputters as the rusty old van pushes through the muddy road. The air is fresh, and I can see storm clouds brewing in the distant mountains…''Forging the River to South Baliem''As I rode on the roof of the bus, I peered into the distant valley and contemplated what struggles may lay ahead. The''Southern Valley''begins to take shape in the distance. Its mountains soar high into the clouds like fortress walls. The clouds move fast, making the weather unpredictable.\xa0 Finally, the bus comes to a halt, and the driver yells “Kurima!”''My crew consisted of five all together. My travel companion, Josh, from Canada, Teresa from Spain, who we met in Wamena, and our friends Harod and Natalie from England, who had been traveling with us for quite some time already. This motley crew of battle hardened travelers had no idea what was in store for them.''My four friends and I crawled down from the roof of the old van and we began the arduous journey. The first obstacle was crossing the Baliem River. There used to be a bridge, but it was washed away (along with good portion of the valley) a few months earlier. The current moves rapidly, and the water is frigid. A line of Papuans carrying pigs, potatoes, and miscellaneous tools made a line and held hands as they crossed. Being much taller than the locals, fording the river was a bit easier for me, but even with my height, the rivers depth was above my waste.''From the river, Kurima was another hour’s walk. As we entered Kurima village, we were greeted with a colourful festival. The festival (possibly a funeral) was a spectacle of vibrantly dressed locals. An archer proceeded to kill three pigs with his bow and arrow. The spectators then joined in to butcher the beasts and cook them in a bundle of smoking leaves. After only an hour of hiking we were already in the set of a National Geographic documentary.''Killing of the Pig With a Bow and Arrow''Hiking from Kurima to Kilise Village, you begin to realize how far from civilization you are becoming. The somewhat paved road ends here, and is replaced by muddy trails. Electricity, running water, and most other aspects of civilization slowly fade as you delve deeper into the wild.''My friends and I took a wrong turn and ended up having to take a secluded trail up a mountain side, covered in sweet potato crops. The extremely friendly locals were happy to point us in the right way to Kilise.''In Kilise, we asked around for food. An elder Papuan couple brought us into their Honai and let us use their firewood and cooking utensils. As the rain began to fall, we sat together on the straw floor of the smoky room together, cooking and laughing, trying to explain our cultural differences to these amazing people.''When the rain finally stopped, we crawled out from the warm, smoke filled interior of the Honai back into the stunning Baliem Mountains. The sights we witnessed while hiking from Kilise to Wamerek were incredibly jaw dropping. Clouds drifted alongside the densely forested mountains. The vertical drop on the side of the trail became daunting. As we looked down from the mountain, we could see small villages speckled throughout the valley.''Here things got dicey. The final stretch to Wamerek took us along a farmer’s trail, down the mountain side. The previous rains had turned the trail into a hazardous mess, which slowed us down drastically. We spread out as we descended, fearing a false move would bring us all tumbling down to our death. To make things worse, it began to rain again. The black clouds blotted out the sun, making this portion of the journey very frightening. After three hours of struggling down the mountain, we arrived to Wamerek; covered in mud, sweat, and blood from our many falls.''The local guesthouse took us in and cooked an incredible meal of rice, spinach, and''maggi''noodles. They made good use of the ingredients they had but, to be honest, anything at this point would have tasted amazing.''Amazing Stars at Night in the Baliem''The next day can only be described as hell. From Wamerek to Wesagalep, the rain poured down on us as we began our three hour climb up the mountain. It was muddy, steep and very humid. Hiking here is challenging; not for the faint-hearted. Nearing Wesagalep felt surreal. High up in the clouds, you can only see a few feet in front of you. Every so often, a gap in the clouds would appear, allowing a brief glimpse of the stunning valley below.''Wesagalep is small. Only a few Honai and a single guesthouse are here. The altitude creates frigid temperatures, so living here is hard. The only people still in town at this time of day were an Elder blind couple who took us in for lunch and to dry off.''Lunch Stop in Wesagalep''The elder man only wore a penis gourde and feathers atop his head. How he was able to survive in the rain and cold wearing only this I will never understand. When we finished our lunch, the Elder women guided us up the remaining part of the mountain to the summit.''The next part of the journey took us back down the valley to the river. We crossed through some very virgin rainforest and impossibly beautiful mountain vistas.''Arriving to Wuseram, we collapsed to the floor of the local guest house. Today’s hike was stunning, although painful, taking us around ten hours.''The next day to Syokosimo only took a few hours of hiking, but because the sun was shining and the valley views were clear, we took much longer. It was impossible not to stop and stare in awe at this scenery. Looking back, we could see the beast we had summited (which seemed so far away already)!''Eagle Eye View of the South Baliem Valley''Syokosimo is nestled along the river, in the lower part of the valley, making it warm and very pleasant. This day we spent talking with the locals and learning about their culture. My fondest memory was having a cigarette, which was made from local harvested tobacco, with one of the Elder men. He wore only the penis gourde and cassowary feathers atop his head. After talking with him for some time, he brought the men in our group penis gourds which we were expected to wear…. Yes it was strange wearing only a fruit if you were wondering.''The final day we had to cross the Baliem River back to the trail we had already walked. The bridge that connects the valleys is a little less than horrifying. Every year, many people fall from the rickety thing to their deaths. Locals showed us how to cross it, which is done one by one and with extreme caution.\xa0 After crossing, it was another two hours hike back to the bus stop. These two hours give you plenty of time to reminisce on your journey.''Baliem Valley''is not a place I am likely to forget!''Guide to Hiking the Southern Baliem Valley Trail''Day 1 –''The first day you will have to wade across the river just before Kurima. After crossing, Kurima is about another 1-2 km along a nice paved road. Upon entering Kurima, you will be stopped by the military and asked for your''Surat Jalan''. From Kurima, the path becomes extremely muddy. Keep in mind that the next stop is Kilise, which is a steady uphill journey. You will reach Kilise from Kurima after 1-2 hours. The final stop will be Wamerek. Wamerek is another 3-4 hours away, the views are incredible. If you veer of the trail it can become incredibly hazardous. Take it slow, and ask locals which way to go. Its not a bad idea to split up the journey up and stay in Kilise for the night.\xa0 Total hike time: 6 hours''Day 2 –''I made it all the way to Wuserem this day. I highly don’t recommend doing this, however, as it was incredibly hard. I will break it up into two days for this post. From Wamerek, you will cross a very scenic bridge high above the roaring Baliem River. After this, get ready, because it’s uphill for 3-4 hours. It’s very steep, very muddy, and not the most pleasant experience. I was swearing to myself almost the whole time! After enduring all this pain you will reach Wesagalep. Wesagalep is high above the clouds, meaning that it’s cold here. If you decide to stay, make sure you have the gear for it. Total hike time: 5 hours''Day 3 –''From Wesagalep, don’t follow the obvious trail, which just leads to some potatoes fields. Ask the locals to show you up the mountain. After another 1-2 hours of more painful, uphill, muddy trail, you will finally begin to descend. The one hour descent is steep, so be careful. Unfortunately, you must go down all the way to the river, and then back up another mountain pass. The climb takes about 1-2 hours. Finally, it’s all downhill form here all the way to Wuserem. Total hike time: 6 hours''Day 4 –''This was my favorite day. The views are absolutely beautiful as you head back down into the valley towards Wamena. You will pass through many small villages on your way to Syokosimo. The wide, easy trail is mostly downhill and constantly provides jaw dropping views. Ask locals to point you in the right direction, but the trail is quite straight forward. Total hike time: 4 hours''Day 5 –''The final day you have two options. The first is to head back the same way you came along the river and cross the rickety, scary bridge (one by one). This will drastically cut your hike time down. I chose this way as it only took 4 hours back. The bridge was very exciting as well! If you want more villages and excitement, cross the river right at Syokosimo and head up the mountain. You will be rewarded with more scenery and villages. This trail takes about 6 hours.''Preparing to Hike the Baliem Valley''When people refer to hiking in the Baliem Valley, they are usually referring to the''Southern Baliem Valley''. Here, the culture is more preserved and the villages have kept more traditional than elsewhere in the valley. Visiting here comes with its challenges, however. It’s very remote and requires some planning. Here are some frequently asked questions I have gotten:''Use a Guide, or Go Solo?''This is quite possibly the most frustrating aspect to visiting the valley. Locals will tell you its impossible to hike without a guide. They will tell you that the trails are too dangerous, navigation is very confusing and that there are no amenities. To be fair, they are not exactly wrong in saying this.''Using a guide can really help with all of these issues. Guides can arrange meals, translate, arrange porters and make the experience a lot more genuine. The catch however is that a guide will cost you at least $50 – 100 US per day, depending on the experience of the guide. There is also the risk getting stuck with an uncertified guide who turns out to be just some average joe looking to make a quick buck. If you decide to take a guide, sit down with him and tell him your expectations. Talk with more than one guide so that you can decide who suits your needs best.''Going solo into the Baliem valley is a possible option as well, even though locals will tell you it’s not. There is plenty of local transportation to the trail head, and the trails are fairly easy to navigate, especially if you have a detailed map or GPS. Locals in the South Valley are happy to point you in the right direction as well. If you need to cook, you can stop in any village and offer a bit of money to use the fireplace in a traditional Honai house. Along the trail, many of the villages offer very primitive guesthouses for you to stay in.''What Gear to Bring?''Hiking here is extreme. It can be hot and humid one hour, freezing the next. It can be wet, cold, dry or boiling hot. It’s almost impossible to be fully prepared. The gear I brought was probably not enough, but it served me well. Here are a few items that helped me out immensely!''Fjalraven Backpack''– Great size and built strong for crazy hikes like this. It can be waterproofed with the Greenland Wax''Fjalraven Jacket''– Light and waterproof once it’s waxed with the Greenland Fjallraven Wax.''Greenland Wax''– Amazing for waterproofing any cotton material.''Lifestraw and Bottle''– enables you to drink any of the river and stream water safely… you need this one for sure!''Merino Wool Base Layer''– great for keeping warm at night, its light and amazing!''Nomad Solar Panel''– No plugins or electricity out here.. This panel charged my camera and phone in one hour.''Maps.me''– free app that has all the villages and trails marked on an offline GPS. Amazing!!!''How Many Days Does it Take?''This largely depends on you, your fitness, experience, and weather conditions. The average person can complete the circuit through the Southern Baliem in 5 – 6 days. This much time will allow you to take things slow and enjoy the hike itself. Any less time and you will have to push yourself physically. The distances are not far here, but it’s hot, humid, and the vertical climbs are endless.''The weather is very unpredictable so come prepared for muddy trails that can delay hiking times by hours!''If you only have a limited amount of time, then opt for just hiking to a few of the entry villages. After one you head deep into the mountains, and getting back fast will become almost impossible.''How Much Does it Cost?''If you factor in a guide, food, transport, porter, and all the extras, you can expect to pay about 700 US for 5-6 days. You can greatly reduce the price by brining your own food and equipment, not using a porter, and even eliminating the guide.''I did the trail on my own and brought my own food and equipment. My daily costs were about $15-20 US per day. So compared to the $700 US packages the guide offers, I did it all just over 100 US for the five days.''Accommodation and Food''This is quite possibly the most confusing and misunderstood part of the hike. Guides will tell you it is impossible to find accommodation on your own. This is, of course incorrect. Pick up a copy of the''Lonely Planet:''Indonesia''. In the Papua section, you will find all the towns that offer official accommodation. When entering these towns, the owners will find you right away and direct you to the guest houses. If you want to stay with locals in a Honai, it will take some negotiating and some Bahasa language skills.''The guesthouses are very basic, usually offering a room with a carpeted or concrete floor. They will provide blankets to lie on, and sometimes a blanket to cover up with. It’s best to bring a sleeping bag or your own blanket.''The availability of food and the means to prepare it is also misunderstood. Guides will say that you need all your own cooking equipment and food. With regards to cooking equipment, this is false. If you don’t mid using old pots and pans that are slightly unsanitary, then every single household can provide you with firewood, a fire and everything you’ll need to prepare meals.''You should bring some food, however. The locals mostly eat sweet potatoes, rice and sometimes spinach, so brining some comfort food is defiantly worth it. Trying the local food is a great experience though. Don’t miss out snacking on eating sweet potatoes around the fire while sharing stories!''Transport to Southern Baliem''Transport to the Southern''Baliem valley''is very easy to find. You can take a hired car for around $30 – 50 US. Or, you can just as easily hop on a bus from the Misi terminal. Riding the buses are a great experience! You can ride up top with the potatoes and vegetables for great mountain views. The bus only costs $2 US: a real bargain.''The trailhead begins in the town of Kurima… well, about 1km before Kurima. This is because the bridge that used to allow the bus to get all the way to Kurima is now gone from flooding. So the bus will drop you off near the river in which you must wade across. The journey to this point takes about 45 minutes.''Safety''West Papua is, in general, a safe place. But, things do happen here. Free Papua rebels or the OPM frequently have violent clashes with the government. Protests and demonstrations can also violent, usually resulting in deaths. Tourists are not being targeted, but kidnappings have happened in Baliem.''The real dangers here would be aggressive driving, drunken hooligans, muggings, and disease. Muggings are rare, but always be cautious at night. Its best not to hike at night. Aside from the danger of being a victim of a crime, the chances of getting lost increase exponentially at night. Papua is very remote and undeveloped; getting lost is a very serious and real danger.''Taking anti malaria pills and using bug repellent is essential. Malaria, Dengue and other mosquito borne illnesses are rampant. Sleeping in traditional houses, you will often get hundreds of bug bights that don’t always heal well.''Get your vaccines up to date, avoid drinking alcohol as its prohibited, and don’t go looking for trouble at night.''Baliem Valley Video''https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vgZx9TL6AkQ&t=40s''Video can’t be loaded: West Papua, Baliem Valley (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vgZx9TL6AkQ&t=40s)''Useful Information''Location:''Baliem Valley, West Papua, Indonesia''Language:''Bahasa, Dani''Guide Book:''Lonely Planet Indonesia''Flights:''Lion Air flies from most major cities in Indonesia to Jayapura, and then on to Wamena''Top Tips:''Plan ahead, travel here should not be taken lightly. West Papua is not a place to just show up to, there are many issues you will face as tourism is not developed in any way.''Check out what I carry in my bag''Here!''asia''Indonesia''West Papua''Thimphu, Bhutan''Monks of black hat cults subdue demons with a spinning dance; the demons lash back with an equally grand performance. The battle of colour and music rages on. Horns of monks from the temple ring hypnotically throughout the valley. The constant beat of the drum releases the parading demons and saints into their spinning trance. The colours, sounds, and anticipation of what will come next from the Royal Dzong gates adds to serene beauty of this spectacle. The Thimphu Tsechu is an event unlike any other, one you will likely not forget.''Thimphu Tsechu''The grandest of all the festivals in Bhutan is held annually at the Royal Dzong in Thimphu. The''Tsechu''is a series of dances performed by elaborately dressed and''masked (Cham)''dancers in honour of''Guru Rinpoche''(Second Buddha). Many of the dances may only be performed by monks.''The festival dates seem to vary from year to year, but usually take place in between the last few weeks of September, and the beginning of October. The first few days of the festival are held in the temple itself, and it is often only open to locals only.''The Bhutanese believe that coming and watching this spectacular event will gain them merit. They come adorned in colourful (and expensive) traditional clothing and jewelry. Witnessing the vibrantly dressed locals is a sight in itself!''The Astara, Bhutan’s Sexually Inappropriate Clown''Tsechu Dances''After the local’s only Tsechu occurs, another Tsechu is held throughout the next three days. During these three days there will be a display of numerous Buddhist folk dances. The dances commemorate Guru Rinpoche’s story in Bhutan. Each dance involves different parts of his story. Here are a few examples of some of the more popular dances:''Sha Na Cham (Black Hat Dance)''This dance, performed by monks only, represents the dancer’s transformation into a tantric yogi. It commemorates when the anti-Buddhist king Langdarma was killed in 842 AD by Pelkyi Dorji, another powerful monk.\xa0 The dancers perform wearing large-brimmed''black hats'', yellow dresses, and aprons with a scary demon face, who is a protective deity, on them. Each dancer twirls while spinning in a uniform circle with the other monks. While spinning, they stomp the ground, flinging the colourful strings atop their head from the ground up.''Black Hat Dancing Monks Spinning to Defeat Demons''Shawa Shachi (Dance of the Stag and Hunter)''More of a story than a dance, Shawa Shachi is based on the story of Gonpo Dorji, the hunter. This show is split between a comedic act and a very religious story of Dorji and his dog hunting a deer. The story follows the hunter’s pursuit of a deer who has taken shelter with a yogi named Milarepa. Milarepa converts the deer, dog and hunter to Buddhism with a song and symbolic rope which they must jump over. It’s hard to follow if you don’t have a guide, but ask anyone in the audience for tips. The deer is usually quite easily recognised.''Pacham (Dance of Heroes)''A dance based on the vision of Pema Linga. It is believed to take the people watching it directly to the presence of Guru Rinpoche. When the dancers enter they are not wearing masks. Instead they wear a traditional yellow outfit with a gold crown. They dance with bells and a small drum.''Drametsi Nga Cham (Dance of the Drametsi Drummers)''Based on the vision of Kunga Gyeltshen, who visits Nirvana and witnesses 100 wrathful and peaceful deities dancing. The dancers wear animal masks and carry a drum and drum stick. They dance in a hypnotic circle, spinning and beating the drum.''The Guru’s Vision of Wrathful Animals Dancing in Nirvana''Guru Tshengay (Eight Manifestations of Guru Rinpoche)''This dance/drama depicts the eight manifestations of Guru Rinpoche. It starts with one of his wrathful manifestations, Dorji Drolo, who is famed for his scary red angry face. As the dance proceeds you will be introduced to some peaceful and some more wrathful forms.''Regional Songs and Dance''In between many of the dances regional folk songs and dances are performed. Often the music is live and strummed out on a traditional Bhutanese guitar known as the Dramyin. The folk songs usually consist of a tale about farming or welcoming new cultures. The dancers often double as singers as well. Some of the performances are massive with around 40 or 50 performers!''Witnessing the Dance of Demons and Saints''In the early morning mist, Sonam and I went to the festival grounds at the Royal Dzong. Sonam explained it was best we arrive before 7 am as it will get very busy. When we arrived there were already many people.''The locals were dressed in vibrant traditional textiles. Many of the women had amber and turquoise necklaces and silver Tibetan style jewellery. By 9 am the grounds were completely full. At this time the''astara''(clowns) come into the grounds to entertain the crowds.''Black Hat Dancing Monks''Astara – The Bhutanese version of the clown. This big red-nosed man wields a large wooden penis which he often tricks you into shaking. The Astara, or the divine jester, often mocks the dancers and crowd, but is loved by all. Don’t be surprised if he takes notice of you!''The five Astara paraded around making the crowd laugh with their sexual humour. They even blessed the head of the religion with the giant wooden penis!''When the first dance began the monks from the inner temple entered the main grounds and began blowing the giant temple horns. The horns rang through the valley. First entered the black hat dancers, one of the most spiritual dances. \xa0A Holy man clad in silver and silk robes carried around an ornate silver bowl burning juniper. Behind him two similarly dressed men playing the''Shawms,''an instrument similar to a clarinet.''The Royal Dzong and the Thimphu Tsechu Raging Below''The scene was outstanding: The smell of juniper, the blaring of the horns, and the colour of the countless dancers’ twirling to subdue the demons. Look up into the crowd and you are only further mesmerized by the locals who all are dressed beautifully for the occasion.''Each dance finishes, only to be replaced by yet another amazing spectacle. It is hard to take your eyes away from all this colour. Each dance tells a new story of Saints and demons. The dancers fight the demons with song and trance-like movements.''These dances are not just amazing because of how visually stunning they are, but also of how spiritually they connect with the people of Bhutan. The locals surrounding us truly believe that these dances are building good Karma and that they will come out of this performance blessed by the dance itself.''Local Pray to the Tsechu to Build Karma''Thimphu Festival''The show ends around four in the afternoon. But the festival does not end here! Head into the centre of Thimphu where the streets are closed to traffic and become an all-out shopping frenzy. The stores put up booths on the streets selling old stock at a lower price. Vendors sell fair like foods and introduce you to traditional''Bhutanese''games like throwing the gigantic darts!''The Fair Downtown Thimphu''For me, walking around and just being a part of it all was a hug draw. The locals will be pleasantly surprised to see you here, and more than often welcome you with a smile and conversation.''Thimphu Tsechu Video''Photographing the Tsechu Tips''One thing that all the travelers have on their minds when they come to the Tsechu is getting great photos. Now this isn’t a hard task to accomplish, but there are some things you should know beforehand.''Remember this is a religious festival; be respectful and know when it is acceptable to photograph people or performers.''Always listen to your guide – he’ll let you know what is acceptable''Come early if you want good seats! They go fast and are first come, first serve''You are not allowed to walk into the main grounds where the dancers are dancing…. This is common sense''If you want close up photos, place yourself strategically near where the dancer enter and exit the arena''If you desperately want close up shots of the dancers performing, bring a telephoto lens''Try moving around the grounds to get different angles – some places that seem not interesting could better than you think.''Come for the festival and the spiritual meaning as your main goal and make photography your second reason.''Getting there with Druk Asia''Bhutan is a special country to visit. One of these reasons why is because it is so hard to get to. In order to enter Bhutan you are required to be on a tour. Most travelers will not like the sound of this, but depending on the tour company traveling here won’t feel like a “tour” at all. Druk Asia did everything for me to feel as if I was still traveling independently. Their tours offer a private car and guide for a similar price to a bus packed full of tourists are flexible and designed for those us not looking for a regular “tour” experience. IN my opinion, Druk Asia is the best company out there for anyone who is looking for a unique experience to Bhutan!''Check out DRUK ASIA Here!''Useful information''Location:''Thimphu, Bhutan''Currency:''Bhutanese Neu 1 USD – 66 NEU''Language:''Dzogka – Kuzuzampo means “Hello!”''Tour Company:''Druk Asia''Gear used:''Sony A7'',''GoPro Hero 4'',''Lifestraw'',''Fjallraven Backpack'',''Nomad Solar Panel''Tips:''Get there early! Try to ask lots of questions to understand the dances''asia''Bhutan''Jakarta Indonesia''A family of five, surviving on a dollar a day, cram into a house no bigger than the average North American bathroom. Outside, a river of sewage and garbage flows. Behind the house, the railway bears deafening trains that shake the houses every hour as they rattle by. This is reality of the Jakarta slums, and here I am as a tourist. All the troubles I believe I have go right down the drain. And yet, despite living in such poverty, the people of the slum graciously invite me in to their homes, expecting nothing in return.''What is Slum Tourism?''With an ever growing demand for something new in the tourism industry, things like “Slum Tourism” have been born into existence. Seeing a slum can be incredibly rewarding, and very heartbreaking, all at the same time. Slum tourism, however, is not always viewed in a positive manner.''Essentially, you are paying a company to take you in and show you people who are suffering. You see people who cannot afford education, clean water, and even food. How you look at this is up to you. Before you judge this branch of tourism, you should understand the pioneers of this kind of travel first.''I have now traveled with two companies to two different slums. The first was''Darvaj Slum''in the Indian city of Mumbai. More recently, I visited the''Jakarta''Slum, Ciliwung. Both companies that I toured with provide their services to help the slums, usually giving more than half their proceeds to help people there.''The downside of these tours is that the companies don’t get to decide on the tourists that take these tours. Tourists visiting slums can often act as though they are someone visiting a zoo. They come in, take their photos, then head off to show everyone at home how poor these people are.''My last slum tour gave me into a whole different perspective of this. All because of an inspiring man named Ronnie!''Jakarta Hidden Tours''Jakarta hidden tours offer tours throughout Jakarta’s many slums. The founder and only guide of this company is named Ronnie. Ronnie an''Indonesia''native and was an artist for many years. While visiting the slums, completely changed his career and became a charity worker for the slums.''Ronnie and his wife''Ronnie’s company ‘''Jakarta Hidden Tours''” donates fifty percent of all the money earned from the tours to where it is needed the most. It can be used for school supplies, English lessons clean water and much more. The other fifty percent is just barely enough to cover the costs of running the company.''When Jakarta Hidden Tours began to get popular, Ronnie was attacked by the media portraying him as just trying to make money from the poor. They even went so far as to say “Why doesn’t Ronnie show the rich people too?” They claimed that he does not care about the well-being of the Indonesian people.''I spent much time with Ronnie on his tour. Ronnie, in my opinion, is a very inspiring person. Despite all the hate directed towards him and struggles of his crusade, he pushes on! If you are at all interested in visiting the slums in Jakarta, message Ronnie at''www.jakartahiddentours.blogspot.com''The Secret Meeting Point''12 noon: I was given a “secret meeting ”point at a back street café in''Jakarta’s Kota District''. Finding it was not easy, as the café is not one that is frequented by many tourists. After asking a few locals for help, I was finally directed there.''A man with a long, white ponytail approached me, shook my hand, and introduced himself and his amazing wife. This was Ronnie, the famed slum activist. After our brief introduction, I asked what is with the “secret meeting” spot. Ronnie explained that he used to meet in more well-known areas, but his struggle with the Indonesian politics and media led him to be more cautious about his tours, in order to avoid problems.''Ciliwung Slums on the train tracks''I asked Ronnie how many tourists he gets. He told me that he has bookings almost every day, but he is selective about who he takes. This is because he does not want his tours to turn into an official, full-blown tour company. Ronnie wishes to keep it small, help the people, and follow the right path. Another reason for his selectivity is that he knows that not all tourists are here for the same reasons.''In a world of constant selfies, Facebook and Instagram updates, many tourist can turn something like Slum Tourism into that sad zoo-like image the media has tried to portray. This kind of tourism is not for everybody, and Ronnie, being the person he is, will fight to keep this a charity company and not a commercial one.''The Ciliwung Slum Tour''From Jakarta’s historic Kota district, Ronnie led us east into the''Ciliwung Slums''. Coming to a dark corridor in between repair shops and storage units, Ronnie pointed and said “Here is where it begins, down the long black corridor. There are many secrets in here just like Harry Potter!”''Walking down the corridor, we noticed small living spaces, all about 5 feet by 5 feet, crammed in here one after another. On average five people live to each one of these small spaces. Many of the occupants were small children, all living in this unsanitary and dark place.''We emerged from the black corridor up onto the train tracks. The tracks were surrounded by more houses.''“The train comes every thirty minutes, shaking the ground!” Ronnie exclaimed''Ciliwung residents''From the train tracks, we walked to the''Ciliwung River''. The Indonesian government claims to have cleaned up this river and proclaims that it will become a great tourist spot. However, the reality is that the river is a muck of running sewage, islands of garbage, and trickles of green, algae-filled water. The smell is extreme, but all the people here live beside this horrible place.''Famous Dutch built bridge with sewage running beneath''After mingling with many smiling locals, all of whom could speak some basic English and welcomed us with incredible hospitality, we were off to another area. This time, we visited underneath the highway bridge across from the Ciliwung. Here, families live on grass mats that are covered in dust. They get by, by selling used tools they either find in the dumps or buy from other slums.''Second hand tool seller in the Ciliwung''Kota’s Old Port and Slum''Part two of Ronnie’s tour brought us into a slum nearby to Kota’s Old Port. The Port itself has not changed in hundreds of years. Massive wooden cargo ships spit out black smoke and water as men haul wooden crates off and onto these behemoths. It’s a great site in itself; walking the port, just taking it all in. For a few dollars, you can hire a local to take you around the ships in a small boat. We had done this earlier, but with Ronnie, we started across from the port in the slum. We crossed the channel of floating garbage on a handmade, poorly put together ferry that crosses the waters by being pulled with a rope. On the island slum, Ronnie rented us a small boat and we explored the whole port area. Tagging along with us were seven or eight small local children from the slum.''Old Port of Kota''After the tour, we returned to the island slum and entered a local home. The home was constructed out of a tarp and some poorly put together wooden boards. It was home to a family of seven. Here they told us about life in the slum and had the children sing for us. We also had quite a few laughs about exchanging noses, because our noses were apparently more preferable than the Indonesian variety.''Kota Ports Slum''Ronnie told us more about how the slum was slowly being destroyed by the government, they were reclaiming the land and sending the residents to a faraway district. This family and the remaining ones were fighting to stay, as the new district was too far for them to commute for finding a job.''Final Thoughts on Slum Tourism''Visiting the slums is heartbreaking. You see the harsh reality of the third world. Many people travel to Indonesia for its white beaches, incredible diving, and culture. But, unfortunately, many travelers simply ignore the fact that Indonesia has some of the world’s worst poverty.''My final thoughts for this kind of tourism is that I believe it’s a great idea. It helps the people, and travelers get to see an unseen part of Indonesia that is more real than any of its temples and beaches. This is what traveling is truly about. Sitting down with the locals and learning from them is an experience that will stick with you long after you leave this place.''Useful Information''Location:''Jakarta, Indonesia''Tour Company:''www.jakartahiddentours.blogspot.com''Currency:''Indonesian Rupiah''Language:''Bahasa Indonesian''Indonesia''jakarta''Slum Tourism''Merak, Bhutan\xa0\xa0འབྲུག་ཡུལ་''The early morning breeze carries fog down the slopes of the mountains. Dew sparkles in beams of brilliant''sunlight. Nomads''usher their yaks onward, grunting as they carry their master’s earthly possessions past me. Here I am, in the Valley of the Yeti, situated in Bhutan’s Far East. So remote, beautiful, and serene. This is what a traveller dreams of finding.''What defines a traveler? Is it t''he destination''s they travel to? Is it how far they are willing to go to find the adventure they have been longing for? Or is it their ability to discover places so incredible that, in that moment, they\xa0realise\xa0that they are exactly where they are supposed to be. Maybe it’s all of the above. F''or me'', this very moment makes me reflect all the experiences, all the trials and tribulations I have endured. Finding a place so far removed from the rest of the world can change much in a person, for the better. That is what traveling is all about.''Heading to Bhutan’s East''Bhutan is an exotic destination. Wedged in between Tibet, Sikkim, and India, this Buddhist Kingdom has retained its culture through strict law; put in place to keep globalisation away. Upon arriving here, you will feel as if you have arrived on another planet. Head to Bhutan’s East, and you will discover another galaxy.''From''Thimphu,''Bhutan’s capital city, you will need to drive two days east to Trashigang. Passing through high altitude mountain passes and remote valleys is pure magic. The noise of the modern world are replaced by the wind in the mountains, and the air is absolutely pristine. This is a world untouched by modernisation.''Trashigang is a traditional Bhutanese community that hangs onto the side of a mountain. Other than a few bars, stores and hotels, there is not much here. The Dzong* towers, high above the town, are indicative of the wealth and power that once flourished in the region.''*''Dzong''–''A medieval fortress built to control trade and taxes. These fortresses guarded the treasuries and royal families of the regions, similar to european castles. Today, Dzongs still play a very important role in Bhutanese society are still used regularly, housing all the political and provincial offices.''Trashigang''was the last pit stop for my guide, Sonam, and I, before heading into the mountains in search of the Brokpa people. Sonam was born in Punakha, a city located on the other side of Bhutan. He, also, was new to this area and had no idea what to expect.''Driving up to Merak''Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary''This 741 sq. km park is the only''National Park''on earth that protects the natural habitat of the''Yeti''or, as locals call it, the''Migoi''. The park is one of the county’s top attractions. It is home to many species of rhododendrons. If you are lucky you might spot some of Bhutan’s endangered species such as the Himalayan red fox, red panda, and the black bear. This park is where the Merak to''Sakteng''trek’s located.''Rare sightings of the snow leopard have occurred here. In fact, this is one of the best places in the world to see them. Unfortunately, the number of sightings has dropped quite a bit, and it seems that the locals have seen more of the Yeti than the snow leopard!''Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary has only been open to foreigners since 2010, The area definitely has a Far East''remote Bhutan''feel to it.''Getting to Merak''We set out in the early morning. The drive to the Merak trail head is about three hours from Trashigang. The views are breathtaking. Ascending slowly through the mountains, you pass small, quaint villages and hills completely transformed into golden rice terraces. The further you drive, the more remote it becomes. Farmlands are replaced with forests, as are traditional Bhutanese houses with wooden huts.''After one hour, the road turns off to Merak. The pavement, riddled with potholes, abruptly turns to gravel and mud.''“Now you get your free Bhutanese back massage,” Sonam yells out, laughing.''After another hour bouncing along this horrible road, we found ourselves with a dilemma. The road was completely washed out from yesterday’s rainfall.''“How far is Merak from here?” I asked.''“I have never been this far east, I am not sure,” Sonam replied with a shrug.''We left our vehicle behind and began the arduous journey up the mountain. Sonam called our Merak contact to tell him we had started walking.''Hours passed by and we kept climbing. Slowly, the trees disappeared and we broke through the cloud layer. The bare hills were dotted with Brokpa settlements. Every so often, a curios Brokpa nomad would approach us and try to communicate with us. Finally, we found ourselves in a small community. Sonam contacted our Merak Guide to inform him where we were. The look on Sonam’s face gave me a bad feeling.''Misty Merak in the morning''“He says we have another 20 km to Merak,” Sonam said, with a disheartened look on his face.''So we did what any desperate traveler would do; sulk and keep moving.''Desperately in need of food, our guide from Merak met us another 10 km up the road. The simple tea, rice and spinach we were provided felt like a meal for kings. Our Merak guide, Singey, led us over the prayer flag covered mountain pass and into the Valley of the Yeti.''Daylight was fading when we approached the entrance to Sakteng Wildlife Reserve. At the entrance is a sign that says “Welcome to the land of the Yeti.” With about 4km left to go, it soon was completely dark out. We navigated through dark forests and roaring (freezing) rivers, all the way to Merak.''Singey’s father and mother met us with yak butter tea and showed us to the farmhouse. Singey’s mother was dressed in traditional Tibetan clothing and jewellery. She wore atop her head the traditional Brokpa hat, which looks like a hairy black spider.''The Brokpa People''Easy to identify because of their''Shamo'', a wool hat that resembles a spider, the Brokpa have resided in Bhutan for centuries. They hail from Tshona, in''southern Tibet'', and number over six thousand now. The Brokpa are distinctly different than other ethnic groups around here and the rest of''Bhutan''.''Both men and women wear the''Shamo''hat. Their clothing is also quite remarkable. Men wear a thick, red, wool coat called a''Tshokan Chuba''. The women wear a red and white striped dress called a''Shingkha''. The women are often adorned with Tibetan amber and silver.''Many of the Brokpa are still nomadic, moving with their yaks. They often still use the barter system and trade with Bhutanese villages at lower altitude. However, many younger Brokpa are becoming educated in Thimphu and are opting to be mountain guides for visitors exploring the area’s remote valleys and trails.''Brokpa man adorning bear and deer furs''Yaks are essential to the Brokpa’s way of life. You will see both men and women spinning yak wool during the day. They use the wool for clothing and bartering. The''Shoma''is made from yak wool.''When you enter a home, the first thing you will notice is the piles of fermenting yak cheese. The Brokpa never have a meal without this delicious, salty cheese. They also use it for bartering in the lowlands; their cheese is superior to anyone else’s.''Traditional Brokpa attire for women. Shoma hat and Tibetan style jewellery''In the Valley of the Yeti''Early the next morning, I awoke, slightly disoriented. The previous day’s hard walk was probably to blame. When I opened the door to go outside, I was in shock. Clouds rolled down dark, forested mountains. Mist and smoke rose from the roofs of beautifully made, traditional houses. Locals, adorned with animal skins and traditional clothing, went about doing to their chores. The scene was blissful and stunning. Arriving late at night, I had been unaware that I had arrived in such a truly untouched part of the world.''Alone, I spent the morning walking around the village. The curious locals, smiling and always willing to have their picture taken, took up much of my time.''Merak is situated on the side of a hill leading down to a strong river. Atop the hill is a Buddhist temple and hundreds of prayer flags. The town is made up of about thirty or so wooden houses scattered around the hill. The surrounding area is composed of pastures plentiful with yaks and Buddhist Stupas.''At lunch, I met up with Sonam. We were served more local delicacies. One dish I enjoyed, in particular, was a whole chilli sliced down the middle and stuffed with locally, made fermented yak cheese which was then roasted over a fire. No meal here is complete without Soucha*.''Sonam and I trying out our traditional Brokpa outfits''*''Soucha''–''In Bhutan'', the traditional drink called Soucha is often served at high altitude. It is made from yak butter and tea. They place the yak butter and freshly made tea into a large wooden cylinder in which they mix the drink. After mixing it with a long stick for about five minutes, it is served. Soucha is not for everybody. It’s more of an acquired taste. Its salty, buttery and, in my opinion, delicious.''After lunch, Singey’s mother dressed us in traditional Brokpa clothing. The men’s outfit consisted of a thick heavy red wool jacket which is held together with a colourful belt on the waist, and another wool strap flung over the shoulder. The hairy, black, woolen spider hat is also an essential component of the Brokpa outfit. The purpose of the hat is still a bit of a mystery to me, but, as far as I know, the spider leg strands help draw the rain away from your head. Sonam also opted for the camouflage rubber boots that many of the locals wear.''Singey took us to the yak pasture to attempt some archery. Sonam, who had previously told me that he had a fear of archery due to a childhood mishap, was, by far, the most accurate of all of us. While I was losing horribly at archery, we noticed a group of nomads crossing the southern part of the valley. Singey brought us over to meet them, as I was very interested in meeting true nomads.''CreatingYak Butter Arak for the guests''The nomadic group consisted of a small family of seven. They wore deer skins and yak wool, and carried wooden baskets. Their heard of colourfully dressed yaks were bearing the many parts of their home. The father, who happened to be fairly intoxicated, offered us a traditional drink called Ara*.''*''Ara''–''Made from wheat, this strong, distilled beverage is the national drink of Bhutan. It is served in a red, wooden cylinder to new guests. In East Bhutan, it is often given to anyone who enters your home rather than tea, like in the West. In Merak, Ara is combined with yak butter, giving it a strong, buttery flavour that I’ll never quite forget.''The nomads pushed on down the valley disappearing just as quickly as they had come. From here we visited more of the town before ascending one of the hills covered in prayer flags, high above Merak. From here we could see all of the valley (still no Yetis, though).''The lead Yak in the Nomads herd''In the evening, we drank buttery ara, ate incredibly fiery food and enjoyed the company of our wonderful host family. We were all gathered in a shed, where the family aged their yak cheese. So, as you can imagine the scene, (and smells) were rather amazing and exotic as hell.''The nomads pushed on down the valley disappearing just as quickly as they had come''Merak to Sakteng''The next day, we said our goodbyes to the family. Almost in tears, they told me they felt so fortunate and happy to have had a traveler come here. To visit them, eat their food, drink their weird beverages, and learn from these incredible and remote people. I’ll never forget this family and what an impact they had on Sonam and me.''The Trail to Sakteng''The trail to Sakteng continued just as it had before; straight up the mountain. As we climbed once again, the trees disappeared and were replaced with yak pastures. The trail followed a line of White Stupas that guided us onward. After three long hours of hiking, the terrain levelled out, providing stunning views of the valley and mountains. Another couple hours up the trail is the camp site.''The weather here is very cold and unpredictable, so make sure you dress warm and are ready for anything. Singey conjured us up some mountain cuisine, which was incredible, considering the lack of equipment he had.''The next day, we began to descend down the mountain through some dense forest. Here, if you are lucky (I was not), you can spot red pandas and snow leopards…….. and Yeti’s. Hiking at a reasonable pace you will make it to Sakteng in about four or five hours.''The trail followed a line of White Stupas that guided us onward''Sonam and I are quite able hikers, competing the descent in about three hours. From Sakteng, we hitch hiked back down to Ranjung, where we met our driver.''Descending from Sakteng''The Merak to Sakteng hike can take anywhere from 3 – 5 days, depending on you. The highlight for me was definitely my stay with the Brokpa family in Merak. This hike is more of a cultural experience, rather than being purely about the scenery (scenery is still amazing, though!). The hike itself is not too hard, but challenging weather can cause it to be difficult at times. Come prepared and you will experience one of the most remote and special corners of the world.''Traveling with Druk Asia''If you want to travel in Bhutan, you must do so via Tour Company.\xa0 Many people don’t like the idea of this, but I can tell you honestly it is a worthy endeavor to visit here! Because of this unique travel situation, Bhutan has numerous travel companies. Druk Asia happens to be one of the most successful companies.''Why do I like Druk Asia? Druk Asia is one of the few companies that will completely tailor a custom trip to Bhutan, just for you. Their guides, who are all quite experienced, can arrange just about anything for you; whether its taking part in a Buddhist ceremony, or hiking to lost tribes in the East. Because of their flexibility and knowledge, Druk Asia, in my opinion, is the best option for travellers seeking to tour''Bhutan''.''If you are interested in traveling to Bhutan, send''Druk Asia''a message. Feel free to ask me any questions about my tour into the Land of the Thunder Dragon with Druk Asia!''My Guide – Sonam Wangchuk''Sonam Wangchuk was born in the Punakha region has been a guide with Druk Asia for almost seven years now. Sonam guided me for my first, fifteen day trip to Bhutan. His years of experience were reflected in his skill explaining the history, culture, and the way of life in Bhutan.''Sonam was raised in Bhutan. His wealth of knowledge with the traditional way of life in Bhutan is unmatched. Sonam was the sole reason my trip to Bhutan was so memorable. I will never forget his dry Bhutan jokes and lengthy history lessons. Sonam was my guide, but now I truly consider him my friend. If you are planning on making a trip to Bhutan and want an in depth, exciting one, then contact Druk Asia and ask for Sonam.''Thank you, Sonam. I cannot wait to return to Bhutan and have a Druk beer with you!''Useful Information''Location:''Merak, Bhutan. The Far Eastern Corner''Currency:''Bhutanese Neu 1 USD – 66 NEU''Language:''Dzogka –''Kuzuzampo''means “Hello!”''Tour Company:''Druk Asia''Gear:''Sony A7'',''GoPro Hero 4'',''Lifestraw'',''Fjallraven Backpack'',''Nomad Solar Panel''Tips:''Dress warm, it can get very cold here! We saw snow on the way to Sakteng! Don’t be shy, try everything! Have a taste for spicy food, the food here is very spicy.''asia''Bhutan''Sarawak Borneo''“It’s not about the destination, it’s about the journey.” There you go, I said it. I’ve always felt that it was just another cliché-stupid-feel-good-about-yourself saying, but this time, I perceived it with\xa0real meaning. As my boat cut further up the River Skrang, time came to a halt. The muddy waters, the ancient, massive jungle foliage hanging over the river, the sounds of birds and monkeys, my newfound Iban family singing and laughing behind me; I took it all in. This is what travelers spend all those long hours searching for, all that hard work, all that money spent, for this one, perfect moment. This is a journey I will never forget, one that will stay with me long after I have left this place.''Kuching, Gateway City to the Batang Ai''Kuching is the capital city of Sarawak province Malaysia. This is the place where travelers come to seek out old fashioned longhouses and genuine Dayak culture. It was for this precise reason that I decided to come back to Borneo. I had been unable to arrange this during my first trip to the region, some years before. It had proven to be extremely difficult to arrange. Sure, I could have simply taken a tour, as most people would have done, but I was in search of something more personal.''Kuching the Capital of Sarawak''Arriving in Kuching, after so many years, was like seeing an old friend, a friend that had not changed after all the time that had passed by since I had last seen it. This sleepy port city has always been one of my favourite places to grab a beer and slow down.''My friend, Josh, and I arrived in Kuching from Sibu by boat. The journey takes about 4-5 hours. After we checked into our hotel and dropped off our bags, we were off to find someone who, I was told, could help get us up the River Skrang and the Batang Ai Region.''Iban Playing Traditional Sape''Prior to this, I had been told by a travel company that to get into the Skrang and Batang Ai, I should seek out a man named Boy Skrang. Boy co-operates a tattoo shop called “Skrang Tattoos” in Kuching’s China Town. Finding Boy was very easy. I simply had to say the name “Boy Skrang” to anyone in Kuching and they pointed me towards his shop.''Upon walking into Skrang Tattoos, Boy, covered in tattoos, sporting the trademark Iban haircut was easily recognizable. Not to mention that Boy had been featured in the Borneo episode of Anthony Bourdain’s''Parts Unknown'', in which he assisted in tattooing Anthony Bourdain himself.''Kuching’s China Town''“We want to go up the Skrang to Entalau,” I explained to Boy.''“Give me a few days, but for now come drink langkau with us,” Boy replied''As we drank, Boy told us he was from Entalau. He said that Skrang was a difficult area to get into, as there is not much for tourism there. He would have to arrange it with his family to get us there.''Mejong Long house, Skrang River''After a few laid back days in Kuching, Boy had everything arranged. We were to start by taking a bus to the Batong Junction, four hours away from Kuching. Then, an uncle of Boy’s would pick us up and bring us to Mejong Longhouse. From there, we could arrange for a boat to take us further upriver to Entalau.''Arriving at the junction we were picked up by Guyit, Boy’s Uncle. From there, a paved road goes up the Skrang River to Mejong.''The Bridge to Mejong''Walking into Mejong is very exciting. You cross a large, concrete suspension bridge over the Skrang River. The giant, wooden longhouse sits adjacent to the river bank and the atmosphere is incredible. All the noise of the city and highway are replaced by the crowing of roosters. The air is filled with the smells of people cooking, and the fresh dew from the morning. The longhouse itself takes you back in time with its all wood interior.''Mejong Longhouse''Entering the longhouse, we were greeted by tattoo-covered, smiling old men who showed where we would be sleeping as well as to other important parts of the longhouse. The tattooed elder introduced us to his son, Seban, and another one of Boy’s relatives, Alex.''Heading off to the Black Pepper Fields''Iban Tattoos''–''The Iban are easily recognized by their numerous, vivid tattoos. In the past, the Iban would receive tattoos that symbolized important life achievements. Taking heads, learning to build boats, or traveling to far off lands would all be quantified onto a person’s skin in the form of a beautiful, symbolic tattoo. These days, the younger generation is bringing back the practice of getting tattoos for finishing education and traveling overseas.''Alex and I having Langkau''Seban and Alex both could speak enough English for us to understand each other. The first thing we learned from them was that, upon guest’s arrival at the longhouse, Iban culture dictates they must be served Langkau* until fully inebriated. We experienced exactly this.''*''Langkau''– A murky home brew that can range anywhere from 25% to upwards of 90% ABV. Nobody really knows for sure. This home brew is preferred above all other drinks, and is tied closely to Iban Longhouse Culture. It’s also a great way for the Iban to get foreigners drunk.''Women Weaving a Basket fro Black Pepper''One langkau, two langkau, meet another cousin, his name is Johnny. Three langkau, four langkau, meet another cousin his name is Mark, or Marcus, or maybe it was Anthony, doesn’t matter. Shake their hands, smile, down another langkau, this was Iban hospitality at its finest.''When the langkau took effect, we were no longer referred to as friends, we were now considered family, and residents of Mejong Longhouse.''It continued this way for many hours until our hosts, too, finally began to succumb to the alcohol.''The Batang Ai Region''The morning rooster crowed out his tune like a natural alarm clock of rural Borneo. From the kitchen, the old radio played local favourites. The smell of Seban’s mother’s cooking fills the air. Watching the longhouse wake up was incredible. Elders preformed their morning rituals; feeding the chickens, raking the pepper, and preparing to go out into the fields.''Black Pepper Being Raked''From Mejong, Alex drove us to Batang Ai. Batang Ai is famed for its virgin rainforests; where the chances of seeing orangutans are high.''To be honest, the majority of the drive is cruising by one logging block after another. This is the sad, ever worsening state of Borneo’s disappearing forest. I had imagined a scene very different from this.''The Batang Ai''Batang Ai is about an hour and a half’s drive from Mejong. When you get to the reservoir, you can rent a boat to go further up and see the flooding the dam has created. There are also many pleasant trails nearby to the boat landing. You can watch small boats glide along the waters; with beautiful green misty mountains as a backdrop.''Seban’s Father Showing off his Tattoos''Heading back to Mejong, we made a stop at a local market to get some bamboo. Why bamboo, you ask? The Iban are famous for a delicious dish called bamboo chicken. It consists of chicken mixed with lemongrass, garlic, chilies, and other locally grown spices. The contents are stuffed into a Bamboo pole and slow cooked over a fire.''Cooking up Iban Bamboo Chicken''When all of the spices are ground, all that is left to prepare for the meal is the chicken. The chickens happened to be living in the back yard and one of them was to be slaughtered. Who was to kill the chicken? The honor was, of course, graciously given to me, the guest.''Covered in blood from executing the chicken, I was given a shot of Langkau, another Iban tradition I am sure. We cooked the Bamboo poles over a rustic BBQ on the front of the longhouse. After an hour or so, we finally got eat this amazing meal with our amazing new family.''Up the River Skrang to Entalau''In the early morning mist, we fired up the boat’s engine. Our captain was a man named Guyit, and his son, Alex, was his second in command. We load the skinny wooden boat up with extra fuel, food, and a shotgun, to be used in the event we saw any jungle pigs.''The Skrang River at Mejong''Humming along the river, the sun broke away the morning mist and revealed an incredible scene. The banks of the river were thick with large, gnarly trees, twisting out from the shoreline. The river snaked through the countryside. Every so often, Guyit had to weave around rocks and large fallen trees. When the boat took a turn and the noise of the engine dimmed, it was replaced by the roar of the jungle. Bugs, monkeys and birds all made up this incredible symphony.''Heading up the Skrang River''Journeying up the river Skrang was by far one of the most amazing things in Borneo, if not all of South East Asia, that I have ever experienced.''Unfortunately, every so often, the jungle opened up to an apocalyptic scene of logging. Complete sections of forest had been decimated by the corrupt logging industry that, most definitely, has ties to the Malaysian government.''Front Cover of Borneo Men Magazine''After four or so hours of incredible jungle scenery, we arrived at Entalau, Boy’s home; the same longhouse that TV star Anthony Bourdain came to for the annual rice harvest festival of Gawai. As I am a huge fan of Anthony Bourdain, I was excited to be here.''Entalau is very different than Mejong. The wooden longhouse here has been replaced by a new concrete one. There is running water, and reliable electricity. Further up from the longhouse is a clinic and school. All this is thanks to the road that was recently extended to here. The road was created, of course, for logging reasons.''Walking the span of the longhouse many tattooed smiling elder’s wave to you, and ask “Where are you from?” It seems like everyone here is genuinely happy to see a new face; someone who wants to learn about them.''The residents of Entalau continued the practice of typical Iban hospitality by welcoming us into one of the households for delicious food, and, you guessed it, Langkau.''Entalau Long House''One langkau, two langkau, eat. Three langkau, the shotgun is brought out and we fire it into the jungle. Four langkau, our boat driver Guyit passes out on the floor from the concoction’s powerful effect. Five langkau, or was it six? Who knows, but the now the Karaoke machine is brought out and the foreigners are obligated to sing.''Pepper Drying at Entalau''Skrang River Adventure, and Jungle Pig Hunting!''With our captain passed out, Alex was now in charge. Alex, having only ten or so shots of langkau was fit for the drive back to Mejong. The only problem was that it had become dark.''Our boat slowly glided down river through the darkness of the jungle. The noise resonating from the forest was much greater than during the day, giving this journey a spooky but very adventurous aspect to it. We often had to get out of the boat and push it along, as Alex could not see where the rocks where. A few times we even plowed over top of a rock, which resulted in us having to to pick the boat up entirely and lift it back into the deeper parts of the river.''“Stephen! Jungle pig, let’s go!” Alex yelled out, as he beached the boat on the river bank.''Shotgun in hand, Alex and I scrambled up the muddy cliff into the jungle. Crouched over and coming to a crawl, we approached the jungle pig (wild boar). Suddenly the branches rustled and the pig vanished.''“Better luck next time,” Alex sadly says.''Everyone in the boat is quite now as we are all looking for the eyes of another pig. Trolling a jungle river in Borneo at the middle of the night with a shotgun in hand, looking for boars, invokes a pretty surreal feeling.''Our boat pulls ashore once again and we get ready to hunt.''“Where’s Alex?” Seban says, looking around confusingly.''This time, instead of coming ashore for the hunt, our driver, Alex, had fallen off the boat some meters behind us. As he moaned and groaned, swimming back to shore, everyone laughed to the point where our stomachs began to ache.''Finally, with our passed out captain, soaking wet first mate, and slightly sober crew, we pulled into Mejong.''Final opinions of the Skrang Region''Skrang is truly a travelers dream come true. Skrang is what the pioneers of travelers would have experienced back I the 60s. Saying goodbye to our new found family at the longhouse was incredibly difficult. The Iban and their hospitality is unmatched.''Skulls from Heads Taken in the Past in the Shed Out Back''Normally, I leave politics and social issues out of my posts. But Skrang is a special place, one that is slowly changing. Iban culture is beginning to diminish. This is partly to blame on the Christian missionaries who, I have been told, instruct the locals to give up there animist beliefs.''This is easily recognizable as, in the past, the Iban used to have human skulls hanging from the roofs of the longhouses. Now they either hide them or have buried them. There is also a complete generation of Iban who did not receive any of the Iban tattoos. This is also to blame on the foreign religious policies being imposed on the Iban.''Black Pepper Harvest''The next issue is the logging. All the locals know that the logging is done by companies that have bribed the government, usually operating from China or other foreign nations. Every year, thousands of acres of forest completely disappear. As the older generation of tattooed Iban diminish, so does the forest, as they are the ones who keep the loggers at bay.''I write about these issues in the hope that we as travelers, tourists, and readers can create awareness to these issues. Let’s strive to keep the culture and forests of Borneo thriving.''Drinking Lankau in Entalau''Useful Information''Location:''Skrang River, Batang Ai Region, Sarawak, Borneo, Malaysia''Tips:''Come prepared, and don’t expect luxury. Traveling here is difficult and there are many obstacles. It’s best to come with an open mind and itinerary. It rains a lot bring a jacket and bug spray for the mosquitos.''Recommended Guide Books:''Lonely Planet Borneo'',''Lonely Planet Malaysia''Jungle Gear:''Nomad Solar Panel'',''Life Straw and Bottle'',''Sony A7'',''GoPro Hero Black 4'',''Fjallraven Backpack''.''Borneo''malaysia''river skrang''Southeast Asia''travel journal''Sarawak Borneo, Malaysia''In an almost trance-like state, I lay on my back as the needle is pounded into my shoulder with a wooden stick. Traditional Sape music is playing in the background. Two tattoo-clad Iban, kneeling beside me, concentrate deeply as they slowly punch the ink into my skin. Then, out of the silence, Boy flamboyantly calls out''“''Maa Guii!” and we all break into laughter.''This is my second attempt at getting a traditional hand-tapped Iban tattoo in Borneo. It’s not an easy thing to acquire. Anyone can just walk into a tattoo shop and get one done by machine, but I am in search of something different. A hand-tapped, old school tattoo, done by a real Iban tribesman.''The Iban and the Land of the Head Hunters''The majority of the Iban live in Sarawak province of Malaysia’s Borneo. They make up almost 30 percent of the population of Sarawakians. Known for their traditional longhouses, headhunting and tattoos, the Iban are some of the friendliest people you will ever meet.''These days, headhunting is a thing of the past, although locals often joke about it while socializing and sipping''Langkau''. The Iban today are peaceful people who grow rice and maintain the longhouse tradition and culture.''What do the Iban Tattoos Represent?''Iban tattoos tell a story, the story of the bearer’s life. They can represent knowledge learned, heads taken, and the becoming of a man. They are not exclusive to men, though. Many Iban women sport tattoos as well! At the age of ten, Iban receive their first tattoo, the Bungai Terung, which is an eggplant flower on each of their shoulders. This is the most common tattoo you will see in Sarawak.''After receiving this tattoo, Iban people traditionally would collect more tattoos from events like hunting, fishing, taking heads and bringing back knowledge to the longhouse. You can see many traditional Iban tattoos on the Elders in the Longhouses.''The practice of Iban tattoos disappeared when Christian missionaries arrived in the 1960s. They dictated that these magic tattoos were a pagan belief and should not be done anymore.''These days, Iban tattoos are making a comeback. Young Iban men and women are getting tattoos for finishing education and traveling abroad. Most of these tattoos, however, are not traditional Iban style. They are of more modern designs applied by machine rather than hand tapped with a wooden stick.''I was told the story of the reason some Elders had tattoos of airplanes on their back. This was because, while out in the jungle, some hunters would witness an airplane flying high above amongst the clouds. Growing up in the jungle, isolated from the rest of the world, this would seem like a sign from the heavens. So, this seemingly miraculous event would end up as ink on the man’s body.''Who is Boy Skrang?''I met Boy Skolang (known as Boy Skrang) in Kuching whilst trying to get up the Skrang River to Entalau. Boy was born and raised in the longhouse Entalau. He told me stories of his childhood. He remembers a time when the jungle was full of life. When animals like orangutans, hornbills and wild boars, now all endangered, thrived.''Boy Skrang in Entalau''Boy became fascinated with tattooing at a young age and eventually became a tattoo artist. He now co-owns Skrang Tattoo in Kuching. Boy is renowned for his skill doing traditional, hand tapped tattoos, just like the Iban used to do in the past.''Boy is so well known for his craft that he was featured in an episode of the very popular TV series “Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown.” In this episode, you can see him doing traditional Lankau Dance (I don’t think there really is a real Langkau dance) and tattooing Anthony Bourdain himself.''Boy Skrang with Anthony Bourdain, from Parts Unknown''Boy is a close friend of mine. He has taught me a lot about Iban culture. Being a traditionalist, he often reflects on the past. Boy is also very aware of Borneo’s problems. He often talks about the logging, the loss of culture, and Sarawaks future.''Boy Skrang Tattooing Anthony Bourdain''Skrang Tattoo Studio''Co- owned by Boy Skrang, the Skrang Tattoo studio is located on China Street in Kuching’s China Town. This outfit offers a more unique approach to getting a tattoo. They focus on giving traditional hand tapped Iban tattoos, many of which are exclusive to the Skrang Region.''Along with Boy, there are also quite a few other very talented artists here. Some of whom also study and practice the art of traditional tattooing. Skrang Tattoo is great not only because of the quality of their craft, but also because of their emphasis on the importance of getting tattoos the old school way.''Boy and Skrang Tattoo are really pioneers in the modern tattoo world. I hope more people can recognize them for their ingenuity and respect for the old ways.''The Skrang Tattoo Studio in Kuching''If a hand tapped traditional tattoo sounds a little too extreme for you, they also offer tattoos the regular way.''You can check them out''HERE''on their Facebook page!''The Skrang River, and Entalau''The Skrang River and Entalau are the true heartland of Iban culture. Here you will find old-time longhouses that have not changed in years, many of which are still adorned with human skulls of heads taken in the past!''Before I was to get my Iban tattoo, I wanted to learn more about Iban culture. What better way to do this than to live in a longhouse with Iban tribesmen up the Skrang River?!''Taking the Boat to Entalau up the River Skrang''From Kuching, Boy arranged for us to get to Entalau, his home. It’s a four hour bus ride, followed by another four or five hour boat cruise to get there.''This is the same longhouse Anthony Bourdain visited in his “Parts Unknown” episode featuring Borneo. This is where you will see Boy’s big debut; drinking, eating and of course, tattooing Anthony himself!''Pepper Drying at Entalau''There are still some men in Entalau with traditional tattoos, many of whom were still alive during the time of headhunting! Sitting down and talking with these men about their tattoos is an amazing experience. Like Boy, they understand the problems that face their culture. The elders will tell you the stories behind each of their tattoos, which often leads to a laugh or two.''Iban Man Sporting his Tattoo’s in Entalau''I believe that, before you decide to get an Iban tattoo, you also should come to these longhouses. In doing this you, too, can experience why tattoos make up such an important part of Iban culture and way of life.''Getting my Traditional Iban Tattoo''I returned back to Kuching from the Skrang River, keen,on getting my Iban tattoo. I discussed with with Boy on what I should get. He told me to start with the Bungai Terung*.''*Bungai Terung – When young men leave the longhouse and become men they receive the Bungai Terung. A black eggplant flower is put on each front shoulder. In the centre of the flower is a squiggly circle. The squiggly circle actually symbolizes tadpole intestines, which represent life. The eggplant’s flower’s petals represent the virtue of patience. The Iban believe that only with patience can one learn life’s lessons.''Boy Skrang Preparing to Tattoo Me''I agreed that I should get the Bungai Terung. I also asked Boy about the fishhook design I had noticed many of the elders had tattooed above their ankle. I saw this while staying in the longhouse. Boy said that this tattoo helped one have better luck fishing.''As I am an avid and aspiring fisherman (often very unlucky), I opted to get the fish hook as well.''Traditional Tattoo Tools Used for my Tattoo''Before the process of actually getting the tattoo began, Boy placed the ink in a bamboo cup, Traditional Iban tattoo ink is made up from soot and fermented sugar cane juice. Boy then placed a metal spike into a bamboo stick. He warmed up by gently hitting the stick away from me to acquire his rhythm. Meanwhile, I have a shot of Langkau or two!''As I lay down, Boy’s second man, Leo, who is also an aspiring tattoo artist, stretched the skin on my shoulder. Then came the fun part: a metal spike being stabbed into my shoulder by two bamboo sticks striking together.''Does it hurt, you ask? This is, to be honest, a very stupid question I am often asked. Yes, it hurt, a lot. I might be smiling on the camera, but I was defiantly feeling the pain. Would I do it again? Of course I would. The pain is a very minimal thing compared to the experience of receiving a traditional Iban Tattoo, something that you will bear for the rest of your life!''Every so often, Boy would yell out flamboyantly “Maa Guii!!” I am still not a hundred percent sure what this means, but it became a phrase that Boy and I often yelled out. The humour really helped with dealing with the pain.''Four hours later, after lots of laughs and pain, I had my Bungai Terung.''“Wait you’re not finished,” Boy exclaimed, as I stood up.''Boy pulls my ankle towards him and started putting the Fishing Charm on my skin. Instantly I could feel the knowledge of fisherman before me enter my mind… ok that’s a lie, but the fish hook looks really awesome!''This was one of the most amazing travel experiences I have had. I must give a shout out to my boy, Boy Skrang, for giving me the opportunity to experience this!''My Iban Fish Hook Tatoo''My Iban Tattoo Video''Useful Information''Location:''Sarawak Borneo, Malaysia''Flights:''Momondo''Useful Tips:''Don’t think about the pain, think about the incredible travel tattoo you can show off later!''Skrang Tattoo:''Facebook HERE''Skrang River Tours:''Message Boy if you are genuinely interested in seeing the Skrang Region and Entalau.''Borneo''dayak tattoo''Entalau''iban tattoo''skrang river''Southeast Asia''Borneo, Sarawak Malaysia''Like images on an old film projector, the jungle slowly flickers by. When the hum of the boat’s engine slows, it’s noise is drowned out by the sounds of Borneo’s deep jungle. Traveling here is not easy, but the rewards of Borneo’s interior are great for those seeking something different, something more vibrant and beautiful. As the boat pushes further downriver, the jungle is occasionally broken by the odd Dayak longhouse settlement. This place is special, a travelers absolute fantasy. I am happy to be back, back in the heart of Borneo.''Miri, the Gateway City''Most travelers travel to the''Batang Rajang''from the south. Josh and I, however, found ourselves in the Northern''Sarawak''city of Miri after traveling through Brunei. This route is a bit of a challenge as there is no public transport to Belaga from here.\xa0 You are only left with one choice: buy tickets to Bintulu, get off at the Simpang Bakun Junction and then hope for the best.''Kayan Women Belaga''There is not much to see or do in Miri. Its actually quite a modern city, equipped with a glitzy shopping mall and decent accommodation. Miri is, however, the jumping off point to Gunung Mulu National Park, the Kelabit Highlands, and Central Sarawak.''Kayan Longhouse near Sekapan Panjang''After finding out the flights to the''Kelabit highlands''were completely booked, and the flights to''Gunung Mulu''were all cancelled due to weather, we found ourselves getting bus tickets to The Junction to hitchhike into the heart of Borneo.''Tickets in hand, we left Miri early in the morning. The three hour drive to the junction was pleasant. As you leave the city and coast behind, the jungle becomes denser.''Kayan Women Carrying Baby in Traditional Kayak Basket''Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei''The Islamic Call to Prayer fills the air with its beautiful tones from the many surrounding mosques. Locals adorning brightly coloured Hijabs and purple long shirts walk from the malls to pray at the mosque. The stifling heat almost suffocates you with its soup like humidity.''This is Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei’s capital city. Everything from the golden domed mosques, the thick surroundings of uncharted jungle, the traditionally dressed locals, and poster plastered everywhere of the current sultan resonates of this empires past glory. Brunei is something different, an unfamiliar face you should get to know.''Where is Brunei?''Tell anyone that you have been to''Brunei''and you are most likely to get a blank stares. This tiny nation wedged in between the two provinces of Sabah and Sarawak in Malaysia’s Borneo was actually once a great Islamic Empire the span across South East Asia. From the Southern Philippines, to the shores of mainland Malaysia there are remnants of the Sultanate.''Port to Brunei''These days this country is known for its imposed Sharia Law, its massive oil fields, and a Sultan who is fond of Ferraris. Brunei compared to its neighbors is incredibly different. Because of the oil boom there is no need to cut the trees down for palm plantations, and its rich Islamic history is very unique as the majority of Borneo is known for its tribal culture.''Getting to Brunei''Brunei’s land borders with Malaysia are a bit of a mess. Getting to the Capital from Malaysia’s Sabah by land will require you to enter Brunei, and leave it once again before actually getting to the section of Brunei where the capital is located. This can be very time consuming, not because of distance, but simply because of Immigration queues.''The Ferry to Labuan Island''My journey into Brunei began in the Capital of Sabah, Kota Kinabalu. I arrived in Kota Kinabalu midday. After checking into my hostel the Fat Rhino, I walked down to the ports hoping to find an alternative route to Brunei.''The port was incredibly straight forward. The well posted ticket office directs you to a few numbered booths that sell ticket to various islands in the area. Ticket booth number 4 will take you to Labuan. Labuan is the jumping off point to Brunei. The booth sold me both tickets, Kota Kinabalu – Labuan, Labuan – Brunei. The total cost was 60 MYR, which pans out to be just under 20 dollars. There are a few times this boat leaves, I chose the 9:00 AM.''The Island of Labuan''The ferry was very straight forward and an altogether great experience. It was comfortable and left exactly at the time it was supposed to. \xa0From Kota Kinabalu to Labuan the journey takes about 2.5 hours. The boat itself is a completely closed cabin that blasts AC, so it’s best to bring a sweater aboard.''Arriving in Labuan is a bit of a shock. The island looks like a quick attempt to construct a semi modern tiny city that is full of alcohol, smokes and a few western chains. Labuan defiantly has a bootlegging frontier town vibe, as it is also quite remote.''Main Square Bandar Seri Begawan''Our Ferry arrived at 11:30 AM, and the ferry to Brunei doesn’t leave until 1:30 PM. Walking around Labuan main commercial centre is about all there is to do in this time. There is a few decent restaurants serving up typical Malaysian and Chinese fare, and also a KFC, if you have a hankering for some remote questionable Western food.''Capital of Brunei, Bandar Seri Begawan''The Final leg of the journey only takes about an hour. When you arrive into the Brunei''Port of Muara''you must clear customs. Outside customs a small bus awaits passengers going into Bandar Seri Begawan, which is about a 30 minutes’ drive from Muara.''Tip:''Make sure you either have US Dollar or Brunei Dollar because the bus will not accept Malaysian Ringgit.''Stilt Houses Bandar Seri Begawan''The first thing I notice getting into Bandar Seri Begawan is how small the city really is. The centre can be navigated completely on foot, no need for a taxi. It’s also incredibly quiet, very little traffic, and people. Cars will stop for you to cross the road, and nobody is using there horn obsessively.''Downtown near the HSBC bank there is a guest house named KH Soon. Its location is very central, but don’t expect much for quality. A twin room cost me 38 Brunei Dollar, with shared bathrooms (Squatters Only), but it is only a few minutes’ walk to the mosque and Water Taxi’s.''Omar Ali Saifuddien Mosque''Look up Brunei and you are surely to see images of this gold domed mosque as the fronting image of the entire nation. To be honest at first sight this mosque is quite underwhelming. Look closer however and you will see there is much more to this mosque than just its image.''Omar Ali Saifuddien Mosque''The interior is only open at certain times of the day, unfortunately I did not make it for these specific times, but I got a quick glimpse inside.''Surrounding the''Mosque''is a murky lagoon. As I walked towards the back end of the Lagoon I noticed something in the water. Looking closer I soon realized it was a five foot monitor lizard! The Godzilla like creature slowly swam through the waters making for quite a surreal scene.''At night the mosque lights up with colours of green and white, it really is a beautiful structure, and when the Call to Prayer beckons out you really start to feel like you are somewhere very unique.''Flying through Mangroves and Floating Villages''South of the Lagoon Is the Water Taxi port. These small wooden boats plastered with Ferrari Memorabilia standby taking passengers to the Stilt Villages across the bay. The locals in Brunei actually prefer living in these villages so the water taxi becomes quite an essential part to Brunei life in Bandar Seri Begawan.''The Ferrari Speed Boats''For 40 Brunei Dollars these boats also take tourists through the villages and into the Mangrove forest to look for the rare Proboscis Monkey.''Now this boat tour is not just a relaxing stroll through the channels. No, the Ferrari Memorabilia is put on these boats for a reason. This small 6 seat wooden boat blasts its engines to top speed jumping to about 70km per hour almost instantly. The drivers are incredibly skilled taking tight corners around bridges, mangrove forests, and houses at these top speeds. You almost feel like you are in a James Bond chase scene with these guys.''Cruising Through The Mangroves in Search of Proboscis Monkey''As we flew through the forest the driver made frequent stops alongside the shoreline to spot the big nosed Proboscis Monkeys. They jump around the trees and gawk curiously down at you. Emerging from the forest at the speed of light our driver took us into the Stilt villages showing us the local fire station, police station, and schools that are all almost floating above the water.''The Floating Villages of Bandar Seri Begawan''This tour really gives you a deeper look into traditional life in Brunei, it also is great for blood pumping adrenaline high speed boating. I highly recommend this while you are in Brunei.''Getting to Sarawak''From Bandar Seri Begawan my next destination was''Miri in Malaysia’s''Sarawak Province. At 7 am there is a bus that goes directly there. It can be a little bit confusing where the bus leaves from and not many people seem to completely know about it either. If you are heading this was then follow this.''There are no tickets to be bought, you buy the ticket on the bus, and it costs 20 Brunei Dollars. The bus is located on the water front just one block north of the bus terminal in a parking lot. Be there at 6:30 AM and you will see it. The owner/ Manager is easily recognizable from his vest with many badges of countries around the world.''Useful Information''Location'': Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei – Borneo''Hotel:''KH Soon Guest House, 20 – 38 Brunei Dollar''Currency Conversion:''1 $USD – 1.6 Brunei Dollar''Tour Guide:''Dania Perlumbaan, +673 8801180''Flights:''FlightHub'',''Kayak'',''Momondo'',''Skyscanner''Recommended Guide Books:''Lonely Planet Malaysia, Brunei and Singapore'',''Borneo Lonely Planet''Tips:''Brunei is a very religious country, you should dress decently, meaning no shorts! The guide I recommended; Dania, can help with bus tickets, jungle visits, and anything within Brunei.''Borneo''Brunei''South East Asia''Tokyo, Japan''Hove you ever discovered something that you always knew you loved, but only just learned existed? Something that you know, deep down inside, was the one thing you always felt was missing form your life? There I was, strolling through the blindingly colorful, vibrant, high definition streets of Shinjuku.''All my previous years spent traveling could not have prepared me for this. Tokyo takes the most jaded, arrogant, egotistical of travelers and expands their horizons into a whole new realm of traveling. This is exactly where I was. All my preconceived ideas of Japan being too modern, and having too little culture to be of any interest were quickly replaced. What I thought I knew about Japan had been completely turned upside down and violently shaken. Tokyo will change you.''Tokyo Travel – Japan''There is no place on earth quite like''Tokyo''. Hypnotic, vibrant, fluorescent-lit streets pulsate with throngs of people streaming through jam packed avenues. The architecture is so artistic and modern that you will feel as though you have been flung far into the future. Tokyo is a mind blowing experience.''Look beyond the city’s flashy exterior, and you will find a more traditional interior concealed within.''Walk long enough along Tokyo’s modern streets and you will catch glimpses of ancient temples wedged in between the modernity''. A melting pot of old and new makes Tokyo an intoxicating destination that will have you hooked within hours of exploring this place.''This is not only my travel story to Tokyo, but, more importantly, may help serve as your guide to Tokyo. Don’t waste your time in this city. Just follow my journey through this amazing place, and I hope that you, too, can learn from my experience here.''To be honest, not a lot of backpackers make it to''Japan''. They opt for other Asian countries, because Japan is often considered too be too expensive to travel. Before journeying to Japan, I had heard that it was just another modern country with nothing to see.''Tokyo Tower and Skyline at Sunset''Travel to Tokyo, Japan’s thriving capital city, and all these preconceived notions you have about this place will change. I promise you this. There is indeed culture here, culture so uniquely tied to the people, the architecture, and modern life in Japan.''Getting to Tokyo, Japan''My friend, Shawn, and I landed in Tokyo’s Haneda Airport at 11 PM. getting through customs was a breeze, but the next challenge was determining how to get into the centre of Tokyo at this time of night. You can always take a cab, but this is a very expensive option. Luckily,''there are buses''that only cost $10 US to ride all the way to Tokyo’s Asakusa district.''Sushi is Everywhere in Tokyo!''Asakusa is the preferred area to stay for independent travelers. This is due to Asakusa’s many decently priced guest houses and budget accommodation options. The bus arrived exactly at 12:10 midnight, after taking us on our one-hour journey from the airport.''Old and New Mixed Together in Asakusa''Getting to Tokyo is very easy. Because of Tokyo’s size, it has become one of Asia’s largest hubs. Many flights from North America connect through Haneda or Narita, Tokyo’s main airport. If you happen to land in Narita, know that it is a few hours from the centre of Tokyo. If the metro is open, then its the fastest option to get to Tokyo.''If you find yourself stranded in Narita Airport or Haneda late at night, do not fret. There are capsule hotels in both airports.''Check them out here''.''Senso-Ji Temple Glowing At Night''Staying in a Capsule Hotel, Tokyo''Hidden deep in the confines of one of Asakusa’s steamy back alleys lies a capsule hotel so authentic that, when its name is brought up, it is spoken in hushed tones amongst travelers. This capsule hotel will bring you back in time; 1999 to be exact.''After being dropped off in Asakusa district with a print off of directions to our capsule hotel, we started walking. The hotel was not easy to find. It was late, I didn’t know Tokyo at all, and the hotel sign was only in Japanese lettering. The hotel had an English name, however. Its name is the Hotel New Tochigiya.''Stepping Back in Time in this Cult Classic Capsule Hotel''The sign for the hotel is prominent in the dingy back alley where it resides. Upon entering the New Tochigiya. There is a familiar smell of instant noodles lingering in the air. The clerk spoke no English, nor was he interested in caring about what we were trying to tell him.''Say your name, and the old man will grunt, hand you a towel, pair of slippers, and a locker key. It’s then up to you to navigate your way to your capsule.''The capsules are fantastic. They are ageing and come equipped with a broken TV. Downstairs, there is a public sauna. The whole affair of staying here amounted to a unique experience that I’ll never forget.''Tokyo Capsule Hotel Video''https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=29asdRjC6D4''Video can’t be loaded: Cribs Japan – Uncharted Backpacker (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=29asdRjC6D4)''Asakusa – Senso-ji and Izakaya (Japanese Pubs)''We awoke early morning, excited to get out and explore the area to sleep anymore. As it turned out, there is not much is open here at 7 am other than Lawson’s (Japan’s 7/11). However, craving breakfast, all the locals pointed us to the''Izakaya''.''Tokyo Tip # 1:''The Izakaya is essentially a Japanese style pub. Many locals head to these as they are open round the clock, and serve an assortment of Japanese dishes. There are''Soba noodles, Curry,''and''Unagi (Japanese BBQ Eel)''to name a few''. I''f you have a hankering for a glass of Sake, you can join the old timers who are indeed crushing back a glass or two before the start of their''day.''Upon entering the shady looking Izakaya, you will notice a vending machine. This''machine''will''ha''ve pictures depicting all of the pub’s delicious dishes. Select the dish you want, inset your Yen, and take the ticket you receive to the chef. It''’''s easy, simple, and probably the best way to get food in Japan.''Awesome Izakaya in Asakusa District''Asakusa district in Tokyo''is a great example of the old and new contrast of Japanese culture.''The historic streets are lined with shops that sell traditional Japanese art and food. Meanwhile, across the street, ultra-modern Tokyo towers loom high above, dominating the sky line, flashing their fluorescent advertisement signs.''In the centre of Asakusa is Senso-ji, one of Tokyo’s largest Buddhist temples. I found myself here after trying the ubiquitous Soba Miso soup at the nearby Izakaya. Senso-ji, unlike some of Japan’s pristine temples, is still in use today.''As I walked across the courtyard, devotees lit incense and placed it into a large, metal cauldron, from where it emitted the strong sent of juniper into the air.''The monk’s chanting resonated through the halls and into the courtyard.''The Main Hall of Senso-Ji''Visiting Seno-ji early in the morning is a must. As I sat on the steps of the temple, listening to the sublime sounds of the monks, it was hard not to be totally captivated by the scene that was unfolding in front of my eyes. Watching the locals at Senso-ji, you will realize how deeply connected the Japanese are with their culture, despite their modern appearance.''Getting Lost in Historic Yanaka and Ueno''Yanaka and Ueno district is home to the''Tokyo Museum'', which, by the way, provides an incredible insight into Japan’s complex and engrossing history. Yet more interesting is Yanaka district itself, which withstood bombing during WWII and has escaped the relentless modernisation of the rest of Japan. Yanaka is a testimony to Japan’s fascinating story.''Hidden Graveyard in Yanaka District''Walking the backstreets of this district will take you back in time. You will find it hard to even believe that you are still in Tokyo.''As Shawn and I wondered around here, we discovered hidden paths, concealed by the branches of juniper trees that lead to historic wooden temples flanked by massive, beautiful graveyards.''The houses here have not changed much either. Many of them still include with a backyard Buddhist shrine. Most of the houses are made of solid wood, giving the area its very unique flare within Tokyo. I recommend you do as Shawn and I did. Leave the busy streets behind, just get lost in this labyrinth of old hiding in Tokyo.''Japans National Museum – Samurai Outfit''To get here, just hop on any Subway line and get off at the Ueno stop. From there, walk north through the Ueno-koen park, past the National Museum and into Yanaka.''Check Out Tokyo’s Subway Map Here!''Testing Sushi at Tsukiji Fish Market''Early morning the next day we headed down to the subway line. Our destination: the''Tsukiji Fish Marke''t.''This fish market is THE place to come to get the freshest, highest quality seafood in Japan, if not the world.''You must come early. The market sells its most famous fish in the wee hours of the morning, the blue fin tuna.''Get off at the Tsukijishijo or Tsukiji subway stop and follow the crowds to the market. At the entrance of the market, tourist’s line up to get the freshest cut of sushi at one of the “famous sushi” stalls.''The Biggest and Most Expensive Tuna, Tsukiji Fish Market''Tokyo Tip #2:''Now I don''’''t want to sound like an arrogant pretentious douche, but that''’''s exactly what I am going to do. Waiting two hours in line for overpriced sushi is idiotic. If you have done this at Tsukiji then I apologize.''Here’s a reality check: just walk into the market and buy fresh slices of sashimi right off the fisherman. No line ups, and the sashimi costs a fraction of the price. Travel smart.''After I sampled some sushi in the Tsukiji itself, I explored the different areas of the market, each selling different kinds of fish. The elusive Fugu (puffer fish), is, by far, the hardest fish to find here.''The most interesting fish I saw was 1000 lbs blue fin tuna being carried by five me who proceeded to hack it up into cuts that would be transported to various restaurants. The immense size of this fish was ridiculous!''Shopping and Drinking in Shibuya, Harajuku, and Roppongi''Welcome to Harajuku. It’s strange, shocking, and downright odd. The young and hip come here to show off their elaborate styles. Goth, anime, punk, whatever your style is, Harajuku will be sure to take it to a whole other level.''If you are looking to purchase a stereotypical, cutsie,''Japanese anime''souvenir, look no further than Harajuku. My favourite was the space kitten t-shirts. Yes you heard me right: space kittens!''Tokyo Tower Looming Over Roppongi District''You may have already seen photos or videos the busy cross walk of Shibuya. Actually joining the thousands of locals who use this cross walk, however, is a wild experience. High above you are street advertisements, so bright and powerful, that they must cause cancer or some other disease.''Once you get tired of the crossing, Shibuya is home to some of Tokyo’s trendiest bars and nightlife. it was here that Shawn and I met up with a friend of mine who was also''traveling Japan''. We devoured some''Gyoza''(Japanese dumplings) and dove into the many bars for some much needed Sake. The bars here have Sapporo and Kirin beers on tap for less than three dollars!''After your buzz sets in, stagger yourself east to nearby Roppongi, where the electric disco bars party well into the night.''Tokyo Tip #3:''Sake and beer is very cheap at Lawson''’''s, down a bottle or two before you delve into Tokyo''’''s nightlife, saving you a lot of money''.''Shibuya’s Famous Crossing, Dubbed as the Busiest Crossing on Earth''Meiji-Jingu Shrine''In the centre of Tokyo you would expect nothing but ultra modern building soaring into the clouds above. This is true apart from the''Meiji-Jingu shrine''and park. Amidst Tokyo’s pulsating loud streets is this lush ancient forested park. Entering under the giant wooden Shinto archways take you into a peaceful quite Zen paradise.''Entrance to Meiji-Jingu Park''Arriving here was great! the traffic, noise, and pollution can really forget to you.''This secluded park not only eased the tension of the modern city, but is also a great look into the traditional culture of Tokyo’s olden days.''Meiji-Jingu Shrine''The Meiji-Jingu Shrine itself was destroyed in WWII and reconstructed exactly how it was in the past in the 1950’s. This temple is very unique, the atmosphere is very ancient feeling, and its not uncommon to see Buddhist monks walking around the temple grounds.''To get here just hop off at the Harajuku stop on the Yamanote Line. From here its just across the street into the giant Cyprus and cedar trees.''Sumo in Arashio-beya in Hamacho''Another thing that is well worth getting up early to see in Tokyo is''Sumo.''If you are lucky enough to be in Tokyo for its''annual Sumo tournaments'', then great! If not then just head on down to Arashio-beya in Hamacho.''Hanging Out With the Sumo’s''To get here, head Hamacho Station on the Toei-Shinjuku line, nearest to Exit A2, and then ask anyone for Arashio Sumo.''Arashio-beya practices sumo between 6:30am and 10:30am on most mornings, so be prepared for an early start. You watch the practice through a glass window from the street. The practice is free to watch, and you get a good idea how in depth and powerful this martial art is.''Most of the travelers joining you will leave after 30 min or so, but stick around till the end and the Sumo wrestlers will come out and introduce themselves to you.''They will also proudly take a photo with you, probably to demonstrate how small and weak you are beside them!''Electrifying, Pulsating, Incredible Shinjuku''No matter how many countries you have traveled, miles you’ve walked, mountains you’ve climbed, Shinjuku will shock you.''Shinjuku''will take everything you know and turn it upside down. The intensely bright, vibrant streets will take you on a journey that will make you contemplate life.''Entrance to Electrifying Shinjuku''Ok, I am being a little over dramatic, I know. But Shinjuku really is amazing. My travel hero,''Anthony Bourdain'', compared''Shinjuku and Tokyo''in general to the first time trying acid.''I’d like to tell you that Shawn and I only spent one night drinking in Shinjuku, but this would be a lie. Of the five nights we spent in Tokyo, I will tell you this: a considerable amount of those five nights were spent in Shinjuku.''Indeed, we spent countless hours of starring into the powerful lit streets of Shinjuku. Many glasses of''Sake''and Japanese beer were guzzled down.''Spending time in Shinjuku is one of my fondest memories of Tokyo. I cannot wait to go back and get lost in this labyrinth of vibrant lights again.''Come here with no itinerary. Walk across the busy street and enter Shinjuku. Prepare to be changed. Prepare for a whole new travel experience.''Shinjuku Robot Show''If the streets are the blood vessels of Shinjuku, then one venue in particular may just be its heart. One beautiful show. This show is called “The Robot Cabaret,” AKA “The Robot Show.” The show is located at the Robot Restaurant, on Kabukicho Street. Guide books tell you to book ahead, but don’t fret, you can just show up one hour before hand and easily get tickets. Trust me, the tickets are well worth the ¥7000 price tag.''Before the show, you are entertained by some musicians dressed as robots in the Robot Bar. When the time comes for the show, you are lead down many hypnotically bright stairs that are sure to nearly give you a seizure.''The Robot Show Lounge''The show, located deep in the basement, will blow your mind away. I do not want to spoil it too much for you, but the show includes gorgeous, bikini clad, Japanese women fighting off an array of million dollar robots that shoot lasers, fire balls, and zip around on roller blades.''After an hour and a half of robotastic action, you will need to contemplate life over a glass of sake in one of Shinjuku’s micro pubs.''Get Tickets to the Robot Cabaret Here!''Tokyo Tip #4:''If you come to Tokyo and miss the Robot Cabaret, then you can not really tell people you have been to Tokyo, because you have not until you have seen this incredible, fantastical, electrifying Robotastic show.''Shinjuku Robot Show Video''https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dAl4Uv7x4KM''Video can’t be loaded: Tokyo Robot Show (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dAl4Uv7x4KM)''Gichin Funakoshi’s Grave''I started taking Karate classes when I was ten years old.. When I was thirteen, I met my friend, Shawn, through Karate. Karate has stuck with me until this day. Japan is the birth place of Karate and a man named''Gichin Funakoshi''was its creator. Gichin Funakoshi, who died in 1957, is buried in Kamakura district, Tokyo.''Entrance to Funakoshi’s Grave''Shawn, who is a fourth degree black belt, made it very clear that we would not be leaving Tokyo until we paid a visit to Gichin Funakoshi’s grave.''With little to no information online on finding his grave, the quest of finding the gravesite became quite the adventure. From Kamakura station we headed west and found quite a large Buddhist temple and cemetery. Even if you’re not interested in seeing Gichin’s tomb, the Temple itself is incredible.''Upon entering the temple complex, just mention the name “Gichin Funakoshi” to any temple attendee and they will point you in the right direction.''Tokyo has two faces, old and new. After exploring Tokyo’s vibrant, futuristic interior, we find ourselves once again in Tokyo’s deep traditional exterior in front of Gichin Funakoshi’s tomb. Gnarly juniper trees, trimmed into perfection by Buddhist monks, and ornate beautiful temples surrounded us. The atmosphere was calm, and peaceful, such a contrast to the rest of Tokyo. This was such an amazing way to end our stay in this amazing city.''Useful Information''Location:''Tokyo, Japan''Capsule Hotel:''Hotel New Tochigiya''– Around $20 US per night''Flights:''Momondo''Recommended Guide Book:''Lonely Planet Japan'',''Lonely Planet Japanese Phrasebook''Other\xa0Useful\xa0Links:''Japan Rail Pass''Tips:''Learn some Japanese, it’s a great ice breaker when meeting locals!''Tokyo Subway Map''asia''japan''Robot Show''Tokyo''Samarqand, Uzbekistan''The dust seeps into every crevasse of our old, beaten down car. Our driver, an ancient Uzbek man, cranks the speaker’s volume on high, blasting out the cords of Uzbek tunes and folk tales. Crammed beside me in the car is a middle aged man, a child, and her mother, who are all eating fermented sour cheese balls called Kurut. It’s been over four hours of this of this already, having to transfer cars twice. My friend, Matt, and I are making our way from Tashkent to Samarqand in Uzbekistan.''Just Like a mirage teasing us in the desert, the signs of civilization begin to appear. A power line, a billboard, a large herd of goats and sheep. We were finally getting close to the legendary Silk Road city of Samarqand. In the distance, the waves of heat dissipate and the tall blue domes of mosques rise from the desert. After hours of sour cheese, dust filled lungs, and bumpy roads, we had arrived!''Getting a Visa for Uzbekistan''This story actually starts in''Bishkek, the Capital City of Kyrgyzstan''. My friend and I are following the Silk Road and, as most weary Silk Road travelers will tell you, the biggest challenge faced when traveling this region of the world is obtaining visas. Some tourists of certain nationalities are required to produce a letter of invitation in order to obtain a visa. Luckily, as Canadians, this wasn’t required of us.''I had gone to the Uzbek embassy countless days in a row in my attempt to obtain as visa. I filled out endless forms and dealt with some of the rudest embassy workers imaginable. Every day I am told, “Wait two more days.” It had now been nine long days in Bishkek waiting for this visa.''On the tenth day I arrived once again to the''Uzbek embassy''. Feeling very discouraged, I began contemplating whether I should even go to Uzbekistan now. When I reached the front window and gave my name, the women handed me my passport. Like a dream, I slowly opened it to reveal an Uzbek visa. I could have sworn I jumped and did a heel click.''Local Selling Melons on the way to Samarqand''Getting to Uzbekistan''The original plan was to get the Uzbek visa, and then follow the Silk Road overland through Kyrgyzstan to''Tashkent'', the Capital city of Uzbekistan. Now that the visa had taken ten days to acquire, I was running out of time, however.''Right after obtaining our visas, Matt and I hopped into a cab and went straight to the airport in Bishkek. Lucky for us, there was indeed a direct flight with''Kyrgyz Air''flying to Tashkent. Tickets purchased, visas stamped, we were on our way.''Carpet and Art Bazaar Inside the Registan''The plane was a sort of “Frankenplane.” The windows had Russian writing on them, while the seats had Greek. Looking above, the smoke detectors had Italian. The adrenaline from the day had not worn off yet, so the obvious signs that this plane had been pieced together and was probably not air worthy did not set in.''The plane miraculously landed in Tashkent at 9pm. How this happened without some disaster occurring; who knows? What I did know was that we were finally in Uzbekistan.''The Capital City of Uzbekistan, Tashkent''One thing everyone should be familiar with before traveling to''Uzbekistan''is dealing with the money. Uzbekistan currency is called''Uzbek Som''. Technically, the conversion rate is $1 US to 2900 Uzbeki Som. This is the bank rate. Nobody in Uzbekistan uses the banks, however. The Black Market is king here. At the Black Market you will receive almost 30% more Som for your dollar. Strange, I know.''Exiting the airport, we had our first experience with the Black Market. Now, most travelers already know that taxi drivers tend to be shady. In Uzbekistan they are extra shady. They are Black Market money dealers, hustlers, and sometimes drug dealers. These cabbies bring a whole new meaning to the word shady.''Our driver gave us quite a good rate for our US dollar, of which we paid a portion back to him so he would drive us to our hotel.''We arrived to the''Gulnara Guesthouse''late at night. They welcomed us with the ubiquitous Uzbek green tea, and we crashed for the night.''The next morning we ventured into the''Tashkent Old City Bazaar''. We had heard rumours that this is where the Black Market was. We had changed some money with our taxi driver but saved a lump some of our US dollars for the “REAL” Black Market.''Spice Bazaar In Samarqand''Wandering the long corridors of this ancient Bazaar is brilliant. The brick halls are lined with shops that have workers hand making clothing, farming tools, and musical instruments. Wander around long enough, and the black market men will find you as they did us.\xa0 This Black Market is not shady at all. Most of the dealers are just normal men who do this as a side job.''Getting to Samarqand''From Tashkent, our next destination was Samarqand. There are a couple of options for this leg of the journey. One being the train that leaves at 8am, but we had already missed it. The second is the bus or m''ashrutka.''Taking a mashrutka'',''(a small mini bus or car), is the easiest option, as they tend to just leave when they fill up, which, in most cases, only takes a few minutes.''Dome and Ceiling of the Exquisite Mousques''On the outskirts of Tashkent is an area called prospect Bunyodkor. This is where all the mashrutka pile up and find passengers. When we arrived, a young Uzbek man ushered us into his car, assuring us that we would pay the cheapest rate. In fact, he charged us exactly what our hotel had told us to pay.''The journey was supposed to only take around four hours. This was not the case. Our driver, who did in fact drive like a madman, had to make multiple stops for, music, melons, fermented cheese balls, and''Noz''(Uzbeki chewing tobacco). Our four hour drive turned into a six hour, multiple car changing, Uzbekistan montage. During one leg of the journey, our young driver even abandoned us in a small desert community, where the other passengers and I had to find another car. In the end, a nice, ancient looking man did take us in.''In the Registan Square''With the smells, stifling heat, and''Uzbeki folk music''on repeat, we made it after six brutally long hours.''The Legendary Silk Road City, Samarqand''The taxi dropped us off in the old town at Jahongir B&B. I highly recommend this place. Not much has changed in this guesthouse in the past hundred years. It’s decorated with carpets and has grape vines growing everywhere.''As we left the hotel that evening it was nearing sunset. We walked to the end of the street. What a surprise we were in for at this street’s end. With soaring blue domes, mystifying islamic architecture, the Registan lay before our eyes. It’s hard to believe so much beauty like this can be concealed in a nation that most travelers know relatively very little about.''The Registan is at the''centre Samarqand.''It’s, quite possibly, the most amazing sight in all of Central Asia! The three blue, domed medressas are thought to be the world most spectacular and oldest known. Everything else here was pretty much destroyed by''Chinggis Khan''.''Walking around the main square of the Registan is simply magic. You can spend hours gazing into the marvelous architectural wonders. The murals painted on the medressas tell stories of Samarqand’s royal past. This was, at one time, the centre of all of trade within Central Asia. As the sun was setting, the domes took on a fiery orange glow, and the countless blue tiles glimmered in the last bit of sunlight.''Islamic Perfection in the Registan Mosques''At the end of the square, one of the security guards asked if I would like to climb to the top of the tallest Minaret. This is, of course illegal, but I succumbed to this opportunity, gave him his bribe, and climbed to the top. When I finally reached the top, I was awestruck by the absolute beauty and grand scale of the city. Samarqand is beyond all expectations. There are very little descriptive words I can put here to explain how I felt looking upon this scene.''Sun set, minds blown, hunger began to set in. Our guesthouse recommended a traditional restaurant right across from the Registan. They served us plov – Uzbeki oily lamb rice, naan bread – flat bread cooked on the side of a clay oven, laghman – thick flat noodles, and steamed goat dumplings. All of this for less than five dollars per person. Uzbeki food is a blend of nearby cultures, making for a great feast!''The Ubiquitous Uzbek Plov and Green Tea''The Registan, Mausoleums of Shah-I-Zinda and Bibi-Khanym''The next day, we started by visiting the''Registan''again. Now that it was early morning, there was more life to the scene. Carpet dealers, artists, and antique dealers set up shop in the square, just as they had for hundreds of years.''Leaving the Registan, heading north into the old town, we explored more gigantic blue mosques and mausoleums, just as spectacular as the Registan itself. Bibi-Khanym Mosque dominates the skyline. This masterpiece was finished shortly after Timur’s death and was one of the largest mosques in the world when it was completed. Across from it is the Bibi-Khanym mausoleum which has been restored recently.''The halls of these behemoths remain relatively empty, given the lack of tourism here. Hang around long enough in one and you will, however, see tour groups that come by every so often. As for lone travelers, there are very few.''Old Town Shah-I-Zinda Cemetery''Even further north of the old town lies Shah-I-Zinda Cemetery. This massive cemetery is home to some of the most intricately detailed mausoleums in the world. The walls are covered in small, ornate blue tiles that were all hand painted with Persian designs. You can spend hours upon hours just exploring here, let alone actually seeing the sights themselves.''Mausoleums of Shah-I-Zinda''Ancient Cities, Bustling Bazaars''Venturing past this cemetery, you will find yourself in Ancient Samarqand. At first sight, it looks like nothing much other than a deserted field with the odd mud wall and some hills. But, if you explore deeper into the place, you will begin to notice how these are not hills at all, but instead the remnants of fortresses and the fortified walls that surrounded this ancient place.''As you walk, you will see shards of pottery scattered about, I even found an old coin that dated back to the''Bactrian period.''The so called Ulugbek’s Observatory is the shining archaeological discovery here. To the untrained eye, it looks like a hill with stone walls, but it was once a massive mud fortress at one time. This is where''Ulugbek'', one of the world’s most famous astronomers, discovered many constellations we know to this day.''Samarqand really is one of the most incredible cities along the Silk Road, albeit the world. A''visit to Uzbekistan''and Samarqand will open you up to a whole new side of the planet that you most likely knew never existed. This hidden culture will keep you earning to discover more of these regions.''Local Honey Sellers''From Samarqand the next destination was Kiva, which is reached by train that pushes us weary Silk Road travelers further into the legendary road made famous by kings and explorers from before.''Ulugbek’s Observatory''Useful Information''Location:''Samarqand, Uzbekistan, Central Asia''Accommodation:''Jahongir B&B – jahongirbandb.com, 25 – 35 $US''Daily Budget:''35 $US''Flights:''Momondo''Recommended Guide Book'':''Lonely Planet Central Asia'',''Bradt Uzbekistan''Top Tips:''Make sure you use a map, the Mosques are quite spread out. Samarqand is easily traveled alone, but hiring a local guide is very cheap, and they know much about the history. Dress modestly and be respectful, Uzbekistan is quite open minded, but it is still a Muslim Country. Cab drivers tend not to know much English, get the hotel workers to write down directions in Uzbek.''Currency:''Uzbek SOM 1 $US – 2100 SOM. Covert money with the Black Market, You tend to get a much higher rate, usually around 2800 SOM.''Recommended Gear:''Goal Zero Nomad Solar Panel''.''Fjallraven Backpack'',''Black Out Housing for GoPro''.''Adventure Travel''asia''Samarqand''Uzbekistan''I lie awake in the middle of the night. The rain pounds hard against the plastic shutters. The wind roars outside at frightening speeds. The sound of roosters calling is chilling. They know that this is no normal storm. The Yolanda Typhoon continued throughout the night. Luckily, I was with my Canadian/Filipino friend,''Grace'', at her uncle’s house in Manila. We had no idea how much this Typhoon would affect our trip, not to mention''Grace''’s family, in the Visayas.''Where are the Visayas?''The Visayas are, simply put, a traveler’s “Tropical Paradise.” Jungle clad islands that dot the bright blue warm waters of the Pacific, are bordered by picture-perfect white sand beaches and swaying palms.''One of the major groups of the Philippines’ 7500 islands,''the Visayan Islands'', are located in the central region of the Philippines. The major islands here are Panay, Negros, Cebu, Bohol, Leyte and Samar. The largest city in the Visayas is Cebu City, a rather cosmopolitan city compared to those on any of the islands nearby.''Alona Beach Bohol''The Visaya Islands''are much smaller than Luzon and Mindanao, and more spread out, thus allowing each island to have its own distinct culture and feel to it. One thing you will notice here, when arriving from Manila, is the laid-back feel to the region. Nothing happens in a hurry, making this region a great place to visit for when you get sick of the hectic pace of Manila.''The people of the Visayas are ethnically different from the south or northern regions of the''Philippines''. The language, Visayan, is the most obvious difference. Visayans are proud people who, even though are culturally different and speak a different language, still see themselves as “Filipino.”''Getting to the Visayas''When I awoke in''Manila'', I found an entire nation in confusion. Manila looked fine, but all the news networks were saying that the Visayas were not ok. Yolanda was supposed to have been just a basic typhoon, something that is not new to the people here, but, this time, things were different. My flight was scheduled to leave from Manila to Tacloban, the major port city of Leyte, where Grace’s family lived near to, at 9am.''Upon arriving to the airport, I was shocked by the masses of people standing outside the Departures hall. The neon lit departing site read “All Flights Cancelled.” I rushed to the help desk to ask what had happened, and, like everyone at this time, they knew nothing of what was going on, only that something had happened.''There are only three options for getting to the Visayas from Manila. One is to endure a painful 30 hour bus and ferry ride to Leyte. Another is to hope on an equally long ferry to Cebu. Both these options were also not functioning at this time. The third option is to fly.''The Filipino Diet, Dried Fish Found Everywhere''The help desk said my only option was to take a flight the next day to Cebu and figure things out from there.''First Stop Cebu''The flight from Manila to Cebu did indeed take off the next day. We were one of only a few flights that did take the risk of flying. After ascending through the tail end of the Typhoon that was still ravaging northern Luzon, we broke free of the clouds into a bright and sunny setting. The flight took just over an hour''to Cebu''.''We landed in Cebu at around 11am. The city had a chaotic atmosphere. The airport was filled with Nuns and relief workers who were all heading out to Leyte. One of the Nuns we had stopped to talk with had told us''Tacloban City''was completely destroyed, but that Grace’s hometown, nearby Palompon, was okay.''Leaving the airport and entering the city, we found Cebu to be rather untouched by the Typhoon. Other than a few broken street posts and rubbish laying around, it looked good.''We wanted to get to Leyte, so we headed down to the docks. Leyte was not so far from Cebu, so we thought we could get on the next ferry. Wrong! All ferries were suspended.''Getting to Bohol''Knowing the Grace’s town had survived, and was unreachable at this moment, we decided to head to Bohol, located just south of Leyte. From the same docks in Cebu, there are a few boats heading to Bohol. Lucky for us, one of the fast boats were leaving in one hour.''Sunset at Alona Beach – Bohol''The oddly named “''Super Cat''” boat crosses the waters between Cebu and Tagbilaran, the Capital City of''Bohol'', three times a day. For about 1000 peso ($20 US), you can sit in the luxury class. Or, you can pay half that price and you get a seat very similar to the upper class. The entire trip takes around 2 hours. All the while, you pass by uninhabited islands. Sometimes you can even spot dolphins.''We arrived to Tagbilaran port in the late afternoon with almost no plan. Grace’s family had mentioned to us that Panglao Island was a “must see.” So, since we had no plan, we decided to check it out. We arranged a motor rickshaw for around $10 US to drive us the final 45 minutes to our destination.''Panglao Island''We slowly meandered down the cracked road through the dense jungles of Bohol’s interior. Every so often, we would get a glimpse of Bohol’s stunning coastline through the foliage. Just as I was beginning to lament about how the day seemed to be dragging on, our Rickshaw broke down. It was nothing the people living on the farm up the road could not fix, however!''Bike fixed, we finally arrived to''Panglao Island''. Panglao is indeed a separate island, but it is so close to Bohol that only a small bridge separates the two. Panglao Town consists of a few spread out guesthouses and a few shops in its downtown.''Back Roads in Bohol''We chose to stay at the Alona Grove Tourist Inn on, you guessed it, Alona Beach. This guesthouse gives you your very own nipa hut, which, of course, comes with unpredictable hot water, and internet that is also quite unpredictable.''The next morning, we rented some snorkel gear and swam out to the house reef of Alona beach. Watch out for boats! The coral here is stunning; you will see plenty of sea turtles, triggerfish, and the odd barracuda.''Heading out deeper, I noticed some men who were free-diving. I approached them to see what they were diving for. Turns out, they were sea gypsies who were diving for sea urchins. They said it was easy just dive down, pick them up with a golf ball retriever and put them in the bag. Easier said than done! The sea urchins were down about 15m, and bringing them up was a bit of a balancing act.''We managed to retrieve about ten urchins. The sea gypsies then showed me how they shake the burlap bag the urchins are in vigorously until all of the spiny thorns break off. At this point, you can pry them open by hand and eat them raw. Ignoring the strange looking texture, they are indeed delicious.''Diving in the Philippines''The first few days on Panglao I decided to do a few dives. I found a shop near Alona beach offering two days for 30 $US. Its name was''Bohol Fun Divers''. The shop took me out early morning on a small white catamaran to a few dive sights nearby. The coral reefs here are in remarkable condition considering the use of dynamite fishing in this area.''Large groupers, eagle rays, and swirling Barracuda are just a few to name of the diverse marine life here.''Both dives I did were drift dives along a reef wall at about 15 – 20 m. As you float along Keep an eye out for colourful slugs, and other smaller critters amongst the reef. There was only me and three other divers on the whole boat! so the dive felt like it was great value.''Diving in the Philippines''Diving, Whale Sharks and Cock Fight, Philippines Travel Video!''https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=II1ucxOvErE''Video can’t be loaded: Traveling Visayas Philippines (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=II1ucxOvErE)''Bohol Tarsier Sanctuary''When you arrive in Bohol, there is one thing you will notice; the big-eyed''Tarsier monkeys''. Those cute, bug-eyed creatures are being advertised everywhere; on signs, as mascots, and in souvenir shop in the form of plush stuffed animals. One thing you will not see however, is these cute cuddly guys crawling all over the island. Because of their popularity, they are kept mostly in a sanctuary these days.''The Elusive Tarsier''The Bohol Tarsier Sanctuary is pretty much just a huge fenced of area of Bohol’s natural jungle, making these Tarsiers semi wild. You can indeed get up close and personal with the Tarsiers. Getting a good look at these slow moving primates, while still keeping enough distance so as not to startle or harm them, is essential to keeping them “semi-wild”.''To get to the Bohol Tarsier Sanctuary, it is best just to hire a car, or motorbike. We ended up renting a car and made a day trip of it. We began by checking out the Tarsier Sanctuary, then visiting a small village named Loboc, famous for its bridges and nearby zip lines.''After Loboc, we made a quick stop to see the church in Baclayon which has been partly destroyed by the earthquake, making for an apocalyptic kind of atmosphere. Our last stop was the Chocolate Hills.''The Chocolate Hills''Mention to any Filipino that you are going to Bohol, they will cheerfully smile and yell out “Chocolate Hills!” For some odd reason, these brown colored lumps of lava rock, forming hills reminiscent of, true to their namesake, chocolate, have a special place in every Filipino’s dear heart.''Every Filipino Loves the Chocolate Hills – Bohol''Approaching the''Chocolate Hills of Bohol'', l I was not sure what to expect. Everyone in this country had told me that I, without a doubt, could not miss them. Grace and I climbed to the viewpoint that overlooked the hills. At the top, you get a 360-degree look over the area’s many chocolate brown hills. To be honest, the hills themselves are interesting, but not mind blowing. What I really enjoyed here is seeing the countless Filipino tourists here, connecting with a piece of their heritage and culture.''Wanting to get a little more out of the hills, we continued along the “trail”, which turned out to be a path under construction for the new Chocolate Hills Zip Line that will open in the future. This path offers a few more interesting views of the surrounding area.''Earthquake Damage in Bohol''Swimming With Whale Sharks in Cebu!''If you asked me what my highlight of the Philippines was, I would most defiantly tell you it was swimming with''whale sharks''. I am a''PADI Dive Master'', with over 300 plus dives under my belt, and I had never seen this elusive beast.''The next morning, we woke up early to catch one of the whale shark tours that leave from Alona Beach at 5am to Southern Cebu. The boat ride here was beautiful. We passed by small, uninhabited islands that resembled white gems dotting the emerald-blue sea. Dolphins followed alongside our white, rickety boat, and the odd giant jellyfish drifted near to the surface.''Grace and I on Route to see the Whale Sharks – Cebu''In the distance, Cebu’s large peaks come into view. Getting closer to the island gives off a real sense of adventure. Finally, we arrived to a small shack village that advertises the chance to finally swim with the whale sharks.''Before we were allowed to get in the water, we were given a strict set of rules to adhere by. We were not to touch of the whale shark; we had to keep at least 5m from them at all times. For me, having these rules in place made me incredibly happy, as I knew that it was in the best interest of the whale sharks. Nevertheless, I was still wondering, how do they get the whale sharks to come here?''It turned out that, for some time now, anglers in these areas have been feeding these curious creatures and have developed a relationship with them. The whale sharks, knowing that they can get a free meal, come here daily rather than looking for food elsewhere. They can only be seen seasonally, however, as they go elsewhere when they are breeding.''The fisherman took us out a ways into the ocean and began calling the sharks by names. Yes, they do in fact know these ones by their specific names! After a few minutes, the giants began to emerge from the deep. Getting in the water was surreal. After so many dives looking for just one whale shark, I was now surrounded by over ten of them!''They gulped down the angler’s food like cattle grazing in a pasture. They were friendly, and very calm around us travellers, who were losing our minds over this experience. After thirty minutes, when all the food was gone, the whale sharks slipped back down to the depths of the ocean.''Leyte – Yolanda Devastation, and Cock Fighting''Returning back to Alona Beach, Grace got word from her cousin that Palompon was now accessible from Cebu. Knowing this, we rushed back to Cebu City that day, and met one of her cousins there.''Devastation in Palampon – Leyte''This is where I was introduced to Kent, Grace’s first cousin. Kent told us of the situation in''Leyte'', and it was not good. The island had suffered extensive damage due to the Yolanda Typhoon. There was very little food or water. Therefore, we stalked up on food, water, and, of course, sweets, because I could not resist the Cinnabon in the mall.''The ferry was packed with hundreds of people who were also bringing over supplies to the disaster zone. We were given a small bed on the open deck of the boat.''Damaged Streets from Yolanda Typhoon, Palampon – Leyte''The boat pulled in to Palompon harbor at 3am. Pushing past the crowd to the docks, we were pleasantly surprised to be greeted by Grace’s entire family. Nanay, Tatay, cousins, uncles, and aunts, they were all here.''In the morning, Grace’s uncle lent us his scooter so we could explore the island. What we saw was the scene of absolute devastation. The majority of the trees had fallen down, covering most of the roads. Houses had simply crumbled into a pile of rubble. In Palompon city, live power lines lay across the streets.''A Favourite Philippines food, Litson''Even with all this devastation, life seemed to be continuing in somewhat of a normal manner. The markets were well stalked with the morning catch of fish, shops were open, and even the satay stalls were hawking their skewers. We even saw Tatay walking with two large jugs of''Tuba''(local palm wine).''There was one thing I wanted to see while I was here. Tatay had always told me about how passionate Filipinos were about Cock Fighting. That afternoon, Tatay took me to the Cock Fighting Arena, which had withstood the Yolanda Typhoon.''Tatay brought a rooster, which we named Mucho Luchador. First, you pay your 2-dollar entrance fee, grab a San Miguel beer, then find your local black market bet dealer, whom with you place your bet on the upcoming battle.''Our rooster was up against another rooster named Yolanda, named in the spirit of recent events. The birds are dropped into the ring and the crowd goes wild as these angry birds begin to battle. If you have ever wondered how they fight, they have a three-inch sharp blade attached to their ankle. Because of this blade, the fight usually only lasts a few minutes. It is indeed inhumane, but it is the local culture. The dead roosters are eaten afterwards. If you win, great! If you lose, Rooster Soup.''Training the Cock to Fight''Our cock killed Yolanda, and another cock called Manny Pacquiao. I guess I should have called my rooster Floyd Mayweather.''Leaving the Cock Fights, with about $60 US in hand from betting on illegal Cock Fighting, we headed home to have Nanays incredible Squid Adobo.''The Cocks Battle It Out''The next day here, we purchased a pig to slaughter for Grace’s family’s village, as there were many people displaced here who could not afford food. Our pig, named “Mussolini” fed over thirty families here. It was great to be able to give back something to these incredible people other than just my Cinnabons, which Tatay had consumed, pretty much, all to himself.''Graces Amazing Family – Leyte''Useful Information''Location:''Visayas, Philippines''Visa:''on Arrival for most Nationals''Recommended Guide Book:''Lonely Planet Philippines'',''Tagalog Phrasebook''Useful Tips:''Take the Super Cat boats as much as possible, they are fast and efficient.''Recommended Gear:''Fjallraven Backpack'',''Free\xa0Diving Scuba Mask'',''Greenland Wax''to make Products Waterproof.''Flights:''Cathay Pacific, Philippine Airways. Check out''Kayak'',''Momondo'', and/or''Flighthub''Accommodation:''Beach – 15 $US per night. City – 8 $US per night.''Check Hostel\xa0World''Diving:''Bohol Fun Divers''Group Tours:''G Adventures''asia''Philippines''South East Asia''Travel Diary''San Blas, Panama''The sand is as white as snow. The water is a clear, turquoise blue, so vibrant that it almost looks like a painting. Swaying palm trees are back dropped by clear skies on a deserted Caribbean island. There is not one tourist or sunglasses salesmen in sight. This is the picture perfect image I see as I emerge from the ocean. It is difficult to express so much beauty in words. As I submerge myself into the ocean below, thousands of colorful fish, sting rays and sharks are visible in all directions.''All this beauty leads me to believe that, if there is a Garden of Eden then, after all of my numerous expeditions exploring the globe, I have quite possibly found it. This is San Blas, in Kuna Yala, Panama. Paradise on earth.''Where Is San Blas?''How can a place like this remain unknown to most travelers? The fact is that San Blas, to this day, has remained under the radar of most tourists simply because of how remote and undeveloped it is. This province is an autonomous tribal region, with its own independent government, which is influenced minimally by the''rest of Panama''. Roads, resorts and infrastructure are slowly making their way here, but the majority of San Blas has been kept in its natural state, under the watchful eye of the Kuna.''The San Blas Archipelago is located in the autonomous region of''Comarca De Kuna Yala'', in Northeast Panama. The region stretches all the way from the''Golfo De San Blas''in central Panama to the''Columbian''border.''The majority if Kuna Yala’s 400 islands are uninhabited, but the ones that are inhabited are incredibly congested. Some of the islands’ people have constructed resorts that cater to tourists who either fly in to the islands’ private airstrips or arrive by boat from El Povenir, Kuna Yala’s larger commercial city.''Getting to San Blas''The story of how I stumbled upon this paradise begins in the cosmopolitan capital of''Panama'', Panama City. Tired, exhausted and covered in dirt from crossing the Darien Gap, I was recovering with a cold one in the Luna’s Castle Hostel. This old colonial Spanish building is a great reminder of the time when Panama was occupied by the Spanish, and provides the unique opportunity to stay in a place a real explorer would have stayed many years ago. As I pondered over the past few weeks of uncharted jungle exploration, I cannot help to think that there must be more adventure to be had here.''Andreas, the hostel owner, recognises me and approaches me. Andreas had helped me get to the''Darien two weeks earlier''. After telling him of lost tribes, jungle leeches, and making it to the Columbian border, I ask him where I should go next. Andreas simply says “San Blas, of course.” Andreas tells me that his hostel does jeep trips out into the Kuna Yala region, from which a local fisherman can take me to a small island called Isla Robinson in San Blas. The trip would cost me $35 US and would take around eight hours, as the roads are in very bad condition.''The next morning morning, a four seat Jeep arrived at the hostel doorstep and two fellow travellers from Holland and I crammed into the back seat. The driver packed the Jeep’s roof and passenger’s seat full of supplies that he was bringing back to his family’s island in Kuna Yala. He explained that basic necessities are hard to find and expensive in the archipelago, so he was taking as much as he could from the city.''Kuna Inhabited Island''The drive was indeed bumpy. After about four hours, our driver left the cracked pavement for a muddy dirt track. We followed this trail for about an hour deep into the coastal jungles. Our jeep, covered in mud and branches, emerged from the jungle and onto the coast by a small fisherman’s hut.''The beautiful Panama coast was gleaming from the afternoon sun. In the distance, black clouds began to form. The crisp air foretold the arrival of a storm. A Kuna fisherman pulled into the dock and ushered to us to move fast as the sea was about to become dangerous. We quickly loaded our gear, and waved goodbye to our driver.''Our small fishing boat pounded over the ever-growing blue waves. The rain fell hard on the light tarp we used to shield ourselves from the elements. Thundered roared above and the boat began to really struggle in the fierce, angry sea.''Finally, after two hours of hair raising, gravity defying boat stunts, we came ashore on what looked to be a deserted island. We jumped off the boat into the white sand with bare feet and backpacks, like ancient explorers before us had done.''Isla Robinson – Backpacker Paradise''The palms swayed, the blue water slammed the shoreline, and the sky above roared with thunder and wind. Behind me, the fishing boat took off, leaving us to be marooned. That was until a friendly Kuna man yelled out from a small, thatched hut. “Welcome to Isla Robinson! Come have some rum.”''Marco, King of Isla Robinson''Entering the thatched hut, the real remoteness of the area hits you. This old, battered, grass roofed thatched hut was all that stood to protect you from the storm outside. Inside, the hut is lit by a few, dim candles. In the far corner, a pot bubbles giving off the aroma of fresh seafood soup. It is not much, but it does have a cozy feeling to it, I think to myself.''The man who had been calling to us earlier told us his name was Marco. He is the sole inhabitant of “his” end of Isla Robinson. Marco poured us an obligatory shot of rum, which the Dutchmen and I gulped down like pirates on a new found island. After the rum, Marco gave more details into the island’s history and its inhabitants.''The View From My Hut''Who are the Kuna?''Marco explained to us how this region is under the autonomous rule of the''Kuna tribal people''.''The Kuna''are very different from their mainland Panama counterparts. First of all, they are not ethnically from Spain. They were the original inhabitants of this area before colonisation. They speak their own language and have their own religion.''Panama is predominantly Catholic. The Kuna, however, believe in three principle concepts: God, Nature and the Cosmos. Their god, named Paba Tummat, created everything for them, including Nature. This is why the Kuna revere and respect Nature. You will see this exemplified throughout Kuna Yala, as most of the region is undeveloped. The towns of Kuna Yala are congested and dirty, but this works because the majority of the Kuna choose to live in these few towns, rather than populating the entire area.''Kuna Hand Made Souvenirs''The Kuna revere their Shamans who consult the Cosmos for knowledge and understanding. Most of Kuna laws and culture are based on these principals and ideas.''Marco then told us of the darker side behind Kuna Yala. In the recent years, drug smuggling from Columbia into Panama through the Darien Gap has become less frequent due to the Panama Army cracking down on the high trafficking areas. So now the Cartels have turned their eyes to Kuna Yala.''Kuna Locals on Way to Mainland''The Kuna are poor people. The region is remote and ruled by tribal elders. This, unfortunately, makes a great place for the Cartels to come in and bribe local chiefs to traffic the drugs through here. Marco then tells us of how the waters here have become dangerous now, and we should be escorted by local Kuna if we would like to explore.''San Blas the Caribbean Paradise''After a few more shots of rum and some delicious seafood soup, Marco showed us to our huts. For $15 US, you get a grass hut with a gas lantern, sand floor, and an antique mirror dating back to explorer’s times. Bathrooms are located outside, and the showers are in the ocean. It’s not much, but once you see the place, amenities will be the last thing on your mind.''By morning, the storm clouds had cleared, and the beauty of Isla Robinson began to show in every walk of life. Crystal blue and emerald waters and white sugar like sand beaches. It’s just you, the ocean breeze, and this perfect island.''That day, I wandered to the other end of the island, where there was a Kuna village. The colourfully dressed Kuna women dry fish on fish lines, while children run around with their pet pigs and dogs. Life here is a slow pace, nothing happens in a hurry.''Marco was the hut owner, manager, and head chef. He bought local lobster and fish from the village and cooked us traditional Kuna food (absolutely incredible by the way!). All Kuna dishes were paired perfectly with more Caribbean rum… why is the rum always gone?''Isla Robinson Deserted Beach''The next day, Marco arranged a fisherman from the village to take the Dutch travellers and I to some nearby uninhabited island for some snorkeling and exploring.''Our boat slowly hummed past a small, deserted island and the odd wooden fishing canoe. The warm Caribbean breeze and clean air made for a perfect day. Our boat driver, who was a Kuna native, told us of his home community of Rio Sidra, one of Kuna Yala’s most congested communities. He said it was a place we had to see for ourselves, if we wanted to see more of Kuna culture.''In the distance, another small island came into sight. Our driver told us we could stop here to explore. The boat plowed onto the beach, and we now became this island’s only inhabitants. Walking around the island is a great experience. You really get the sense of how raw Kuna Yala’s nature is.''Picking the Perfect Lobster, The Tattoos on Me are Still Painted From Darien''Marco had provided us with some snorkeling gear. Entering the crystal clear waters, the vibrant colours of the coral and fish are everywhere. Untouched by humans, this area is kept pristine in part by banning scuba diving, and preventing other commercial infrastructure from developing. Head out deeper and the reef is teeming with life. There are sharks, sting rays, assortments of rare coral, sea turtles, and even dog nose rays. This is some of the most beautiful ocean exploring I have ever done.''Explore Desolate Islands Like Pirates Did!''When I returned back to the beach, I was pleasantly surprised to see that some Kuna fisherman, wearing traditional Kuna outfits, had stopped by for a break. They were shy of us, but curious enough to give us a smile and wave.''San Blas Uninhabited Islands''Rio Sidra – Kuna Central''Leaving this tropical paradise behind, our boat driver took us to Rio Sidra. This island took on a very different form from the others. Packed from shoreline to shoreline with houses, this island was incredibly congested, but also very interesting. As you squeeze through the back alleys that connect the thatched huts and concrete structures, you can find hidden markets selling barracuda and other catches of the day. Small shops sell handicrafts to the odd travelers who make it out here. The village even has a small community hospital and school.''The Streets of Rio Sidra''In Rio Sidra the colourful Kuna traditional outfits are replaced with western style clothing. Rap music can be heard from the shops rather than Kuna music. Westernization has made its way here, but the way of life is still very traditional Kuna. Many of the locals here speak English, so learning more about their culture and way of life becomes easy. The Kuna here are also much less shy, making taking pictures easier.''Getting Some Barracuda in Rio Sidra''Crossing the San Blas Archipelago''I spent four more days on Isla Robinson exploring more nearby uninhabited islands, drinking rum with Marco, and lazing around in the hammock outside my hut.''San Blas''truly has the sense of exploration. There are plenty of undiscovered remote islands here, making this another spot in Panama that will make travelers pleased.''When the time came to leave, Marco said I would have to hitchhike with fishing boats to Carti. Carti is on mainland where there is plenty of connecting Jeeps to Panama City.''Buying Fresh Langostina''That morning, I said goodbye to my Dutch and Kuna friends, and hopped aboard yet another random fishing vessel. This time, the seas were calmer.\xa0 We roamed the seas, along the way picking up the odd Kuna family also heading to mainland.''As we approached the mainland, the massive, green, forested mountains of Coastal Panama came into view. Behind me, the''beautiful islands of San Blas''began to disappear into the sea. The scene was epic. The rolling cloud spilled down over the mountains into the sea. At this time, the skies began to rumble with the onset of a brewing tropical storm, just as they had\xa0 I had arrived, but bidding farewell to paradise.''On shore, Jeeps waited for our boat, now crammed full with many Kuna. We loaded up and were off, back to Panama City.''Useful Information''Location:''San Blas, Comarca De Kuna Yala, Panama''Accommodation:''Isla Robinson Huts – $15 US per night full board''Flights:''Momondo:''Recommended Guide Book:''Lonely Planet Panama''Tips:''Be careful when photographing the Kuna, they are not fond of cameras. Bring snacks here, there is very little food.''Recommended Gear:''Freediving Scuba Mask'', one that is\xa0low profile is great for free dives on the reef, and\xa0also keeps the strong sunlight out.''GoPro Dive Housing'',''GoPro Diving Filters'',''Don’t Forget Travel Insurance!''Recommended Tour Companies for Panama:''G Adventures''central america''Kuna Yala''panama''Temples of Angkor, Siem Reap – Cambodia''Cambodia, a country of deeply rooted culture, emerald rice fields, ancient temples, and a horrific past. Mentioning the name “Cambodia” to the younger generation inspires thoughts of of backpacking and South East Asian adventure. Ask someone whose memory stretches back a little farther, however, and you will be shocked to learn of the unspeakable acts of genocide that occurred here very recently.''Cambodia has emerged from the ashes of disparity and bloomed into one of South East Asia’s most interesting and addictive destinations. It shows great promise in continuing this path. It’s got new paved roads, five star hotels and everything else a traveler could want. The real questions is: will Cambodia be able to retain its authentic feeling with all of this new tourist infrastructure?''I have traveled here countless times. Every time I step through the''gates of Angkor Wat'', I can tell you that even with all the swarms of tourists, hotels, hawkers, this place is special. Angkor Wat is the symbol of Cambodia’s past. Angkor Wat is a prime example of Cambodia’s will to hang on to its culture, while giving its people a sense of belonging and pride. In short, Angkor Wat is absolutely stunning.''Siem Reap, the Gateway to Angkor Wat''In recent years, Siem Reap has changed, more so than any other town in the whole of Cambodia. The roads, for the most part, are all paved now. Hotels have sprung up everywhere like wildfire.''Siem Reap''has an almost Thai city feeling to it these days. Head into the touristy markets and you will see souvenirs from Thailand, Fish Massage Spas and Thai cuisine. Venture off into the real Siem Reap and you will see traditional Cambodian rural culture right on the outskirts of the city.''Siem Reap is still a great city to base yourself out of to get to Angkor Wat. Its convenient, containing a lot of options for accommodation and food. It’s also the main place to arrange for whatever form of transport you choose into Angkor.''Getting to Siem Reap these days could not be easier. There is an airport, tons of bus connections from Phnom Penh and even international bus connections from''Bangkok''or''Ho Chi Minh City''. Now that most of the roads in''Cambodia''are paved, you can make the journey here in one day from Vietnam, or Thailand, albeit, one long day.''As for accommodation, Siem Reap will tailor to whatever budget you arrive here with. Hostels, guesthouses, hotels, boutique hotels, doesn’t matter, Siem Reap offers it. I prefer to stay at the “Shadow of Angkor Guesthouse.” Why do I like to stay here out of all of Siem Reap’s options, you ask? I am a bit of a traditionalist. I enjoy the past, especially when I travel. This guest house happens to be an old French Era building.''Staying here is like stepping into Cambodia’s amazing colonial past''. Who cares about the comforts and amenities of the posh new guesthouses? I like things old school.''Visiting the Temples of Angkor''The ancient Khmer built Angkor the represent a symbolic version of''Mt Meru''on Earth (like a Hindu Heaven). They constructed over a thousand temples here! Angkor Wat actually refers to only one of these spectacular temples. So how do you go about seeing them?''The best thing you can do, in order to get the most out of seeing the temples here with your limited time, is to just pick a few of the major temples. Ask any rickshaw driver and they will probably give you a good idea which ones these are. Below, I am including a few of my favourite temples here.''Angkor Wat''There are several ways to visit the temples. Obviously, you can just walk or rent a bicycle, but you should not underestimate how spread out the temples of''Angkor''are. Another option is to rent a car – this is not my preferred option as I feel like you do not experience much other than being cooped up inside an AC car. The other, more enjoyable option, is to get a Rickshaw.''Siem Reap’s thousands of Rickshaw drivers are well informed on the history, sights, and master haggling skills.''So, come prepared to bargain and make sure you get to know your driver so that no hidden surprises pop up later. For the most part, every rickshaw driver I have dealt with was an absolute pleasure.''Monks wandering through Angkor Wat''Rickshaw drivers will charge anywhere from $15 – 30 USD per day, depending on the locations within Angkor. Expect to pay almost double that if you want to visit Kbal Spean, as its very far north of Angkor.''Admission for Angkor Wat: One Day Pass''–''$20 US, Three Day – $''40''US, One Week''–''$''60''US.''Temple of Angkor Wat''The namesake and most famous temple of the area is Angkor Wat. This mother-of-all-temples is the largest religious temple complex in the world. Seeing it for the first time is nothing less than breathtaking.''Angkor Wats Walls Tell Ancient Stories''The temple is surrounded by a large moat over which there are two bridges you can choose between to cross. The main entrance is the most dramatic. From the opposite side of the moat, you get your first glimpse of the honey comb domes atop Angkor. In the early morning light, Angkor reflects from the still moat water, making this scene almost unbelievable.''Angkor Wat at Sunrise''Most people visiting Angkor Wat come for sunrise. This can be both a very pleasant and annoying experience. Seeing the sun rise over Angkor is stunning, but like all good things in the travel world, it has inevitably been sought out by the masses. These days, you will be joined by hundreds of other tourists who cannot seem to control the flash on their cameras and will yell very profusely at you if you dare to step in from of their''Angkor Wat sunrise photo-op''.''Angkor Wats River Moat''Inside, the temple the walls are immaculately carved, depicting many Hindu stories of the past. It’s best to have a guide, or guide book, if you are interested in learning about these legends.''The centre complex has several rooms containing figures of Hindu deities being swathed in strong perfume incense.''Each one these provide an up-close look at the intricately carved, honeycombed domes of Angkor.''If you want to avoid crowds here, try visiting during mid-day, when all the tour groups are having lunch. I did so, and had almost the entire temple to myself, a hauntingly creepy experience.''Traditional Khmer Performers at Angkor Wat''Angkor Thom – The many Faces of Bayon''Angkor Wat was the spiritual centre for the ancient Khmer, but Angkor Thom was the ruling divine power. Its construction was ordered by King Jayavarman VII and served as his residence, but its main purpose was to demonstrate his absolute power over the Khmer. Angkor Thom is complete with royal bathing pools, elephant stables,''royal enclosures and Bayon'', the structure famous for its many faces of Avalokiteshvara.''Bayons Many Haunting Faces''Bayon is easily recognized by the countless smirking faces surrounding the domes of each part of the temple structure. Walking around Bayon is spectacular during different times of the day.''Each time of day casts a new light upon the different angles and corners of the faces, making for a photographers dream.''The faces of Bayon resemble the king Jayavarman VII himself, making historians agree that Bayon is just one giant temple devoted to the king’s arrogant and loving ego.''Bayon Temple''You will need at least half a day to fully appreciate the grand scale and history of Angkor Thom. You can walk from many of the temples within Angkor Thom to another, exploring the area on foot rather than by rickshaw.''Buddha in Bayon''Baphuon and Bayon are the most impressive structures within the Angkor Thom enclosure. Baphuon is quite different from Bayon Lacking the smirking faces of the king, this temple is being reconstructed bit by bit since its destruction during the Khmer Rouge.''Guardians of the Entrance to Bayon''Ta Prohm (Unfortunately Known as the “Tomb Raider” Temple)''Yes, Angelina Jolie filmed scenes from''Lara Croft Tomb Raider''here. But the real exciting thing about this temple is the feeling of being a real adventurer that one experiences whilst exploring this structure. Giant tree roots slowly are reclaiming the temple as it is slowly swallowed by the encroaching jungle.''Built in 1186, this Buddhist temple will, without a doubt, be the one temple, other than Angkor, that you will never forget.''Wandering the temple corridors that are being ripped apart from the jungle are reminiscent of what explorers would have first come to when they discovered Angkor for the first time.''The jungle Reclaiming Ta Prohm''You can visit at any time a day, but if you come later in the evening there tends to be less tourists. The sounds of the jungle arise as the sun sets, and the setting here becomes incredibly calming. Much of''the temple''is off limits, due to the possibility of parts of the temple caving in.''Roluos Group''13 km east of Siem Reap lay the ruined temples of Roluos. The temples of Preah Ko, Bakong, and Lolei are amongst some of the oldest structures in the area. Predating most of what you see in Angkor, Roluos temples tend to be made from simpler materials such as brick and wood.''You will need an extra half day to visit these temples. It is worth coming out here to see the more classical style of the Khmer period. Rickshaw drivers will most likely ask for more money to visit here as it is further away.''Banteay Srei – Where the Ancient Cambodian Hipsters’ Hang Out''16km north of the Angkor complex is the small temple of Banteay Srei. Now this may be a small temple, but what it lacks in size it makes up for in beauty.''This Hindu temple, dedicated to Shiva, has some of the highest quality of stone carvings that can be found on Earth!''The Exquisite Carvings of Banteay Srei''Constructed in 967 AD, this is one of Angkor’s most special temples, due to the fact that it really is one of the only temples here that displays incredibly detailed artisanal craftsmanship rather than macroscopic architectural wonder. Not to say that the architecture is not impressive; it is! A visit to Banteay Srei is well worth the trip.''In an afternoon, you can easily combine''Banteay Srei''with the carved rivers of Kbal Spean. Your rickshaw driver will probably ask you for about double what you normally pay for this. If you just want to visit Banteay Srei then your rickshaw driver should not want any more than another $5 US or so.''Kbal Spean – Even the Rivers are Carved!!''Welcome to one of Angkor’s hidden, secret wonders. I say hidden because many tourists do not make it all the way up here. To see the river there is also a 2km, 15-30 min, hike, uphill along a densely forested, gnarly, root covered path. Make sure that you bring plenty of water, as there are very little tourist facilities apart from a snack stall at the beginning of the trail.''Land Mine Alert –''E''xtreme precautions should be taken while visiting his part of Angkor as there are still plenty of landmines\xa0 planted throughout the jungle. This area in particular was heavily mined. Absolutely for sure do not venture off of the marked trail. Travel Cambodia''’''s rural country side and you will see many farmers and children missing legs from landmine explosions.''Venture off of the trail and you too could be like them.''Hike Deep Into the Jungle to Find the Hidden River Carvings''Kbal Spean'', commonly known as “The River of a Thousand Lingas,” is a must stop for all those who want to get “off the beaten path” at Angkor.''It’s called “The River of a Thousand Lingas” for a reason: there are indeed thousands of''Shiva Lingas''(round carved rocks representing the male appendage) carved into the river bed here''. Along with all the Lingas, there are also carvings of Vishnu, Shiva, cows, frogs, and many other animals.''The River Bed is Covered in Lingas''It’s best to visit here between July and December, when the water levels are lower. Outside these months, the water can be high enough that it covers all of the carvings. As I said with Banteay Srei, you can combine visiting these two sites together. To visit both, your driver will usually ask for double the regular cost for the day. This is because Kbal Spean is 31 km north of the Angkor complex.''The Floating Villages of Chong Kneas''Once a peaceful village floating atop of the Tonle Sap lake, Chong Kneas is now bustling from the influx of tourists and travelers coming here seeking a bit of respite from their temple excursions. The village is still incredibly traditional, and provides great insight into Cambodia’s rural culture.''The Floating Villages of Chong Kneas''Coming here on your own is not too difficult, but can tend to be pricey if you are not with a group. This is because you will have to rent your own boat and foot the price alone. These days, most people join a tour here that will show you how the people have lived for centuries and usually includes lunch on the lake.''Even though Chong Kneas has become touristy, it’s still well worth the visit, especially if you have never visited one of South East Asia’s floating villages before.''Gas Station – Coke Bottles Filled With Petrol''Cambodia’s Dark Past – Wat Thmei Pagoda''Many people come to Cambodia not even knowing about its recent horrific past. This Pagoda, just on the outskirts of Siem Reap, provides a dark look into the atrocities endured by the people of Cambodia. If you are not going to visit the killing fields in Phnom Penh, then this Pagoda can give you some insight of how much suffering Cambodia has gone through.''Inside the Pagoda, there is a pile of human skulls and bones, all victims of the Khmer Rouge.''Around the Pagoda you will meet plenty of Buddhist monks who come here to practice their English with travelers. This temple Pagoda provides a great break in between Angkor’s ancient temples, and something new for Siem Reap travelers.''Useful Information''Location:''Siem Reap, Angkor Wat, Cambodia''Daily costs:''$15-30 US for rickshaw, plus entrance tickets.''Flights:''Momondo''Recommended Guide Book:''Lonely Planet Cambodia'',''Khmer Phrase Book''Recommended Tour companies:''G Adventures Cambodia''Accommodation:''Shadow of Angkor Guest House''www.shadowofangkor.com''Visa for Cambodia:''Obtained On Arrival at most land/air borders.''Tips:''Make sure you ask around for a rickshaw driver, do not take the first guy that approaches you as they are usually just trying to rip you off. Siem Reap has plenty of great Rickshaw drivers who will give you a decent price, but more importantly a memorable experience that you will never forget!''Gear:''Check out my''“What’s in my Bag”''post for ideas of what cameras and gear I used here.''Monk Tourists''asia''Cambodia''Southeast Asia''travel journal''Bagan, Myanmar''The soft shades of light shine through the tall, prickly trees, dropping shades of orange and yellow along the dusty road. The warm air breezes past my face as I''rid''e my electric scooter. Traditionally dressed farmers with baskets balancing impossibly atop their heads, push cattle and goats through the fields beside me. In the distance, hundreds of temples dot the horizon. I stop my bike, and close my eyes. The only sound is the odd bleating of a goat or moo from a cow. This place is magical.''This is Bagan in northern Myanmar. Its gaining popularity fast, but the Burmese are doing everything they can to control the massive influx of tourism. Only electric scooters or bicycles are allowed in effort to keep the air clean and noise level down. While the main road is paved, the rest are dirt. In between the thousands of temples are farmers’ fields, rather than shops or hotels. You can spend weeks exploring these cultural treasures!''I absolutely love Bagan. I have been there twice now, and plan to return very soon. Both visits were unique experiences, but what makes me love this place the most is how tranquil and peaceful it is, even when the tour buses arrive. Keep in mind, though, that the majority of tourists are here on private tours. This means that once the tourists have taken their photos and climb aboard their bus, you usually end up having the place to yourself!''Getting to Bagan''Getting to Bagan is actually quite easy. You have many options! The first and, in my opinion, the best option, is to take the train. The train''from Yangon''takes about 16 hours… Yes I know. Long. But the journey is incredible! And rather bumpy. You will slowly pass by golden fields of rice and small, quaint villages. You can hop off the train at each one and explore for a few minutes at a time. If you opt for a cabin, you usually will share it with a friendly local or another traveler who you can enjoy a few brews with.\xa0 The train only costs about $12 US, making it a bargain.''The second option is to take the bus. The bus takes only about 10 hours. It makes the journey at night, so you wake up in Bagan in the wee hours of the morning. The bus prices vary from Yangon, depending on the quality of the bus. Most travelers opt for the VIP service which feels more like an economy air plane rather than a bus (comes with an in cabin attendant and snacks!). These buses can sell tickets as high as $40 US!!\xa0 If you go for the cheaper bus, don’t expect much comfort… and the possibility of breakdown is very real. These buses are a fraction of the cost.''Lastly you can fly, but this option can be expensive.''You also miss out on Myanmar’s gorgeous, rural scenery''. Flights from Yangon, depending on the season, sell for about $100 – 130 US.''Yangon to Bagan Train''Nyaung U, Old Bagan, or New Bagan?''The temples of Bagan are surrounded by three towns. Nyaung U, Old Bagan, and''New Bagan''. This confuses a lot of''travelers''wanting to visit here. So where should you stay?''New Bagan:''When the government came in and told the locals to move from Old Bagan, they created what is now New Bagan. New Bagan is a cluster of houses with dusty roads and the odd chicken or pig wandering the streets. The accommodation here is spread out and, quite frankly, hard to find. There are few restaurants here, but New Bagan is located very close to the temples, making for easy access in the wee hours of the morning. Accommodation has really begun to spring up everywhere here. There are some great deals to be had, but, in all honesty, if you are traveling alone you might be the only solo traveler here. Tour groups tend to stay in New Bagan, so you might be joined by some snap-happy seniors.''Favourite Accommodation in New Bagan:''Kumudara Hotel – $50 US per night.''This hotel is only my favourite because of the great temple views. I think it is much overpriced for being in Myanmar, but it’s definitely the best priced in New Bagan for what you get. The restaurant is decent, but the hotel feels kind of isolated, there is a pool here for when it gets hot.''www.kumudara-bagan.com''Back Streets Near New Bagan''Old Bagan:''In the heart of all the action in the centre of the Bagan Archaeological Zone is''Old Bagan''. It’s incredibly expensive accommodation is packed full of tour groups during the high season. Staying here feels like more of a resort retreat than a temple adventure. If you want to splurge, then Old Bagan does offer quite a bit. You get to stay right beside many of the amazing temples. Accommodation offers great views over the archaeological zone and there are plenty of spas and swimming pools overlooking the beautiful Ayeyarwady River. There is not much for restaurants or tourist services here, so you are left to eat at your hotel. The food in the hotels here is great, although a little over priced for my liking.''Favourite Accommodation in Old Bagan:''Bagan Thiripyitsaya Sanctuary Resort – $120 – 180 US.''I did not stay at this hotel as I could not afford it. I did, however, swim in their giant pool, have a cold beer overlooking the river, and enquired about the rooms…which look amazing by the way. If I had the money and was forty years older, I would definitely have stayed here. This place would be great if you wanted to splurge and dust off from exploring temples all day.''www.thiripyitsaya-resort.com''Temples of New Bagan''Nyaung U:''This is more my style. Nyaung U is the main centre of Bagan. It’s equipped with plenty of restaurants serving up delicious local delicacies for very low prices. It has scooter rentals, cheap hostels/guest houses and plenty of interesting''little markets''. If you are a budget traveler, backpacker, or just want to stay in the real Myanmar, then this is your place. The only downside is it’s around 3km away from all the temples. With a bicycle or scooter this short distance makes for a pleasant early morning or sunset ride. This is definitely my preferred place to be.''Favourite Accommodation in Nyaung U:''Eden Motel – $15 US.''Why do I love this hotel? \xa0The walls are made from cheap looking bamboo, the toilets smell funky, and I found the owner drunk on the floor one night. This doesn’t sound appealing, but bear with me. This hotel is awesome. The owner will often offer you whiskey, the young staff are very knowledgeable about the area, and they will find you a scooter to rent from across the street for very cheap. I love this place for the hospitality. They always make me feel at home.''Market in Nyaung U''Betel Nut at the Market in Nyaung U''Getting Around Bagan''The''temples of Bagan''are very spread out. The main temples and largest ones are located in, and around Old Bagan. Getting around to see all the temples can be a frustrating experience if you do not know how.''Scooter or Bicycle?''When the realization of how spread out the temples are finally dawns on you, the first thing you will ask yourself is: How will I ever go see them all? Well, there are a few options, but the best two are renting a bicycle or scooter. During my first visit to Bagan, I opted for the bicycle. At times it was great! You quietly coast past fields dotted with temples and locals carrying baskets. Then the mid-day sun hits you. It’s hot and the struggle becomes real. The bicycles are old, and do not function well. After a long day you will be exhausted. Most of the roads here are sand or dirt, making a bicycle very frustrating at times.''Sunset Over Bagan''During my second stint in Bagan I rented a scooter. All the scooters are electric to keep pollution and noise down. They run great and can handle the bumpy roads well. In just a few days on the scooter you will be able to take in most of the major temples and explore lots of the unknown ones. I loved my scooter! The scooter has to be charged at night, but my battery lasted quiet a long time. If you happen to kill the battery, there are pedals so you can ride it like a bike. Go for the scooter!!''The Local Form of Transport''When to visit Bagan''Dry Season (M''ar-''May)''– Bagan is incredibly hot at this time. It’s very dry and the sun is relentless. The upside is that there are little to no tourists, leaving the temples empty and fun to explore. Avoid the middle of the day when it can get stifling. Bring lots of water!''Wet Season (Jun-Oct)''– Less tourists at this time as well. It rains for about half the day and the fields are very green. Many of the temples are reached by dirt roads, making it almost impossible when they are wet. It’s very humid and hot at this time making it feel like a sauna. Upside is that you will most likely have many of the morning viewpoints to yourself.''High Season (Nov-Feb)''– Weather is great, sunrises beautiful and temperatures is comfortable. This is the best time to visit for season wise. This, however, is common knowledge within the travel community. With the huge influx of tourism here, you will have to share the temples with plenty of other backpackers, not to mention those lovely, huge tour buses filled with pleasant travelers… I’m being sarcastic…they suck. It can be an overwhelming time to visit. Try to get an early start and beat all the tour buses. The majority of tourism here is still on guided tours, so the other backpackers will not cause too much crowds.''Locals Still Grow Crops In Between Temples''So many Temples, Where Do I Go?''With over three thousand''temples in Bagan'', it can be incredibly overwhelming when it comes to deciding which temples you should visit. I have been to all the major temples and many of the unknown temples and I can barely remember the names of many of them. In one day on a scooter you can visit over twenty temples if you keep at it. There is, however a few tips and tricks to visiting the temples. Some are better to visit at different times of day. Here’s a list of a few temples I particularly like and why.''Ananda Pahto''– Easily recognized by its huge, white body and golden roof, this temple can be visited at any time of day. The inside is huge! It houses four massive Buddha statues made from teak and different tunnels leading to the entrances. There are many shops here selling odd trinkets. Get ready for a lot of sales pressure.''Ananda Pahto Temple''Dhammayangyi Pahto''– It looks like a pyramid of red bricks. This massive temple located south of Ananda, is great to visit in the early morning or at sunset. Unlike the other temples that are also good options for seeing at this time of day,''Dhammayangyi''tends to have less crowds fighting over the view. Sometimes the stairwell to the roof is closed so best to enquire beforehand. This temple also has some very creepy empty halls. If you visit mid-day when everyone is having lunch, you will feel like Indiana Jones exploring this empty temple.''Dhammayangyi Pahto Temple''Shwesandaw Paya''– This white stupa/temple has stair cases on all sides leading up to the top for incredible views. It can be visited at all times of day. From here, you can get a very good perspective of how many temples are in Bagan. The best times to see the views are, of course, sunset and sunrise. You will want to claw your eyes out when you see how many tourists come here for this, but they come for a reason. It really is spectacular. People who took the hot air balloons told me that the views here were just as good as from the balloon. Try to come a few hours before sunset or sunrise to get your spot!''Shwesandaw Paya Temple (Sunset Temple)''Sulamani Pahto''– This temple is filled with beautiful and intact Buddhist paintings. Come here at any time of day to enjoy the stories painted on the walls. Many of the balloons take off from near here in the morning, making for a unique viewing experience.''Exploring the Central and South Plain''– This is where the true magic of Bagan exists. Putting down the dusty roads on your scooter, looking for lost temples, passing by buffalo ploughing fields and locals carrying baskets on their heads is an amazing experience. During sunset, I got lost here. The colours in the sky were stunning and the setting was perfect. This was my favourite experience of Bagan. There is little to no tourists here as they are all piled on top of the major temples for sunset. Come here and see the real Bagan, and soak it all in.''Hop On a Scooter to Explore the Central and South Plain''Side Trip to Mt Popa''Mt Popa: home to the famous 37 Nat gods.''The Temple''is located atop a 740 m tall volcanic hill. To get to the top there are 777 gruelling stairs that are covered in shops, and monkeys jumping around. While visiting, you should follow local custom and not wear black or red, or bring any meat products or you will be cursed. On the way here you will find yourself at the top of a hill, at which point your taxi can stop to give you a perfect view of the temple and mountain. Stopping at this view point also gives you a great perspective of the surrounding landscape and makes it easy to visualize how it was created.''At the base of the hill, you will pass by a smaller temple that is filled with all''37 Nat gods''. You can enter here and ask for an explanation about the Nats and what their position is in Burmese beliefs. There are, as I already mentioned, 777 stairs, but you will have plenty of stops on way to the top. The stops will give you beautiful views over the valley, time to spend with the crazy monkeys and quirky shops selling all kinds of stuff. Near the top there are a few smaller temples. It’s best just to follow what the locals are doing to try and understand their purpose. On the top of Mt Popa Temple, your hard efforts to get here will be rewarded with as-far-as-the-eye-can-see views of the area. It’s also amazing to see the locals worshipping here.''Entrance to Mt Popa''Mt Popa''is easily reached by a half day trip from Bagan. It is best just to take a Taxi which will cost around $30-40 US for the whole day. This price can be split between however many people you can fit in the taxi.''Temple of the Nats''Travel Bagan''Bagan''cannot be summed up in this post. No matter what I write, it will not tell enough. No matter what photos I show you, it will not let you feel how special this place is. There are many places in this world I make return trips to. Bagan is one of these places. Marco Polo visited here. He also was drawn to these magnificent temples, as I am. Whatever it is that makes this place special, I am hooked.''As the warm air breezes past my face while riding that scooter at sunset, I pause. All around me are temples. The sky is shades of yellow, orange and red. I close my eyes and listen. Complete silence. When I open my eyes this dream like landscape almost brings a tear to my eye.''“''How can one place contain so much beauty?” I think to myself.''Useful Information''Location:''Bagan – Central Myanmar/Burma''Transport:''Get around with Taxi, Scooter, Bicycle''Camera Equipment:''Sony A7'',''Gopro Hero 4 Black'',''Gopole'',''Veo Tripod''Costs: Average Guest house:''$10-20 US. Balloon ride: $350 US (yikes!). Taxi: $8 US.''Recommended Guide Book:''Lonely Planet Myanmar''Tour Companies for Bagan:''G Adventures''Flights:''Momondo''OR Check out my''Resources Page!''burma''Myanmar''Southeast Asia''Hunza Valley – Pakistan''Paradise: A word often used to describe white sand, blue water and sitting in a lounge chair with your\xa0favourite\xa0beverage with no worries at all. This may be paradise for many, but not for''me. For me'',''paradise is a place far removed from the fast paced life we live today. A place where the landscapes are like no other on this planet. It’s a place''where you can meet people who live long, happy lives and their''concerns are more to do with the simple necessities of life rather than high politics or the affairs of the world. This is the Hunza Valley in Pakistan.''I am staring into a mountain vista from my hotel balcony. It’s the kind of view that makes you question everything you know. I have never seen such beauty as this before. The valley bottom is carpeted with green, spire-like trees that are flecked with red, orange and that quintessential golden\xa0colour\xa0of fall, while jagged, monstrous, white peaks above surround the valley like a fortress. The\xa0clouds, so high up on the mountains, appear static. The human eye cannot comprehend the movement of these clouds, as they are almost 8000 m up. The setting is like a painting. It’s perfect.''Getting to the Hunza Valley''I entered Pakistan via the''Khunjerab Pass''at the Pakistani/Chinese border. The border town on the Pakistani side was called''Passu'', and a little further along was''Gulmit''. I stayed with a Wakhi family there who introduced me to Northern Pakistan’s culture and beauty. A little over a week later, I arrived in the Hunza valley.''It is possible to get to Hunza directly from the Khunjerbad. It takes about three hours from the border. Three absolutely amazing hours.''You will pass by some of the most dramatic scenery you have ever seen.''The new road tunnels directly through the mountains, diverting around a large lake, making the ferry ride obsolete and the journey much shorter than it used to be.''The Epic Security Guard for Baltit Fort''If you are not coming from China, then your other option is to come from Islamabad via the''Karakoram Highway'', or, as the locals call it, the KKH. It takes a long 14-18 hours just to get to Gilgit, the first major city in the north. Do not be surprised if armed soldiers tag along with you for part of the journey through the Kohistan region. Crime here happens often. Suicide bombings, and violence towards westerners has happened, but is uncommon.''Continuing north along the KKH from Gilgit, you are only a few hours away from Hunza Valley.''View of Altit Town From Karimabad''The Capital of Hunza Valley, Karimabad.''Karimabad, also known as Baltit, is Hunza Valley’s ancient capital. Sitting high above, atop a green hill overlooking the valley, is Karimabad. Karimabad is filled with trinket shops, hiking shops, and decent accommodation, all left over from when tourism was an actual thing here. The shop owners are indeed optimistic that the tourists will one day return, as they should.''Hunza Pakol Hat Maker''I sat on my hotel balcony in Karimabad, looking at the sun rising over this pristine valley. My hotel is appropriately named the “World Roof Hotel”. It does feel like you are on the roof of the world here. The owner, a man in his thirties, is the hotel manager, staff supervisor, head chef, and arranges tours. He presides over his hotel as though it’s his kingdom.''View From Atop Altit Fort''After tea, leaving the hotel, along my world class view, my friend Jacob and I set out to explore the town. Karimabad is nothing like a typical western city by any means. It’s a network of stone pathways leading to mountain passes and small nearby farm communities.''Ultar Nawa looms high above the town. This 7388m peak has long been sought after by adventure seekers and dare devils for its incredibly dangerous ascent.''Today, I have a goal to accomplish in''Karimabad;''to acquire my own traditional Pakistani''Shalwar Kameez'', made by a local tailor. You will see this outfit everywhere in Pakistan. It comes in many colors (usually pertaining to the region of which the wearer is from). It’s easy to identify this outfit; baggy, Aladdin-like trousers that are paired with a long shirt that falls below the knees. Here in Hunza, a special wool vest and cap is also worn with it.''My tailor, who was incredibly surprised to see tourists here, was very happy to make Jacob and I each a''Shalwar Kameez''. I opted for a black one, while Jacob went for blue. The shirt and trousers only came to $20 US. We were informed that it would take three days to complete the outfits, as he made everything himself. The tailor then directed us to his cousin’s shop that sold wool vests. I also purchased one of these.''View From the Balcony of World Roof Hotel''As for the''Hunza Pakol'',''a pancake style hat, I went uphill to a man who’s been making them for over 50 years. The elderly man showed me the different kinds of wool of various quality. My shopping was now complete. In a few days I could look the part of a local.''Visiting Baltit Fort – Karimabad''At the top of Karimabad town lies Baltit Fort. This is where the monarchs ruled over the''Hunza Valley.''Officially, kings and queens walked the halls of this fortified mud fort since the early 13''th''century. Locals will tell you that the fort is even older than that. They will tell you tales of politics, family squabbles and war that occurred long beforehand.''Baltit Fort Looming Over Karimabad''The walk up from Karimabad to here is pleasant. You will pass through farms and neighbourhoods of mud houses. It gets fairly steep the closer you get to Baltit. All foreigners entering the fort are required to have a guide, who, in fact, does not expect a tip. The guides, who are all proficient in English and multiple other languages, are thrilled to show you Baltit.''The Kings Throne, Baltit Fort''Ticket in hand, acquired from the moustached, bad-ass security guard, we entered the fort. The inside, surprisingly, is not very royal looking. The walls were made of mud, with handmade carpets on the floors and wooden beams supporting the entire structure. Our guide explained to us that the''Hunza Kingdom''was in fact a Buddhist Kingdom at one time. Baltit shows many signs of this.''The wooden beams had Buddhist symbols carved into them and the rooftop mosque was a Buddhist temple long ago.''Heading deeper into the fort, our guide showed us multiple escape routes for when invaders came and, finally, the rooftop throne where the king sat. From here you could see all of Hunza. I understood why the king of Hunza preferred this vantage point.''Altit Fort and Village''From Karimabad, the dirt road winds down into the Hunza Valley. Following this road for a pleasant walk by waterfalls and, of course, more mountain views, you will find yourself in Altit Town. It’s hard to miss Altit, because there is another large fort here.''Altit Fort, and Town''Altit town is a labyrinth of alleyways and ancient buildings. The government came in here and told the locals if they wanted to stay, then they would have to keep it traditional.''Not much has changed here in a thousand years.''Walk around this community and see older men playing backgammon, kids darting past you into the next alleyway, and elderly, traditionally dressed Hunza women, who tend to be quite shy of your camera.''Altit’s Ancient Style Housing''In the center of town is Altit fort.\xa0 It is similar to Baltit in many ways, but older, much older. Here you will again have to be accompanied by a guide who will give you free information with no expectation of a tip. They treat you like you are from here. The guide pointed out more Buddhist symbols, and where soldiers would prove their bravery to the king by jumping onto a platform surrounded by a 500 m drop to their death.''A View of Altit From the Eagle’s Nest''On top of Altit, looking upon the beautiful valley, out guide told us a tale of two brothers. They were the sons of the king. When the king died, both brothers wanted to be the heir to the throne. The fighting that resulted from this saw the Hunza kingdom split into two. One brother, creating Altit fort to protect his side, and the other brother who resided across the valley in Nagyr. It ended, like all stories of this nature, with bloodshed. In the end, the brother ruling the Altit side gained control of the entire Hunza valley and the Kingdom was made whole again.''The views are great and Altit seems more traditional than Karimabad. Come for the scenery, stay for the stories. Well worth the visit.''Duikar, and the Eagle’s Nest''After Baltit, I wanted to enjoy more views over Hunza. Ask any local here where the best view is, and they will tell you''“The Eagle’s Nest.”''What do they mean by Eagle’s Nest?''Hunza Valley From the Eagles Nest''Even higher above Karimabad is the small community of Duikar. To get here it’s a tough two hour slog straight up hill from Karimabad. If you’re not into hiking until your thighs explode, then I recommend taking a shared cab. Jacob and I decided we would walk. Halfway up, out of breath, and on the verge of death, I stuck my thumb out to hitch-hike. Luckily for us, Duikar is frequented by Pakistani tourists often. After about ten minutes a car of Pakistani students from Gilgit picked us up and drove us the rest of the way.''Duikar itself is only comprised of a few small cow and barley farms. The highlight of Duikar is, of course, the Eagle’s Nest. To my surprise, the Eagle’s Nest, is actually a fancy hotel, used by the odd tour group that comes here. The hotel is not used to seeing solo travellers here, so when visiting you will be treated with the utmost hospitality. The hotel restaurant has wide windows overlooking the mighty 7788m Rakaposhi Mountain.''The''food is also fantastic'', Apricot chicken curry, and herb stuffed bread were recommended to us, and yes, the dishes were as outstanding as they sound.''When the sun begins to set, head outside the hotel and follow the trails along the hill. They lead you to more fantastic views over this beautiful Valley. Here Jacob and I stayed until we caught a ride back to Karimabad with some more''Pakistani travellers''.''The Start of the Ultar Meadows Trail''Hiking Ultar Meadows''Difficulty:''Hard''Total Time:''5-6 hours return''Gear:''Sturdy Hikers (I used the Merrell Travelers), Hiking Pole, Lots of Snacks.''Water:''I drank from the streams in the first valley. You should purify. Try the Life Straw''Ultar Meadows is not for the faint of heart. This painful, high altitude hike takes you high above the Hunza Valley to the foot of Ultar Peak. The trail is confusing and in terrible condition. Parts of it are completely washed out. This is why Ultar makes for such a great adventure! Be warned that this hike is difficult.''It’s steep and, to be honest, quite dangerous. Those who risk it will be rewarded with a hike you will never forget!''The trail begins right behind Balitit fort. There are signs that say''“Ultar Meadows”''. Follow these signs, and if you get lost in the alleyways around Baltit, just say to someone “Ultar?” and they will point you in the right direction.''After you leave Baltit, the terrain begins to get very steep. You will walk past small, stone houses and water channels. Nearing the top of Karimabad Hill, you will be awestruck by incredible views over the Hunza Valley and Baltit Fort.''The trail is more defined at this point. It’s clear where you have to go, but you will hesitate, as the decaying stone trail runs across a mountain side ridge. The ridge is about four feet wide, and drops about 500m straight down. There are black pipes beside the ridge, follow these pipes as they indicate that you are in the right place. These pipes channel water to Karimabad.''Roaring water channels begin after about 600m up this ridge. The ridge also begins to dig deeper into the mountain providing a rock canopy over the trail.''From here you will get views of Ultar and Ultar Glacier below. Watch out for falling rocks that result from the moving ice.''Finally, the sketchy mountain side trail ends and leads you into a beautiful green valley with gushing streams and butterflies. You will tell yourself it is nearly over, but you could not be more wrong. The trail continues up the gruelling hill at the end of the valley. Much of the trail here is now gone, leaving you to scramble through the landslide. If you lose the trail here do not worry. Just head straight up. To your left is a mountain side, and to your right is another long drop to the glacier. Getting lost is impossible. Look out for geodes and other interesting rocks here.''The Sketchy Path to Ultar Meadows''After another two hours of painful uphill struggle you will see the Ultar Cabin, and Ultar Valley. The views of the glacier from here are absolutely spectacular. It almost seems like a fairy-tale setting… which could be the result of the lack of oxygen to your brain and complete exhaustion. After enjoying the Valley, it’s another three hours back down, so make sure you time it carefully, as walking in the dark would be very dangerous.''Ultar Peak and Glacier at Ultar Meadows''Useful Information''Location:''Hunza Valley, Karimabad, Altit – Northern Pakistan''Visa:''Obtain your Pakistan Visa easily from your own country''Flights:''Momondo''Camera I used:''Sony A7'',''Gopro Hero 4 Black''Transport'': Tiny trucks populate the highways here. You can hop in, hop out whenever you want. Average ride costs $1 US. Getting here from Gulimt or Gilgit, take the mini vans usually found in the market. They run all day and cost around $5 US for a three or four hour drive.''Costs:''Hotel in Karimabad – World Roof Hotel, $10 -15 US. Average Pakistani Meal, $3 US.''Hiking Gear:''Merrell Travelers Hikers'',''Life Straw'',''Hiking Pole''Recommended Guide:''Lonely Planet Pakistan''asia''Central Asia''pakistan''Why Travel To Indonesia?''With head hunting tribes, island paradises, jungle covered lost temples and a smorgasbord of cultures, there are countless reasons why you should visit Indonesia. Apart from Bali, most of Indonesia has flown under the average traveler’s radar. There is adventure to be found here. Indonesia’s cities are a constantly growing urban sprawl, while its countryside remains traditional and relatively untouched compared to that of its South East Asian neighbours.''Indonesia is the largest Muslim country in the world! Many islands, however, have their own unique religions. For example, Bali is Hindu and Papua and Sulawesi are home to an array of tribal religions. This gives each of Indonesia’s Islands a unique flavour. Arriving at each new island almost feels like entering a different country entirely.''Add in some stunning beaches, world class diving, uncharted forbidden jungle paradises and you have a traveler’s dream destination. So,''travel to Indonesia''and get ready for an experience in a country unlike anywhere you have ever been. When you leave this beautiful place, you will understand why so many travelers choose to return to Indonesia once again.''Gunung Bromo Plateau''When to Go''High Season: (July and August)''– Bali and Sulawesi can be overwhelmingly packed with tourists. Book accommodation in advance! Prices also tend to sky-rocket at this time. Weather is fairly decent, with most of the country only seeing some rains, but Papua has much rain at this time.''Shoulder: (May, June, and September)''– The dry season offers the best weather for travel around Java, Bali and Lombok. There tends to be less tourists at this time, but Bali is still quite busy. Papua is usually still rainy during these months. Great time to visit if you want to see less crowds.''Low Season: (October''–''April)''– The rainy season for Java, Bali and Lombok. Sulawesi is usually also socked in by rain. Best time to hike in Papua and the Far East. You can also find some big discounts in Bali and Java during this time.''The Beautiful Gili Islands''The Basics''Language''–''Bahasa Indonesian''Religion''– Islam, Hindu, Catholic, Tribal beliefs''Capital''–''Jakarta''Visa –''30 day visa is available on arrival at most major airports.''Torajan Homes in Tana Toraja''Travel Cost''Indonesian Rupiah – Rp''1 US$ – 9800 Rp''Hindu Temples of Prambanan near Yogyakarta''Accommodation''Indonesia has accommodation for all traveler types. From pricey beach resorts to classic backpacker digs. In the bigger cities, like Jakarta, there aren’t many appealing accommodation options. There are usually just basic hotels or guest houses that cost around 20 US a night. Once you venture out to the more interesting parts of the country, there are many amazing places to stay. As far as budget options go, you will find hostels with basic dormitories and squat toilets. These places rarely need to be booked in advance and are loud due to being full of party goers. I have seen hostels as low as 3 US a night!''Surfing on Kuta Beach – Bali''An upgrade from the hostel will take you into some very appealing guest houses that are packed full of character. Guest houses usually have a decent in house restaurant and, if you’re lucky, a bar, too. Guest houses, in my opinion, are the best choice for accommodation in Indonesia, and often don’t need to be booked in advance. The average guest house is around 10 – 25 US a night, per person. Of course, whenever you get closer to the coast and beaches, these prices will usually double!''In Bali, you can almost be guaranteed to pay double regardless of where you are. If you are looking to splurge for a night or two there are many Eco-lodges and resorts that cater to an upper class backpacker. They are usually located in some extraordinarily stunning locations. Well worth the stay for a night.\xa0 Expect to pay upwards of 50 -100 US for these kinds of places.''Pura Tanah Lot Temple – Bali''Food''Most travelers coming from Thailand and Malaysia are usually quite underwhelmed when they are introduced to Indonesia’s food scene. However, this need not be the case. There are countless different styles of island cuisines and find a very complex foodies dream. Each island’s food has its own distinct flavour. On the island of Java, you will find Kebab skewers sitting next to sticky rice and beef curry, correlating with its Muslim heritage. The people of Bali love''babi guling'';''a spit roasted pig stuffed with spices and herbs. Balinese also enjoy''satay''and peanut based sauces.''In Sulawesi, you will find delicious seafood dishes on the coast and BBQ buffalo and pig, cooked din a bamboo tube, in the tribal Tana Toraja region. If there is one dish that all Indonesians agree upon (not necessarily cause of flavour), it would be''Nasi Goreng''. Nasi Goreng''is a fried rice dish usually topped with chicken or and egg, and sweetened with''Kecap Manis''(Indonesian sweet soy sauce).''Nasi Goreng’s''sibling,''Mi Goreng'', is the noodle variation of this same dish.''Volcano Crater on the Gunung Bromo Plateau''Indonesians are also incredibly proud of their coffee. Indonesian coffee (especially in Sulawesi and Sumatra) is known as some of the world’s best brews. Indonesia is also famous for one distinct kind of coffee, known as''Kopi Luwak''.''Dubbed as the world’s most expensive cup of coffee, it is actually made from the feces of a jungle cat who primarily eats coffee beans. After digesting and defecating the beans, the scat is roasted and sold for a ridiculous price. In Indonesia, it’s possible to afford to try a cup. One cup can be purchased for around 10 US.''Buddha at Borobudur Temple – Java''Transport''This is Indonesia’s biggest hurdle to cross. While crossing Indonesia, you will sit comfortably on a train, suffer endless, horrible cramped hours on a bus, peer out from the ferry window at a beautiful sunset, hold on for your life as your almost- sinking boat skims the water at light-speed and pleasantly meander through the rice fields on your trusty scooter.''The biggest thing to take into account when traveling in Indonesia is the sheer size of this country. Looking on the map, the distance from Yogyakarta to Bali doesn’t appear to be very long. \xa0What new travelers don’t take into consideration are the clogged, crap roads that twist and turn between mountains and volcanoes. The chances of your chariot breaking down are very likely. In fact, this short distance between''Yogyakarta''and Bali can take up to two days! This also depends on weather and the reliability of your bus.''Kecak Ceremony, Ubud – Bali''Most of the main islands are connected by ferries, which your bus will hop onto. When you’re on island like Java or Bali, the best way to get around from sight to sight is by motorbike. Easily rented and cheap, motorbikes allow you to zig zag your way through traffic jams, bounce past broken roads, and explore some of the country’s most interesting rural areas on your own. Otherwise, you will have to hire a taxi or go on a tour, as trying to visit places by local transport can be frustrating and sometimes impossible, depending on the area.''When you want to visit the further away islands like Sulawesi, Papua, and Borneo, the best option is to fly. There are boats that go, but they often only go once every few weeks, and these boats can be hazardous. They sink often. Flights are cheap and very easy to get. Garuda, Lion Air, and Air Asia are your best choices. They fly to most of the major islands, plus lots of the smaller islands. Flight costs depend on the season. I have seen some go as low as 50 US! Whatever your mode of transport is, just keep in mind of the time it will take from A to B.''Rice Terraces in Bali’s Interior''My Favourite Places''Borobudur:''Based on the design of a mandala, this mystical Buddhist complex is packed full of mystery and wonder. Surrounded by jungle clad mountains and golden, terraced fields, Borobudur’s setting is pure magic. Wander around its walls and try to figure out its mysterious past by following the stories intricately carved into its exterior. Of all the Buddhist temples I have been to, this is defiantly one of the most beautiful I have seen. It’s best reached by scooter!''Gili Islands:''Just off the coast of Bali and Lombok are the small island''paradises of the Gili’s.''Surrounded by beautiful coral reefs, they make an ideal stop for scuba diving and just being lazy on the beach. The picture perfect swaying palms give way to white sand and incredibly blue, clear water. There is tons of marine life here, including friendly sea turtles that will swim up beside you while you snorkel. The islands have great accommodation options and some of the best seafood I have had in Indonesia.''Tana Toraja:''Quite possibly the most interesting corner of''Indonesia is Tana Toraja''. Tribal people live in giant long houses that are covered in buffalo skulls called''Tongkonan'', and primarily still rely on hunting fort sustenance. The region is packed full of mystery, which can be investigated in the deep caves where the dead are buried or by attending one of the massive funerals. This corner of Indonesia proudly displays the diversity and complexity of this nation’s people.''Gunung Bromo:''Waiting at the viewpoint for the sunrise over Bromo Volcano in the chilly hours of the morning is a quintessential Indonesia experience. Getting the perfect view of Bromo in all its glory at sunrise is downright lucky. While I was there, I had a few glimpses of this beast when the sun burned the fog off, only to have it roll back in and conceal it again. After it’s clouded over, all there is to do is climb to the volcano rim and push boulders into it to try and anger the volcano god!''Kalimantan:''The world’s third largest island is packed full of jungle adventure. Roaring rivers give home to Dayak tribal settlements within the islands hard to reach interior. Cultural visits to''the Dayak''are one of Indonesia’s greatest adventures. The national parks are also home to the Orangutans. Seeing these beautiful creatures crawl from tree to tree or munch on a banana in their natural habitat is fantastic.''Uluwatu Temple – Bali''My Favourite Experiences''Balinese Kecak Ceremony'':''If you’re lucky enough to see one of these ceremonies you will never forget it. The ceremony starts off with a large crowd of devotees sitting in a circle together, chanting. As the chant goes on, different parts of the circle yell out higher pitches of chanting and singing. Together, all of the noise and hypnotic movement of the circle creates one beautiful sound and is visually stunning. This ceremony will stick with you long after you have seen it.''Funeral Crashing in Tana Toraja:''“Crashing” sounds like the wrong word to use in the context of attending a funeral, but in Tana Toraja, it’s not. Locals take funerals and make them into massive, week long celebrations that include animal sacrifices, toddy drinking, music and dance! Attending one of these funerals is a must do when you visit Tana Toraja. At the end of the funeral, they take the dead to the caves to finally rest after one final day of madness. Don’t be surprised if you have to buy the deceased a pack of cigarettes. In Tana Toraja, you are not considered dead until you are laid in the burial caves.''Orang-outang in Borneo''Sunrise atop Borobudur:''Early in the morning, my scooter putted along in the dark''towards Borobudur''. Upon arriving, all I could see were the shadowy figures of the Buddha’s looking down at me from the temple. Getting to the top right before the crack of dawn, I was confronted with one of the most beautiful sunrises I have ever seen. The soft light cast shadows on the fairy-tale like temple overlooking the golden yellow fields nearby. The green, mountainous backdrop makes for one incredible setting.''Diving with sea turtles in the Gili’s:''The coral reefs that surround''the Gili’s''are teeming with colorful life. Crystal clear blue water opens up your field of view as far as your eyes can see. Barracuda swirl above and skittish sharks jolt away below, but the curious Gili sea turtles will swim alongside their human counterparts. Diving in the Gili’s is top notch!''Taking the “flying coffin” in Kalimantan:''From mainland rivers to the islands that dot the''Kalimantan''coastline, the best mode of transport is the bizarrely named “Flying Coffin. Essentially, it’s a traditional wooden boat with a modern cabin (sometimes) all held together by empty barrels and bottles. Oh and I forgot to add: they strap a massive engine on the back. They tend to cruise at almost a 90 degree angle, hence the “Flying aspect”. As for the “Coffin” part… well, I’ll let you use your imagination.''asia''Indonesia''Southeast Asia''Travel Guide''Tana Toraja, Sulawesi – Indonesia''As I clamber deep into the cavern of death, I stumble over human skulls and the remnants of ancient coffins. The light diminishes as I ascend deeper. The smell of the dead fills the stuffy humid air. Outside the drums beat deep from the funeral processions vibrating the cave walls. My Torajan guide pauses from the foot of the last tomb, and gazes into the deep darkening chambers of the cave. This is where they lay to rest, the ones before us Torajan. The ones who we come from.''Where is Tana Toraja?''Tana Toraja is a tribal region located in the central interior of the island of Sulawesi,''Indonesia.''The region is very mountainous and thick with dense jungle. Unfortunately, as is the case with most of Indonesia, much of the forest has been slashed and burned. That being said, there still are many national parks filled with wildlife and adventure.''Outside Tana Toraja’s commercial centre, Rantepao, there are numerous small Toraja villages that dot the countryside. Many of the hills have been transformed into jaw-droopingly beautiful rice terraces that climb impossibly high into the mountains. Water buffalo roll in the mud while children run with their pet pigs around the town. The setting is absolutely stunning. The villages here remain incredibly traditional. Locals often still opt for old-fashioned''Tong-konan'', rather than modern houses.''Tong-konan''are colorful longhouses raised from the ground on stilts and decked out in buffalo skulls.''Small Toraja Village Outside Rantepao''Getting to Tana Toraja''Getting to''Tana Toraja''is not as simple as one might think. However, this is why it has retained its traditional vibe, revealing very little indication of the impact of tourism. Most major cities in Indonesia (Jakarta and Denpasar to name a couple) provide flights to''Sulawesi’s''capital, Makassar. From this busy city, there are''bemos''(mini buses) to Rantepao.''The journey takes anywhere from eight to twelve hours, depending both on road conditions and the reliability of your bus. Fortunately, there are no airstrips in Rantepao, leaving this to be, basically, the only option.''This is actually great, because only the most hard-core and dedicated travelers make it here, allowing a select few to find solitude in this otherwise well visited country.''Hundred Year Old Tong-Konan, Still in Use''The''bemo''ride to Rantepao is not luxurious by any means. Breakdowns are common, and overcrowding has been reported. My''bemo''ride from Makassar to Rantepao took eleven hours. For me, the journey was fantastic! Locals hopped on and off and shared stories with me. Pigs and goats were hauled on top of the bus and tethered down. The bus also made frequent stops so we could grab snacks and beer. Time went by fast and the scenery was incredible.''Rantepao Townscape''My journey back to Makassar however was quite different. The bus was comfortable and air-conditioned. It only took eight hours and was quite uneventful. But the scenery was still great!''Beautiful Side Panels on a Tong-Konan''Who are the Toraja?''Visiting the Toraja is like being in a National Geographic documentary. Adorned with traditional jewellery, these people still live by many traditional values. Their beliefs are often intermingled with Christianity, “introduced” to locals by the Dutch in 1905. Such a complex blend of tribal culture and colonialism makes for some very interesting beliefs.''Locals Decorate there Tong-Konan with the Horns of Sacrificed Buffalo to Show Wealth''The Toraja culture is centered on its ceremonies.''The funeral ceremony''in particular is of great importance. The Toraja believe that when one dies, they not truly dead until the funeral ceremony is complete and they are laid in the burial caves. Being invited to a Toraja home before the funeral is a great honour. One must respect and follow Toraja customs, all while acknowledging that the deceased is still seen as being among the living.''Be prepared to offer cigarettes or crack a beer for the deceased''. Other gifts are also very welcome.''Transporting a Live Pig to the Funeral Ceremonies''In the drier months of July or August the funeral begins. The deceased are often kept in the house until this point. The funeral will span over a week. Countless animal sacrifices, Toraja music, drinking your face off and eating until your stomach nearly explodes are common practices at these funerals.''Buffalo Markets are a Big Deal Here''Staying in My Very Own Tong-Konan''Arriving late at night into Rantepao after an eleven hour bus ride, I was left to wander the empty streets of the city. It was dark, the flicker of street lights added to the slightly creepy setting. I was alone. In the distance dogs barked, on the horizon was the darkened outline of mountains.''Many Locals Prefer the Tong-Konan Life over Modern Homes''Suddenly I heard the bell of a bicycle ringing. Around the corner came a rickety old rickshaw. The rickshaw driver approached me and asked if I was lost. Of course, I tried to act like I knew where I was going,''but in reality I was very lost and slightly sketched out by this street that was reminiscent of some scene out of a horror film.''After negotiating what seemed like a friendly price with the rickshaw driver, it was agreed he would to take me to a cheap guest house. He pedalled us around the corner, possibly only 500 m from where we had met, and we arrived at a guest house.''I painfully handed over the''Rupiah''we had agreed on and entered the dimly lit guest house, which was oddly named''“Duta 88 Cottages”''. At about only 15 US dollars, the price for a room seemed fair. The attendant led me into a garden filled with colorful plants and lights that led you to the rooms. The rooms turned out to be''Tong-Konan''! That’s right, for this price you can get your own''Tong-Konan''. This was a great introduction into Tana Toraja. My''Tong-Konan''came equipped with a wooden bull head protruding from the entrance, bamboo floors and even satellite TV that worked occasionally.''Funeral Crashing you Say?''The next day, at breakfast, I was approached by a guide who told me there would be a funeral happening today. It was a local chief’s funeral, so there would be hundreds in attendance. I negotiated a price for the use of a motorbike, as I wanted my own wheels, and we were off to the funeral.''On the Way to the Funerals''Before we arrived, my guide explained to me that we would need to buy the deceased a gift. So, I stopped at a nearby grocery store and picked up a few sacks of sugar, as I heard this was a good gift… I was wrong.\xa0 I was informed that the chief enjoyed two things: smoking his tobacco, and drinking his''Tuak''(a fermented palm sap alcohol that tastes like vinegar). I had already bought the sugar, but back into the store I went to purchase 30 extra-large packages of cigarettes, and a large jug of''Tuak''.''Having Tuak with the Locals Before the Sacrifices''First, of course, we had to give our respects to the deceased chief. We visited his house and I gave him his many packs of cigarettes and jug of''Tuak''. The sugar I gave to his elderly wife, as she was keen on having it.''Now I know what you are thinking; that the chief was dead. So, why was I giving him gifts? He had actually passed about seven months ago.''But as Toraja customs go, he was not yet gone. His was among the living in spirit. The people around me treated him like he was still there, and I too begin to feel like he truly was. Maybe he was really gone, but he defiantly lived on through the spirit of his amazing family and friends.''Soon the funeral began. The chief, in his brightly painted coffin, was brought out to the funeral grounds. The grounds were filled with Traditional live music, and the apparently limitless supply of''Tuak''intoxicated''hundreds of people. I was seated down next to the Chief’s son, telling him about where I was from. Mid conversation, a petrol canister filled with''Tuak''was placed in front of us and we began to gulp down gallons of the stuff.''Coffin of the Deceased Chief''Tuak''by any means is not delicious. After you drink, say, four or five portions, the bitter vinegar taste, laced with a slight tinge of petrol, begins to fade, as you succumb to the fuzzy effects of this tonic. Luckily,''Tuak''does not have a very high alcohol percentage, and you are expected to drink as much as your new found friends are.''Let the Sacrifices Begin!''Tuak''-buzzed, we all were ushered to the main''Tong-konan''in the grounds. Many water buffalo and pigs came with us. Little did I know, the friendly animals that accompanied us were actually being brought for sacrifice.''Buffalo Getting Ready to be Sacrificed''Don’t get me wrong, I love animals. I am certainly not particularly fond of killing them. But, in this situation,''I keep an open mind''. This was their culture, not mine. When it all began I did not flinch or look away. I watched in awe and I felt nothing but happy to be a part of this amazing place and time.''The buffalo’s head is held high and a man wielding a Toraja blade runs at the buffalo, slashing its throat wide open. The buffalo dies fast and then another buffalo is brought in, accepting his fate.''The pigs were also sacrificed, some were given a spear to the heart. For many, this would be overwhelming to watch. Again, keep in mind that this is local culture.''The Toraja do this to honour the dead chief. They believe that this will allow the chief will take these buffalo and pigs with him to the afterlife. The sacrificed buffalo and pigs are cut up, cooked in a steamy pot of organs and meat, and served to the hundreds of people in attendance. This day fifteen buffalo and thirty pigs were sacrificed for the chief and to feed all of us.''Mysteries Deep in the Caves of the Dead''The next day, the chief would receive his final send off. This was the sixth day of the funeral. It began with the deep bass of drums and gongs. Chanting began and incense was burned. Then the entire group marched the coffin into the caves. My new friend and guide told me that, at this time, it would be a good idea to go and explore some of the more ancient burial caves.''Burial Chambers Cut Into the Rock''We rode our motorbikes for about an hour into the jungle. The crumbling, paved roads gave way to muddy roads in awful condition. My guide pulled in front of a small trail marker, which happened to be the skull of a buffalo. He said, “From here, we walk”.''We walked deep into the thick jungle. The trail was well maintained but defiantly had that “off the beaten track” feel to it. It lead us to the giant opening of a cave.''The entrance of the cave was guarded by the''Tau Tau'', wooden effigy that the spirits of the dead reside in to watch over the caves.''Their eyes seem to follow you as you enter through the dark entrance. Inside the cave there are coffins everywhere. Most look new, but the further you walk into the cave, the older they get.''Tau-Tau Watching Over the Entrance of the Burial Caves''One by one the coffins begin to change. New, stained wood turned into grey, rotting wood. Further in, the coffins had carved figures of lizards and people on them. Further still, the coffins became to be so decayed that the bones of the dead scattered cave floor. Skulls were stacked on the walls by the hundreds, and the larger bones in piles below that.''Bones Litter the Entrances to the Caves''The light began to diminish so we lit my guide’s gas lantern, allowing us to venture deeper. At the end of the cave, there were only a few bones left. The coffins were completely decayed.''“These are the bones of the first Toraja” my guide says. He picked up a ivory bangle off of one of the bone arms.''“This jewelry is made from ancient tiger” he said with great intrigue.''The Deeper you go the more the Coffins Decay''I was shocked by how long they have been burying there dead here. My guide then told me that the bones of the first Toraja were examined recently because of how disfigured they looked. He said that the anthropologists could not trace where these bones came from, or if they''were even human.''“I believe they came from another world” My guide exclaimed with wide eyes staring into the final depths of the cave.''We crawled through a few more small cracks in the cave walls, and entered into more burial chambers. The smell of newly buried corpses became pungent. The light burned my eyes as we finally found our way out. The fresh air was needed. We hopped back on our bikes and cruised back to Rantepao.''My Guide Taking me Deep into the Burial Caves''Every Cave Has its Tau-Tau Guarding it''One Last Creepy Note, They Bury the Deceased Babies in the Trees!''Get on a Motorbike and Explore!''Tana Toraja is full of mind blowing culture and amazing people. Get on a motorbike, and explore the nearby mountains and rice paddy fields to reveal some of South East Asia’s most stunning scenery. I rode for three days in the area. You can visit more burial caves on your own, small villages, mountains with concealed hot springs, and learn more about Toraja life in the rural areas.''In Rantepao, there are many places where you can rent a motorbike or scooter for cheap. Be sure to check the quality of the bike beforehand, and agree on what will happen if you cause damage to the bike.''There are plenty of more Burial Chambers, Tau-Tau and remote villages you can see on your own. When you arrive to these places always ask someone first before you enter. Many times a local will guide you into a cave or village for free!''If you are looking for a real adventure than this is the place to come. Tana Toraja is like stepping into a''National Geographic Documentary''. So much is yet to be discovered in the amazing place!''Riding a Motor Bike Up High Into the Mountains Will Reveal Toraja’s Beautiful Scenery''Useful Info''Location:''Tana Toraja, Sulawesi, Indonesia''Cost:''Motorbike – 15 US Dollars per day. Tong-Konan room – 15 – 40 US Dollar.''Tips:''try to visit in July or August when funerals are happening. Ask around in Rantepao to visit a Funeral, do not just show up. Respect the local customs, do not voice your opinion regarding what you think about them. Try the rice and pork cooked in bamboo; very delicious!''Recommended Guide Books:''Lonely Planet Indonesia''asia''Southeast Asia''tana toraja''Simien Mountains National Park – Ethiopia''Why Trek Simien National Park?''Simply put, the Simien Mountains are amazing.''Nobody seems to think of Ethiopia looking like this. Humongous, green, pinnacle peaks, deep valleys dotted with grass-hut villages, and fog blanketing the scenery for a picture perfect moment.''Simien is breathtaking. Apart from the scenery, there is also an array of wildlife. Most likely, you will see the Gelada Monkey hordes, covering the hills, planning their next assault on the fields of golden wheat. The chances of seeing Ethiopia’s rare majestic Walia Ibex are also high. Simien can also provide a cultural experience as well. Many Ethiopians call Simien National Park their home. They grow wheat on gravity defying terraces and live in very traditional grass roof houses. Trekking here is extremely rewarding. Simien is a World Heritage site, and any trek here will stick with you long after you have left. Trek Simien; I promise that you will never forget this''beautiful corner of Ethiopia.''View of the Simiens coming from Aksum''Difficulty''Trekking in Simien National Park is not for the faint-hearted. If you take your time, then it will not be as difficult, but the high altitude and unpredictable weather make for some very challenging trekking. The trails are often very steep and slippery. They are also not very well maintained, so part of the trek will feel very “off the beaten track”. Be sure to come prepared for the cold and for the difficulty level of the trails by having the appropriate gear.''Simien’s array of trails''are not all difficult. There are some easier options you can undertake. But if you want to get the full array of beautiful vistas, prepare for the long haul, as it’s going to be a challenge. I would rate Simien a 3/5 for difficulty. This is mainly because of the length of the trails and the altitude.''Getting to Simien National Park''The main entry point to Simien National Park is the town of Debark. Debark can be reached either from the city of Gonder to the south, which is about two hours away, or by Shire, to the north. Shire is the more difficult option, as there are not as many buses and they tend to be full.''During my trip to Ethiopia'', I attempted to go from Aksum to Debark directly, but still ended up staying the night in Shire and leaving on a crowded bus the next morning. The Shire/Debark road is not in great condition. It will most likely take the whole day to arrive. You will cross some absolutely stunning scenery on questionable, scary roads. Once you are in Debark, most locals catch a ride from the park headquarters to the park. You can also walk, but this will add at least a day to your trek. Once in the park, it is illegal to hitchhike, but it is still possible. After completing the trek, I convinced my scout to hitch us a ride back down to Debark rather than walking back. This alternative was exciting, but a rather expensive and risky option.''Park Fees/''Guides and Scouts''Our Scout, Who was also a great guide''At the park headquarters in Debark, you can pay the park fees. The regular rate is 90Birr per person, per day. Guides and scouts can be arranged here as well. Guides were listed at 200Birr per day while I was there. Scouts were 75Birr. Guides are not mandatory to have, but scouts are. The scout is a local who carries an AK-47 and can work as a trail guide. The scouts, usually, do not speak any English; so, if you are looking for translating, knowledge on plants and flora, and someone to explain Simien, then it’s best to hire a guide. Both guides and scouts will expect tips afterward (and sometimes get aggressive if you do not tip). The park headquarters can also arrange many other things such as transport, cooks, mules and camping equipment.''When to Go''December to March''– This season tends to by quite dry. The scenery is less green. There is also less rain and temperatures during the day are a comfortable average of 15 Celsius. Night time, however, can be bone chilling. Often, it dips below zero.''June to September''– Weather is a mixed bag. Severe downpours happen and mist will cover the mountain scenery. Trails can become very slippery due to all the unpredictable rain. The rain can also cause very cold weather at the high altitudes. Wild flowers bloom in August, creating a beautiful spectacle.''October to November''– After the rains finish and the mist lifts, the beautiful green scenery is revealed. The air is often clear and temperatures during the day are very comfortable. Most people agree that this is the best season to hike. Trails can be busy and lodges fully booked. Evening rains sometimes occur, making the weather very cold.''Warming up before we head out to the Imet Gogo Summit''Treks''Debark to Chenek Trek''The Debark to Chenek trek is a five-day trek that will take you into the heart of the Simien. You will get a fantastic taste of the park and be thrown back in time as you use the same mountain paths that local farmers use to travel between their grass-hut villages.''Gelada Baboons planning there attack on nearby Teff Fields''Route:''Debark to Buyit Ras –''The first day you will walk 10 km through more populated areas. You will get a close look at this region’s people and their villages. Don’t be surprised if you are invited in for tea. Some people skip this part and drive to Buyit Ras. If you do this you will miss the cultural aspect of the outskirts of the park. Buyit Ras has camping and lodging available. Large gelada monkeys live nearby.''Buyit Ras to Geech –''This day is a long 25 km walk. Most guides and scouts will automatically take you through the Sankaber scenic route; make sure they do as it is much more impressive than following the road. It is also the day with the most spectacular scenery. You will pass tall green peaks with deep valleys covered in mist. It’s a tough slog for part of it. You will also pass by some very interesting villages with children selling slings to throw rocks at the geladas trying to eat their crops. At Geech, there is a very basic lodge and camping spots.''Geech Camp to Chenek via Imet Gogo Summit –''From Geech you head straight uphill towards the peak of Imet Gogo. Imet Gogo is 3926m and offers some of the Simien’s best views over the valleys. En route to the summit, you will pass by interesting cacti and other flora that give the hills a beautifully strange, exotic look. Nearing the summit, you will be required to climb over boulders and push yourself up over ledges. If you have a fear of heights: best to take it slow. At the Imet Gogo summit, all your struggles from the hike will be rewarded with multiple views over the entire park. From Imet Gogo, head down to Chenek across the river. More lodging is available here, and a great opportunity to see wildlife such as the ibex. This day you will cover about 25 km. It will take the entire day.''Return Routes and Mt Bwahit –''From Chenek you can summit Mt Bwahit, elevation 4430 m, but this will take you another full day. Returning to Debark, most people trace back to Buyit Ras through Sankaber and get transport back. It is possible to hitch, however. It must be noted that this option is illegal and most guides will not allow it. My scout arranged our transport, and we rode back from somewhere near Sankaber to Debark in the back of a pickup truck.''Day Treks –''When the roads are decent, it is possible to hire transport and drive into the park each day and trek to the villages. After trekking, you can drive back to Debark to stay in the hotels there. The roads are not in the greatest shape, so day trips will be very long with much of the time spent in the vehicle.''The Summit of Imet Gogo''Gear''Shoes''–''It’s best to have light-weight hikers with good tread here. You will not be hiking over to many rocks, so ankle support is not necessary. For shoes I chose Merrel’s Annex. The Annex is a short hiker with Gortex tread. It’s very light and incredibly durable. I liked how well it breathed; keeping my feet comfortable. It worked well for all of Simien’s landscape.''Jacket''– As the weather can be unpredictable, it is best to come prepared for cold and wet conditions. I like the Helly Hansen Squamish jacket as it is a rain jacket, but also comes with removable layers so you can keep warm when needed. It’s incredibly comfortable and light weight; great for Simien’s climate.''Back Pack''–''Once again, I always take my''Fjallraven Rucksack No. 21''. It’s large enough to carry your jacket, water bottle, food and some camping gear. It’s incredibly durable (mine has lasted years!) and, to be honest with you, I absolutely love the look of it. Its green waxed canvas keeps it waterproof, and it just keeps looking better with age. Highly recommend this pack.''Buff Merino Wool''– This scarf/head cover can be used for multiple purposes. It comes in super handy when the weather gets chilly. Made from 100 percent Merino wool, it breathes well and still keeps you incredibly warm. It can also be used as a head cover, providing protection from the sun or to cover up at night to keep your head warm. I love the buff because of how versatile it is.''Life Straw''– Clean water can be hard to find up here, this straw makes even the worst water drinkable and safe.''Recommended Guide –''Lonely Planet Ethiopia'', This guide breaks down the area with maps and great info on how to plan treks here.''Food –''It’s best to buy snacks and decent food in either Gonder or Aksum; before you get to Debark. In Debark, there is not a lot for supplies. You will be able to get the basic supplies in Debark that your guide/cook can use to make simple meals. But, if you’re looking for things that will satisfy the sweet cravings that occur while trekking, I recommend picking up these beforehand. It is also possible to buy a goat or chicken in the villages along the trail. Your guide/cook will kill and cook this for you, but it’s a good experience to be a part of the process.''Flights''I’ve been using''Momondo''quite a bit for my flights lately and I love it!''Accommodation''Debark:''Simien Park Hotel –''100–300 Birr. To be honest, this hotel is not great. But it happens to be, quite possibly, the best hotel in town. After a five day hike, a hot shower and meal make this place feel like a five-star hotel. Its only located 1 km north of the park headquarters, making it fine to walk to take in the morning. The hotel also offers typical Ethiopian food and beer at a decent price.''Buyit Ras – Geech – Chenek:''Community Lodges –''80 Birr. No matter what anyone tells you, there are lodges in these three places. They are not luxurious by any means, but they have basic dorm rooms with hard beds and blankets. They also offer food (Tibs and bread). The lodges also start huge bonfires at night. They are great places to meet other travelers and enjoy the warm fire. Oh, and the best part, sometimes they have beer for sale!''Simien Lodge –''The Simien National Park’s only fancy lodging. Beautiful Ethiopian style bungalows and great service. The hotel is located at an elevation of 3260m, offering staggering views over the park. The food is great and the owner offers pick up from Gonder. The steep 160 US price is hard to gulp down, but if you’re looking for a bit of luxury in the Simien, here it is.''africa''Ethiopia''travel journal''Rajasthan Province – India''Welcome to the land of Maharaja Forts, crumbling desert cities, vibrant and exciting cultures and India’s premier desert escapes. Rajasthan is India’s historic center. It hosts some of India’s most traditional culture. Across this desert province are colour coated cities that conceal and preserve a very unique part of India. If you are new to traveling in India, then Rajasthan should be at the top of your list. You will not leave this beautiful province feeling empty handed. You will leave its borders with a huge appreciation of how complex and incredible this place is.''Musicians on the Ghats of Pushkar''Jaipur''Jaipur is known for its notoriously chaotic traffic, pink palaces, and moustached men. Jaipur is also one of India’s greatest examples of the country’s contrast of old and new; the new being Jaipur’s popular clubs and bars inside towering modern neon lit hotels. Enter Jaipur’s medieval city gates into “old” Jaipur and step back in time. Its narrow\xa0alleyways are filled with tiny shops that occupy the holes in the walls and vibrant vegetable markets.''Vegtable Vendor in Jaipurs Old City''Jaipur’s old city hosts the beautiful honeycombed''Hawa Mahal''and at the heart of the city is the Jaipur Palace. Jaipur’s city palace displays the city’s rich former past with royal decked out halls, and armories filled with the''Maharaja’s''finest medieval weapons.''Getting lost in the labyrinth of markets and historic buildings in the old city is a magical experience.''Jaipur also has many unknown sights, such as the''Monkey Temple'', which has so many pesky monkeys awaiting snap happy travelers to take their photo. Head up into the hills to see the haunting Nahargar fort for one of the best views of the city.''The Honey Comb Hawa Mahal in Jaipurs Old City''Amber Fort''Snake Charmer in Amber Fort''On the outskirts of Jaipur sits''Amber Fort'', in all its glory, atop the mountains. From miles away the fort towers above all. This was the Maharaja’s capital city. From the bottom of the mountain, there are two options to get into Amber. The first is to haul yourself up as the peasants would have, or, like the Maharaja himself, ride atop a gloriously painted elephant through the honey-comb gates like a boss. From the courtyard, you are led into Amber’s intricate network of hallways and chambers.''Amber Fort''It’s incredibly easy to get lost in here due to Amber’s sheer size! However, getting lost is one of Amber’s greatest joys.''Find hidden rooms with balconies that overlook the Maharaja’s kingdom.''Continue through the maze, and you will discover how stylish of a designer the Maharaja was; with his rooms filled with mirrors and vibrant colors. If you are going to visit only one fort in India, make it Amber Fort.''Who wants to walk when you can ride and Elephant to the top of Amber Fort''Udaipur''Udaipur Lake and Palace''Arguably the most romantic destination in India, the beautiful''Lake Pichola'', dotted with palaces, should be included on the itinerary of every traveler heading to Rajasthan. Udaipur is home to Rajasthan’s largest palace. The Udaipur City Palace is full of history and the riches of kings. In fact, the largest collection of crystal is kept here. If you are a movie buff, then you will recognize Jagniwas Island from the popular Bond film “Octopussy”. “''The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel''” also has many scenes filmed here. There are plenty of interesting neighborhoods to wander among around the lake. The buildings, all plastered white, are intricate and beautifully designed. The streets that intertwine below are full of life.''Bustling markets selling wares from around the province, including holy cows, rickshaws, monkeys, and colourfully dressed locals, all merge into an incredible setting.''Rolling hills with green foliage cover hidden lakes, ready to be discovered by one of Udaipur’s great horse trekking outfits, surround the city.''Jodhpur''Looking down at Jodhpur from the Fort''Heading further into the desert,''the Blue City'', Jodhpur, rises above the landscape. Its crown jewel is the mighty''Mehrangarh Fort''. The fort sits atop a massive hill that looms over the entire city and can be seen from a very lengthy distance. Mehrangarh is full of history and shiny objects once revered by kings, but the real sight in Jodhpur is the stunning Blue City itself. I don’t just mean a small district, I mean the entire city is plastered blue! Jodhpur is also one of Rajasthan’s most traditional cities.''Its markets are full of traditionally dressed locals haggling over livestock and spices around clock towers and crumbling infrastructure.''Jodhpur Market and Fort in the Background''The city’s markets are also famed for its antiques! So equip your best bargaining skills, and make room in your backpack. The men here don colorful turbans that pile high on their heads, and the women cover themselves in silver bracelets, anklets, and intricately carved piercings. Jodhpur is definitely worth the stop on your way the Thar Desert.''The REAL Best Exotic Marigold Hotel''Ravla Khempur the REAL Best Exotic Marigold Hotel''Alright, so I am a big fan of the movie “''The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel''.” If you are not familiar with this movie, well, I suggest you go and watch it.''The Ravla Khempur in the small town of Mavli near Udaipur is, in fact, the REAL Marigold Hotel''. Not only was the Best Exotic Marigold movie filmed here, it is also a real active hotel in which you can stay. The owner has the blueprints of the movie so you know whose room was where, and you can request to stay in certain characters’ rooms.''The owner is also full of stories about the actors and the film itself being made. Outside this amazing hotel is the town of Mavli.''Mavli''could, quite possibly, be just as brilliant as its famed Marigold Hotel. Dirt roads lead to golden-yellow pastures. Goats and ox carts replace cars and the locals could not be friendlier. Mavli truly is a way to experience an “untouched” part of rural Rajasthan. Watch the sun set over the hills from the Marigold Hotel and love every moment being in this magical place.''Interested in staying at the Ravla Khempur (Marigold Hotel)? Check it out below.''Ravla Khempur Online Bookings''Local in the town of Mavli''Jaisalmer''Jaisalmer Town and Fort''Rising above the sand dunes at the entrance to the''Great Thar Desert''is Jaisalmer, the final outpost before you head deep into the relentless desert’s heart. The medieval city’s golden walls rise high above the desert, giving this city more of a fortified citadel trading post feel that makes most travelers squirm with glee. In the city center is the Jaisalmer Fort and Palace.''The fort displays its robust fortifications with its massive iron gates and spikes protruding from the carved, wooden doors.''The city’s markets are full of jewelry and leather goods, all being hauled in from the surrounding rural villages on camel back. Jaisalmer is where you can hire a camel to tackle the Great Thar desert, or rent a motorbike to cruise the desert highways leading to remote communities. Whatever your reason for visiting Jaisalmer is, this desert outpost will leave an impression on you with its rich history and deep culture.''Pushkar''Pushkar’s milky blue town surrounds one of the Hindu religion’s holiest lakes. It is said that all Hindus must bathe in the Ghats that line the shores of this holy lake at least once in their lifetime. Visiting this town should be done with respect and an open mind.''The Ghats of Pushkar''Chat with the Sadhus, get your feet wet with the pilgrims and learn about the complex traditions of the Hindus.''At night, Pujas (prayers) fill the air with the sound of gongs, drums and hypnotic Hindu songs.''Top that off with all of the Pilgrims and setting of this city, and you witness a deeply spiritual place. You can truly feel the energy here. During the day, walk the streets of Pushkar and peruse the hippy shops or just find a peaceful corner of the lake and watch this beautiful place change in every possible different light.''Camel Treks into the Great Thar Desert''All that lies between Jaisalmer and the Pakistan border is the Great Thar Desert. Roads end here, but to get the real feel of the desert, you must ride aboard the ship of the desert: the camel. From Jaisalmer, it is easy to arrange camel treks which entail driving deep into the desert, where you will meet your new camel friend. After a quick lesson on commands (strange camel sounds they listen to), you head off into the sand sea. Massive golden yellow sand dunes cover the horizon and the silence is haunting.''It doesn’t take long to feel like you have left civilization and everything becomes just you and the desert.''At night, you sleep beneath a million stars… oh and the odd Pakistani or Indian fighter jet flying by the sensitive border area, reminding you of where you actually are.''The desert is also exhibits some fascinating Rajasthan culture. The odd village can be found here. Its inhabitants and their culture have not changed in hundreds of years. Visit them and learn about a whole new, untouched side of India. Desert safaris here should not be taken lightly, however. Getting lost is a serious issue, and only the guides know where the next well is in the desert. Come to the Thar and conquer the desert, as the locals have for generations.''Rajasthan Festivals''The Aftermath of Holi Festival in Pushkar''Rajasthan is famous for its festivals. You can start with Pushkar’s camel fair, held in November at the time of the Kartik Purnima full moon. Hundreds of decked out camels are brought here and paraded around in the tackiest camel gear imaginable. Then there is the Jaipur Elephant Festival. Elephants are painted and covered in elaborate, beautifully made outfits and paraded around like Maharaja’s themselves. If you time it right and make it to Rajasthan for Holi festival, then get ready for war… colour war! Grab handfuls of colourful powdered dies to throw at each other in India’s most exhilarating festival. Rajasthan really is home to the most colourful festivals imaginable.''Jaipurs Elephant Festival''Useful Information''Location:''Rajasthan, India''Recommended Guide Book:''Lonely Planet India'',''Lonely Planet Rajasthan''Getting here:''Train-''Flight''-Bus from Delhi, Mumbai.''Main cities:''Jaipur, Udaipur, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer''asia''india''travel journal''Mazar E-Sharif – Afghanistan''“''Who am I? I am a traveler, I’m a wanderer and madman. I’m a scar of love, in my loneliness… I am Legend”''– Afghan Legend: Ahmad Zahir''Traveling Afghanistan''Many have attempted to conquer these lands. Alexander the Great and Genghis Khan are two prime examples. None, however, had succeeded in conquering this paradise from the proud, noble Afghan tribes. In 1979, there entered another conquering faction. This time, it was the Soviets. The Afghan people fought hard in this bloody occupation. Leading the campaign was none other than the Afghan group named the Mujahedeen. It is estimated that up to 1.5 million civilians were killed in this brutal act of war.\xa0 The Mujahedeen fought using guerrilla warfare tactics within Afghanistan’s own borders, in cities and countryside alike. This provoked the Soviets to begin bombing and utilizing landmines, leaving Afghanistan in ruins. Ultimately, the Mujahedeen exhausted the soviets and forced them\xa0to flee these lands.''The Shrine Of Hazrat Ali in Mazar E-Sharif''More recently, Afghanistan is known for its headlines in the American/Taliban war. The Taliban were the political victors of Afghanistan after a series of civil wars that took place post-soviet invasion. Today, with the Taliban also having been removed from power, Afghanistan is once again under new leadership. The current president, Ashraf Ghani, looks to change the future of this war-torn nation.''When the idea of''traveling in Afghanistan''is brought up, looks of concern and dismay are common as a result of the country’s brutal history. Afghanistan has been seeded in my dreams since the beginning of my travel career. After four years planning,''I was sitting in a smoky Shisha bar on the''Uzbekistan''/Afghanistan border town of Termez, equipped with my Afghan visa. My thoughts ran wild when the time finally came. “Will I get across?” “Is this madness?”''Being plagued with thoughts of so many scenarios of what could go wrong can drive a person mad.''Getting to Afghanistan''When the morning light pierced through my dusty hotel window, the realization of what was to come had never been so intense. After hiring a cab to the Friendship Bridge border crossing,''it takes thirty minutes or so to reach your destination, giving you time to contemplate the idea of abandoning this mission''. After this much planning, however, all I did was bury these thoughts deep in the back of my consciousness. The border itself was tight with security. Those very looks of concern I have told you about are profoundly displayed upon the faces of the panicking border guards when they see a tourist crossing into these lands''My local carpets dealer friends outside the Barat Hotel''Upon first sight, Afghanistan is unlike any other place I had seen before. The broken streets and houses were lined with amputee war vets and burqa-clad women, begging to the newly arrived people in their nation. It’s a heart-breaking scene, one that reminds you of the realities of a destination whose people have suffered so much. Approaching a taxi driver, with only feeble knowledge of Dari, my words raised an eyebrow; the taxi driver being surprised when I explained I was a tourist, not a journalist.''Mazar E-Sharif''My Afghan Attire Overlooking Hazrat Ali''The drive to Mazar E-Sharif consists of foreign military stops and Afghan military police who thoroughly check your passport and, of course, look at you in fear when you explain you’re a tourist with no security''. Entering Mazar, I gaze at the impressive blue facades and white marble of the''Shrine of Hazrat Ali.''My taxi dropped me off at''Barat hotel''. The Barat hotel shows signs of what its former glory may have been, but now it is a dusty and dark place with very few visitors. The hotel smells of smoke and the air is filled with dust channeling through beams of light in the dreary corridors. Unsurprisingly, a room is available, but the clerk is hesitant to give it to me as I am a foreigner and, therefore, a possible security threat to the hotel. After some convincing, a few rules are laid out and I am allowed to stay.''Shrine of Hazrat Ali’s Main Square''Leaving the comforts and relative safety of the hotel, I enter the street, which brings me into Mazar’s heart. In front of me is a sea of Blue Burqas and Pashtun Turban- wearing men. The sound of Adhan blares through the shrines’ speakers, and the smells of spices and Kebab are overpowering. I am transported to another time. This is the epitome of''my traveling career.''This is what I live for; this very moment in time is when all things changed. I don’t recall much after this. Filled with passion and emotion, I wandered these streets. Every alleyway, every shop, leads me to something; new things that I, as a traveler, never knew could exist in this place. I often think of my childhood hero, T.E. Lawrence, and wonder what it was like for him entering Arabia for the first time. For me, I believe, this experience is comparable.''I absorb Afghanistan in this moment of time. Afghanistan becomes a part of me forever''. I want this. Eventually, I stumble upon a tailor who speaks impeccable English. After many cups of tea and a few stories involving Taliban warlords, the tailor creates''traditional Afghan attire''for me. Walking the streets, clad in my new clothes, I am a ghost. Nobody believes there could be a tourist here; so a strange looking Afghan is assumed to be from a province called Kunar; where people apparently have similar features to me. Nothing could have prepared me for the absolute magnificence of this nation.''If leadership rests inside the lion’s jaw,''so be it. Go snatch it from his jaws.''Your lot shall be greatness, prestige, honor, and glory.''If all fails, face death like a man.''– Hanzala of Badghis (Afghan Poet)''A few days in Mazar felt like a lifetime. I wanted to see more, but without a local to guide me, this would be a difficult task. I contacted my Afghan friend back home in Canada, who gave me the contact info to his family in Mazar. After a brief phone call, I was given directions to meet him. I found Mohammed in a nearby Kebab restaurant.''We sat cross-legged on a raised platform and ordered Kabuli Pulao (Afghan rice and chicken) and discussed why I was here and what I wanted to accomplish''. Mohammed, who had been working for the United Nations, was intrigued that a tourist had come this far off the beaten track and delightfully agreed to help me on my journey.''The Tailor Who Made Me Look Afghan''Alexanders Lost City, Balkh''Mohammed was a unique individual. He grew up in California as an Afghan immigrant. After his studies, he was destined to return to Afghanistan to help his people. This time, however, he came home with the United Nations and worked in counter-terrorism by translating Dari and Pashtun for the United Nations military. This is the kind of passion Afghanistan’s people proudly display. They put their lives at risk even when given the freedoms of America. Once Afghanistan is in your blood, it will never leave you.''Ancient Mosque in Balkh''Mohammed rented us a car to drive to Balkh; my next destination of choice. Many Afghans had warned me of Balkh’s dangers, but I was stubborn and destined to go. The Taliban often operated out of this area; taking advantage of local opium farmers in order to get money to supply their war. Mohammed’s cousin, Qais, decided to join us as well. Qais, a Mazar born local, also had an impressive grasp of the English language. He proudly demonstrated this by telling interesting, albeit more often than not false, historical facts and legends from the past. Qais also provided great insight on the local political situation. I asked Qais where the opium fields were. He replied; “The government cuts down the opium and we replace it with hash.” One problem to another problem; this is the fate of modern-day Afghanistan.''Walking on the Ancient Walls of Balkh''Entering the dusty frontier town of Balkh is a daunting experience.''Local goat herders, equipped with AK-47’s, push their animals past old blown apart soviet tanks; a symbol of this region’s violent past.''The sun tries to get through the constant dust, pushed up from cars driving through the frontier town’s quickly put together roads. The fields of cotton and hashish loom beyond the dusty shadow figures of war-torn rubble. This is rural Afghanistan, a place where laws are an idea rather than an enforcement. Firefights happen frequently here, indicated by the buildings’ bullet ridden walls. Coming here without some sort of protection is not advisable, as you can imagine. My friends explained to me that this was the reason why we carried AK-47’s in the trunk of our car''The Whole Ancient City of Balkh that Alexander Himself Conquered''Drive deeper into Balkh and you will see the ancient walls of a city long forgotten. I asked my Afghan friends if they knew about these walls; they did not. I, however, did know. These walls were something I used to dream about seeing for many years. These were the ancient city walls''Alexander the Great''himself had walked through. These walls were the remnants of one of our world’s oldest cities. Drive further to the outskirts of modern Balkh and you enter the center of Ancient Balkh city.''Walking around here, you can still see shards of broken pottery poking out from the earth left from ancient times.''My hosts, who also had never seen this site, were excited to see more of the area. They knew of two sights nearby. One was the 50-foot tomb of a mythical Giant; the other was the house of Rumi: the famous Afghan poet. These sights we also saw, but in more of a rush as the sun was setting and the chances of us finding our way to danger were rising. Leaving Balkh behind, our minds concentrated on the real fact that bandits do frequently attack and kill on these roads. With Mazar in sight and the sun fully set we calmed down, knowing we were safe from these dangerous areas.''The Buddhist Kingdom of Samangan''Entrance way to Samangan''Small town on the way to Samangan, Great Kebab''I was eager to make it to the region of Samangan, with its''mysterious Buddhist temples''. Rather than being in the desert like Balkh, the Buddhist monks built their kingdoms in the shadows of the mighty Pamir Mountains. The next day, we drove there. Passing through the northern deserts, we headed towards the magnificently high-altitude mountains in the distance.''We saw camels, American 50-cal-equipped Humvees, Shepard’s, melon street hawkers and UN helicopters; pounding the air above''. Afghanistan is a land of contrast. The scars of the past are made apparent by rusted soviet tanks, soon to be replaced by the modern American war machines patrolling these roads.''Ancient Buddhist Stupa in Samangan''Samangan is another display of contrast, one of cultural diversity. Buddhist temples still stand in a predominantly Muslim country after thousands of years of constant regional and religious conflict. This is a more extreme example of diversity, in my opinion than anything else in the region. Not much is known about the main Buddhist stupa here, but wander down deep into its base, running your hand along its smooth stone interior, and you will be left pondering about who these mysterious people once must have been. At the foot of the mountain, there are dozens of Buddhist caves; some with carved ceilings still intact. Outside was a man selling local melons, which happened to be some of the freshest fruit I have ever tasted. The air here was clean and clear, and there were no sounds to be heard. Just as it had been thousands of years ago; Samangan remained a place of peace and serenity.''Buddhist Caves in Samangan''Sitting atop the main stupa, I gaze into the darkening distance, lost in a trail of thoughts. This place is special. All you know about Afghanistan is false until you step into its heart.''This land changes people. This land makes travelers into adventurers and the people you meet along the way into lifelong friends''. Afghanistan is like no other country. Brave her lands and riches of experiences will await.''The next few days were reserved for soaking up more of Mazar and the area’s culture. I wandered the exotic markets, eating Kebabs with locals who shared stories of this region’s intriguing past and present. Of course, we also had a good laugh about foreigner’s misconceptions and stereotypes regarding Afghanistan’s own people. The locals here had not seen tourists in many years, so they were very open to me and letting me experience Afghanistan’s north to its fullest. What once had made me nervous now excited me more than anything.''Traveling in Afghanistan''is my legend, my legacy. My next destination would be Kabul. I was only one week into my one month adventure in this epic country.''Useful Information''Location:''Northern Afghanistan. Mazar E-Sharif, Balkh, Samangan.''Travel Costs:''Hotel in Mazar E-Sharif – Barat hotel, 30-50 US$. Taxi to Mazar from the border – 15 US$. Kebab and Rice – 2 US$. Afghan tailored outfit – 30 US$''Useful Gear:''Gopro Blackout Housing for secret video,''Keffiyeh Scarf,''Pakol Hat'',''Solar charge panel for cell phone and battery''.''Afghan Phrase book''.''Transport:''Taxi – 2-3 US$ in city, outside city – 10 US$ per hour. Bus to Kabul – 20 US$. Hitchhiking- Free, usually includes having tea with locals afterward.''Tips:''Don’t go out at night, there is little to no security then. Avoid driving at night, faux road blocks do happen, and kidnappings are common. Make friends here, there is no tourist infrastructure. Local friends will help you get from A to B. Listen to the locals about the current security situation. Wear local clothing, you will gain much respect. Don’t forget Travel insurance for here, not many places cover it – try Nomad Insurance''Recommended Guide Book:''Lonely Planet Afghanistan'',''Afghanistan: A Companion and Guide''Movies to watch before you go:''The Kite Runner''Afghan Flights:''Book through Sky Scanner or''Momondo''Afghan Tour Companies:''I went alone, but if you’re looking for a company\xa0here are a few –''Wild Frontiers Travel'',''Untamed Borders''Getting Afghanistan Visa:''I obtained mine in Bishkek easily within three days. Try your local embassy. If they say no then go to''Bishkek Kyrgyzstan''or''Peshawar Pakistan''.''Afghanistan''asia''travel journal''Tehran, Esfahan – Iran''Mention to anyone back home that you are venturing into Iran and you will receive negative responses. “Why would you go there? It’s dangerous,” or “Iran is full of bad people,” were some of the comments I received from others when I decided to visit Iran. Iran is a nation of many things, but bad people and dangers are not among them. Traveling to Iran has been a dream of mine for many years. Now, finally, I had received my visa in Istanbul and crossed Turkey to the Iranian border, in Dogubayazit, to visit the nation so many people in the west fear.''Getting to Iran''Dogubayazit Mosque Looking Over the Iranian/Turkish Border''So there I was, packing my bags in a dusty Turkish border town getting ready to enter Iran. To be honest, I was a little nervous. Iran isn’t held in the most positive views by western nations. After saying our farewells to Dogubayazit, I found the nearest Dolmus (Turkish minivan) calling out their destination:\xa0Iran.''The drive was visually stunning. There were tall, white mountain peaks and golden fields of grass swaying in the eastern breeze. Mighty''Mt Ararat''was looming in the distance, glowing orange in the soft morning light. After thirty minutes, the Turkish/Iranian border became visible.''It consisted of tall, barbed-wire fences, soldiers bearing machine-guns and Kebab shacks.''The next scene was incredibly fast paced and is somewhat of a blurry memory. I walked across the Turkish border, straight into''the forbidden land of Persia''. There were cloaked figures with their hands in the air, men flashing what looked like millions of Rials and Tomans*, and boxes upon boxes of smuggled contraband being pushed through security by people who looked like security personnel\xa0themselves.''Home of Noah’s Lost Arc, Mt Ararat''*''Rials and Tomans –\xa0Officially, Iran has only one currency, the Rial, but Iranians like to think otherwise. They think in Tomans, but sometimes Rials, but mostly Tomans. So it is accepted that foreigners have no idea what Iranians are talking about when it comes to money. In a rough explanation 1 Toman equals 10 000 Rial.''Immigration was tough. Many questions are asked and you are interrogated about why you decided to come here without a tour. After you are stamped in, you enter the bank room. Here you are told you must change money, as there will be no money available ahead. This information is incorrect, however. You see, in Iran, there are two ways to obtain local currency; the first being the Iranian banks. The banks will give you a very undesirable rate that will leave you broke in no time. The other option is to change money on the black market.''The black market might not sound like the safest way, but trust me, you can find almost triple the banks’ rates at times''. Head outside the bank zone, past the pushy, bank-employed touts and you will find the black market amongst the taxi folk.''US Den of Espionage Graphiti''It hit me: I was in\xa0Iran. After all of the troubles I encountered''getting visa''and the countless people who told me''“Don’t go there, you will die,” I was finally here''. After having this amazing thought, I crammed myself into a taxi with a man who, for some reason, believed I spoke Farsi. We whisked like a speeding bullet down the mountain side. We changed taxis. A few hours passed and after a few more taxi changes, I arrived to the bus station in Maku. Next step was to get onto the 4PM bus to Tabriz.''Tehran Bazaar''The bus ride was six hours long to\xa0Tabriz. It was another pristine, beautiful drive through lush green valleys and towering mountain peaks. Upon arriving, the hunt began for a hotel. It was late in the day already and walking around a new city at night is a daunting experience. Tabriz has a friendly atmosphere, but the people still glance towards you. They are not used to foreigners being there.''After finally finding a hotel, I decided to venture into streets of\xa0Tabriz. It was exciting; my first night in\xa0Iran. The streets were buzzing with people and excitement. Every corner and available space on the buildings was lit with fluorescent lights, displaying the beautiful''Persian language'', creating a dazzling spectacle. Walking through the streets, I was greeted with smiles and curiosity. There is not much to see in Tabriz itself, but the surrounding area is beautiful and the nearby mountains loom in the distance, tempting travelers to hike the remote valleys of the north. After indulging in the standard''Persian Kebab and yellow rice'', I returned to the hotel.''Women’s Only Carriage in Tehran Metro''Tehran, the Heart of Iran''The next day, I took the long bus ride to\xa0Tehran, the capital city of\xa0Iran.\xa0Tehran has a very rustic, smoggy exterior, but delve deeper into this city and you will find its charm. The streets are clogged with traffic and pollution, motor bikes ride on the sidewalks, and breathing can become difficult from the smoggy air. This is Iran’s beating heart. Everything that happens in\xa0Iran begins here. My bus arrived late at night once again. To save money, I took the subway down town. Riding the subways was my first introduction to Iranian culture. There are carriages for men and carriages for women. They are kept separate from each other.''Closest I Could Get To Anti-American Protest''Arriving at the ubiquitously named Mashad Hotel, Mamoud invited me in to smoke shisha with him and talk about his nation’s politics. He also wanted to know about western perspectives. Mamoud was an interesting man. He was a second degree black belt in karate, animal shelter owner, and had an obsession with the west. Mamoud provided great insight into what Iranians were actually like.''Iranians always get stereotyped as being religious radicals and anti-western. Mamoud was neither of these''. He was, in fact, just like any one from my own country. Mamoud was not alone. He introduced me to his group of friends, who were all, in fact, just interesting and fantastic people.''Traditional Persian Restaurant''Tehran is a crazy city. The next day I climbed aboard a motor bike taxi that took me on a white-knuckled, heart-pulsating ride through the crazy Tehran traffic. The traffic there was crazy! Horns blared. No traffic rules applied. This city’s traffic resembled one of India’s big cities, but, in many ways, it was worse.''US Den of Espionage and Tehran Bazaar''First stop was the''US Den of Espionage''. This is the name, of course, given by local students to the American Embassy, where hostages were held for weeks. Now, the Embassy has transformed into something of an art gallery for anti-western artists. One of the “masterpieces” on display was the Statue of Liberty, with the face of a skull, bombing small children. If you don’t fancy that, check out Uncle Sam executing political prisoners.''This is an example of the rivalry between modern day Iran and the United States of America. There is change in the air, however.''Most Iranians are no longer concerning themselves with America and are focusing on building their own country through education and a higher standard of living''. Iran breaks all the stereotypes. Only those who visit here are rewarded with the true view of this nation.''Leaving the artsy embassy behind, I wandered the narrow streets of the Tehran Bazaar. This Bazaar is a great example of old Iran. The shops are filled with carpets, spices, and other exotic goods. Outside the bazaar, the blue minarets towered above, filling the air with its beautiful call to prayer. The air smells of kebabs and spices and the busy bazaar streets bustle with both traditionally and modernly dressed locals, all haggling for their goods.''Old Esfahan Outside the Main Square''The Soul of Iran, Esfahan''Esfahan’s main square: Naqsh-e Jahan''Tehran was incredible, but what lay ahead was the reason why I came to Iran. The next day I took the local bus to Esfahan. Esfahan is a jewel in the Persian desert. The clean streets, lined with beautiful foliage, all lead to Esfahan’s main square: Naqsh-e Jahan. Nash-e Jahan is outstanding.''Horse drawn carriages rattle over the cobblestone walkways, past mosques with hand painted-to-perfection domes that dominate the skyline with beauty.''This city is said to be the pride and joy of Iran, and I could see why. Walking the square, you can only ponder this city’s royal past.''Masjed-e Sheikh Lotfollah – Also Known as the Women’s Mosque''At the end of the square is the Masjed-e Sheikh Lotfollah. After walking its empty halls, filled with walls that are painted to absolute perfection, I found a good shisha café on the square that provided a good view to witness the mosque’s dome change from turquoise blue to the golden reflection of the orange, setting sun.''As the sun set, the smoke from the chimneys of wood burning households loomed over the traditional city, taking you back to a time long ago''. When the moon rises, the square lights up and all the locals come to relax, smoke shisha and sip a cup of tea. Esfahan is a traveler’s dream. Be sure to check out the Masjed-e Shah in the square; an architectural masterpiece that will impress anyone.''Shisha Bar tucked away in Esfahans main square''That evening, I was introduced to Ali. Ali was an Esfahan- born local carpet shop owner who loved to practice his English. Ali showed me around more of the city and told me of the market in town that I had to visit. Ali also showed me his carpets, which were renowned for their skill and craft.''The Ceiling of the Dome in Masjed-e Sheikh Lotfollah''Carpets, Spices, and Beautiful Mosques''Masjed E- Jameh an Islamic Architectural Masterpiece''Esfahan’s market rivaled Tehran’s. Its walkways are made of the original mudbrick and the shops are carved into the mud walls. It sells mush more traditional products, usually hand made. It’s also famous for its artisans; hand painted plates and handmade carpets being some of the more specialty items. Head deeper and you will find a bird market. Persians love their avian friends. They take pride in owning and caring for exotic, expensive species from around Asia. In fact, the type of bird you own can indicate an Iranian’s wealth.''Bird Market in the Ancient Esfahan bazaar''The market is hard to navigate and getting lost is common. I did just this. Lost and confused, I ended up far away, finding myself in a traditional mudbrick suburb. That’s when the lights of a police car flashed. I was horrified. I had heard stories of travelers being accused of being spies and getting arrested. I pretended not to notice them, but the police pulled up beside me and grabbed my arm from the car.''Persian Seven Spice in Esfahan Bazaar''“Where are you going, foreigner?” they demanded, while glaring into my eyes.''I stared back at them, horrified, and exclaimed that I was lost and I was looking for the Masjed-e Jameh.''“Get in the car foreigner, you’re coming with us,” the police said, while ushering me into the back seat.''Over looking Masjed-e Shah''We set off like a speeding bullet, zig-zagging in between traffic and people. The police officer in the passenger’s seat turned back to me and said “Welcome to Iran. We are the police, and we will take you to Masjed-e Jameh, and after we can go to Zayandeh, where there are Esfahan’s most beautiful bridges.” Shocked, I asked why they were doing this and they replied with one simple word: “Hospitality.”''My police tour ended up being a fantastic experience''. They gladly left me at the bridges and gave me directions on how to walk back to the main square from there. Even the police were great people.''The center of Esfahan Masjed-e Shah''I had now spent a week in Iran and had not come across one radical or bad person. Iran is a nation of hospitality and beauty. I spent more days than I had thought I would in Esfahan. The city had a certain allure to it that made it hard to leave. The problem was my visa. It only allowed for another three weeks in Iran. So, it was south to Shiraz, my next destination, in one of the most amazing countries yet!''Sunset over looking Masjed-e Sheikh Lotfollah''Plates Painted like the Ceilings of Mosques''Bridge of Zayandeh''Useful Information''Location:''Capital of Iran, Tehran. Esfahan, Iran''Costs:''Bus ticket Tehran – Esfahan, 15 US Dollar. Mashad Hotel in Tehran – 8 US Dollar. Average taxi ride in the city – 4 US Dollar.''Currency:''Rial, 1 US$ – 30200 Iranian Rial''Visa:''Check out''www.iranianvisa.com'', They are a great on-line website that can help arrange visa’s and those nationalities who need to have a tour.''Tips:''Do not take photos of the Anti-American propaganda as I did, you can be arrested for this. Take motorcycle taxi’s, they are cheaper. Food is hard to find in Tehran, look by the Bazaar for decent restaurants. Hitch-hiking is possible as Iranian hospitality is amazing.''Transport:''Buses between cities are frequent and very comfortable. In the city best to take taxi, they are cheap and plentiful.''Recommended Guide Book:''Lonely Planet Iran'',''Lonely Planet Farsi Phrasebook''.''Recommended Tour Companies:''G adventures actually does do tours to Iran''. Tours are not for everybody, but if your alone or your country requires a tour to visit then check out G adventures! Highly Recommended!''The Absolute Perfection of Masjed-e Sheikh Lotfollah''Iran''The Middle East''travel journal''Lalibela and Mekele – Ethiopia''Ethiopia: The Rock-Hewn Churches of Lalibela''Teff Terraces On the Way to Lalibela''Traditional Hut Near Lalibela''Continued From Ethiopia Part One:''Addis Ababa and Lake Tana''From Lake Tana, the road goes east through majestic valleys to Lalibela. The road conditions are some of the worst in the''entire country''of Ethiopia. I arrived late in the evening; after about nine hours of bumpy buses, breakdowns, and coffee stops. Luckily, my hotel was located\xa0close\xa0to where the bus had dropped me off. I chose to stay at the Alef Paradise Hotel. Room rate was only 15 dollars per night, and was within walking distance of the churches.''Ethiopian Coffee Ceremony, Includes Frankincense, Popcorn and the Best Coffee Ever''I awoke in the early hours of the morning. I had heard that at''St. George’s Cathedral'', there were morning prayers. Walking in the dark through this area is a daunting experience. The roads are dirt, and there is very few buildings indicating a town of any kind here. Just as sun was rising,''I stumbled upon Lalibela’s masterpiece: St. George’s Cathedral, also known as Bet Gyorgis.''This church, cut from a single piece of stone, stands 15m tall and is said to have been built with the help of angels in the night.''Early Morning Prayer at St. George’s Cathedral''Prayers resonated from the chambers below.''The smell of frankincense wafted from the church windows. Pilgrims stepped out from the surrounding bushes, donning their white blanket-like Orthodox robes.''Close-by, there is a hill that climbs just above the church. From the top and at sunrise, I sat and watched hundreds of pilgrims and worshipers surround the outer rim of the church in order to listen as the priest below sang stories of the past.''When the chanting and prayers subsided, I decided to see the inside of the church myself. At the southern edge of the church, there is a stone tunnel that takes you deep down into the central chamber. Candles were lit along the stone walls. Priests brush past you, chanting on their way out.''The Feet of the Dead are Seen From the Cathedral Exterior Wall''Upon arriving at the opening of the main chamber, I was\xa0awe-struck by the absolute power this church sends\xa0into you. Seeing this church for the first time is a life changing experience. As you walk around the church itself, priests move about and chant while swinging baskets of burning frankincense. Elderly men sit, curled up, reading their leather bound bibles.''The feet of the dead poke out from the wall burial chambers, reminding you of how holy this place is.''After I asked the head priest’s permission to enter, he ushered me inside the church. The inside was rather dark. The floors were covered with worn out carpets, and the walls blackened from candle smoke. As you stand inside the church you can truly feel the energy pulsating through you. This place is very special, and not many words can be used to describe how it draws you to it.''Leaving St. George’s Cathedral, I walked to the''north-western group of churches''. Here is where the church guards will hunt you down to make you pay the 50 dollar fee. Do not let this stop you, as these churches are worth every cent of that fee.''Head Priest Inside St. George’s Cathedral''You can spend hours wandering around the churches. Most of them are connected by dark candle lit tunnels that delve deep beneath the earth. Every church here is unique and offers a great look into the''Ethiopian faith''. I spent three days wandering the church chambers. Ask permission before entering any of these churches. By doing so, you will also be guided by the church priest who will give a good description of the history and folklore of each church.''Lalibela’s Northern Cathedral Sector''Outside of the church grounds is Lalibela’s Saturday Market. If you time it right and are here on\xa0a Saturday, this market is well worth a visit. The farmers from the surrounding area bring in their goods to sell, and livestock is often traded as well.''Local Tailor at Lalibela’s Market''My last evening in Lalibela, I ventured from my hotel to town. It’s about a three kilometer walk, but in the dark it’s easy to get lost, which is exactly what I did. Panicking, as I had no clue where I was, I waited for the next car to pass by. As luck would have it, it was a UN vehicle, on the way to town. I hitched a ride. The occupants of the vehicle asked me what my plans were this evening. I explained to them I had heard there was an epic Tej Bet in town that I wanted to check out.''Now Lalibela’s Torpido Tej Bet is not just any regular Tej Bet. The music is pulsating, the crowds lively and the interior decked out in the typical Ethiopian style. It is, quite simply, the most amazing Tej Bet in the whole of Ethiopia.''Knowing this, the UN workers decided to join me for a night of awkward shoulder dancing and honey wine nonsense.''If you go to Lalibela, do not miss out on the Torpido Tej.''The Entrance to St. George’s Cathedral''Mekele – Hair Raising Adventure and the Secret Churches of Tigray''The mini bus from Lalibela to Mekele is, to put it gently, an acquired taste. Locals keep the windows shut for fear of catching tuberculosis. The van slowly stuffs its innards with an unlimited amount of people, goats and chickens. Inside, the heat rises. Everyone and everything begins to cook. From the chickens under the seat to the butter the women in front of you puts in her hair, it’s a very un-pleasant experience.''Outskirts of Mekele on way to the Churches''13 hours passed by like this. I tried to crack the window open for only an inch for air, but the vans residents would not have it. I was slowly suffocating while my bones were being rattled to death. To make the experience more enjoyable, the driver blared his favourite three''Ethiopian songs''on repeat for the entire bus ride.''The only thing saving me from being driven to insanity was peering out of the dusty window, into a fairy-tale-like landscape.''The unfortunate reality of being born into the first world is that, when traveling, you must learn to do without the comforts we take for granted. This is the real world. It’s cruel, difficult and harsh. Most fear this. Don’t let it. Overcome the challenges and you will be rewarded with riches beyond imagination.''The Incredibly Scary Climb to Abuna Yemata Guh''Mekele itself is nothing noteworthy. It’s a dusty frontier town on the edge of the''Danakil Depression''.\xa0One of the hottest, most inhospitable places on planet Earth. North of Mekele, you will find the Churches of Tigray. They are similar in some ways to those in Lalibela, except that these churches present a challenge to overcome in order to reveal their secrets.''The Way to Abuna Yemata Guh''The owner of my hotel in Mekele arranged for transport to the churches the next day. The journey to first church took us hours into the countryside; up the slope of a steep mountain. The church’s name was Abuna Yemata Guh. The car pulled up in front of a sheer cliff side.''The Key Keeper of Abuna Yemata Guh''“We have arrived,” my driver yelled excitedly as he pointed up the cliff face. “We will see if you’re a man today”, he said as he climbed out of the car.''A few other Ethiopian men showed up and explained that they were the guardians of the church. They also know the only safe passage way up the mountain. Of course this does not come without a fee, you must pay them and it’s not always cheap. My tip is simply to not act too interested and say you want to go to other churches. They will lower the price then.''Orthodox Murals Inside Abuna Yemata Guh''Price negotiated, the priest’s master key in hand, it began.''Climbing up this cliff you will see scattered human bones from people who have either come here to die or, as my driver explained, have fallen while climbing.''It is a terrifying experience. There is no easy way to put this, it was quite possibly the scariest climb of my life.''Key Keeper and Apprentice Priest Telling Tales of The Walls''The first wall is not too bad. But the second and last wall are a complete 90 degree angle with only small finger holes to pull you up. No ropes, no safety. You must have nerves of steel to pull yourself to the top. When you get to the top you are\xa0overcome\xa0with some of Ethiopia’s most incredible scenery. All the feelings of accomplishment soon fade when you realize you still have to walk the wall to the church. The wall is about a 10 m ledge walk, with a cliff face on one side and a 200 m drop to your death on the other. The bottom of the ledge is about 2 feet wide. It is, in fact, just as scary as the climb up.''View from Abuna Yemata Guh''Stumbling into the entrance of the church was exhilarating. My heart was pounding, the palms of my hands sweating profusely, all while I was having a mild panic attack. The priest fumbled with the large gothic-looking key and opened the large door to the cave church. The inside of the cave was covered in colorful murals. The priest showed me a few bibles he claimed were over 500 hundred years old. Their tattered leather covers were worn from\xa0countless years of use in ceremony.''This place is incredibly special. Not just the church itself, but the death defying experience you must endure in order to get here.''Leaving the mountain with a\xa0new-found energy, feeling like I could conquer any challenge life throws at me, we set off to a few more churches. The other churches we saw this day were also interesting. To be honest though, none of them left such an impression in my mind like Abuna Yemata Guh did.''Before sunset, we climbed a steep mountain to Abuna Abraham. Not a scary climb like that\xa0morning’s events; this climb was full of amazing scenery as far as the eye could see. The church is built into the side of the mountain. The inside is filled with large pillars that seemingly prevent the roof of the cave from collapsing. Inside there are chambers you are not allowed to enter; only the high priest may enter them.''Sunset from here was stunning. The sky changed into a plethora of colors over the desert landscape. The expanse was dotted with small villages. People began to light fires to keep warm in the cool evening air.''View From Abuna Abraham''Climbing\xa0Abuna Yemata Guh Video''https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y_GxzdGS84M''Video can’t be loaded: Climbing Abuna Yemata Guh In Ethiopia (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y_GxzdGS84M)''Useful Information''Location –''Lalibela, Mekele – Northern Ethiopia''Costs –''Lalibela entry fee 1000 BIR/50 USD for five days. Tigray Churches each church varies so bring your bargaining skills. Average church is around 20 USD for group entry.''Tips –''Don’t accept the first price the priests and guardians of the church give you. Be polite and ask for a discount. If you visit many churches in one day, the price can really add up.''Recommended Guide Book –''Lonely Planet Ethiopia''–''Lonely Planet Ethiopian Amharic Phrasebook''Transport –''From town to town use the mini bus. In Tigray renting a car costs around 50 USD for the day. Need a flight here?''Check out Momondo''!''Recommended Tour Company –''Ethiopia is very possible on your own. I traveled here without a tour, but a lot\xa0of the country is very difficult to travel. If you are traveling solo, or not very experienced''I recommend G Adventures''as they do some pretty amazing tours here.''africa''Ethiopia''travel journal''Chiang Mai – Thailand''Sweat drips down my forehead in the sweltering afternoon heat. My mind is clear. I turn my back to the monk. He begins to chant a prayer. I am asked to kneel down and fold my hands together in order to prepare for the process. To be honest, I am very nervous. This will be my first tattoo. Not only my first tattoo, but it will be done with a bamboo spike rather than the conventional tattoo gun. The prayer ends, and what happens next lives with me forever''The first Sak Yant temple we arrived at.''It was late the night before in Chiang Mai. My friend Shawn and I had just backpacked''across Myanmar'', and were ready for some classic Thailand bar hopping; combined with the most delicious food found in Thailand. We found a greasy Thai joint serving up classic Northern Thai specialties like''Chiang Mai pork sausage'', and the incredible 100-year-old Chinese soup. Spicy Thai food goes best, of course, with Chang beer… oh and maybe some Samsom whiskey. Actually, it doesn’t really matter which drink you choose, just make it an alcoholic one.''Anyone in Thailand can get a Thai tattoo. Head to Khao San in Bangkok and you will see an abundance of “Tattoo Me Long Time” or “Best Bangkok Tattoo” parlors spread across every tourist boulevard. These tattoo shops may offer the “Sak Yant” tattoo, but it’s not the real thing.''What Is Sak Yant?''Let’s go over what Sak Yant really is. For generations, Buddhist monks have given these spiritual tattoos to the Thai people. These are not your average tattoos. These tattoos\xa0are said\xa0to have magical qualities to them. Each tattoo, unique\xa0in its own way, can provide you with magic to fend off illness, make you a better fighter or even improve your luck. The ink from these tattoos is made from cobra venom and Chinese charcoal. The monks who give the tattoos do not use machines. Instead, they tap them into you with a spike attached to a bamboo pole. Getting a REAL Sak Yant is a difficult and confusing process. Most tourists opt for the tattoo parlor and get themselves a fake Sak Yant because it’s easier.''Sitting in Chiang Mai, drinking and eating to my heart’s content, there was only one thing on my mind, Sak Yant. This would be my fifth attempt at getting one. Every previous attempt I had made had been foiled because either no foreigners were allowed or the monk was not available, but this time I was determined.''“Do you know what will make a good end to this trip, Shawn?” I exclaimed to my friend, poised in concentration. “Let’s get Sak Yant … magic tattoos, my friend.”''Shawn, a complete tattoo fanatic, looked at me with excitement and said: “Well ya that only seems logical.”''It was decided. As best friends, we would attempt to get''Sak Yant tattoos''no matter how long, how difficult, and how scary it was. We were destined for this tattoo.''Our Sak Yant Ajarn who happens to be quite well known amongst the Buddhist monks who give Sak Yant''The Journey to Get Magic Tattoos''The next morning we woke early. Focused on what we wanted, we hit the streets to find our partner in crime. Nok was his name. Nok was a Tuk Tuk driver who knew of a temple outside of Chiang Mai where we could get the sacred Sak Yant. To be honest, we didn’t even discuss a price with Nok. We just got in and knew that this was the day we would get Sak Yant. We drove for about an hour outside of town, passing by rice paddies filled with dark water glinting in the morning light. Arriving at a temple complex, amidst the rice fields, we were approached by a monk. This monk was covered in Sak Yant. His Sak Yant was red in color, which\xa0I had not seen used before for this style of tattoo. With Nok translating, we agreed that in one hours’ time the monk would give us our tattoo. We waited until the early afternoon when, suddenly, the temple complex doors opened and to our surprise, a procession of people carrying a body walked in. The monks rushed to the entourage. Our monk approached us and exclaimed that today, because of the passing of this man, he would not have time for Sak Yant. We were defeated. It appeared as though my fifth attempt at this had ended again in failure.''“Let’s try one more place I have heard of,” Nok said to the sad, defeated faces of me and Shawn.''The Ajarn does a prayer before beginning the Tattoo''We were off again on this crazy journey. The afternoon heat became stifling. We left the rice paddies behind and entered into deep jungle surrounded by beautiful jade green mountain peaks. In the distance, a small village appeared. Chickens ran across the dirt tracks that were streets. The women walked about, garbed in traditional hill-tribe gear. This town was beautiful, and completely off the tourist radar. The Tuk Tuk stopped in front of a very basic looking temple. The temple had chickens, pigs, and cows wandering around its gates. The temple itself was made of simple teak stilts and was covered in odd, aged carvings.''“This is the temple of a master Ajarn, I am not sure if\xa0he will tattoo foreigners,” Nok said.''We entered the temple and Nok began to talk with the Master Ajarn Monk. Ajarn is the name given to a monk who tattoos Sak Yant. The Monk was also covered in Sak Yant. Every time he moved you could see more Sak Yant peeking out from different parts of his body. Nok came back to us with a giant grin and told us that this monk was very busy, but he would make an exception for us today and give us Sak Yant. A sensation of excitement jolted up my spine. Five attempts and finally it was going to happen! Not to mention that the journey, the setting, everything was spectacular about this very moment in time.''Don’t let the smile fool you, it does not feel pleasant''The monk asked us to pray with him and a fifteen-minute ceremony began. He asked us which tattoo we wanted. We had a choice of three. One, in particular, spoke to me the most. This tattoo was special to the monk. Designed exclusively for me by this monk, it consisted of five lines, each with a different purpose. After the decision was made, the process began. The monk began chanting behind me. I was nervous but calm at the same time. The monk held the bamboo spike to my back and began tapping. I won’t sugar coat it: it was painful. Shawn, who already had many tattoos, all done by machine, later said it was more painful than any machine tattoo. The monk tapped the spike rapidly in and out of my back. I concentrated on how amazing the experience was rather than on the pain. After twenty minutes the tapping stopped, and the monk blew a spell into the tattoo. This truly felt amazing. It could have been the adrenaline, but I swear I felt that magic enter me.''Shawn the tattoo aficionado finally gets his turn''That was that: I had my first tattoo. To this day, I love to tell the story of my receiving of Sak Yant. The story isn’t finished, however. Shawn proceeded to receive his unique tattoo as well. Then, to our surprise, Nok jumped in and had both his arms tattooed.''“Nok, why are you getting two Sak Yant Tattoos?” We asked.''“My wife always calls me girl. She says I’m not a man until I have Sak Yant. So I show her, I get two tattoo!!” Nok explained with an ever widening grin upon his face.''How Much do Sak Yant Cost ?''How much do these tattoos cost, you ask? Technically speaking, they are free! However, an offering of food and cigarettes to the temple is greatly appreciated. You can also give money, as we did because we did not have cigarettes. In order to give money, you must put it in a donation box as the monk is not allowed to receive currency.''Nok getting his tattoo’s''You will notice that I have not shared the monk’s name or the temple’s location. I’m not trying to be greedy with this; but if you want a Sak Yant, then you too should go on your own journey to receive it. The tattoo is so special to me because of this journey, because of Nok and the whole experience. Most backpackers will tell you to\xa0go to Wat Bang Phra in Bangkok to get one, which is special in its own way. But as a traveler, do something that is special to you. Don’t just fall in line and be like everyone else. Go on a\xa0journey, and create your own\xa0story that will come\xa0define who you are.''The crew with our new magic tattoo’s''Useful Information For Getting a Sak Yant Tattoo In Thailand''Location –''Northern Thailand near Chiang Mai''Cost –''Tuk Tuk for the day – 30 US$, Tattoo – Free, but donations accepted''Tips –''Finding a real Ajarn can be difficult. Do not just give up and go for the Bangkok tattoo, the experience of finding the real Sak Yant makes the story that much more incredible.''Recommended Guide Books –''Lonely Planet Thailand''asia''Tattoos''Thailand''Addis Ababa and Lake Tana – Ethiopia''Ethiopia’s Northern Historic circuit will erase all preconceptions you have regarding this nation. You will witness rock-hewn churches carved by angels, towering obelisks built by the''ancient Aksumite Empire'', and impossibly green mountains inhabited by armies of gelada baboons. You will cross terraced farmlands, frigid mountains, scorching deserts and some of Ethiopia’s most raw, beautiful scenery. Whatever your thoughts about Ethiopia are now, you will be amazed to see the magic this incredible country conceals deep in the North. This is a four part series of my journey through Ethiopia’s north. I chose to only take local transport so I could travel as the locals do, and take in as much of the “off the beaten track” country side as possible. Tag along with me and follow this epic series.''Holy Trinity Cathedral just north of Itegue Taitu Hotel''First Stop: Addis Ababa''My plane landed in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, in the early hours of the morning. The guide books warn you to bring US cash. I, however, did not listen to this. I thought that I would just arrive and use the ATM in the airport. This did not happen.''The ATM was broken'', and the Ethiopian officials would only take US cash for the visa. After some serious negotiating the Border, officials gave me a temporary visa allowing me to enter Addis Ababa to go and get money. My troubles did not end here. The taxi stand outside is well aware that travelers often run into this situation. They use this knowledge to force tourists to pay three times the normal price, just to go to the ATM. Let’s just say that I needlessly lost a lot of money that day.''Injera baskets for sale on the streets of Addis''Visa in hand, I was hit the\xa0streets of Addis. First stop was my hotel the Itegue Taitu. This hotel was built by Empress Taitu in 1907. The hotel in itself is a sight to see in the city. It’s composed of quaint, colonial-style dining rooms and large wooden beams. Rooms are cheap, so I recommend staying at this central location.''Spice shops in Addis Ababa’s Merkato''Stuffed full of''Injera (Ethiopian sour flat bread)''and some of the most amazing coffee I have ever drank, I headed out towards Ethiopia’s largest market; dubiously named Merkato. The Merkato is an exhilarating experience. It’s crowded with Ethiopians from every corner of the country, all yelling and haggling for lumps of butter, spices, leather, and a variety of other such products. The pungent smell of spices will burn your nose and soon after be replaced by the reek of sour butter and open sewers. Donkey carts push through the crowds and locals often stop you to chat about why you decided to come to Ethiopia. The Merkato is intense, so come prepared. A word of caution: watch your belongings; as theft is quite a common occurrence here. Dig deeper into the Merkato, and you will even find a few antique stores selling both tribal and Christian artifacts from many regions.''Busy streets in the heart of the Merkato''Addis is a great city to just walk around; and get lost in. After the Merkato, I did just that. Finding myself very lost in a rural part of town, I asked a friendly man named Solomon, an Addis local who was the same age as me, how to get to the National Museum. He decided to take me there himself. Solomon wanted to make one stop before the museum. This stop was at his favourite Tej Bet. Tej is a local wine made from honey and served in what looks like a flask from a chemistry set. What was meant to be a quick stop turned into an afternoon of crushing back Tej with the locals. This sweet tasting elixir conceals its potent alcohol content, be warned.''Local bringing the livestock in from the nearby countryside for selling''Waking up early the next day, I walked from Tegu to the National Museum. Packed full of Lucy artifacts, dating back to the beginning of time, this fascinating museum will take you step by step through the history of Ethiopia, and our human evolution. From the museum, I trekked over to the Holy Trinity Cathedral. While wandering in the courtyard, a resident priest invited me in. He explained the murals on the walls to me (my favourite is the black Jesus!) and let me play with the massive drums they use during ceremony. This was an incredibly informative introduction to the''Ethiopian Orthodox religion.''Addis Ababa is not just known for its markets and churches. It also has a vibrant nightlife. That night, Solomon took me out to experience Addis at night! The night included Tej, lots and lots of Tej. I was introduced to the different variations of Tej. Strong, Sweet, Bitter, Fresh, Tej has many names, but the one thing you will remember about Tej is how it brings everyone together. When Ethiopians drink Tej, the drumming and songs begin. The rhythmic beat of Ethiopian style music is paired with the fast paced shoulder dance. As a foreigner drinking Tej with the locals, expect that you too will also have to do this shoulder dance. You will be made fun of, but you will also remember an evening like this for the rest of your life.''The Priest who showed me around St. Georges Cathedral''Onward to Lake Tana''In the early hours of the morning you can catch buses of decent quality to Lake Tana from Addis’s Auto Bus Terra. Make sure you arrive early as the tickets go fast. The drive was supposed to take around 12 hours. After breaking down twice on the side of the Choke Mountains I made it in 15 hours. The drive to Lake Tana is visually stunning. Massive green mountains covered in teff terraces, small villages dotted with grass huts. The 15 hours were pleasant and well worth the time.''One of the largest Island monasteries on Lake Tana''Bahir Dar is the name of the town on Lake Tana. It is a pleasant, calm community with swaying palm trees and fresh air. There are a few decent hotels in town that are great for helping you with getting to the island churches and Blue Nile Falls. I chose the Din Anbessa Hotel.''Ceremony for Meskel. Drums beat and singing filled the air''The next day, my hotel arranged for me to join a boat that was visiting some of Lake Tana’s island monasteries. The first island monastery was the Narga Selassie. As luck would have it, I was able to witness an Orthodox ceremony. Drums beat continuously, the deep bass vibrations resonating within the ground. The men chanted hypnotically in their white garments. In the background, you could hear bells clanging and women chanting in soft tones. The air was thick with frankincense, filling my nose with its sweet smell. I spent hours just observing this spectacle, joining in here and there with the proceedings. I did not understand everything that was happening, but it was pure magic. I could feel the power here.''Murals inside the Island Monastery''Buzzing from the energy, I visited a few lesser known monasteries that were filled from floor to ceiling with murals depicting heroic saints and angles telling stories of the past. The priests in these temples are happy to tell you about the murals. They also went into detail about how the''Ark of the Covenant''was located on a secret island near here.''That evening, the ceremony of Meskel (finding of the true cross) was taking place. Throughout Bahir Dar, crosses were carried around by chanting groups to locations where a giant bonfires were being prepared. After sunset, the bonfires were lit and religious processions began. The bonfire at my hotel happened to be one of the biggest in town that night. Roaring flames reached about twenty feet high and burned well into the night.''Every Ethiopian I met told me I had to see the Blue Nile Falls. On my last day in Bahir Dar, I did just that. From town, it’s a short jeep ride to the trail head. The trail itself is not long, but every corner you turn you are blasted with incredible waterfall views. Many local children follow you trying to sell trinkets made from cow leather and reeds they put together. These same children can become fantastic guides who, more often than not, speak enough English to give you a proper understanding of the area. I spent the day wandering around the falls. The views are staggering in the different light of the setting sun.''Lake Tana Orthodox Ceremony''The night ceremony for Meskel, finding of the true cross''Bridge to the Blue Nile Falls''The amazing Blue Nile Falls''Useful Information''Location:''Addis Ababa, Lake Tana, Bahir Dar – Northern Ethiopia''Costs:''Bus Ticket, Addis – Bahir Dar 15 US$, Boat trip on Lake Tana – 40 US$ Itegue Taitu Hotel 15 – 40 US$ depending on room. Din Anbessa Hotel – 18 US$''Tips:''Island monasteries sometimes charge individual entrance for each church. This can add up fast. Look around town for others in Bahir Dar to split the boat trip cost with. Watch your pockets in Addis Ababa Merkato, thieves are about.''Recommended Guide Book:''Lonely Planet Ethiopia''Transport:''Addis to Bahir Dar there are basic buses and more “luxurious” models. The luxury coach is about double the price. You can always take minibus but they take a lot of time, and are very uncomfortable. Lake Tana has boat taxis to some monasteries, but are infrequent. Best to rent a boat for the day.''africa''Ethiopia''travel journal''Your day bag and gear are quite possibly the most important pieces of equipment you will have for your entire trip. You will carry guide books and all of your camera gear in here, as well as your money and passport. Your day pack is essential, and can make or break the success of your trip.''I’ve been getting many emails lately asking what my typical travel gear looks like. Today I’ll go through my essential travel gear. Through many trials and error I have now successfully mastered the weight and tools that are worthwhile bringing along traveling with you. Everyone’s gear will be different, but with this guide you can get a good idea of what works for me and aid you in fine tuning your bag to your own needs.''For Capturing it All''Sony a7''The Sony A7''The 24.3 mega pixel full frame is''my\xa0camera of choice''. I have used dozens of cameras while travelling and I can honestly tell you that this is the best camera for travel in this price range on the market. It’s very light and durable, so if you’re used to travelling with bulky SLR equipment then prepare to be amazed at how light this camera is when compared, and how much weight you can reduce by switching to it.''Don’t even get me started on image quality… Its full frame!! With a full frame sensor and powerful 24.3 mega pixels your images come out so incredibly smooth and detailed. In low lighting the camera works great as well making some of my night shots phenomenal quality.''There are tons of''features on this camera as well''. It has all the basic SLR settings, but offers features great for bracketing and HDR. The price is also amazing,''selling for around 1200 USD with lens''it’s significantly cheaper than any of''Nikon’s''or''Canon’s full frame''models and a fraction of the weight. This camera is also lightning fast and features a level within the view finder so your pictures come out looking even and properly angled.''I am in absolute love with this camera!''I cannot wait to start experimenting with more from the''huge line up of lenses Sony offers''. There is also an E mount that can be purchased so you can use almost any camera lens on the market. If you’re even remotely serious about travel photography, this is definitely a camera you should consider buying.''SONY A7 SPECS''LENS COMPATIBILITY''Sony E-mount lenses''SENSOR TYPE''35 mm full frame (35.8×23.9 mm), Exmor® CMOS sensor''NUMBER OF PIXELS''Approx. 24.3 megapixels''ISO SENSITIVITY''Movies: ISO 200-25600 equivalent, AUTO (ISO 200-6400 equivalent), Still images: ISO 100-25600 (ISO numbers up from ISO 50 can be set as expanded ISO range), AUTO (ISO 100-6400, selectable lower limit and upper limit)''BATTERY LIFE (CIPA, STILL IMAGES)''Approx. 270 shots (viewfinder) / approx. 340 shots (LCD screen) (CIPA standard)''VIEWFINDER TYPE''XGA OLED, 0.51 in (0.5 type) electronic viewfinder (color)''Ona Lima camera strap''Keeping Motivated''Loosing motivation is a huge reason why people quit early or don’t even travel to begin with. Staying positive and telling yourself “I will travel”. Travelling can be quite a scary thing, but if you stay positive about it you will most likely have a better chance of not backing out. If you’re already abroad and are beginning to lose motivation; well you need to look forward. Travelling always has its ups and downs, but that’s what makes it so great. It’s the challenge that is rewarding when you look back. Look at travel photos, read travel blogs, or simply buy yourself a guidebook and read about new destinations. Whatever you end up doing just keep motivated about your trip.''Spent many hours lost looking for the “secret wall”, a section that is illegal to climb on. Finding it and climbing to the top was so rewarding.''Don’t Worry You Will Meet People''Many first time travellers think that travelling alone really means travelling alone. This is not the case. When you first arrive into a country you are alone, but the minute you arrive at a hostel/hotel/guest house you are bound to meet other travellers just like you! Travel far enough and you will see that even in the most remote locations you will find travellers. Some of my best experiences from travelling were because I went solo and met some really incredible people who I am still friends with to this day. When you travel alone it also gives you that push to go meet others. This push will lead you to some great experiences. So it doesn’t matter if your alone just go travel!''Even the most unsuspecting people will become life long friends. My friend Mohamed was just a rickshaw driver in Dhaka, Bangladesh. He showed me Bangladeshi culture and how amazing his country is.''Budgeting''Staying on budget''is really only important if you a truly travelling on a tight budget. Travelling comes with all its\xa0hidden expenses, but in the end turns out to be quite affordable if you do it right. Do the research of your chosen destination and make sure you understand the cost of where you are going. Know how much travel there will cost. Will you need extra flights? How much will food cost each day? Are there cheap hostels or is everything expensive now? These are questions you must ask yourself to make sure you are budgeting right. Buy a notebook and record how much you are spending each day. This way you will know if you are on track or spending too much. If you can master the budget then you will realize how affordable travelling really can be.''Count your Tomans carefully as you will become and instant Millionaire when you enter Iran!''Keeping Safe''All destinations have dangers and annoyances, but obviously some more than others. Really get to know your destination. Look online and read about other travellers experiences. Ask around before you go and you can usually find someone who is from there that will give you great info.''Guide books''are usually quite informative as well, having a safety section. Before all else, if something seems dangerous, then maybe think twice about doing it. Do not let safety deter you from travelling however. Many people have told me I was crazy for going to some of my destinations, and they turned out to be wrong. Most times you will never find trouble, but its best to be prepared if you do.''Hiking to the Afghanistan/Pakistan Border in Chitral Province is not the safest place. Thanks to my police friend Nader we were able to travel right to the border with no issues.''Expect Anything''That’s right anything! Travelling is full of surprises. Some good, some bad. So it’s best to come prepared. Travelling in the Sahara desert? Bring a winter jacket! Backpacking through cheap India? Bring some extra cash! Yes no matter how prepared you are and how much info you have been told always come prepared with a backup plan. This way no matter what travelling throws at you, you will be ready for all the obstacles.''Crawling through the Burial Chambers in Indonesia’s Tana Toraja is exciting. Finally when I entered into one of the larger chambers I lit my torch and was surrounded by the dead.''What Gear to Bring''This is a big topic. I could go on and on about what''gear is essential'', and which gear not to bring. In the end everyone has their own personal things they like to bring. For me since I have this travel website, I need to bring lots of electronics.''Tablets'',''Cameras'', Batteries, and plenty of other goodies. Your gear also depends on where you are going. For example; if you are going somewhere cold, bring a jacket. If you are travelling Thailand in the wet season, well bring a raincoat. What about the mountains? Bring hiking shoes. My best tip for this is to make yourself a list. A check list that you update every time you think of something you want to bring. Do this a month before your trip, and when the day comes you will have your list ready.''Hiking to the summit of Imet Gogo in the Simien National Park, Ethiopia. Make sure you bring the right gear! Even if its security to fight off Gelada Baboons!''Don’t Give Up, But its Ok to Quit Early''Try your best, I mean it! Try not to let those feeling of missing home and friends get in the way of your adventure. Everyone and everything will be waiting for you back there when you get home. Travelling is an amazing experience, but there will be lots of ups and downs. These are all part of the learning process of travelling. Trust me it’s hard at first. Once you get the hang of it, it will get easier and easier. If you happen to end your trip early, no problem. At least you tried. Some travelling is better than no travelling right? Maybe on your next trip you will go longer. That first trip just got you out the door and hungry for more.''Don’t Listen to Others if they are Being Negative''While travelling you will meet travellers and talk with them about where they have been or where they are going. This is a fantastic way to learn about the do’s and don’ts. It’s also a great way to learn about new destinations. One thing you will find is that some travellers love to tell you negative things. For example I have been told by some travellers that Thailand is not worth going to anymore as there are too many tourists. Thailand may have many tourists these days, but this is for good reason. Thailand is an amazing place and worth every penny you spend going there. Don’t listen to the negativity and defiantly don’t let it change your trip. Listen to the positive voice of travellers and base your decision on this.''While traveling in Peru everyone told me that Machu Picchu was “overrated” or “very touristy”. I did not listen and to my surprise I was the only one in the entire place for the afternoon. What an amazing experience it was. No thanks to all the negative travelers.''If You’re Nervous Start with a Tour''No matter how many travellers tell you that tours are not travelling, well they are just full of themselves. Tours can be a great way to get your bearings. Travelling is a daunting experience, and can be downright scary if you’re not ready. Tours on the other hand are incredibly fun! They are also a great way to meet other travellers and make lifelong friends. Starting with a tour also means you get a taste of the travel experience, and most likely it will push you to go on alone and see this amazing world. On my site I recommend some really amazing travel companies that offer true genuine adventure travel.''G adventures''is one of them. Check them out!''Rounding up your own camel is a hard thing to do. In the Hunder Valley of Northern India there are plenty of families who will take you out on a camel safari into the nearby sand dunes.''Bringing Enough Money''So many travellers I meet on the road brag about how cheap there hostel is, how they are surviving on 4 dollars a day. This is fine, but the average sight these days costs around 10 dollars to see. So why travel if you cannot afford to enjoy it? Listen, you don’t have to bring a ton of money. But by doing the research of your destination you can plan to travel on a budget, and still get the full potential of your destination. So work that extra month so you can have a trip of a lifetime! I promise by not skimping on your budget that you will feel more satisfied. You will also most likely travel again as you will see how affordable travelling really is.''If you do not prepare for your trip and don’t have enough money you will miss out on experiences like scuba diving in the Philippines!''Bumps on the Road''Travelling is an amazing experience, but not every day is a piece of cake. You will have days where all you will be thinking is how you want to go home. The bumps on the road are part of travelling. You must embrace even the worst of times and just say to yourself “it’s all part of the experience”. And it is! You learn from the mistakes. You correct all the errors, and most of all you grow and learn from the bad experiences. So if you got robbed, fell off your motorbike, or\xa0whatever the case may be, pick yourself up, brush yourself off\xa0and get a move on because there is lots more experiences waiting for you along the road.''Even after ten hours of bumpy roads and our van broke down in Ethiopia Lower Omo Valley, traveling prevailed. These two walking on there stilts crawled out of the bush and entertained us until we found a alternative ride.''Off Days''Some days while travelling you will wake up, and just not feel like travelling. Don’t let these days deter you. Just take a day off from your travels. Take a day where all you do is surf the web, lay on the beach or just go to the mall. Not every day has to be how the professional travellers act like it is. Some days its best just to relax and pick up the adventure the next day. During your off days you never know what will happen. You might meet fellow travellers who are also feeling as you are. You might discovering a more off the beaten path place without even looking. It’s all part of the experience.''Not Everything will Work Out as Planned''At the beginning of every trip you have a rough plan on what you want to see and accomplish. This plan is great, but I am promising you, not everything will work out. Plans will change, so will locations. The trail you create can even completely collapse. Don’t worry however! There is always a new trail. In fact when I travel, I make a very rough plan and more times than not\xa0it completely changes. Every trip has been incredible because of this! Some trips I discovered places that I never even knew would interest me. A lot of these places I ended up going back to, and I would have never found them if I had not had to change my itinerary. Don’t worry if it doesn’t work out, travelling has a way to always impress you with whatever route it chooses for you.''Trying to see Bromo Volcano in Indonesia is tuff, its usually cloudy. So when the clouds wont break, why not climb up the volcano instead!''Guide Books are Your Best Friend''This is probably the biggest debate amongst the big league travellers. Look online to some egotistical nomad traveller’s blog and he will be talking about what an amazing traveller he is because he doesn’t use guide books. Listen, I am being very honest here.''Guide books are essential''. Yes! It’s ok to not have one for a day or two and you will probably find interesting cool places. But trust me on this! You need to have a guide book. Especially if you are a beginner traveller. They are packed full of maps, transport info, food info oh my god the list goes on!! I even used the Lonely Planet guide book in Afghanistan! And I am so happy I did as it took me to some incredible locations! The only time I can honestly say I don’t always use my guide book is when looking for hotels. Once the hotel is in the guide book they usually raise their prices and are fully booked. So from a traveller who has successfully been to over eighty countries, I am telling you a guide book is a very helpful and essential tool.''Check online to get a better price on them. I usually find that''guide books are a few dollars cheaper\xa0online''than in an actual bookstore.''list posts''motivation''travel tips''While I was travelling the''Silk Road to Afghanistan''I met Mark on the road to''Kashgar, China''. Mark is a person I am honoured to call my friend, and an incredible person for what he is doing. By cycling the world he is able to accomplish two tasks. Mark is able to see and travel the world while helping children go to school. This is such an admirable mission that all travellers should applaud. This is Marks story, he is still currently on the road and not back in Canada yet. But his journey is coming to an end soon. There are those of us who travel because we love it, and there are those who give back at the same time and Mark has done just this. Read Below and learn more about my friend Marks incredible Journey cycling from China all the way back to Canada!''Me and Mark enjoying salty yak butter tea in Karakul Lake''The Freedom of the Bicycle: Cycling Home from China''From the moment I took my first strides over twenty months ago, I felt the freedom that bicycle travel affords. I was inexperienced, out of shape and had never rode more than fifty kilometres in a single day. Here I was standing in front of my girlfriend and the people I had known for the last two years to say goodbye. I was under the dream of cycling from Hainan, China (where I worked as a teacher at a Canadian International School) back to my home in Canada. I planned on this adventure taking two years. Other a few pinpoints on a map, I had no solid plans, no bookings and no one waiting for me at the end of the day. It would be a struggle, a personal challenge and something I had always wanted to do. It would be the adventure of a lifetime. My name is Mark\xa0Quattrocchi and I am following my dream to cycle the world''The journey itself is almost complete at this point. I have spanned the course of four contents with one remaining. 30 countries and almost 27 000 km\xa0cycled. My journey has taken me through some of the most wild terrain, vibrant cultures and beautiful scenery our world has to offer. Beginning in China I crossed the wild giant of a country and eventually met up the Uncharted Backpacker, Stephen Gollan, on the old Silk Road that took me through Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Afghanistan. From Afghanistan I did a loop through the chaos and spectacle that is India for a few months until I hit a dead-end. Flying to Turkey I moved west\xa0ward through Europe and eventually converged on the sunny Isle of Malta. Again visa restrictions kept me at bay from entering Libya and I flew to begin the behemoth that was my journey from Cairo, Egypt to Cape Town, South Africa. The dark continent of Africa, Cairo to Cape, is widely misunderstood by our world. It stands as one of my greatest achievements and most enlightening experiences on this journey. From Cape Town I made my way to Buenos Aires, Argentina and onwards up to where I cycle now in Colombia. From the desolate region of the Paraguayan Chaco, the astounding scenery of the Andes and the unruly Amazon I have carved out my own piece of what South America means to me. I now set by sights on Canada and make my way home on the final leg of my two-year cycling journey around the world.''Charity''My journey has been more than just about cycling. I have used the ride as a tool to help raise funds to build schools for children. When i set out on my ride I knew I wanted to do more than just cycle circles around the world. I wanted to ride with a purpose. To date I have raised enough to help build three schools, one each in China, India and Kenya. The schoolhouse in Ecuador is just getting under way. I have high hopes for achieving my ultimate goal of $50,000 and five schools in five countries around the world with Canadian based charity free the Children. The charity is built upon the principles of sustainable development and the idea that we all can make a difference. Youth helping youth. If you are interested in being a part of the change please CLICK HERE TO DONATE.''http://my.e2rm.com/PersonalPage.aspx?registrationID=2234192&langPref=en-CA''Why the Bicycle?''Sometimes people ask me why I chose the bicycle. I never considered myself a cyclist in any form. As I mentioned above I was fairly out of shape and I knew little about bicycles. However, I knew I wanted to do something great. Something I could look back upon when I am old and feel proud at the life I had lived. I knew that the bicycle would be the ticket to personal challenge and growth I was looking for.''Conquering the Torugart Pass into Kyrgyzstan with Mark''The bicycle puts you down on ground level. You feel every bump, the surge of mountain passes, pushing of the wind and taste of black diesel gas of passing buses. Amid all of the struggles, bad days, broken bike parts and flat tires there is one of the most rewarding feelings to ever exist. The feeling of having made it there on your own. Because of the bicycle I have been welcomed into hundreds of homes around the world. I have shared meals, laughs and discovered the intricacies of a myriad of different cultures. As I cycle along I have been keeping a log in my journal of the individual acts of kindness since I began my journey. There are now over two hundred moments where people have gone out of their way and shared the universal gift of kindness. Because of my bicycle, I have discovered what I means to be human.''My Message''I believe we are the makers of our own future. With hard work and dedication I know we can achieve anything we set our minds to. If adventure travel is something you truly enjoy, then cycle touring may be for you. It is not about being in the best shape of your life, cycling the world or conquering countries. It should be a journey of personal and worldly discovery.''Many people I meet tackle one country or section of the world at a time. South-east Asia, Europe and South America are hugely popular these days. There are facilities in place in these parts of the world to accommodate the crazy person on a bike. Choose what interests you, start reading and make it happen.''The hardest part about beginning a journey by bicycle is just that, starting. Setting the date for any type of change in life is always difficult. However, if it is something you truly are passionate about, you will make it happen. No one can force you. The only thing that stands in your way is the willpower and resolve to move forward.''For me the best way to see the world is to travel by bicycle. For others this may be a complete nightmare. It is up to you to find what works for you. Don’t be afraid to fail.\xa0 You will always regret the things you were too afraid to try. Take a chance if it really means something to you. Whether it be travelling the world, changing careers or asking someone out. Don’t be scared. Find your bicycle ride.''For more information on my ride around the world, travel photos, charity updates and general inspiration, following my website at''www.oneadventureplease.com''discovering your dreams is only the first step. Get out there and explore. You might just get lucky.''.''Why Travel to Afghanistan?''Afghanistan is a travelers dream. Unfortunately because of Afghanistan’s recent events it has been off the travel radar. Times are changing however, and travellers are beginning to enter Afghanistan borders once again. Afghanistan plays host to an amazing array of sights, cultures, and landscapes that will one day be on every traveller’s checklist. The north of Afghanistan hosts some of the country’s most exotic markets, and incredible mosques. The north also offers many hidden valleys amongst Afghanistan tallest mountains the Pamirs. In these valleys you will find hidden villages, and a wide variety of different traditional cultures. Head to Afghanistan’s centre and find pristine blue lakes, pine forests and ancient Buddhist kingdoms. The south of Afghanistan remains mostly off limits due to civil unrest, but one day the deserts near Kandahar will be filled with curious travellers looking for that long lost adventure. Afghanistan may have had a difficult past. But it is looking towards the future now. Look past all the problems and you will discover one of my favourite countries that I have ever visited.''Security Warning*''Afghanistan is changing rapidly, and is becoming relatively safer. Unfortunately Afghanistan is still an unsafe destination. There are regions that are safe though. The regions of Bamiyan, Mazar-e Sharif, Wakhan and Herat were very secure when I was there. But the security situation can change fast in Afghanistan. Always check the news/online and ask locals what they think about certain areas. When I was in Kabul it was safe; I walked freely around and stayed with locals. Three days after I left, a suicide bombing campaign from the Taliban happened right near my hostel. Information online is usually not up to date and very unreliable. You can always message me here on my website as I am kept current about the situation from my contacts in Afghanistan. My most important pieces of advice if you are travelling\xa0here: don’t\xa0travel or be out at night, wear local clothing, make friends who can work as guides, and always stay away from the known dangerous areas. Kidnapping is also a serious threat in Afghanistan, you should always make it difficult for someone to track you. Never tell anyone where your hotel is and don’t tell people your travel plans unless you trust the individual. There are very few bad people in Afghanistan so do not come here paranoid, but also keep your ear to the ground as there are more dangers here than other parts of the world.''The Basics''Language –''Dari, Pashto, Wakhi''Religion –''Islam''Capital City –''Kabul''Best Entry Points –''Khyber Pass is closed, enter through Herat crossing at Islam Qala or Friendship Bridge at the Termez border near Mazar-e Sharif. If you enter from Tajikistan you will have to cross through Kunduz. This is do-able but a dangerous choice as Kunduz is a hot spot for terrorist activity.''Visa –''Difficult to obtain, apply at your nearest embassy. May require interview about why you want to visit Afghanistan. If you’re already travelling in the Stan’s then Bishkek in Kyrgyzstan gives Afghan visas very easily.''Currency –''Afghan Afghani AFN''1 USD – 65 AFN''Best Way to Get Money –''ATM’s sometime work in Kabul. Money exchangers can be found near most markets and hotels their rates are fair and they change Euro and USD.''Daily Average Budget –''$50 – $60 USD per day''Locals having chai in the Kabul Bazaar''Why Travel to Spain?''If you’re new to travelling Europe, Spain is a fantastic place to start. If you’ve never travelled\xa0Europe, Spain will blow you away. Spain’s history, culture, and food is like no other amongst its European counterparts. Every region in Spain will introduce you to something new. Whether you’re in the fiery south; where flamenco dancer’s stomp, and Moorish architecture reigns or in the classical medieval north, Spain will impress. Spain also houses a smorgasbord of languages and dialects. With Spain’s proximity to Africa, and borders to Western Europe, it creates a complex blend of nationalities, and intriguing cultural treasures. Spain is also one of Europe’s most affordable destinations. Most cities have an abundance of budget accommodation, and sightseeing can be a fraction of the price compared to the rest of Europe. If you’re traveling in Europe already or planning to travel this continent, then don’t miss out on this amazing country and witness a completely unique part of Europe.''When to\xa0Travel to Spain''High Season''(June – August)\xa0-The high season offers the best weather. High season is also when the public holidays are and tourism is in full swing. Accommodation can sometimes double in price.''Shoulder''(March – May, September – October)\xa0–\xa0A great time to beat the crowds and also still have good weather. Travelling at this time can be amazing as there is plenty of festivals happening.''Low Season''(November – February)\xa0–\xa0Spain tends to be cold at this time of year. It can be great if you want to ski in the north but make sure you come equipped for the cold.''The Basics''Language –''Spanish, Catalonian''Religion –''Catholic''Capital –''Madrid''Visa –''not needed for most nationalities''Currency –''Euro EUR''1 USD =\xa00.91 EUR (March 4, 2016)''Typical Travel Costs and Getting Around Spain''Accommodation –''Spain has a wide variety of accommodation that can fit any budget. Spain’s major centres, as well as the\xa0smaller towns, offer hostels and guest houses. Prices of a dorm bed are as low as 5 EUR. Spain’s guest houses can also be a great bargain. Many of the guesthouses are centrally located in the historic districts, and ooze with character. More than often, these guest houses are also run by local families who will give you a great insight into Spanish culture. Guest houses in Spain start at 20 EUR for a double bed, and rise depending on location and quality. More guest houses in Spain are converting into boutique style hotels. These places cater to the midrange kind of travellers.''The prices of these hotels can vary''but expect to pay around 50-100 EUR. In some locations in Spain such as\xa0Toledo,\xa0you can stay in historic castle or other medieval type places. This is a fantastic way to experience the old Spain! These types of places can also become a sight on their own, giving you an all-round great travel experience.''Delicious Jambon''Food –''Spanish cuisine is unique in Europe\xa0because of its\xa0close proximity of\xa0Morocco to the south, and France to the north. Spain has developed a complex blend of eastern spices and typical European fare. The Spanish also have a love for Tapas. Tapas is multiple appetizers, allowing you to try a wide range of foods in one sitting. Spain is also famed for its Jambon. Jambon is essentially cured pork. Say this to anyone from Spain however, and you will receive a confused look. This is because Jambon is the most prized delicacy in Spain. Iberico de Bellota Jambon being the most famous variation. Made from a wild Spanish boar fed a very special diet. Jambon is serious stuff and can also become very expensive, but it’s very worth it to try it at least once. Another famous dish is called Paella. Paella is a delicious rice mix dish. Paella’s ingredients change depending on where you are in Spain, but the main ingredient, Saffron, does not. Eating in Spain does not have to be expensive. Just ask the locals where they eat, and usually some delicious places can be found for a great price. Eating quite well I spent around 8 EUR for most meal, but it’s very easy to find food as low as 3-4 EUR as well. If you love food as much as I do then budget yourself around 30 EUR a day, this will allow you to try most of what Spain has to offer.''Transport –''Spain being connected with the Euro Rail can provide great opportunity to travel around the country fast and efficient.''If you take advantage of the Euro Rail pass''you will be able to connect to all corners of Spain and Europe. The metro within Spain’s major centres is also phenomenal. It’s incredibly easy to use and very helpful. Most Metro tickets cost around 1-2 EUR. If the rail is not your thing or you want to take on more of the smaller communities, than Spain’s bus network is also great. Buses usually go every hour and cost a fraction of the train….sometimes. For example I paid from Seville to Grenada only 15 EUR by bus! If you however are traveling Spain or Europe on a budget then try to limit your transportation as it adds up fast. If this is the case you can always do as I did, and hitchhike around. You might end up waiting hours for a ride, but sometimes it can lead to a very fun experience. If your plan is to hitchhike, familiarise yourself with the language as it can make or break whether you’re going to get a ride sometimes.''My Favourite Places in Spain''Alhambra and in Grenada''Grenada –''Grenada is simply perfect. In\xa0Grenada you will walk its stunning cobblestone walkways through architecturally perfected medieval neighborhoods. You will visit restaurants and shops that will engrave themselves in your mind. Grenada is Spain in every single way. Granada is also home to Alhambra. Alhambra’s Moorish architectural perfection will shock you. Its mathematical skill and absolute attention to detail is a wonder of this world. Walk these detailed halls and ponder the craftsmanship of Spain’s previous rulers and complex history.''Outside the Seville Cathedral''Seville –''The fiery south includes amazing food, Flamenco dancers, Gothic/Roman architecture, and some of Spain’s most interesting sights and people. Visit Seville and get a real taste of Spain’s southern province. Time your trip right\xa0and be here for some of the most mind blowing Easter ceremonies and celebrations. Seville’s architecture (more Moroccan than Spanish) will marvel you with its palaces, churches, and ancient markets.''The halls of the Islamic Mezquita''Cordoba –''Cordoba and its white façade buildings are great, but the real reason to visit Cordoba is because of the Mezquita. The Mezquita is an example of perfected Islamic architecture. The red and white archways hypnotically go on forever throughout the dark corridors of the Mezquita. This Mosque now turned church by the Spanish king, is a perfect example of the complexity of Spanish history and culture.''Madrid –''Spain’s capital is often overlooked. Missing the capital however could possibly be your biggest mistake when visiting Spain. Madrid is Spain’s culture all wrapped into one amazing Paella. It’s historic.\xa0Full of museums offering a great look into Spain’s history. Most of all it’s where the Spanish all come to unite under one big city. Dine in some of Spain’s best restaurants or just bar hop along one of Madrid’s best drinking avenues. Madrid left me with a whole new perspective on how wonderful Spain’s residents are.''Sagrada Familia''Barcelona –''Barcelona is not Spain. It is culturally different and it feels very different. This is what makes this country so amazing. Enter this Catalonian capital and discover an entire new side of Spain. Catalonian culture and people are incredibly unique and they show this through their amazing sights like the Sagrada De Familia. A massive church not yet completed is the heart and soul of the city. A visit to Spain is not completed without a visit to Barcelona. So if you’re looking for a whole different cultural experience head over to Barcelona.''My Favourite Experiences''Selecting the Perfect Jambon –''While in the majority of Spanish cities you will see the hanging pork legs in Jambon shops. Enter these shops and taste test some of the most delicious Ham I have ever had. Pick the perfect Jambon for you and pair it with some stinky cheese and fine cheap ass wine and enjoy a Spanish quintessential experience.''The Street of Cordoba''Admiring Moorish Architecture –''Wander the halls of the Mezquita or Alhambra and you will wonder how someone can create something so absolutely perfect. The detail in the architecture is so beautiful. Seeing\xa0these places is a remarkable feeling\xa0and will stick with you long after you have left. Spain’s architecture is a great example of\xa0its diversity and the different rulers throughout history. From Islamic kings, to crusading Spanish royalty, this place is amazing.''Partying in Madrid –''Madrid is a fantastic place to grab a beer and meet the locals. So many designated drinking streets allow for traffic-free bar hopping opportunities that locals and tourists alike love. Try multiple different brews or delve into the magnitude of Spanish wines while stuffing your face with some delicious Tapas. Hang around long enough to practice your Spanish and receive some of the most heartwarming welcomes from Spain’s amazing people.''Matador versus the Beast''Witnessing the Hard to Watch Bullfight –''Yes it’s cruel and inhumane I agree. But bullfighting is a part of Spanish culture. The fights are only at certain times of the year so timing is key. The fight itself is truly difficult to watch, but remember that this is their culture, not yours. Once you get past this, you will see the crowd and their reaction to this spectacle. That was the last time I will go see this, but I am very happy that I did, and got to see the amazing dance between beast’s and matadors.''Top Travel Tips for Spain''Eat at markets and grocery stores to save money''Learn Basic Spanish as English isn’t as common here''Get beer and wine at a grocer, it’s very cheap''Be careful at night pickpockets are rampant''Grab a guide book''if you’re a first time traveller here''The sun is relentless wear sunscreen here''Avoid touristic areas for eating, it’s pricey''Check out the Eurorail pass it can save money''Stay at least one night in the countryside it’s beautiful''Meet as many locals as possible they are amazing''Barcelona and Spain are very different don’t think otherwise''Avoid festivals if you’re on a budget they can get pricey''Eat Jambon and lots of it''Medieval Toledo''If you are a new traveller or just want to see the most you can see without hours and hours of research,''check out one of the awesome guided tours''that are offered by G Adventures!''This tour''actually hits nearly all of my favourite places in Spain. Check it out!''Europe''Spain''travel guides''Ulaanbaatar and the Orkhon Valley – Mongolia''My mind is clearer here. The morning dew gives a fresh earthy scent as you breathe it in. Open your eyes to the wide vistas of emerald green seas of grass blowing in the crisp wind at your face. The odd puffy white clouds covering the ground from here and there. A chill running deep inside from the brisk cold air as I step outside from the warmth of my Ger. Central Mongolia is what dreams are made of. There is something special in the air here. Something no word in any of my stories can tell.''Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia’s Capital City''The story starts in''Ulaanbaatar''the capital city of Mongolia. In a less than appealing hostel, in an even lesser appealing restaurant serving me and my two friend’s bits and pieces of goat meat in what looks to be pasta. My travel companions Adam, and Jacob, are two friends of mine from back in Canada who met up with me here for this leg of the journey. The leg that so far has become quite frustrating due to the lack of information on our intended region of travel in Mongolia. Lunch finished; we head to our hostel to meet and interview a driver who is willing to take us on our journey.''Our route is unusual for''travelers in Mongolia''. We intend on traveling through the centre and heart of Mongolia, and down through the Gobi. After the Gobi we are not stopping like most travelers do. We will push on through a region west of the Gobi that very few dare to go. Crossing the Gobi we will head to Western Mongolia through the Altai Mountains and some of the most remote corners of our planet. We have no gear.''I mean no sleeping bag, no jackets, no camping gear and no guide.''The plan is to travel Mongolia as the Mongolian nomads do. Jackets will be replaced with the Mongolian Del. Instead of tents we will stay in Ger’s with Mongol Nomads. As for food, we will do as the Nomads do, eat when we find food from other Nomads. I am here to have the REAL Mongolian experience. Suffering from letting go of all western comforts is a part of travel learning, and I will do exactly this.''GER – A Mongolian style nomadic tent that is easily packed up and moved. Mongols favour this as there home of choice because of the ease to move to new pastures during different seasons for their animals. Also known as a YURT in Central''Asia''.''My friends Adam and Jacob accompanied by our driver Juga''Upon arriving to the hostel we are introduced to Juga. Juga a fifty some year old strong Mongolian man who makes his living taking travelers to far out locations in Mongolia. The deep creases on Juga’s face show his experience, his eyes are piercing, and don’t look away when we tell him of the challenge we want to travel. His deep knowledge of Mongolia to remote areas is evident in his confidence. Juga is the driver we need. After some Genghis vodka, and good laughs we agree on the route, and head off to the market to gather supplies.''Mongolian boots at the Naran Tuul black market''Naran Tuul''black market''is a sight itself in Ulaanbaatar. You can find almost anything you can imagine here from camel saddles to Mongolian style cowboy boots, and some other shady products. We are here to purchase the Mongolian Del. Everywhere in Mongolia you will see people wearing this traditional coat. It’s long, thick and a perfect combatant for Mongolia’s harsh climate. We managed to get our Del’s after some comical bargaining for 30 us dollars each. Equipped with our Del’s, and a quick stop at the local market for a few road snacks, and we were off into the vast emptiness of the Mongolian countryside.''The Journey Across Mongolia Begins''The city disappears fast from sight and the realities of Mongolia become very apparent, very fast. Only rolling hills populated with the odd nomadic Ger, and flocks of sheep are seen every so often. In the distance a large mound of rocks appears, with blue and green material intertwined in its mass.''“The shamans leave this for us, we have to circle it three times, and throw three rocks into it for safe passage”, Juga exclaims.''Juga pulled the van over so we could perform this ritual. The shaman rock pile gives off an eccentric energy as you circle its mysterious core. Like hearing whispers from the past it lures you to it, it speaks to you.''We kept driving for countless hours. The green rolling hills pass by like waves outside a ship. The puffy white clouds patching the vast blue sky. Juga grunting and coughing from his fortieth cigarette. The journey was long, but relaxing. We made few stops at Nomadic Ger camps to stretch our legs and sample some Arak: the local horse milk fermented alcohol. Arak tastes like fizzy sour milk. It tends to be made in a large blue cylinder tub that is churned with a primitive wooden stick. To get the fresh ingredient you must milk a horse.. It’s just as strange of an experience as it sounds.''The desert near Chuluuns Ger.''Eventually after some time the dazzling jade grasslands began to change into a desert panorama with enormous bizarrely shaped boulders strewn across the barren black stone hills.''This landscape almost has a Martian feel to it with all the golden yellow sand and the sun scorched black mountains''. We arrived at our Ger camp which was owned by a local nomadic family who housed tourists in the few spare Ger’s they have. The man of this family was named Chuluun. Chuluun was an elderly fellow who proudly watched over his domain. He had hundreds of sheep, cows and a few camels hanging around his land. Although Chuluun was an elderly man he still climbed aboard his steed and herded his animals with no effort. Chuluun brought to our attention that we should walk down to the nearby lakeshore to see more of his land. The lakeshore was about a three kilometer walk past green pastures and tall yellow sand dunes. This land was odd looking, but incredibly beautiful.''Chuluun''Chuluun riding to get his camels.''The wife of Chuluun.''Shamans of Mongolia''At the lake side we heard drums beating. The deep bass of the drum lured us curious travelers to a remote corner of the lake where it was resonating from. Hidden in between an opening of the lake reeds was a memory that still today leaves me questioning everything I thought I knew in my life.''“Hello who are you guys and why are you here?” A women says approaching us with a stern look.''I was thrilled she spoke such great English. We explained to her that we are travelers and heard drum beats so we followed the noise.''“Would you like to meet my Grandfather?” she then asked.''We of course complied with the opportunity, and were led into a circle surrounded by strangely dressed figures. The head Figure of the group was crouched over his stool holding up a bowl filled with Vodka. His posture was sturdy and proud. His voice was deep and eerie; this was the Grandfather. The Grandfather’s face was concealed with strands of colourful beads masking him with mystery. We asked the Grandfather for his blessings, and if it was all right that we were to stay here for some time. The Grandfather comically dumped the Vodka all over his face and grunted loudly while gesturing us to sit on the outside of the circle. The women we originally met at the beginning told us that her Grandfather was willing to tolerate with us observing the spectacle that was about to happen; but did not like speaking with foreigners who don’t understand his tongue. What happened next was unbelievable and marvelous!''The Shamans''Our Russian Machina.''“My Grandfather is leaving now, I have to say goodbye, just sit where you are” exclaimed the woman as she kneeled before her Grandfather.''Just then another''Shaman''man beating a drum hypnotically circled the Grandfather and sent him into a vigorous trance like seizure. The Grandfather stood up and took off his mask. To our surprise it was not her Grandfather at all. The Shaman grandfather figure had not even been a man! Instead the masked grandfather was a young girl about sixteen years old.''“Do you believe in Shamans and magic?” the women asked us with a raised eyebrow.''Unable to comprehend what we had just seen we only continued to stare at the younger girl with confusion. The women explained that they are all Shamans, and they were bringing people who have passed away years ago into the bodies of the living, so they can once again communicate with them and learn about the past. Her Grandfather who we had just talked to had just returned to what they call the “eternal blue sky”. The women told us we can stay and watch. We did exactly that. The Shamans proceeded to bring multiple other spirits back into people. We watched people who we had just been talking with, morph into completely different people. The Spirit inhabited people then lit a large fire, then had a''ceremony''with the water from the lake. Just to make this even more unbelievable we found out all the Shamans are blindfolded before they go into their trance. Blindfolded, the Shamans with the spirits poured themselves vodka, lit cigarettes and started a fire from scratch; how they did this I will never understand. I will never forget this experience, it was a truly magical experience that was a fluke accident we stumbled upon that I am so happy we did. The Shamans gave us cigarettes which we were to smoke that evening when we returned back to the Ger. We did this back at the Ger camp with a beer and watched one of the most beautiful sunsets fall over the Mongolian horizon. This day will forever live as one of the most amazing travel days of my life.''We woke to goats calling for feed, and the morning cold biting at our face. Crawling out of the Ger and stepping into Mongolia’s frigid mornings is a painful process. It’s manageable when you are greeted by Chuluun ushering you into the family Ger for breakfast although. After breakfast we said our goodbyes and were off on our Russian stallion made machine into the endless open landscape that lay ahead.''Main monastery Erdene Zuu Khid.''Kharakhorin, Chinggis Khaan’s Capital''Leaving here our first stop would be Kharkhorin. Kharkhorin is the ancient capital of the Mongolian empire ruled by the great Chinggis khaan. Not much is left of the glorious empire these days however. In the centre of town there is a massive Buddhist complex called Erdene Zuu Khid. Founded in 1586 by Altai Khaan this is Mongolia’s first Buddhist monastery. During the Communist reign the monastery suffered much atrocities and damage. Walking through the complex you will discover lots of the relics and buildings around each corner that have either recovered or were not damaged at all from the communists. Walk under the tall white walls through the main gate and you are mesmerized by the queues of dark red robed monks chanting''Buddhist''prayers.''The air filled with the heavy waft of Juniper incense, the vibrations of the Tibetan gong, and the trumpets of Conch shells making a beautiful soundtrack''. This Monastery is a sight not to be missed. Inside the monastery buildings are Thangka paintings of exquisite perfection that depict Buddhist tales of previous Lamas and Buddhist legends. The welcoming feeling here is a great example of Mongolian hospitality. You can spend hours here just soaking it all in.''Did you know? –''In the west we know Chinggis Khaan as Genghis Khan. The correct pronunciation however is Chinggis. Nobody seems to know why we call him Genghis.''Local dressed in traditional gear leaving Erdene Zuu Khid.''The walls to the Buddhist complex Erdene Zuu Khid.''We left the''monastery''to gather more supplies for the road ahead. We also stopped for lunch which consisted of the delicious Mongolian Buuz (goat meat dumpling) and Russian style Goulash. Driving high above the town into the nearby hills the first thing you see is a large stone tortoise. This tortoise symbolizes the old boundary of Kharkhorin city. The boundary that the great Chinggis himself designated. The view of the valley below is absolutely spectacular from here. You will be amazed on how far your eyes can perceive here as the air is perfectly clear and the blue sky above illuminates the stark countryside.''The beautiful Orkhon Valley''Orkhon National Park, Beautiful Mongolia''Driving through the hills and on, tall cedar trees began to emerge in the distance, and the hills grew into mountains with white peaks. The valley became steep, and an icy blue river below roared through the canyon. This is the Orkhon national park. The roads here become non-existent and you are left to navigate through the marsh lands which happened to be a daunting and difficult task.''The Orkhon is relentless and getting lost here is not advisable as you are far from civilization. Staying here you must let go of any western comforts you have; there is nothing here for hotels or restaurants just pure raw amazing Mongolia. Mongolian Nomads live here during the summer and late fall for its animals to feed on the rich pastures.''These Nomads also take in weary travelers so staying here you will be left to live the real Nomad experience.''We arrived at our family nomad stay late at night, and were greeted with the ceremonial snuff bottle (tobacco you snort) and of course a bowl of Arak. The night here was cold, but brave the cold and go outside late in the evening, and you will see stars like nowhere else on this planet. So many stars that will leave you staring into the night sky for hours studying the new sky you never knew existed.''My Mongolian Steed in the Orkhon''The Orkhon at sunset''Waking up here to the eternal blue sky and the Mongol steeds stomping the earth beside your Ger, and The scent of earth is refreshing. This place is natural; so natural that you are brought to a more primitive state of being you never thought you had inside you. As the morning cold is burnt away by the fiery orange rising sun we mounted our steeds. Mongolian horses are a testimony to this great nation. Strong, powerful and beautiful.''Mongolia’s largest waterfall Orkhon Khurkree.''Equipped with our Mongol horses we ventured deep into Orkhan territory. Passing by the odd nomad Ger, and beautiful green vistas we arrived at Mongolia’s tallest waterfall Orkhon Khurkhree. The waterfall was a great place to let the horses drink and to freshen up in its frigid waters. After some time staring at Khurkhree’s stunning nature we pushed on further. We were now enlightened by our Mongol host that we had come here in search for his yaks, goats and horses. We had been employed to help bring in the herd not knowing. Full of joy we three Canadian boys rode our steeds fast into the grasslands herding together all of our host’s animals. To become a Mongol nomad even just for one day was quite possibly the highlight of my entire trip in Mongolia. We rode until the sun began to set and brought in all the animals our host beckoned at us to get just in time for another family cooked meal inside the comforts of our warm Ger.''Shaman mound high above the city Kharkhorin.''Our Nomadic Family homestay in Orkhon''The Orkhon is a travelers dream. Come here and be brought back to nature. Relearn what it is to get back to your primitive self. The Orkhon will make everything more clearly for you, a conscious cleanse of the mind.''Bringing the Yaks back home.''We spent three days more in this pristine valley learning the ways of the Mongol nomads. From the very people whose ancestors had once conquered the known world. We were only two weeks into Mongolia and had lots of more ground to be covered. Next stop the treacherous sands of the great Gobi desert!''Useful Information''Location:''Ulaanbaatar – Mongolia’s Capital. Orkhon National Park – Central Mongolia''Costs:''Van and Driver per day, 65 US$. Hostel in Ulaanbaatar, 12 US$. Ger in the country side, 5 US$. Food per day 10 US$''Recommended Guide Book:''Mongolia Lonely Planet,''Mongolian Phrasebook''Tips:''Find a driver who you really like, take him out for drinks and get to know him. You do not need to bring all your camping gear, Ger’s are very ideal, and the food the families make is good. Do not listen to other negative travelers here, there are plenty who will tell you “you cant go there” and, “you will die without a sleeping bag”. Bring snack, there is a lot of driving, and you will get tired of goat meat.''Interested in taking your own adventure in Mongolia? Have a look at the''guided tours offered by G Adventures''and help the blog at no extra cost to you.''asia''Mongolia''travel journal''Kathmandu, Nepal''April 2015 brought devastation to Nepal.''A 7.8 magnitude earthquake rocked the capital''and much of the country, killing over 8000 people. I have visited Nepal many times in the past, but my most recent visit a few months ago left me heart broken. So many amazing places here have been either damaged or destroyed altogether. One thing however that has not changed is the heart and spirit of the Nepalese people. The people are resilient and strong; they are working hard to repair the damage that has been done and restore the desperately needed tourism industry. Unfortunately, since the earthquake tourism has been almost non-existent. My recent travels into Nepal have shown me that yes, Nepal has been damaged and yes, much of what I had loved is now gone, but this did not affect my interest at all in this wonderful nation. Nepal still is and always will be an incredible country to visit. In this post I will show some of the devastation, but more importantly I will show you why you should still visit Nepal.''Kathmandu''Kathmandu’s Durbar before the Earthquake''Kathmandu and area was by far the most devastation I witnessed in Nepal. Its main Durbar square was full of rubble instead of beautiful temples and shrines. The air filled with dust. Walk the backstreets and most of the historic buildings have support beams holding them up. This was heart breaking for me to see. Kathmandu is one of the most incredible cities I have ever been too. The government’s response to this? They decided to strictly enforce steep entrance fees to any visitors in the area. I understand that this will help, but charging the small amount of tourists here is not the answer. Once you look past the ignorant government and constant devastation however Kathmandu is still a glorious place. Many of the temples did survive, but what survived more than anything was the smiles you receive from Kathmandu’s incredible people. Do visit this city, and put up with the negatives because Kathmandu will always impress you regardless of its current state. The people will welcome you now more than ever.''Kathmandu’s Temples before the Earthquake''Kathmandu’s Temples devastated after the Earthquake''Kathmandu’s Devastated Durbar Square after the Earthquake''Bodhnath''Bodhnath before the Earthquake''Bodhnath stupa is gone. The giant gold monument atop of an impossibly huge and bright white structure is replaced by rubble. Bodhnath’s energy however still persists here. Walking the square without the Stupa looming above left an empty feeling inside me. Tibetan monks chanting, juniper incense wafting through the air, bells and gongs shaking your head, Bodhnath’s energy and spirit could not be stronger. Pay your entrance fee here and see that the money is going to the restoration of the Stupa. Monks cart and carry bricks up to its upper exterior as engineers marvel over the strong will these dedicated Buddhists have to repairing this beautiful place once again. Bodhnath’s outlying Tibetan temples have not been affected. So a visit here still leaves you with a good taste of Tibetan culture.''Bodhnath completely devastated after the Earthquake''Bhaktapur''Locals in Bhaktapur''Prepare to be amazed because Bhaktapur was left relatively untouched from the earthquake. A few of the structures in its Durbar square are now gone though. The main temples here still stand strong and proud; a visual testimony to Bhaktapur’s residents. Walking by the red brick buildings in this medieval city will lift your spirits from the devastation. The potters district is still going strong making pottery to sell and the Thangka sellers are still hawking their masterpieces to tourists. Coming to Bhaktapur was an amazing experience this time, as the air was filled with hope and the strong will of the people could not have been more present with their hospitality and genuine character. Do visit Bhaktapur. Do buy a Thangka.\xa0And do eat the delicious traditional food. But most of all give hope to these people with your presence here.''Bhaktapur before the Earthquake, Nepal''Bhaktapur before the Earthquake''Bhaktapur after the Earthquake''Patan''Patan before the Earthquake''Patan has unfortunately suffered a similar fate as Kathmandu. Much of Patan’s Durbar square has been completely destroyed or heavily damaged. Patan still shows us why it is still worth seeing. Most of its medieval backstreets are teeming with life and interesting sights to see. Even in Durbar there is still an amazing atmosphere. Having tea in one of Patan’s roof top restaurants will leave you with amazing views and vistas. Patan is in my opinion still an amazing place worth seeing! So if you’re in Kathmandu, take the time to make it here to its rival city and be rewarded with incredible sights and great people. Nothing will ever take Patan away from the heart of its residents.''Patan damaged but still beautiful after the Earthquake''Patan damaged but still beautiful after the Earthquake''Hikes Are Still Breathtaking''Hikes are still amazing, Namche Bazaar on the way to Everest''That’s right, Everest base camp, Annapurna, Langtang, they are all still waiting for tourists to trek down there trails. Hiking in Nepal is now better than ever! You have the possibility of not seeing a single tourist while you’re hiking. The trails are empty, pristine and couldn’t be more beautiful. There is also plenty of deals going on for guides and special treks from the lack of tourism. Flights to some of the regions are more tricky now, but still readily available. Getting to the trails from Kathmandu or Pokhara is still very easy and local transport is still going to the trailheads. So get out here and get the chance to hike Nepal before travelers catch on and Nepal once again becomes one of the world’s major trekking destinations.''Everest Trail''Pokhara Untouched''Pokhara Untouched''Pokhara was barely affected by the Earthquake, its hiking trails nearby are still in perfect condition. The boats still paddle across the lake and shops are still catering to the few tourists here. Pokhara is just as amazing as ever. Prices on hotels are lower and the thrill of adventure couldn’t be stronger with all the opportunities to micro flights, rafting and blood pumping high altitude hikes.''Chitwan is Still an Adventure''Chitwan National Park Rhino''A deep, dense,\xa0jungle. Exotic birds calling above you. Foliage dripping from the rolling fog. Riding atop an elephant in search of bengal tigers, indian rhinos, and sloth bears. This is Chitwan, and Chitwan is still just as amazing as ever. A true jungle safari adventure waiting to happen. The chance now to see wildlife is even better than before as with fewer tourist comes fewer safaris. This means the animals are beginning to explore outside areas more. Chitwan is incredible and my third time here was even more\xa0amazing than\xa0the previous times.''Chitwan is still Awesome''How you can you help?''Bhaktapur’s Devastated Durbar Square after the Earthquake''The best way to help Nepal is to come here. By coming here your tourist dollars will help the affected population who are trying to rebuild. Most of all it will show the Nepalese people that outsider still want to come here and give them the hope they need. Nepal is strong and its people amazing. Coming here you will only see as I did, that Nepal is not ready to give up. So come to Nepal and be a part of the traveller generation that can say “I helped Nepal”. If you cannot make it to Nepal there are a few organizations you can donate to. I have listed a few below.''https://www.unicefusa.org/''http://himalayan-foundation.org/''asia''Nepal''travel journal''Why Travel to Jordan?''Jordan sticks with you. Long after you leave its borders this country will draw you back. It could be the spirit of the Jordanian people or its stark beautiful countryside.''T.E Lawrence''crossed the treacherous deserts of Arabia to find himself here for this same reason. From the ancient mysterious carved temples at Petra to the red sand dunes of Wadi Rum, Jordan becomes an addiction. Jordan also happens to be one of the safest places in the Middle East. Jordan has a small but beautiful coastline teeming with marine life. After delving into Jordan’s spectacular natural scenery take in the ancient carved temples of Petra or the Roman city of Jerash and to finish off in the urban streets of Amman modern day Jordan so you can experience The “New” Jordan. Traveling here will get you a good taste of what the Middle East has to offer. This is the land of true Adventurers, so just as Lawrence had done you too should come to Jordan and see for yourself why he held this country and its people so close to his heart.''When to\xa0Travel to Jordan''High Season''(''March – May'') – Perfect weather warm during the days and slightly cold at night. Hotels can be hard to find as there are many tourists.''Shoulder''(''September – February'') – Fewer tourist but can be very cold and sometimes see snow.''Low Season''(''June – August'') – The desert is relentless at this time. Prices in hotels are low and very few tourists, get ready to beat the heat.''The Basics''Language –''Arabic''Religion –''Islam''Capital City –''Amman''Visa –''Visa readily available for most nationals on arrival at airport and land borders.''Currency –''Jordanian Dinar (JOD)''1 USD –\xa01.45 JOD''Typical Costs and Getting Around Jordan''Accommodation –''Most of Jordan’s budget accommodation scene comes in the form of guest houses. Some of these can be a great cultural experience as you stay in the home of a families. In Petra I was invited to a family dinner through our guest house. Most guest houses range around 10 – 50 JOD for a double private bedroom. Dormitories are often difficult to find. If staying in a guest house is not your thing don’t fret, because Jordan is home to some pretty swanky digs. Try staying in a medieval castle or an old converted Orthodox Church. Yes Jordan has some pretty interesting and historic hotels but also a good selection of''modern hotels that provide western comfort''. Most modern hotels and historic places you will find room rates can be around 50 – 100 JOD depending of course on quality, and how incredibly cool the hotel is. In my opinion, the greatest hotel Jordan offers is the one where you sleep under a million stars on a bed of sand in the surreal quietness of Wadi Rum.''Food –''Jordan’s food is an example of its positions as the cross roads for many trading cultures. Being surrounded by countries with delicious cuisines has brought Jordan to be a Foodies heaven. Imagine Arab desserts, Egyptian style rice’s and beans, Lebanese salads, Indian spices and of course you cannot forget the Turkish influence. Jordan’s food scene can only be described as sublime and with most meals only costing around 3-4 JOD you can eat till you enter a food coma. Jordan’s street food is also great for cheap eats. Shawarmas and falafel are served from street side vendors costing as low as a half Dinar. These street eats are excellent and delicious as well.''Transport –''Jordan is a small country with great roads meaning that traveling here does not take time at all. You can travel From the Syrian border to the sea in Aqaba usually in under 6 hours. Jordan for this reason is a great place to hire a cab to travel the short distances between sights. Taxi’s prices fluctuate depending on your bargaining skills and the quality of the cab. But expect to pay around 20 JOD per hour or so when driving from city to city. In town however Taxis are much cheaper as you do not have to pay the return fare. If you are on a budget or have the time and want to save money than there is also a bus network that travels to most destinations along the main highways. With this comes a busy network of Mini buses that tend to only leave when full, so waiting times can vary. Prices for these mini buses is rock bottom and can sometimes cost as low as 5 JOD for a 100km.''My Favourite Places in Jordan''Petra\xa0–''What a surprise that I choose Petra ad one of my favourite sites but this is simply because Petra is mind blowing. Right from the main entrance Petra will amaze even the most jaded of travelers. Walk its rose red coloured rock alley ways and enter the main courtyard to be amazed at this perfect architecture. There are well over a hundred different tombs and cave sites you can visit here including a giant monastery atop a steep mountain.''Wadi Rum –''My childhood imagination crossed these sand long ago. T.E Lawrence fell in love with this desert just as you will the moment you discover its serene silence and perfectly shaped Rose coloured dunes. The Arabs and Bedouin have writtem poems of this place, describing its beauty. Spend enough time here and become one with the desert.''Karak Castle –''If you are a history buff as I am you will appreciate the significance of Karak. Used by medieval crusaders fighting the armies of Salah Adin this historic castle has not changed much since its original state. Wandering its empty corridors has an almost spooky feeling and sleeping in one of the castles old buildings is a great experience that will leave you with stories to tell. Come on who doesn’t love castles and knights in the Middle East!''Amman –''Jordan’s capital city and the centre of Arab Jordanian culture. Shop for a red Keffiyeh (traditional red and white chequered scarf) and eat delicious Turkish deserts while sipping a cup of tea. Amman is Jordan’s heart and working centre that brings life to this country. Amman also has some very interesting walking tours that take you by Roman symbols and other ancient artifacts.''Jerash –''No visit to Jordan is complete without a visit to the ancient Roman city of Jerash. Its tall coulombs make photographing this city fun and easy. Oh wait there’s more! Jerash also has mock Roman battles and chariot re-enactments. Sure it’s kind of cheesy, but it’s also really fun to participate with gladiators in a real Roman city.''Top Experiences''Floating in the Dead Sea\xa0–''Yes! You really do float. Swim out into the salty waters with a newspaper and get ready to be amazed. You truly can just sit upright and float to read your newspaper and get that perfect picture to send home. The Dead Sea is also incredibly gorgeous. Its rocky desert coastline where locals often picnic and play in the water is an incredible sight.''Golan Heights\xa0–''Visiting one of the most controversial places is always exciting. It’s even more exciting when the area bares my family name. Stand among the daisy and lilac covered hills and look over the borders of Jordan, Israel and Syria.''Shepard’s and camels amongst the desert\xa0–''Hiking around Petra and the Wadi Rum you will discover there are in fact real Bedouin tribes still living here. Even better is these Bedouins are some of the most hospitable people I have ever met who love to show you there way of life. Don’t be surprised if you get invited to herd sheep or drink Bedouin tea in sand of the desert.''The Food, oh yes, The FOOD\xa0–''Jordan’s smorgasbord of cuisines have created one of the most gastronomically delicious and diverse cuisines that will drive foodies mad. Don’t get me started on the desserts! If you are lucky enough to be invited into a family’s home you will be treated with some of these spectacular dishes Jordan has developed through centuries of trade.''Top Travel Tips for Jordan''Camels bite so be cautious with these beautiful creatures''Bring an appetite for sweets, Jordanians love sweet things''If coming in summer it’s hot, really HOT''Bring a jacket as the nights can be very cool''Dress respectably, remember cover to the elbow and knees. No shorts. No tank tops.''Learning some Arabic phrases can earn brownie points''En Shallah means maybe, the kind of maybe that leads towards no''Sun screen is good, bring it''Stay at least one night in the desert''Avoid the Syrian border right now as times are getting sensitive now a days''The ferry from Egypt is ALWAYS delayed''Grab a guide book''to help you in getting around''Jordan''The Middle East''travel guides''Mexico has long been known to North Americans as the place where you go to drink, party and sit, day after day on the beach. Mexico however; happens to be one of my favorite backpacking destinations! After visiting Mexico many times it has ranked at the top of my list for “favorite destinations”, however, not for the beaches, but instead for its history and people. Historic Maya, Aztec, and Colonial Spanish cities are spread throughout the country adding to Mexico’s incredibly in depth and complex history. Mexico’s landscapes are also just as spectacular; from giant blood red copper mountains to lush humid dense jungles, and vast open barren deserts that make all corners of this nation an adventure waiting to happen. Mexico’s population is currently over 125 million which makes for some incredible diversity among its people. You can still find Mayan language speakers and the descendants of Spanish explorers throughout this fast pace country. Once you leave the Yucatan you will be amazed at how cheap of a travel destination Mexico really is. Most days in Mexico I only spent around 25 USD, and that’s including those desperately important evening cervezas. So grab your backpack and head to Mexico for something other than the beach with one of my top favorite Mexican “off the beaten track” destinations.''Oaxaca''Me and my Luchador mask in centre square Oaxaca city''Ah Oaxaca, this is where Mexico becomes so incredibly authentic to me. Oaxaca City is a bright, colorful and beautiful contrast of Spanish Colonial architecture, mixed with a traditional Mexican flare. Throw in flying Luchadores, Mexican skull art, vibrant festivals, and some of Mexico’s most exotic markets. Oaxaca is Mexico in all ways possible. If you’re looking to learn Spanish then look no further as Oaxaca offers some of Mexico’s best places to learn Spanish. Enter the markets here and order some Mole and you will taste some of Mexico’s best cuisines! Oaxaca will introduce you to the REAL side of Mexico’s cuisine and get you away from those constant taco meals. Outside of Oaxaca City, you will find a beautiful stark desert with huge black cactus inhabited mountains. This desert, however, conceals some of Mexico’s oldest ruins. Take in Mt Alban the ancient Zapotec capital sitting atop Alban’s peak. This site, being one of Mexico’s most impressive sights, dates back to 500 BC and offers an in-depth look at how this civilization lived and thrived. Alban also offers incredible 360-degree views of Oaxaca’s desert and area. Oaxaca remains to be one of Mexico’s poorest regions so volunteering opportunities here are plentiful and will leave you with a piece of Oaxaca in your heart. Getting lost in Oaxaca City at night was amazing, this city shows its true colors at night with festivals, lights, food and some of the most interesting and sincere people in Mexico.''Oaxaca local''My Favorite Accommodation in Oaxaca''– Hostal Casa Del Sol USD$10-40: This hostel is fantastic, in the heart of Oaxaca City it offers a great location and a really Mexican feel with it decorations and old building feel. Walk out the front door and you are greeted with cobblestone roads and beautiful street vistas.''www.hostalcasadelsol.com.mx''Mexico City''Mexico citys main square''Mexico City is big, no it’s HUGE. Mexico’s rough and tough capital city is full of so many sights and sounds it will keep you busy for years to come. It’s also a great place to witness Mexico’s new and old culture. The new culture being Mexico’s urban clubs and restaurants that offer a uniquely Mexican feel, but at a new modern Mexico style. Party at night and drink up some Mezcal (Smokey tequila variation) and tequila while munching on some crickets perhaps at one of these great backstreet places in Mexico City’s heart. During the day Mexico City offers very photogenic sights. From enormous Spanish cathedrals to the sleepy Aztec built canals Xochimilco, Mexico City will leave you fully impressed. The city also offers some of the best museums in all of Mexico which happen to be located on an ancient Mexican site itself! If history is not your thing, then head over to the Arena Mexico to witness some incredible feats by Mexico’s masked Luchador wrestlers (the crowd goes insane here!). Mexico City’s diverse sights and people will leave you wondering why more people don’t start their trip to Mexico here. I loved drinking Mezcal in Roma Norte district. Bar hopping between these traditional styles Mezcalerias was fantastic!''Sleepy Aztec built canals Xochimilco''My Favorite Accommodation in Mexico City''– Hotel Catedral USD$40-70: This hotel located in the historic center is a beautiful showcase of traditional Spanish architecture and décor. It’s not a cheap place but it well worth splurging to stay here as it is a sight in the city itself. The rooftop patio offers amazing views of the city and a great place to relax with a drink. I will always drop a few extra notes to stay here.''www.hotelcatedral.com''Teotihuacan''Teotihuacan''Located on the outskirt of Mexico City just 50km away is the massive archaeological site of Teotihuacan. Teotihuacan was Mesoamerica’s greatest city at one time, Piramide Del Sol the largest of the many pyramids is the third largest pyramid in the world! Climbing atop this massive structure gives you an overview of how impressive this city must have been in its day. The area is frequented by many tourists; so with many tourists comes the overwhelming amount of sombrero sellers and hawkers alike. But Teotihuacan is so big that it’s easy to escape the tourists and hawkers here and have a genuine adventure surrounded by some of Mexico’s greatest relics. Teotihuacan area is also fascinating to hike around. It’s dry desert climate and cactus covered hills are great for escaping the city if you need a bit of nature. My favorite experience here was just simply climbing the enormous Piramide Del Sol and watching the sun set over the city and desert landscape.''Simply climbing the enormous Piramide Del Sol and watching the sun set over the city and desert landscape''My Favorite Accommodation in Teotihuacan –''Being so close to Mexico City I visited here as a day trip. Getting here by local bus is simple, easy and cheap from the station Mexico City Norte.''Tulum''Tulum, Mexico''Yes I know Tulum is in the Yucatan and is a highly touristic area, but hear me out! All the tour buses and tourists come here as a day trip from one of the millions of resorts. Meaning that not too many people actually stay here in Tulum. Tulum has a great Hostel and drinking scene and a backpacker’s vibe to it. And staying here means you can visit Tulum ruins at any time of day to avoid all the tour groups. Tulum’s ruins are spectacular! The Mayans this time really could not have picked a more picturesque location. Walk through the hillside ruins and discover sacrificing temples and old markets then head on down to the beach and hunt for more undiscovered hidden archaeological gems. Tulum’s beaches are also amazing. Most tourists don’t come here for the beach so you usually end up having quite a private beach experience here, (with exception to the Tulum Ruins beach of course which gets very busy mid-day). Tulum also offers some great Scuba Diving outfits and yoga classes. So if you’re looking for a beach getaway with a little bit of adventure than Tulum is a great place to kick back and enjoy a peaceful side of the Yucatan. While visiting Tulum towards sunset I went snorkeling and found more pieces to this ancient city beneath the depths of the ocean. When I surfaced from the water I was faced with one of the most amazing views of the temple-dotted shoreline.''My Favorite Accommodation in Tulum –''Weary Traveler USD$ 10-30: The weary traveler is by far the best hostel in the area…. Well at least for the money. Being in the Yucatan you will notice prices go up fast, but the Weary Traveler has remained an affordable place for travelers. It’s also conveniently located near the bus station making it easy to find.''www.wearytravelerhostel.com''Palenque''Deep in the dark jungles of Chiapas lays one of Mexico’s best uncharted/unexplored Mayan ruins that gets overlooked by many. Palenque is where travelers come for a jungle adventure. Huge temples and pyramids half buried in the red earth amidst a dark and noisy jungle, Palenque is awe inspiring. Most of the ruins are still undiscovered and ongoing excavation is happening, so there is still the chance to explore and come across some secrets that lay hidden here. There is also lots of mystery about Palenque and its history. This can be explored by visiting the Palenque’s wonderful museums and exploring the temple walls which are covered in texts and paintings. Palenque is not the easiest place to reach, however. Situated quite far from the Yucatan, and Mexico City makes this place isolated. Therefore it’s one of the best sights in Mexico! If you’re looking for true adventure in the deep heart of Mexico then head over to Palenque as I did. I will never forget sitting atop one of the temples in the evening listening to Macaws, and the noise of the jungle beginning to awaken for the night. At night this place becomes magic with the moonlight reflecting off the gray temples and the black noisy jungle surrounding you and this surreal place.''Sunset over Palenque''My Favorite Accommodation in Palenque –''Hotel Xibalba USD$ 40-80: While in Palenque why not make the Mayan experience even better by staying in a traditional Mayan style hotel. With ancient sarcophaguses and Stonewall carvings, this place is crazy cool. Not the cheapest but well worth the bit of extra money for the experience.''www.hotelxibalba.com''Mexico''North America''Top 5''Tripoli and Leptis Magna – Libya''When you think of Libya, images of violence, revolution, and the former dictator Muammar Gaddafi probably come to mind. While violence is still rampant throughout the country, the revolution is over and Gaddafi is gone.''This is a new Libya'': a nation facing political chaos in the aftermath of revolution. Free of the tyranny and terror that was Gaddafi’s reign, Libya is a country ready to show the world its once concealed beauty.''Getting to Libya''Landing in Tripoli airport, you are greeted by camouflaged youth wielding machine guns, the harsh reality of war and revolution. Arriving at eleven in the evening, the tension ripples through the air like static. After sunset, the police head home and the rebels emerge, transforming the streets into a dusty battlefield. Amazingly, my bags come through on the belt with everything intact, and my boss is waiting to greet me. We bypass the taxi Mafia, slip into the car, and begin our journey to Tripoli.''Airport road is frequently the battlegrounds of the rebel factions and other criminal activity, but tonight we are safe.''From the airport you can see the Bab Al Aziza, Gaddafi’s former palace. These days all that remains is a graffiti covered wall encircling a compound of poverty, rubble, and heavily armed Militia. Next comes a series of bombed out NATO buildings, each backed by a story of intertwined heroism and terror. From here you arrive at Martyr Square, the heart of Tripoli and the revolution. The square, surrounded by Italian and Ottoman architecture, is filled with functioning fountains and friendly faces, a testament to the country’s past and future, and a surreal contrast to the bombed out buildings that precede it.''Just off the square, the streets are filled with a blend of Turkish, Italian, Tunisian, and knock-of Western chains – Uncle Kentunki (KFC) stands in the mix. Tonight we choose Italian; or Italian with a Libyan twist: Pizza topped with Mediterranean fish and North African spices.''Libya’s Version of KFC''Martyr Square''Our hotel, dubbed the “Golden Beach”, is just down the street from this restaurant and right at the sea front. Arriving in the evening, it’s pleasant to see the hotel functioning as most other modern hotels. The rooms are clean and the Wi-Fi dependable. Sleeping here is a whole other story. At night, the streets come alive. With few laws, and even fewer enforced, fireworks proliferate and light up the sky – every night.''The symphony of colour and celebration is accompanied by the still lingering machine guns, hand-guns, and odd explosion''. This place is wild, and unimaginable land embracing the present. This is Libya after nearly forty years of painful dictatorship.''Italian Built Part of Tripoli''I’ve''come to Libya''to teach English, and the next morning we begin to set up our college. The school is located on “Tile Street”, a street filled with shop after shop all selling the same products, leaving you to wonder how business is conducted… but I’m not here to judge. For the next three days, I’m preoccupied with the preparations for the school. This is where I meet Abdelmonem.''Italian Church, turned into a Mosque After WW2''Monem is my first contact with the Libyan people. At 24, he is an English major who helped run an international school. He is an exceptional guy, who’s English and knowledge of Western culture is better than mine. He is also closely tied to his Libyan roots. A proud Libyan and devout Muslim, Monem becomes my ticket into Libyan society and culture.''That night, he introduces me to his “gang”, a blend of ex-rebel fighters, construction workers, and security militia, all living normal lives''. The guys initiate me into their group, sharing with me their love of hamburgers and Bakbooki, a Libyan pasta that involves everyone in the cooking process. In a country that struggled through dictatorship and bloody revolution, people like this show me the resiliency of Libyans, a culture unwilling to give up.''Tripoli Medina''Tripoli Medina''Mosque in the Centre of Tripoli Medina''The next day, Monem takes me into the Tripoli Medina to further introduce me to all the country has to offer. The Medina is the centre of Tripoli; its winding, narrow streets are filled with people selling and haggling goods from Libya and around the world. Some alleyways are designated to copper banging, where people make everything from pots and pans to the crescent that sits atop mosques. Others are filled with black market goods, and there is even a completely intact building selling traditional North African clothing, from tribal Berber garb to modern Libyan marriage attire.''My favourite is the carpet bazaar, where we find colonial antiques and a wide variety of illegal animal skins and ivory, all testaments to the legacy of empires that have ruled the country''. It’s easy to get lost in the labyrinth of alleyways and forget about the war torn streets on the other side of the wall. As we continue our walk, we are continually reminded of the foreign powers that have occupied the land: Ottoman and Arab architecture are contrasted with the Arch of Marcus Aurelius, a remnant of Tripoli’s vital participation in the Roman Empire. Combined, it’s an intoxicating blend of architecture, history, and culture, and I find myself growing even more eager for the months to come.''Copper Banging Tripoli Medina''As part of my initiation into Libyan culture, Monem and I delve into a compulsory sampling of Nargile. Nargile, or Shisha as we know it in the West, is a flavored tobacco smoked from a water pipe, and is a favourite pastime of Libyans. Walk along the Medina long enough, and you will most definitely be greeted by the fruity and perfumed smoke of the Nargile coffee shops. I find a “locals only” sort of place, hidden deep in the maze of alleys. I frequented it often for its “off the beaten track” feel. The location? My secret. The Ahwa, a Nargile coffee shop, is a beautiful example of Medina architecture. I highly recommend cozying up and relaxing with a Nargile pipe and a cup of Arabic coffee.''Exit the Medina, and you are once again faced with the reality of modern Libya – youth militia, wanna-be gangsters with handguns, and roadblock after roadblock of endless security''. This is Libya, a complicated blend of history and violence, standing guard over their culture.''Leptis Magna, Libya''While in Libya, one of my top priorities is to make it to''Leptis Magna''. Musab, one of my students at the college with whom I built a strong friendship with, arranges transport to take me there. Musab is a 23 year old Petroleum Engineer who entered the ESL school as a student and the working receptionist, practicing his English in hopes of a future as an engineer outside of Libya, the internal oil reserve continuing to lay untouched. Musab is another testament to the hospitality and kindness extended to me while in Libya. Before we head out for the Leptis Magna, his family invites me into their home for a delicious meal of North African cuisine. Musab, equally as proud of his culture as Monem, would continue to take me on exotic food expeditions, but today our goal is to get to Leptis Magna.''Well known for its ancient ruins, Leptis Magna stands out amongst the many other sites. History tells us that it was founded around 1000 BC by the Berbers. After the Berbers, the succeeding empires of Carthage and Rome took over the landscape. The Romans in particular left behind many examples of grand architecture, visual reminders of their power. Leptis Magna, located 130km of potentially dangerous coastal roads outside of Tripoli, is by far the most unspoiled and spectacular of the Ancient Roman cities in the Mediterranean. If you risk the trip to Libya, you need to extend that risk and make the journey to these ruins, for it is a truly magical experience. Unlike other ancient Roman cities, in Leptis Magna the silence is deafening. Rather than hordes of tourists, here you’re more likely to be greeted by a Libyan family on an afternoon picnic.''You are free to roam the city, imagining back to a time when it was the seat of North Africa’s Roman Empire, just don’t become overwhelmed by the haunting silence''. The site is too big to take in all in one day, but the best features are the granite steam baths and the amphitheater.''The Arch of Septimius Severus''I managed to make the trip to Leptis Magna four times while in Libya, each time uncovering more secrets of the nation’s past. Unfortunately, the current security in place does not let you linger for long, and you need to leave early to make it back to Tripoli before the roadblocks make it impassable, and shadowy corners become overwhelmed with thieves and rebels. History is once again juxtaposed with the reality of a recovering country.''Leptis Magna Amphitheatre''After five months, I managed to see many sights in Libya, each an example in its own way, that the country is far from lost. There is potential for it to become one of''Africa’s greatest tourist destinations''. For now, the security is sketchy, and getting your hands on a Visa is difficult but not impossible. I can only imagine – and hope – that with time, it will blossom into a hotspot destination. Before you accept the nation at face value for what we are presented with in Western media, look deeper into the history of the culture, the land, and its people, and realize the potential for the future.''The Coast Outside Leptis Magna''International decaying businesses Tripoli Beach''Useful Information''Location:''Tripoli, Leptis Magna,''Libya'', North Africa''Visa:''Very difficult to obtain. Best to contact nearest embassy and ask about current visa situation. You can ask my friend''Tidwa''as well.''Costs:''Taxi in Tripoli, 3 US$. Budget Hotel in Tripoli, 50 US$.''Transport:''Taxi’s will usually not take foreigners to Leptis Magna. Your only option is to befriend a local, or go to the''Corinthia Hotel''and book a private vehicle.''Recommended''Guide Book:''Lonely Planet Libya''Tips:''Double check the security situation. This is Libya, things change fast.''africa''Libya''travel journal''Why Travel to Thailand?''Thailand as you may already know, has become an increasingly popular destination to visit, and rightly so! Thailand is the stomping ground for many travellers alike for its post card like beaches, steamy elephant filled jungles, and a culture that lies deep in every single Thai local you meet. Thailand is also famed for its food. It is a\xa0unique but complex blend of Indian curries, Chinese influenced noodle dishes, and spicy Thai ingredients that go together so perfectly. After you indulge in the food and the natural scenery, Thailand has a plethora of activities for you; try world class scuba diving or jungle elephant safaris. If that’s not for you than find that perfect piece of heaven on one of''Thailand’s many secluded island paradises''. Thailand is full of adventure waiting and a travelers dream.''The Basics''Language –''Thai''Visa –''On Arrival for most Nationals''Religion –''Mainly Buddhist''Currency –''Thai Baht THB''1 USD – 35 THB (Feb 12, 2016)''Typical Costs and Getting Around Thailand''Accommodation –''Thailand has an extremely''large variety of accommodations''. From the past few years’ tourism boom; accommodation can range from a 150 THB dormitory to a 15 000 THB beach resort. To give an exact amount of how much you will pay depends also on season; for example, I have seen beach accommodation in the south and jungle camps in the north double in price for the high season (''November – March''). For an average price expect to pay for a budget guest house 350 – 700 THB and a flashy midrange hotel 850 – 1450 THB. If you’re on a budget it’s a good idea to stay away from western style hotels but if you need that western comfort 3000 THB will get you it. Thailand’s thriving tourist industry makes looking online for discounts easy or just check more than one guesthouse in each location.''Food –''Thailand is a food lover’s dream; its smorgasbord of local fare that is\xa0cheap and delicious. The food varies by region; for example, in the north, pork is king. Head down south and burn your tongue off with the spiciest of seafood curries that Thailand has to offer,\xa0or to Bangkok, home to Thailand’s largest street food options. If you are traveling on a budget, a simple noodle soup or rice with meat will cost as low as 50 THB. Walk into a Thai style local restaurant and a curry with rice and a beer will cost about 150 – 350 THB. Try to avoid restaurants in tourist areas like Kao San Road in Bangkok or on many island beaches as the food here will be lower quality and expensive catered mostly for vacationer’s whose budget is much higher and knowledge of authentic Thai food is non-existent. If you’re more flexible with money Thailand has a growing Asian fusion restaurant scene making some very nice modern style dishes.''Transportation –''Transportation has changed greatly in the past few years in Thailand. The days of riding buses with chickens and other farm animals are long over and have been replaced with a modern transport line that connects to all corners of Thailand. If you’re looking to go south towards Malaysia or directly North to Chiang Mai then your best option is to take the train. There are three classes 1st, 2nd, and 3rd. There are\xa0also different types of train’s, there are sleepers, which have a small bed and sometimes a curtain, and non-sleeper, which is soft padded chairs good for shorter distances. The train is usually good value and prices depend on distances but for a ten hour train I paid 980 THB in 2nd class. It’s advisable to book your train a few days ahead because they fill up quickly, especially in high season. Thailand’s bus network is incredibly efficient. Its buses can get you pretty much anywhere in Thailand, sometimes faster than the train. They now have luxury buses that have WIFI and reclining chairs making life much easier than it used to be. A\xa0bus will range from about 400 – 1000 THB for a five hour journey depending on the quality and company of the bus. If you’re looking to get around Thailand fast there are many new airports allowing you to fly to many of Thailand’s popular destinations. Cheap airlines like AirAsia makes it sometimes cheaper than taking the train or bus, but it’s almost cheating as\xa0you miss lots of Thailand’s beautiful country side and smaller communities.''My Favourite Places in Thailand''Bangkok –''Bangkok is Thailand in every way, its temple lined streets buzz with energy and the markets spill into the streets adding so much color to this beautiful and chaotic blend. What I love most about this city is its mere size.''Every visit to Bangkok''I discover a new hidden temple or restaurant that keeps me coming back to this fast paced city. Another big part of why Bangkok is so amazing is its people; approach anyone in the streets and they will greet you with a smile and treat you to Thai hospitality.''Chiang Mai –''Chiang Mai is another obvious choice to visit; this vibrant city offers gorgeous temples and nearby elephant inhabited jungle opportunities. I love Chiang Mai for one reason and that is food. Chiang Mai to me has the best food in Thailand; it’s incredibly complex and the wide variety keeps you trying new dishes every day (Chiang Mai pork sausage are my favourite). After I have eaten to my heart’s content it’s nice to take a stroll around. Walk the streets of Chiang Mai and you are guaranteed to see tribal people still wearing traditional outfits and you can hear many different dialects being spoken.''Sukhothai –''Thailand has many ancient sights but none compare to Sukhothai’s large array of crumbling temples and Buddha effigies hiding in even the smallest of places. Cycle around the city limits to countless historic temples and palaces to discover Thailand’s rich history and of course snap those needed pictures of monkeys running along a 1000 year old wall.''Koh Phi Phi –''Everybody who has been to Thailand has there biased view of which is the best island; I’m not here to tell you Koh Phi Phi is the best; it’s just my favourite simply because of\xa0its beauty. Yes many MANY tourists come here, but think to yourself.. maybe there’s a reason for that. Stay long enough in Koh Phi Phi and realize that most tourists only stay here long enough to get that quintessential Thailand beach picture and then ship out. Stay here past that and discover Koh Phi Phi’s hidden beaches; only found through hard to find jungle paths. You just might find yourself on your own private beach through one of these hidden passages. Koh Phi Phi also has some of Thailand’s best snorkeling and scuba diving opportunities that even the most advanced diver will appreciate.''Top Experiences''Thai cooking course Chiang Mai –''Learning to cook Thai food is important, why you ask? When you return home you will crave this food, you will crave it so much that all you will do is think about why you didn’t take the time to learn how to make it. If you do choose to take on this opportunity; there is a wide variety of cooking schools in Chiang Mai that are fun and include a trip to the local market to learn about the ingredients that go into Thai cooking.''Scuba Diving –''Thailand is a scuba divers paradise; it has so much rich marine life and different kinds of dive sites from drifts to wrecks. If you are new to scuba diving then head over to one of the well-known islands and take your first dive and become addicted to this insanely fun sport. Thailand’s diving industry is also very affordable and easy to arrange dives. So get out there and maybe you just might see that whale shark everyone talks about.''Scooter Life –''Renting a scooter in Thailand is such a great experience! Get out there off the beaten track with your scooter. In the north you can drive out to minority villages passing by emerald green rice fields being plowed by elegant buffalo. In the south you can circle most islands in a day and find perfect hidden private beaches. And if you’re really a thrill seeker, take on the suicidal streets of Bangkok.''Relaxing in a Temple –''Thailand has so many temples that are all unique in their own way and leave you with an unforgettable experience. Look past the main temples that everyone visits and you can discover more traditional temples. Learn about Buddhism and how it ties deep into Thai culture in one of these amazing temples. They are also incredibly peaceful and great places to relax. Sit back and watch the line ups of orange robe monks do their prayers and maybe even get the chance to get a Sak Yant (magic tattoo) from a monk.''Top Travel Tips For Thailand''Don’t point with your feet, it’s considered rude especially pointed towards a Buddha figure''Do not touch anyone’s head, it is also considered very rude''Be adventurous. Try all food even if it looks strange''Donate to the elephant sanctuary, they are doing great things there''Be careful with tides while snorkelling''Sunscreen is probably a good idea here''Learn some useful Thai phrases and earn respect''Learn about Buddhism and visit temples''Try to interact with northern minorities by conversing and not just taking photos''Tuk Tuk’s don’t tell the truth in Bangkok, monks are not on holiday.. trust me''Tuk Tuk’s will stop more than once at a gem shop.. trust me''Tuk Tuk’s…. ok take them once for novelty.. but they are scams''Pink taxis in Bangkok are metered''Beer at 7-11 is very cheap… so is the Whiskey''Did I mention that 7-11’s beer is the cheapest?''If you are new to travelling, I recommend at the very least grabbing a guidebook to help you out with exploring a new country. They have made my travelling experiences go much more smoothly than they probably would have otherwise.''Grab one on Amazon''and help support the blog at the same time, at no extra cost to you!''Or if you are interested in a more guided adventure that will also give you the chance to meet many new friends along the way have a peek at some of the trips''offered by G Adventures for Thailand''.''Southeast Asia''Thailand''Travel Guide''I have traveled to Myanmar twice in the past five years and this country lies so close to my heart. Spending over three months in Myanmar I could not get enough of it.''Where is Myanmar?''Myanmar is a Southeast Asian nation''situated between the countries of China to the north, Thailand to the East, Bangladesh and India to the west. Myanmar is home to many languages, but Burmese is the most widely spoken and understood language of the nation. Myanmar’s capital city ‘Yangon’, located near the southern coast is a complex blend of Myanmar’s people, being a mix of Bamar, Indian, and many other tribal/minority groups. The population of Myanmar is around 53 million and makes it one of Southeast Asia’s greatest diversities of ethnic groups. Travel to Myanmar and you will be rewarded with one of Southeast Asia’s best kept secrets. Myanmar has been closed to foreigners for many years, but has recently opened its land borders and remote locations.''Myanmar or Burma?''This is a question often asked by many who are interested in travel to Myanmar. Ask any local and they will tell you Myanmar not Burma, because the name Burma was given to this country by the British for its largest ethnic group the Bamar. Myanmar’s people who make up of over 135 ethnic groups prefer their new country name.''Let’s explore some of my favourite destinations in Myanmar.''Bagan''Bagan is home to one of Southeast Asia’s greatest wonders! There are\xa0over 4000 Buddhist temples spread across an impressive 26 mile radius. Bagan is located in Myanmar’s centre, more of a dry desert rather than dense jungle like elsewhere In Myanmar.''What’s the best way to see Bagan?''Well there are two great options. The first being by electric motor scooter. Easy to ride and surprisingly tough, you can zip in between Bagan’s temples and find hidden sights nobody has seen before. The second way to explore is to take one of Bagan’s hot air balloons. This option digs deep into your pockets at about 320 US Dollars, but gives you a great overview and allows you to grasp how large this area really is. My favourite experience visiting Bagan is riding my electric scooter down a back dirt road during sunset. I passed beautiful fields of green vegetables being picked by tribal people balancing baskets on their heads all while the glimpses of soft light peeked through the ancient trees above me. This experience was so incredibly peaceful. There was nothing else like it.''Favourite Accommodation –''May Kha Lar guest house at $13 – $30. This place is hilarious! The owner often coerces you into drink whiskey with him\xa0and the rooms look like bamboo huts from Rambo. Price is great, beds are comfy, has air-con and WIFI.''Inle Lake''Imagine a hidden remote lake nestled in between forest covered mountains. This lake also has\xa0floating temples and villages with some of Myanmar’s most interesting people. This is Inle Lake.''Inle Lake is located east of Bagan and is a surprisingly easy journey to make from the capital Yangon or Bagan. Inle Lake is famous for its floating villages. The main ones have their own floating gardens and floating temples. These\xa0sometimes feature cats that have been trained to jump through hoops by their masters, who also happen to be the resident monks. Traveling to Inle Lake twice now has given me two very different experiences. The first time here I took local boats to different villages and temples visiting the monks with their jumping cats and being spellbound by the fisherman who paddle their boats snake-like with a paddle strapped to their legs. The second time I explored more of Inle Lake’s shoreline which is home to some very interesting minority groups only found in this region of Myanmar. Both visits however were special in their own way and left me excited to return to this amazing place!''Favourite Accommodation –''May guest house is $15 – $30. Great location, garden, informative staff, and super atmospheric. I have stayed here twice now and probably won’t stay anywhere else. Book ahead, it made it into Lonely Planet so you know that the means.''Yangon/Shwedagon Paya''Myanmar’s capital city is not like other Southeast Asian capitals. Its streets and buildings are all made up of decaying colonial British architecture inhabited by countless people, shops, and other interesting sights worth seeing. But this is where Myanmar’s new age culture is beginning. Myanmar’s people who have a fascination with heavy metal and classic rock often host rock shows and concerts here. There are\xa0also a great bar and live music scenes beginning to pop up everywhere. Yangon is also home to one of Myanmar’s greatest sights, the Shwedagon Paya. Shwedagon Paya, a 325 foot zedi, is made up of around 27 metric tons of gold leaves and thousands of other gems/diamonds. It can be seen from almost any part of Yangon and will impress even the most jaded travelers. I have visited Shwedagon Paya many times. Walking clockwise around its courtyard in the evening is an experience unmatched by any other. Monks chanting, giant gongs vibrating the air, the glimpses of light bouncing of the gold stupa, the thousands of pilgrims praying, this place will change you. After being zenified by this place, head on down to 19th street for some brews and death metal to relive one of my favourite Myanmar experiences.''Favourite Accommodation –''Cherry guest house at $20 – $35. Located in the back streets on the fourth floor of an old building, the Cherry gives you a great view of Yangon’s congested streets. Its comfortable rooms are well equipped with all a traveler needs, and the staff here are incredibly helpful. Very central and easy to walk to most major sights from.''Shan state''On my last trip to Myanmar, the Shan state had just opened. Being closed for so many years has kept this region unspoiled from outsiders. Shan state is an adventurer’s dream. Its emerald green rolling hills, conceal countless minority villages, some of which have not seen outsiders ever before. This is Myanmar at its rawest form. Shan is rough, visiting here is not for those faint of heart. Expect awful road conditions, looks of horror from others and the chance of violence from political tension to happen while traveling here. Those who brave it will get the travel experience that only the most extreme travellers strive to earn. For me, coming here and spending time with Tribal people who are so primitive and traditional was an experience like no other. Learning about how these people survive here and the different ethnicities brings a whole new outlook to\xa0Southeast Asia’s hidden wonders. One time in particular, always comes back to\xa0my mind. I\xa0was visiting a remote “off limits” Wa minority village and the tribe their was extremely interested in why an outsider was visiting them. They showed me their local Shaman and his drum – which if you touch was a\xa0penalty of death. They then proceeded to show me where they grow opium to make money for their village, what a place!''Warning:''Visiting the Wa is not recommended, I am a very experienced traveler who has spent much time in conflict zones. If you do decide to visit this hard to reach region please do as I did and hire a local guide who knows the area and people. Going without\xa0a guide can result in very dangerous situations as the Wa are not always hospitable to outsiders.''Favourite Accommodation –''There isn’t much here I’d recommend as in the cities the hotels are overpriced and low quality. In Kyaingtong I stayed at the Princess hotel. After bargaining the rooms came to $30 USD for a twin. My opinion, get out of town and stay with the tribes!''Mt Kyaiktiyo''Often overlooked by travellers (which is absurd in my opinion!) and located a few hours east of Yangon, Mt Kyaiktiyo should be on every traveller’s list to see. At first glance you see something gravity-defying.\xa0There is a large golden\xa0globe balanced by one of Buddha’s hairs. I guess in a sense, this is gravity-defying. A journey here is a journey thousands of Buddhist pilgrims make a lifetime commitment to come here for. Kyaiktiyo (hard to pronounce, I know) is essentially a giant gold boulder atop a steep mountain surrounded by temples. This is as unique as Myanmar gets, as this place ranks in some of the strangest, but most amazing places I have seen. My favourite experience here is actually the journey to the mountain top. Starting in Kinpun, you are piled shoulder to shoulder into the back of a monster of a\xa0pickup truck. After about 50-60 people are squeezed in, the truck begins its hair raising journey up the dangerous mountain roads. If you in any way fear what I have just said, then opt for taking private transport as this ride is actually pretty horrifying. I personally loved the adrenaline high from this crazy ride of pilgrims and bad asses! Once the ride is finished and you have reached the summit, you begin to calm down as you gaze upon\xa0the Golden Rock. I spent hours exploring the summit and meeting pilgrims with the most interesting stories across Myanmar, only to ride back down the crazy roller coaster mountain path.''Favourite Accommodation –''Sea Star Hotel at $15 – $30. Located in Kinpun, this hotel is in close proximity to\xa0the buses for the mountain tour and\xa0is basic and cheap. It has a wide variety of bungalows, some of which I have stayed in on my first visit, but I opted for the cheaper ones the second time here. Decent hotel and friendly staff, and you can’t beat the location.''If you are interested in Myanmar, and are not quite ready to take the plunge alone,''I highly recommend going for a trip with G adventures''. They are a travel adventure tour company that offers small group tours, and they will take care of pretty much everything!''Myanmar''Southeast Asia''travel journal''Why Travel To Libya?''Ask anyone in the travel world about Libya and you will get a blank stare. It is best known for the terrible conflicts that have occurred over the past few years, but in fact, it has the potential to become one of''Africa’s''and the Sahara’s greatest travel destinations. Imagine the largest ancient Roman ruins. Lost Saharan Cities. It has some of the most picturesque oasis and largest sand dunes in the world. It also has a rich culture which Libyan people take great pride in. As of now Libya is not the easiest country to get to as they often close their borders, make visa’s impossible to get and spurts of violence occur too often for comfort. But if you decide to head to Libya you will be rewarded with having the entire country to yourself and every curious local willing to help you see and experience this amazing place.''Security\xa0Warning*''The revolution left Libya broken and leaderless. Countless officials claim power and fight for the throne while rebel militia settle disputes with violence in the same neighborhoods where innocent people are going about their day. On top of this, several terrorist organizations have attacked random hotels, often killing foreigners. Travelling Libya can be incredibly frustrating and downright dangerous, so do not say I didn’t warn you if you still decide to go there. In time Libya will become one of Africa’s great destinations, but current situations are keeping this in the distant future. Yet there is hope. All governments which are in place agree that security is Libya’s main issue and they are doing wonders in training the police and anti-terrorism units. If you decide to travel to Libya it’s best to ask, and strictly listen to, what the Libyans tell you, if they are unwilling to go somewhere it’s for a very good reason. Check your local government websites for updates and keep your ear to the ground if all is well then travel but please be cautious.''The Basics''Language –''Libyan Arabic, Berber''Visa –''Difficult to obtain. Contact your nearest embassy''Religion –''Islam''Currency –''Libyan Dinar LYD''1 USD – 1.40 LYD (Feb 3, 2016)''Typical Costs and Getting Around Libya''Accommodation –''Major cities such as Tripoli have a good selection of hotels, however you may find it difficult to find anything budget friendly. In the Medina you may be able to stay at one of the local hotels which are comfortable and the price is low at around 50 LYD. Apart from these smaller hotels there are larger “beach” hotels for around 80 LYD and the five star international hotels like the Corinthian that will cost 250 LYD and up. Outside of Tripoli, towards the smaller oasis towns and coastal villages finding accommodation can be very difficult, most hotels in guide book are closed down due to the lack of tourism. Despite this, there are some places like Jebel Nafusa and Ghadames which do have some very traditional accommodation available, usually at a decent price. In Libya nothing is guaranteed so you will have to either call ahead or arrange to stay with a local family which if this is an option that is available to you.''Food –''Libyan food is unique and delicious. Libyan food ranges from 20 LYD fresh seafood (which is caught and prepared the same day) to 3 LYD street Shawarma, and if you’re lucky a free incredible meal from a local family. Libya has also taken a huge liking to western food. Pizza, hamburgers, and all kinds of gelato ice cream are readily available in Tripoli. Leave the city limits and this all but disappears. Traditional Libyan dishes include Bourdim; a slow cooked lamb in a sand pit, Bazin; a large mound of barley dough cooked in red Libyan style curry eaten with your hands, Seafood couscous; popular in Tripoli is miscellaneous seafood cooked in a tagine and dumped on top of beautiful fluffy Libyan couscous.''Transport –''Inside Tripoli taxis are readily available and very cheap, they can take you to any corner of the city. There is also a small network of mini buses that run along the coast line from Tripoli to smaller, outlying communities. Apart from this there is a bus line, but due to security problems you will most likely be refused permission to ride the long distance bus and for good reason. If you are wanting to travel to the Sahara or long distances up the coast you will have to hire transport which is also putting yourself at risk, but if you’re in Libya in the first place I don’t imagine you mind taking risks. You also have the option to fly with one of Libya’s few operating airlines. I once flew from Tripoli to Ghadames for about 180 LYD return.''My Favourite Places in Libya''Tripoli –''The pearl of the Mediterranean, Tripoli is a unique and complex blend of Libyans, Egyptians, Tunisians and Berbers. The architecture is just as unique, walk from Tripoli’s Martyr square and pass by Moorish style gateways, Ottoman clock towers, Middle Eastern coffee houses and ancient Roman arches. Stay in Tripoli long enough and you will soon discover why this city leaves such an impression on everyone who comes here.''Leptis Magna –''Incredible Leptis Magna is one of the largest unspoiled roman cities in existence. The best part? Having the entire ruins all to yourself. That’s right, no picture happy tourists and no postcard selling touts. It’s just you getting lost and soaking up all this ancient site has to offer. Leptis Magna is also very close to Tripoli. It can be reached by day trip so you do not have to worry about accommodation or security.''Ghadames –''The long lost oasis city of Ghadames. It almost looks like a mirage when you first set eyes on it after crossing countless dunes and black mountains of the Sahara. Ghadames is one of the best preserved and is widely known as the most beautiful oasis town in all of the Sahara. Its bright white facade and long,''almost seemingly haunted alley ways''are a great place to explore and wonder about its hidden past. Just outside of town is some of Libya’s largest sand dunes where they often host dune rallies.''Qasr al-Haj –''Qasr al-Haj is a great way to delve into local Berber culture. Being another abandoned city, it gives you the chance to walk freely around its crumbling buildings and massive granary. It’s located at the foothills of Jebel Nafusa adding to its sublime beauty. Qasr al-Haj is also very close to Tripoli, and the town of Yefren where you can stay in a underground traditional Berber house.''Sabratha –''Sabratha, another Roman city, is almost more impressive than Leptis Magna. It’s huge amphitheatre, set right on the coast, sets you back in time reliving what a grand past this city must have had. Walk through the sandy streets of this site and don’t be surprised if you see broken roman pots and coins just lying about.''Top Experiences''Bazin with a local family –''Being invited into a Libyan home for dinner is amazing, but what is even more exciting is when your hosts present you with the massive bowl filled with Bazin. Bazin is a huge mound of barley dough covered in red sauce and vegetables. It is amazing. The entire family sits around it and eats it by hand together.''Rally in the desert –''Head out to the sand dunes near Ghadames and you will most likely hear the roar of engines as the rallies are very common. Watch this escapade in awe as cars roll countless times down the dunes and seemingly everybody somehow turns out to be ok. Ask a local if you can ride along and you will never be turned down from this adrenaline pumping Libyan past time.''Shopping in the Tripoli Medina –''Do you love carpets? How about antiques? Tripoli Medina is a place where you can find just about anything. After shopping till’ your heart’s content sit down and smoke a Nargile or have some very strong Arabic coffee before you remember that last thing you wanted to buy.''Libyan people –''While in Libya make friends, a lot of friends. Libyans are incredibly hospitable and love to practice English but most importantly show how proud of their country and culture they are. Don’t be surprised if you are invited on a family trip to nearby sights or a picnic on the beach. The Libyan people are some of the nicest people I have ever met.''Top Travel Tips For Libya''Always ask locals about security''Never walk at night. Take a cab instead''Avoid driving outside the city at night''Alcohol is forbidden. So don’t ask''English is not widely spoken. Learn a few Arabic phrases''Bring a jacket. The desert can get cold''Have an appetite for BBQ. Libyans love it!''Avoid all conversation about Gaddafi''Never leave the hotel without your passport''Check online government security warnings''If it seems sketchy don’t do it''Avoid wearing shorts''africa''Libya''travel guides''Why Travel To Peru''Since the first explorer Francisco Pizarro came here in 1532 explorers and adventurers alike have been obsessed with the history and ancient riches that this country holds. Take any hike into the Peruvian Andes and you will see that there is plenty of these secrets yet to be found. Peru is home to the famous archaeological sites of Machu Picchu, Nazca Lines and the legendary city of Cuzco. Besides Peru’s rich history; Peru is also home to some of the best hiking and adventure sports in South America. While in Peru you can dune buggy over sand dunes, dine on seafood, hike to extreme altitudes and cut your way through dense Amazonian jungle all while never leaving Peru’s borders. Peruvian culture is also not to be missed. With festivals and a magnitude of different ethnicities, Peru will keep you dreaming of returning to this magical country.''When To Go''(June – August)''Dry, cool season which sees many tourists, great for trekking''(December – March)''Wet season makes hiking and travel difficult, good for festivals''The Basics''Language –''Spanish''Religion –''Catholic/Indigenous beliefs''Visa –''Visa free for most nationalities apart from some African and Asian nations''Currency –''Peruvian Nuevo Sol PEN''1 USD – 3.46 PEN (Feb 1, 2016)''Hiking the Santa Cruz near Huaraz''Typical Costs and Getting Around Peru''Accommodation –''Peru has a great hostel scene. Hostels are usually decked out with funky bars and functional kitchens. Most of these great Hostels will set you back only around 4-5 USD for a dormitory and 10- 15 USD for a double private room. In Cuzco and the north you can also find great guest house run by local families for around 20 USD per night. This form of accommodation gives a real “authentic” Peruvian feeling. If you’re looking for something more comfortable, the major centres and more popular tourist towns have boutique hotels that are decked out with Peruvian style. These mid range boutique hotels were around 40 – 80 USD. When you hit the trails, hiking and exploring the smaller communities have very basic to no accommodation so bringing a tent is almost compulsory. If you leave your tent behind this does give you the chance to stay with and experience the “real” Peru with a rural family. Be prepared, there are very few luxuries and you just might have a guinea pig rubbing shoulders with you at night.''Food –''The mighty potato is king in Peru. Visit any market and you will see hundreds of different forms of the Peruvian potato. Potatoes can be found in almost every meal from soups to salads and beside a roasted Guinea Pig (Cuy). After potatoes ceviche is thought to be the next most popular dish and rightly so. Ceviche is essentially raw fish salad cooked by the acidity of a lime. It’s a popular street and restaurant food and usually is very cheap and delicious. Eating in Peru will cost as low as 2 – 8 USD depending on the location. Most Peruvian love to drink Mate De Coca (tea made from Coca leaves) at high altitudes and Chicha (fermented corn beer) at almost any time of the day. When invited into a Peruvian home don’t be surprised if they have their own brew of Chicha fermenting just for you.''Transportation –''Peruvian buses are the most common form of transport. They come in many classes however. The more expensive private buses (usually called Imperial, business and royal) are the obvious better choice for long distances as they offer comfortable seating, bathrooms and snacks. Some of these buses also offer beds for overnight rides, but be warned it is not uncommon for buses to be hijacked at night in Peru. So limit your nighttime travel and pick a better looking company. Most of the luxury buses will cost around 20 USD for anything over 6 hours. The other option is the Economic bus, which all the locals will be taking. This is a great option for shorter journeys because you get to mingle with the locals. These buses, however, can be very uncomfortable at times and not good for overnight chilly mountain passes. In the Peruvian Amazon the poorly paved roads disappear and are replaced by the dark waters of jungle rivers. To get around traveling by boat is compulsory and an incredible adventure. Peru also has a few budget airlines connecting all corners of the country if the bus is not for you.''The Nazca Lines''My Favourite Places in Peru''Nazca –''First arriving in Nazca can be a daunting experience. The town itself is only a few shops and streets but Nazca is not known for its sightseeing on the ground instead you must hop aboard a small plane to see the wonders of Nazca. Nazca’s famous lines run for miles into the desert and for pictures of animals and questionable characters. Nearby to Nazca is home to some of Peru’s largest sand dunes which offer the opportunity for some off road fun.''Machu Picchu''– Machu Picchu and the Inca trail hosts thousands of visitors every year. See Machu Picchu yourself and you too will see what all the hypes is about! There is only one way to put it; Machu Picchu is spectacular. It is what explorer’s dream of seeing in their lifetime. Follow the lama infested Inca trail here and it is even more rewarding. Whatever you do, do not miss out on the wonders of Machu Picchu if you visit Peru.''Cuzco –''The culture centre of Peru. Cuzco the capital of the Incas and home to some of Peru’s most interesting sights and museums. Visit ancient Incan mummies and see the treasures of ancient empires before digging into a delicious Incan meal at one of Cuzco’s incredibly vibrant markets. If you’re looking to shop then you have come to the right place; Cuzco is a great place to pick up local handicrafts and uniquely Peruvian souvenirs.''Huaraz –''I’ll never forget hiking past Peruvian lama herders on route up the painfully difficult Santa Cruz pass. After reaching the pass and taking in some of Peru’s most beautiful mountain scenery we visited small rural communities with guinea pig and lama farms. Huaraz is an adventure centre that gives you the opportunity to see a “off the beaten track” part of Peru.''Top Experiences''Flying above Nazca –''Packing tight into a sketchy plane in the early morning doesn’t sound appealing but once you take off the flat sandy terrain reveals Nazca’s true wonders. The Nazca lines are out of this world (some actually think they are!). The lines cut into intricate patterns form ants, birds and a strange looking person. Seeing the Nazca lines really brings appreciation to how unique and complex this there history actually is.''Having Machu Picchu to myself –''I was lucky enough to visit Machu Picchu right after the floods ended and there were fewer tourist but If you stay all day you will beat the crowds and have Machu Picchu all to yourself (apart from the friendly lamas). Machu Picchu changes face from different times of day bringing a new outlook and great for pictures!''Shopping in Cuzco –''Looking for Lama Wool everything? How about creepy witch artifacts from the local witch market? Cuzco has it all. Artisans from all around the country sell their goods here. Whatever it might be you’re looking for I’m sure in Cuzco you will find it.''Hiking in the Peruvian Andes –''The Andes are big! So big that people tend to forget that altitude sickness can be a major problem here. So chew on some Coca and hike past rural communities back dropped with incredible white capped mountain peaks. Hiking here also gives you the chance to stay with a local family and try Cuy (roasted Guinea Pig remember?)''The Inca Trail''Top Travel Tips For Peru''Chew Coca to beat the altitude, it really helps''Be careful at night in the cities, Peru has a high\xa0crime rate''Chicha can cause stomach issues, drink it with care''Have a taste for Peruvian flute music''Reserve the Inca trail well in advance (6 months to 1 year prior)''Be aware of\xa0fake hiking companies, they make false promises''Peru’s weather is unpredictable and it gets cold.\xa0Bring a jacket''Avoid night buses''Avoid\xa0Peruvian tap water, best practice is to drink bottled water''It can rain a lot in the Andes, bring a rain jacket.''Peru''South America''travel guides''Cheap African Safari you say?''Everybody dreams of going to East Africa and living the lion king fantasy we all had as children growing up. Turn on your television and you will see the vast plains of the Serengeti; its jumping wildebeests and yawning lions. It’s hard seeing this and thinking “I would love to go but it’s too expensive”. Well you’re not alone, most travelers believe that East African Safaris are only for the wealthy, but there are actually many ways to travel here and see all the big five (lion, elephant, leopard, rhino, giraffe); just like those bazooka-sized-camera touting, rich tourists do.''Flights to East Africa''Flights into East Africa are not cheap but if you fly from a hub you can greatly reduce prices; for example if you are flying from North America then Dubai and Frankfurt are your hubs that usually can offer discount flights if you book at the right time. Try using''www.Kayak.com''or''www.skyscanner.com''to find cheap flights to either of these hubs and then to Nairobi in Kenya or Dar Es Salaam (from Dar Es Salaam you must get a bus to Arusha) in Tanzania. You should check prices often as they can fluctuate greatly, but I always find that booking three months in advance is good for finding a discount and not ending up paying too much because of all the flights being fully booked. Once and awhile discount flights through London and Doha will also show up but I find the latter two are cheaper more frequently.''Choosing a country for your safari''There are two\xa0countries in East Africa that offer the quintessential safari experience let’s take a look at these and see what they have to offer.''Kenya:''The tune of Lion King’s circle of life will be playing in your head as this is where East Africa’s most “authentic” safari expeditions take place. Kenya’s most popular parks Masai Mara and Amboseli are post card perfect image that you imagine. Masai Mara is very similar to the Serengeti in the scenery department, but it’s more heavily visited because of its proximity to Nairobi making it a cheaper option. Obviously not as good of an option because you’re sharing it with others. One interesting aspect to Masai Mara is that the Masai people are living within its borders and still live a very traditional life here; so making a cultural excursion here can add some diversity to your safari. The other place named here is Amboseli; which is also very close to Nairobi. Its draws are seeing hundreds of huge tusked elephants with the backdrop of Mt. Kilimanjaro. Amboseli can be an amazing budget choice and highly recommended to combine it with Masai Mara if you have time.''African Safari''Tanzania:''More than one third of this nation belongs to National wildlife reserve parks. Tanzania is also home to the Serengeti, Africa’s most famous park. But there are so many parks in Tanzania that choosing one can be difficult. For being on a budget purpose I recommend the Serengeti and Ngorongoro crater. First the Serengeti, a vast open savannah teeming with wildlife. The Serengeti is the most picturesque part of East Africa and offers a high chance of seeing all the big five and if you have the time and came during the right season then you have the chance of seeing one of Africa’s great wonders the Wildebeest Migration. The Serengeti happens to be far from Arusha, which is the safari town most people base themselves out of due to its close proximity to the parks. Serengeti’s distance and vast size is usually only visited by longer safaris booked by more expensive companies; but if you want that real African feeling experience this is where it is found. My next favourite park is the Ngorongoro crate.''Ngorongoro''is a large emerald green crater that cuts deep into the earth. Venture down into the centre of the crater and it reveals itself as a wildlife reserve ready to compete with any of Africa’s National Parks. Ngorongoro is exceptionally beautiful due to the massive forested crater walls that surround the park giving it a very unique feel to its geographical location. The odds of spotting wildlife here are incredibly high, as the park is not so big and the animals all cluster together near the few watering holes. Ngorongoro is very close to Arusha making it a great budget destination as it can be reached very easily.''Finding a company''In Nairobi and Arusha there are countless Safari/tour operators; some are legit and others are a bit sketchy. So how do you find a reliable tour operator at a good price? The best tip is to arrive in either Nairobi or Arusha a few days to a week before so you have the time on your side. Many budget and luxury safari operators are looking to fill that last spot in there jeep and are willing to drop the price more than half of the original price. Having time to look around will also give you the opportunity to decide whether the operator is legit or just a commission monger who will place you in a very unappealing Safari. When you arrive in these tour agencies they will often tell you that they offer great budget tours’ this usually includes being crammed into a van with 10 other tourists and sleeping in tents. In my opinion this is not a great option; not because of sleeping in tents, but because of the overcapacity packed van which will limit your time seeing animals and taking those must needed yawning lion photos. Do not take the first budget tour that you are offered; instead go to many agencies and tell them you are going to continue looking at other places. You will see how fast prices and the trip quality changes. By doing this in Kenya I paid 150 USD for a four day trip into the Masai Mara, we stayed in an expensive lodge and there was only one other person on the tour. We also had the entire jeep to ourselves. Another great tip is to check''www.tripadvisor.com''for reviews on some of these companies; this will help you sort out which a legit or not.''Which park to go to''Deciding on which park you will want to visit can be a very daunting decision. First think about what is important to you. Seeing the big five? Photographing the animals? Getting it as cheap as possible? After deciding on this you can begin to plan your safari and also which country you will be going to for that particular safari. As a general rule Tanzania is known to be cheaper then Kenya for safaris. This can however can change greatly due to the drop in tourism in Kenya because of political and security issues. The parks I have shown above will be categorized on a table like this. Photography being the chance of getting close up and personal with wildlife and taking photos of them in a perfect backdrop; Spotting wildlife is the chances of seeing the big five and a variety; Authentic experience is having a less crowded and real African safari feel to it and lastly the price.''African Safaris''(1 - Being the worst, 5 - Being the best)''Photography''Spotting Wildlife (Big 5)''Authentic Experience''Price''Masai Mara''3''4''3''5''Amboseli''5''3''4''3''Serengeti''4-5''4-5''5''2''Ngorongoro''4''5''3''5''I rated Serengeti between a four and five for spotting wildlife and photography because it can really depend on season.''Tips from a Travel Banking Advisor''You’ve decided where you’re going and you’re ready, but what do you do to make sure your money is safe and there when you need it? This is a question I get asked often. Every destination is unique, but with the right knowledge and tips, money issues can be a thing of the past while travelling.''Before you Travel there is some Important Tips you need to know on how to get money abroad, dealing with foreign currencies, keeping your money safe and how to avoid those nasty bank fees. Through my years of experience traveling the world here are a few ideas to help you abroad.''Travel with Money''There are pros and cons to this method. First you are putting yourself at risk to be robbed; all it takes is one wrong person to see you pull out a lot of cash and you are their target of the day. When I travel abroad I chose to separate my money. I usually have''a money belt''as well where I will keep the bulk of my money and I will take it out in a private location. The money I plan to spend for the day is placed in a separate wallet in my side bag.''Bringing Money and How Much''Well this really depends on you. How much cash do you feel safe carrying around? How long are you traveling for? If you are traveling for several weeks or months carrying that much cash is really not the best of ideas. Again you are putting yourself at risk. When I travel I choose to use cash, but I withdraw it from bank machines as needed, there is usually a bank fee for this but really it is a small price to pay for keeping your money safe while you are travelling. When I travel I will usually take out enough cash for a few days that way you are minimizing your bank fees. You may want to check with your bank prior to leaving to find out what kind of banking package you have and what will be covered when you are aboard that way there are no surprises when you find out that most banks charge a fee every time you withdraw cash . These fees are usually applied with most banks as well as credit cards when you use them for a cash advance. All these fees will vary but you can minimize them by how many times you withdraw cash from the bank machine.''Bringing Local Currency''It’s always a good idea to leave home with some of the local currency where you will first be going this way you are not pressured into finding a way to get cash as soon as you get there. You must always keep in mind that there are people out there just waiting for someone who is in need, and a lot of the time they don’t always have your best interests in mind. When you cross the border money changers are waiting and they might charge you twice the exchange rate because you need money. They can be very convincing and you will be amazed at how many “FRIENDS” you have when you are traveling.''Best rule when travelling with cash is take smaller amounts, but withdraw enough for a few days to minimise your fees. I like to use a money belt to keep my stash safe.''Cash, Debit, Credit?''When traveling abroad never rely on only one means of money, it just doesn’t work. When I travel I usually travel with at least 2 to 3 cards. I will have my bank card and 1 or 2 credit cards ( I will very often use my credit card for purchases, as long as you are in a reputable business, this helps to minimize banking fees and cash advance fees). I always keep all three cards in separate locations, for instance one card in my money belt, one card in''my theft protection metal case'', and one card in my wallet. I only ever use one card on a trip the others will be for backup (you never know when a card will get compromised and fraud detection will freeze it up and then you have no backup.) So just some words of advice keep all your cards in separate locations and try to mainly to use only one card well while traveling. Also by using only one card you are developing a pattern and whether it’s your bank card or your credit card they can see where you are, and how much you are usually withdrawing just a little more protection in case your card gets stolen or compromised.''A metal theft protection wallet''ATM/ Bank Machines or Merchant Cash Advance''Sometimes you just don’t have a lot of options so try to make the best decision possible. Ask yourself does this cash machine look legit? Do I feel comfortable using a cash machine that is not in my language? Do I know what my daily limit is to withdraw? All of these questions can vary depending where you are. Try to use ATM/bank machines which are in banks or ATM terminals, using a bank machine that is chained to a power pole or in a back alley may not be a very wise choice, it could be legit but not really worth the risk. There is usually always another choice unless you are in a remote area and then you should be pulling out cash in advance just to be safe. Sometimes if you are in a very touristy area the machines tend to run out of cash quick, if you get a weird message like “''funds not available''” it just usually means the machine is out of cash. Don’t panic, just find another machine and try it, at times I have tried up to 4 machines before getting cash.''I used the ATM even in Afghanistan!''Using a Merchant cash advance''This should be used as a very last resort (remember that hand held unit that you put your card in contains all your information from your credit or debit card) Quite often the Merchant will charge you an absorbent fee for the advance on top of the cash advance fees you will already pay with your credit card. In my opinion use a Merchant cash advance as a last resort! If you are looking to make a purchase use your credit card but remember every time you put that card into a machine you are putting yourself at risk.''Travellers Cheques:''These are pretty much obsolete most people find that they are difficult to cash and most Merchants will not accept them any longer. There is usually a 1 to 2% fee to purchase them from any financial institute.''Travel with USD:''Now depending on where you are traveling a lot of countries will accept US currency. I usually will travel with a small amount of US cash. Most of the time I have found that they want the cash to look new. In order to keep my cash looking new I will use my money holder or take an old cheque book cover and slide a piece of hard card board into it to keep it stiff, slide your cash into it then put it into a ziplock bag and into your money belt. I traveled for several weeks through Myanmar (Burma) keeping my US cash in perfect condition both ways.''Countries like North Korea you must bring in cash as all foreign cards do not work''Foreign Exchange:''This can be very tricky sometimes Money Changers, FX changers, Banks, Merchants all have their own rates. My advice to you here is make sure you know what your dollar is worth in the country that you are traveling to. When you are preparing to leave home check with your bank to see what kind of rate you are going to get for your cash. While you are traveling there are foreign exchange sights available on line , be wise check the rates and know how much your money’s worth, that way you can avoid being a target.''When All Else Fails:''You’ve lost your bank card! Where’s your back up? (Right you have that extra card in your money belt) But your credit card has been compromised!!! Go on line and get the credit cards phone number and give them a call they quite often have ways of identifying you and getting your card up and working again. If you have no other cards but you have ID you can in some cases have money wired to you depending on your location. If you are staying in one area for a while quite often a card can be sent via courier. The most important thing is not to panic something can always be figured out.''A good backup plan is to scan your cards (try to use a safe encrypted sight) into the computer as well as your passport and ID and email it to yourself that way you always have access to your important info without carrying everything with you all the time. As long as you have access to your email you have access to your information.''Uzbekistan’s Currency exchanges for thousands to one dollar!''Travel Side Bag''When choosing a''side bag to travel''with l like to have one with lots of zipper pockets that way I can put my passport in the inside zipper and a small wallet or small amount of cash in another one. I like to keep some small bills for easy access for bathroom tips or taxi tips. The side bag should be made of a heavy materials like canvas or leather. It also should have a main zipper area that is hard to get into and most of all it never comes off me. When I am in a crowded area it hangs in front of me for safety.''My Travel Bag is my best friend!''Keeping Log in Travel Journal:''While traveling''you should carry a Travel Journal'', not just to write about your adventures but to also keep track of your budget and when you pull money out. This way if you run into any issues you can look back and know exactly how much you spend and when you made a transaction in case of any bank related errors or attempts from thief’s trying to steal your money.''You should look at setting up someone at home to be your powers of attorney if you are planning to be gone for an extended amount of time. This should be someone that you trust and are very comfortable with. This person can take care of your business for you while you are away. These days you also have online banking which has made our lives so much easier. You can set up automatic bill payments to re-occur as often as needed. You can check bank balances and even check to make sure no one has hijacked your account. Again, you must be careful when accessing this information when abroad, there are culprits lurking around every corner. Your best practice is not to use public Wi-Fi when you’re accessing your personal banking information always try to use a locked site. The banks now have brought out a new app called the wallet in this app you can store your bank cards, credit cards and gift cards, the only problem is quite often these features cannot be used worldwide so exercise caution when relying on some of these features they may not be widely accepted.''And the most important thing of all! Have a wonderful trip and stay safe!''My mother Mary Gollan who is a travel banker has helped me with all my money issues abroad!''save money when abroad''travel guides''travel tips''How to find the best travel backpack''Trekking Backpacks, Travel Backpacks, 65L, 80L, Osprey, North Face, there’s a huge selection of travel backpacks nowadays and with all the brands and opinions, picking the perfect pack can be a daunting task. But from eight years of globetrotting experience I can tell you firsthand what has worked for me and help point you to the best pack for you. Remember, this will be your home for the next while, so you need to\xa0have a good relationship with it or the struggle will be more than real.''But with\xa0so many brands and packs, where do I start?''Walk into a hiking or traveling store and you will be faced with a large selection of packs, ask for help and the sales clerk will give you a biased\xa0opinion on which brand the store\xa0stands for. While it’s\xa0true not all brands are equal, this doesn’t mean that one brand’s entire lineup is superior to\xa0another’s. The first thing to do is to identify what pack will suit your kind of trip and what kind of traveler are you.''What type of traveler are you?''Figuring\xa0this out it will help you decide on what kind of backpack will work best with what you need. First ask yourself a few questions:''How long is my trip?''If your trip is anything over a few months you may want to look at buying a larger backpack. Backpack size is given in litres, Common ‘backpacking’ sizes range\xa0from 40 – 80 Litres. I find that on a five month trip a comfortable size is around 55 – 65 litres, giving\xa0you ample room for clothes and tech gear and also enough space to stuff that large plush camel you just''had''to buy. If your trip is anything over four months you may want to look at buying a larger backpack.''Am I a traveler who loves to shop?''If you answered yes then you are not alone, shopping is one of the greatest joys of traveling but it comes with a hidden cost\xa0–\xa0carrying all of your purchases. I often look\xa0back at all the great things I could\xa0have bought but didn’t because I was afraid it would not fit in my pack. If you know you want to collect treasures along the way, make sure your pack has a large central pocket big enough to stuff a rolled up carpet or wooden elephant – no need for small pockets or extra detachable pieces. Happy Haggling!''Tip: You can always ship purchases home, most places have reliable post''Will my trip include hiking?''Whether you’re going to Italy or Nepal you will be carrying your pack for long durations, but there is a significant difference between hauling your bag between the airport and the hotel and walking from one Nepalese village to another. If you are not headed for the ends of the earth, stick with a bag that feels comfortable on your back. If your trip includes mountain peaks, secluded valleys, and everywhere in between, you’ll need to consider weight and durability as your primary needs. I can tell you from experience that hiking with an overweight bag leaves you thinking more about the frustration and pain rather than the scenery.''What personal items will I take?''Everyone I have traveled with has different needs. Some like to have plenty of clean clothes, others need a large supply of personal hygiene products. I encourage you to gather all your personal items in a pile and see how much weight and room it takes up. This will increase or decrease the size and type of bag you need to consider buying. It’s a good idea to try and cut down on some of these items and remember you can usually purchase them abroad. Just to be safe pre check your supply and research what’s available wherever you’re headed.''Will I be bringing Camera Equipment?''Most travelers love to take photos, and then there are those of us who travel solely for photography. Enter any camera store and you’ll see how enormous the equipment can get: lenses, tripods, and filters; the list goes on. If this is your dilemma then your best bet is to choose the more durable type of backpack with thicker padding and larger waist straps. Unfortunately, you will have to sacrifice some comfort with the increased weight but, Hey! nobody said being a photographer is easy.''Am I Traveling alone? Or with a friend?''This might not sound as important, but it can be a big factor if you’re traveling for a long time. On large trips to off the beaten track places you’ll be required to bring all the guide books and information in with you, as internet and book shops are often available in English, if at all. If you’re going in alone you’ll be carrying everything yourself, but with a friend you can split the weight of guide books, laundry soap…and dirty socks and underwear.''Types of Backpacks''Hiking backpacks''These are the most popular choice among backpackers, mostly because they are most common kind of backpack around. Before the days of mass traveling there were no other kinds of backpack, so travelers were left with this as their only option. Still, hiking packs are still a great option. They load from the top and usually offer lots of extra features such as reinforced and padded straps, waist straps and frames that can be personally molded to fit your body, and plenty of detachable compartments for easy organization. The only downside is that as they load from the top, to get at that fresh pair of socks buried deep in your bag you are going to have to wait to get them or empty the entire bag. Hiking backpacks also tend to be very narrow so wider items don’t fit and the pack quickly gains height as you stuff more into it.''Pros''– Massive selection and plenty of features''Cons''-Sometimes limited space or awkward dimensions''Travel Backpacks''Travel Backpacks are the new hip pack in the world of traveling! They feature easy access front openings and are wider rather than tall like hiking backpacks. Some of these packs even come with a steel frame with small wheels, transforming it into a small suit case. Travel backpacks tend to range between 45L – 65L, but I have seen some as big as 85L. The downside is they are not sturdy as hiking backpacks, so you’re carrying them for longer periods of time they tend not to be as comfortable. I find them to be much less durable and not last as long as hiking packs. The selection is also more limited. However, if you’re heading on a 2-3 month trip these could really benefit you and your packing needs.''Pros''– Easy access front zipper that allows for hassle free packing and locating items''Cons''– Less selection''– Less durable''– Less comfortable''Features''Shoulder Straps''Backpacks come with many different styles of shoulder straps. Cheaper packs tend to just have basic padding but the higher end models have more selection and usually last much longer. When looking at shoulder straps it’s best to try the pack on in store with added weight to see how it will feel once stuffed with trip essentials. The shoulder straps should feel comfortable and not rub awkwardly or pinch. Chest straps will help distribute weight evenly across your shoulders – make sure you can fit 1-2 fingers between the strap and your chest when the pack is fully loaded. If you’re headed somewhere hot, look for straps with added breathability.''Osprey''in particular makes a great line of packs with a well-vented framing system –including the shoulder straps- that are great for those days spent finding your way out of a steamy jungle.''Waist Straps''This one is important.''The waist strap holds the majority of the weight and centers it through your hips rather than on your shoulders, so trying the pack with weight and making sure it fits your body is essential. The centre of the strap should sit at the crest of your pelvis – not directly over the hip bone. Most hip belts will be padded, but extra padding can cause over-heating in hot and humid climates. Many backpack lines now allow you to heat mould the belt to fit your body. This is a great option and usually increases the comfort level. Checking the buckles on the waist strap is also a good idea, because if one breaks then all the weight will be resting on your shoulders. Some packs now have extra buckles on non-essential compartments that can be swapped out for broken waist buckles.''Adjustable frame''Most backpacks have these,''especially''the hiking packs. They come in handy if you are tall or have a different frame than the standard backpack. Almost all brands feature lines specifically for Men or Women so that you really can find the perfect pack for you! Now you can simply adjust it so it fits better and transitions the weight properly between your shoulders and waist.''Compartments''Most hiking backpacks come with a large centre compartment and smaller top compartment. The travel backpacks tend to only have one large centre compartment. Compartments are useful to separate and organize your belongings. For example, it’s a good idea to separate your bathroom products from electronics, shampoo and toothpaste may leak or explode in frequently jostled packs. A backpack that says it has holds 70L sometimes includes the compartments; if it has many compartments you will find it difficult to pack as not everything will be to the dimensions of the extra pockets.''My top three picks for backpack brands''Osprey''. This is my go-to brand for traveling; their backpacks are light weight, durable and have a lot of great added features. There is also a huge selection of different styles and colors. The downside they are a bit on the pricey side, so try to look for sales!''North Face.''I’ve never been a huge fan of this brand, but I tried there Terra series out in Pakistan and it was great. It was durable, spacious and left lots of room for souvenirs. The downside was that it was not very light and the shoulder straps were bulky.''Mountain''HardWear:''These packs are top notch for durability. Lots of models are front-open style so they are incredibly convenient in terms of accessibility. They are sleek and look amazing, but the big drawback is they tend to be very pricey.''My Top Ten Travel Backpacks and Reviews''Mountain Hardwear South Col 70 OutDry Backpack''The South Col 70 is one of my favourites because of its well-built frame and tough material. It has a large centre storage which seems to fit any article I cram into it. Another great feature about this pack is the gel like shoulder and waist straps. They feel like a cool gel that molds to you and are small and compact. This pack also claims to be water resistant, which comes in handy traveling in unpredictable weather conditions. The South COL also comes in a 50L size if you are looking for something smaller.''This pack usually''runs at about $300'', but it’s worth it.''Why I like the South COL 70''Very light weight –''By itself, this pack weighs in at around 3 pounds, giving it an incredibly lightweight feel for the durability of the material.''Durable material –''It’s great at keeping water out; a tough pack built for many years of hard travelling.''The straps –''The straps really are comfy. The gel like material forms to you and the straps themselves are small so they don’t get in way.''Centre storage dimensions –''Yes it’s a top loading Backpack but it feels like there is so much space to fit all your gear and those precious souvenirs you bought for your mother.''It looks great –''Now some say looks don’t matter but in my opinion, they do. This pack looks good and doesn’t stand out too much, so if you’re trying to blend in this sleek looking pack will add that extra edge.''ATMOS AG 50''Winner of Backpacker Magazine’s 2015 Editors’ Choice Award, this is an incredibly lightweight bag I have taken traveling many times. I love this pack for its “anti-gravity” feature which keeps your back from touching the actual backpack itself, creating a dry barrier that keeps you cool. Smaller than other packs, but 50L still offers plenty of space even on longer trips. If weight and comfort are high on your then list this pack is for you! If you are more concerned with durability, the lightweight fabric tends to tear more easily than others.''This pack''usually costs around $230''.''Why I like the ATOMS AG 50''Weighs virtually nothing\xa0–''With its wire frame and mesh straps this bag feels light. With all my equipment in it I can barely tell that the bag adds any weight to it.''“Anti-Gravity” straps\xa0–''The shoulder and waist straps feel like a pillow wrapped around you. They are also made of a mesh that keeps the sweat off you and your pack, perfect for hot destinations or long treks.''“Anti-Gravity” suspension\xa0–''This pack feels cool for a reason – the back suspension prevents the bag from making contact with your back and while building a nice barrier to keep you cool. It also adds great support and comfort for those long distances you have to cover.''Internal compression\xa0–''After thoroughly stuffing everything in the pack, an extra compression strap built into the pack itself allows you to squish it down to the size you need.''Front panel pockets\xa0–''An access zipper on the front of the pack makes this a blend between the Travellers and Backpacking packs, allowing you to access the internal compartment and that last pair of clean socks without tearing through the whole thing.''Large Front Pocket\xa0–''The front pocket is large and made from a stretchy mesh so it can extend far beyond its limits adding yet more room to this pack.''ARC’TERYX ALTRA 65''This pack easily takes a spot in My Top Backpacks and for good reason: it eases heavy loads with its waist belt to make long distances with a lot of equipment easier. It’s also available in a variety of sizes and colors. The straps are extremely comfortable, but the best part is the amount of pockets allowing for easy access and simple, on-the-road organization.''By far one of the most expensive backpacks I have tried out,''the ALTRA typically sells for around $400''. But, this company does offer a lifetime warranty on their bag.''Why I like the ARC’TERYX ALTRA 65''It’s tough\xa0–''ALTRA is tougher than other packs, which is why they offer the warranty. This one is guaranteed to last you wherever the road takes you. The zippers are also more durable than other packs I’ve tried.''Multiple access points\xa0–''This bag makes it easy to retrieve anything from anywhere within your bag; multiple access points are great and make organizing this bag more strategic and efficient.''Weight balance –''The way the weight is balanced on this bag is amazing- after playing with the waist strap for a while it felt perfectly balanced and incredibly comfortable. Walking longer distances with this bag is a clear winner for this reason.''Comfortable straps –''After the weight has been balanced you will notice how comfortable the straps really are. They are made from layered padding and feel quite soft. While not the best straps you can get on packs, they defiantly add comfort over longer distances with heavier weight.''The North Face TERRA 65''The TERRA series is another backpack line I’ve taken across the globe. This is a great backpack if you’re unsure about the duration of your trip or the style of traveling you will be doing – perfect for your first trip! It’s a great choice because of its large and flexible size; it features a top load but has access through the bottom of the pack. Adjustable suspension is top notch and designed so you can easily change it for your comfort. Inside the pack there is a small lined pouch that is handy for holding guide books and note pads, as well as a separation layer that is removable and can be used to separate your clothes from electronics. The top compartment is spacious and I was able to fit all my bathroom products and laundry soap with room left over.''The best part about this pack is the price.''Ranging around $180'', it’s a great choice if you’re unsure about packs or on a budget.''Why I like the TERRA 65''Lots of room\xa0–''This pack carried a carpet from Kashgar, Mongolian Del, Kazakh eagle hunting equipment, and all my camera gear, but still felt like it had more room so spare. This bag just keeps taking in more and more.''Fairly comfortable\xa0–''This wasn’t the most comfortable bag I have traveled with, but for how primitive the waist and shoulder straps are it held up well. While hiking in the Himalayas in Pakistan, the waist strap and combined suspension system saved my back from hauling so much weight up the side of a mountain face.''It can take a beating\xa0–''It survived a long trip through North East India, Pakistan and Mongolia and still looks brand new. It kept the dust and rain out all while keeping my equipment safe. This pack doesn’t look that tough but it certainly stood the test.''The price is right\xa0–''180 dollars for a sturdy travel pack is a great deal! Normally I would spend more than double that on a pack I thought to be superior to it. As I said before, it’s not the best quality pack out there, but it’s great for the price and for the right trip.''Osprey FARPOINT 55''The first Traveler Backpack I have tried and reviewed, the FARPOINT is a great choice for those not traveling too long or planning on shopping. It unzips all around making packing simple and easy. The straps are simple, but for its size and carrying capacity they are fine. This pack also features a smaller detachable pack that can be used as a day pack or as a carry on. Designed for traveling, I can honestly say it really felt good to have a pack that was made with my needs in mind.''This pack is''available on Amazon for around $180''Why I like the FARPOINT 55''Incredibly easy access\xa0–''Instead of pulling all the items out when I arrived at my hostel, I just unzipped the front and it became just like a travel suitcase. This made traveling easier by cutting down on packing time.''Detachable pack\xa0–''The detachable front pack is great for day hikes or just wandering around town. When you’re ready to move on, you can just re-attach it rather than hauling two separate bags.''Large range of pockets\xa0–''After getting used to this pack I discovered all the extra pockets really added a lot of organization. It took some getting used to, but once everything was in place there was no more need to try and remember where I put something. Great for quick access to that MP3 you desperately need on crowded trains.''It’s pretty much, carry-on size\xa0–''You really can cram this thing into the small carry on size measuring box at the airport. If you’re just doing a quick trip this is the ultimate pack, letting you can beat those baggage belts and stop wasting time.''Black Diamond ELEMENT 60''I am fairly new to the Black Diamond brand, but after thoroughly testing one of their packs out I can honestly say they deserve recognition in the traveling world. It’s an incredibly well balanced bag that does a great job at keeping the water out and also amazingly light! This hiking pack has once again hit the market with a front and top loading feature; the zipper down the front allows easy access while the frame of the backpack keeps it from getting that towering over your head look.''They used to be out of my price range, but are now''quite affordable at around $220''.''Why I like the ELEMENT 60''Simple, but\xa0efficient design\xa0–''It’s a fairly basic bag but is very spacious and easy to pack. The buckles and straps are great quality so compressing it is easy.''Front and top load\xa0–''The front zipper spans almost the entire length of the pack, making it easy to grab anything you need in short notice and go. The pack’s top load system is also great at making it easier to compact your bag to have a less bulky feel.''The ‘reACTIV’\xa0feature is great\xa0–''This pack fits so well to you it hardly feels like you’re carrying a bag. Its reACTIV feature adds that much needed support. Combined with some pretty great waist and shoulder belts, this pack won’t bring you down anytime soon.''It’s a lightweight\xa0–''After walking around with just this pack on I totally forgot I was still carrying it. It’s a lightweight, comfortable pack, that really lets you stuff it full of souvenirs with no worries.''Pacsafe Venturesafe 55L GII''This is quite possibly the ultimate travel backpack on the market. It’s lightweight, large and spacious, but its main draw are the security features. This backpack is basically a safe and includes multiple different locks to secure all the zippers. The zippers themselves are made of a high grade material that is resistant to puncture attempts. The full bag is covered in a slash proof material making this the bag perfect for anyone traveling to more dangerous countries, or if you’re carrying valuables that need to be kept safe.''This pack''sells online for around $250'', a great price considering its awesome features.''Why I Like the Venturesafe Gll''It’s like a safe\xa0–''This thing has so many security features I often forget to use them. It’s a thief’s worst nightmare and defiantly will keep any valuables safe and away from the hands of a thief.''Easy packing –''It’s straight forward like a suitcase with a large square open cavity that makes packing and organizing no problem at all.''Has multiple\xa0extra pockets\xa0–''After digging through this pack I found more and more pockets adding more space and easing organization… did I mention that it’s slash proof so thiefs won’t get in?''Top and side handles\xa0–''With multiple top and side handles, this pack is similar to a suit case and will never leave you frustrated and struggling for a grip, whether loading it on an airport belt or on top of a camel.''Side compression straps\xa0–''Another pack featuring great compression straps; pull down hard on these ones and watch it shrink it size.''The North Face TERRA 55W''This Backpack designed specifically for women is my friend Jen’s favourite pack. It can haul loads up to 45 pounds and has great air circulation. It features so many pockets and a large side zip entry that is great for easy access, as well as adding the feature of making packing less stressful. Its sleek design looks good and fits perfectly to a woman’s body.''Selling around $160'', this pack is perfect for girls on a budget.''Why I like the TERRA 55W''It’s designed for women\xa0–''A pack designed specifically to meet a woman’s needs is a great idea. Men and Women have very different frames and a backpack should be designed to fit our differences. Jen said this pack fits and feels great.''So many pockets\xa0–''There are so many different areas to put stuff on this bag. I especially like the pockets on the waist straps, which can be used to store those items you need to have handy and ready to go.''The vertical channel\xa0–''The vertical channel feature is great for if you’re traveling in South East Asia or other hot areas as it provides quite a lot of air circulation, keeping you calm and cool and your bag dry.''Front, bottom, and top\xa0loads\xa0–''With so many ways to get in and out of this bag you will have no issues packing it in an organized way, or if you’re in a hurry to catch a bus stuffing things in from multiple directions.''Osprey AURA 50''Another great pack designed specifically for women’s frames, this pack is my mom’s favourite. She has taken it through South East Asia and the Indian Subcontinent. Its lightweight and durable frame makes it a tough pack for tough women. This is the older model, but it’s a bag that will last. It’s created to be incredibly comfortable and fit women perfectly and, as my mother would tell you, it does exactly that.''With a midrange price of around $300'', it’s a great investment as you probably won’t need to buy another pack anytime soon.''Why I like the AURA 50''It can handle a lot of travel\xa0–''My mother doesn’t travel to easy destinations, she goes all in. This bag has been reliable and toughed through all the obstacles they have encountered together. It still looks like new after all this time.''Compresses very small\xa0–''After everything is loaded and you pull down on the compressions strap this bag can fit as a carry on no problem. It holds a lot but can still shrink down to the size you need.''Crazy comfortable –''I lifted this bag up at the airport and could have sworn my mother had filled it with lead weights. But, to my surprise she strapped it on with no problem and was ready to go! It’s great suspension and comfy straps will allow you to hike and shop to your heart’s content.''Surprisingly,\xa0so lightweight\xa0–''Considering how durable this bag is, it’s amazingly light. For long journeys, this bag carries my highest recommendation in terms of being lightweight, durable, and crazy comfortable.''Mountain Hard Wear Womens Ozonic 58 Outdry''It’s waterproof, lightweight, and designed for women tackling big adventures. This pack boasts a lot of features including extra-padded shoulder and waist straps, load transfer designed for comfort over long distances, and water proof material for keeping your belongings safe from the elements. This pack looks great, but can tower high above your head when fully packed, which can tend to throw you off balance.''This pack sells for around $260'', making it another great mid-range pack.''Why I like the Ozonic 58 Outdry''It’s waterproof\xa0–''This really comes in handy. There is nothing worse than being caught on a boat or on top of a bus with no umbrella, the rain soaking through your pack and into your warm, dry clothes.''Fairly versatile\xa0–''Adjusting the suspension and straps on this bag is no problem. It transfers weight and keeps you balanced better than other tall packs.''Top compartment floats\xa0–''This sounds like a strange feature to have, but if you’re traveling on the sea or out on a boat for Scuba Diving, then this top compartment is an essential storage feature for anything you don’t want to drop into the abyss.''Features a good amount of compartments\xa0–''Instead of being overwhelmed with a ton of different compartments, this pack features a few strategically placed ones that allow you easy storage and accessibility.''Stephen’s overall pick, the\xa0best travel backpack''This wasn’t an easy choice for me as I really have enjoyed traveling with quite a few Backpacks. But after taking the''ATMOS AG 50 across the Sahara''and to the top of the Himalayas it’s definitely the best pack for me. I love how lightweight and comfortable this pack is. People have often asked me if it is magic due to the fact I can fit anything in this backpack and still seal it up. It has benefited me in all different environments and it’s toughed through some of the hardest roads I have taken. It also comes in some great colors if the lime green is off putting to you. So I give it all to''the ATMOS AG 50, my traveler’s choice backpack''.''The best travel backpack for women''No surprise here,''the winner is the Osprey AURA 50''. The other packs have great features but this is the pack that was first choice for all the exploring women I know. It fits the best out of the three Women’s packs I reviewed, and its durability has been proven on the tough journeys I’ve seen it dragged through. So if you’re looking for the perfect pack for women then look no more! I guarantee you will be more than happy with this choice.''Prices and when to buy\xa0travel backpacks''Prices of backpacks can vary depending on the time of year you purchase. With a few tips you can save a lot of money on backpacks and get your top choice for a lot less.''Avoid buying in the summer\xa0–''In summer prices tend to go up, especially hiking packs.''Wait for sales\xa0–''In the fall and spring I find that expensive brands go on sale. I have seen some up to 50% off the original price.''Buy online\xa0–''You can often find''great deals on Amazon''or other outlets online, so take the time to browse.''Buy older models\xa0–''Older models are not less superior to the newer ones, sometimes all that changes is the colour and the placement of a pocket or two.''Be flexible\xa0–''Everybody will find a bag that they really like, but it never hurts to look around. You might find a pack with features that suit your needs better than the one you originally liked.''Try it on\xa0–''It’s very important that you try the pack on before you buy it. If you’re looking online, go to a gear store to test it out before purchasing.''Why traditional rolling suitcases won’t work''Rolling suitcases are amazing for being organized and comfortable (because you just have to drag it), and tend to be really solid so there are no worries about anything getting broken inside them. However, there are some major reasons that you should NEVER bring one “Backpacking”.''They get heavy quick\xa0–''Traditional suitcases are heavy to begin with, and once loaded up with your equipment and clothing, they can begin to feel like a box of rocks. Wheels make it easier until you have to lift it up on top of a taxi. Don’t even think about the camel…''Bulky\xa0–''These cases are bigger and bulkier that you’d think, plus they’re square (or rectangular) and rigid. They’re better suited for a resort than multi-month, multi-country backpacking. They will also make it difficult to navigate trains, taxis, and buses.''They only work well on\xa0pavement\xa0–''As soon as you leave the airport you’ll be faced with cracked sidewalks, sand and many other types of terrain that will leave you feeling frustrated and defeated.''Parts break\xa0–''The wheels and adjustable handle are prone to breaking, especially when you begin to acquire things and the weight increases. When these pieces break, your only solution is to buy a new case.''They are expensive\xa0–''When you compare the versatility of a backpack compared to a traditional rolling bag, the backpack will always give you more bang for your buck.''Save yourself the trouble and frustration – I encourage you to try a backpack even if you are just going on a small vacation. You will realize how much time you save and how much more flexible you can be with your new travel home.''best travel backpacks''gear guides''reviews''Every Traveler has their own preference in guide books; and rightly so. Your choice holds valuable information that can either make or break your trip, especially if you’re on a time crunch.''Now every guide book has got there pro’s and con’s. In my experience I have found that Lonely Planet has helped me through the darkest confusing situations while traveling. The only catch with''Lonely Planet''is that the very first time you open the pages; it can seem intimidating; they are written with incredible depth and have many features that do take some getting used to.''Once you have gotten past the initial shock of the vast content in the books and realize how easy and accessible the world is, you will instantly be addicted to these travel guides. One of my favorite features in these books are that they have great ideas for trips and beautiful pictures to give you an idea what the specified country contains. In this post I have chosen Lonely Planet as my go-to favorite brand in travel guides; I will be showing you why I like them and how to use them to get a full grip for your next trip.''Why I love Lonely Planet Guides''The Variety –''Name the country and there is most likely a Lonely Planet for that place and if you look further there are probably- City guides, Region guides, and picture guides to get you inspired and excited about your next trip abroad. I had even used the Lonely Planet for when I was traveling in Libya, Pakistan and Afghanistan. They truly do have everywhere.''Sooo many books!''Maps –''Lonely Planet’s maps are nothing less than incredible. They are highly detailed and very large. They pinpoint hostels, restaurants, sights, transport and the list goes on and on. I cannot imagine being anywhere without a map and Lonely Planet offers a map for every city, town and region for your specific country. By far, the best maps in any guide book I have picked up.''The Lonely Planet maps''Updates –''Lonely planet often updates each guide every few years and some more than once in a year. You really never have to worry about having out of date information; just check when the latest copy is and when the next is coming out.''Various updates to the books''In Depth –''These guide books are packed with so much information that you should start reading long before your trip begins. There are chapters about history, culture and many incredibly useful travel tips. These books even go as far as having the exact times tables for public transport. They even had a location for where the bus ticket man was in Mazar Sharif in Northern Afghanistan, trust me I would not have found him without the information.''Pictures –''Lonely Planet has come a long ways with their photos in the past few years. They now accept photos from anyone making these guide books photos developed by travelers just like me and you. Open the front of any Lonely Planet and you will instantly be inspired from page after page of beautiful photos ranging from architecture to locals living their day to day life.''How to use the Lonely Planet guides''Step 1 –''Get Inspired''Think of a country that calls deeply to you, next find that lonely planet and open the front to the Lonely Planet Highlights map. Read the Highlights and get even more excited than before but also learn more about why you want to go to this particular country. Next browse through the photos and see the amazing sights this country has to offer.''Step 2 – Need to know and trip itineraries''Next is the need to know section, this covers the seasons for when you plan to travel, currencies, budget, and valuable visa information. Right after you understand when traveling here will best work for you move onto the itineraries. Now remember nobody follows the time and exact trail of these itineraries, but they give a valuable insight on how to travel certain routes and whether a bus, plane or boat might be the best option. The time frame they give can also be useful although you can definitely go at your own pace.''Step 3 – The plan''Now that you have a route and been inspired by pictures look deep into the guide; flip to each location you have chosen and read about how to get there, the sights in that city or region and if there are any other sights around there that might interest you. After you have done this you can start to build a time frame of how long this trip will take. It also will give you a perspective of how much money each location will cost, for example many people are surprised in Ethiopia (a country known for how cheap it is) how Lalibela costs 50 US dollars! But after reviewing each region there will be no surprises when you arrive in each destination. Each destination chapter features the highlights within that region or city as well, here you can find more and more sights that will make you jump with excitement and call your boss to extend your holidays.''Step 4 – Advanced booking''Now that your trip is planned you can start booking and calling ahead to anything that might take advanced booking. For example in Japan if you are going to book the Japan Rail Pass you will read that you must book it before you arrive in Japan, valuable information like this can be found in the back of the book chapter named Transportation. Also Lonely Planet gives websites and hotel phone numbers for booking ahead, a good idea for countries like Thailand where in the high season everything is booked up.''Advance booking''Step 5 – History, culture, food''Everything is ready, trip planned, hotels and transport booked and inspired by Lonely Planet’s photos, what’s next? Lonely Planet has in depth chapters on the History, Culture and Food, these chapters will give you a good insight on local customs do’s and don’ts while eating and being invited to someone’s home. Also what to expect your host to serve you at your dinner table. The Culture and History chapter will teach you about the past and present event of your chosen country and even the music or dance the people love so that you can keep up with conversation at the dinner table.''History, culture, food''Step 6 – Language''Being a buff on the local History and Culture is great but now you need to impress the locals with a word or two in their language. Lonely planet books offer a small chapter in the back designated for just this; they even go as far as breaking the words down into more similar version for us English natives to understand.''Language''At this point you should have a better understanding of how the Lonely Planet guide book works. It is valid to keep an open mind as things may change in the life time of your current version, but you will definitely feel more confident to step on that plane and go. Unfortunately you will not fully understand why it is so valuable until you are faced with obstacles while traveling. These obstacles however will be no problem because you have brushed up on your knowledge of the country with Lonely Planet and have your copy ready with the answer to any problem. After your first trip you too will become just as addicted to these wonderful guide books and use them to fight the travel blue (period of time in between trips).''Passu and Gulmit – Pakistan''Time, it is a measurement used from old to new, to what you’re doing right this moment and into the unknown future that lie ahead. Time inevitably affects us all. Time in the west is something we either race against or ignore altogether. Time is what makes you choose life changing decisions and ultimately to grow old with experience. Embrace time and it can benefit you, but you must be cautious to not get caught in its relentless pace or you will miss the good moments in life. When one travels, time takes many forms, it can take the form of pressure when it’s counting down to that next plane connection you might miss, the form of frustration after you hear how many hours the bus will take because of road conditions.'